Is the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories in a position to inform the Senate what route has been recommended by the North Australia Commission for a railway from the Northern Territory into Queensland? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories is not in the chamber, but I can say that, ' although it might be possible for him to answer the honorable senator's question, he would probably not do so because, as soon as it can be done, the whole report of the . North Australia Commission will be laid on the table of the Senate and that report will embrace the matter referred to by the honorable senator. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that  Mr. Bert  Hinkler, the celebrated aviator, will probably reach Port Darwin to-day on his flight from England? If so, can he say what steps have been taken to receive him officially and whether he will be invited to come to Canberra? 
I should like to know if  Mr. Bert  Hinkler is to receive every assistance and encouragement from the Commonwealth Government in regard to the use of landing grounds throughout Australia ? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate in a  position to reply to a question I asked on the 15th December last relating to Tasmanian communications? 
[3.14]. - I understand that, in another place, the Leader of the Opposition has submitted a motion of censure on the Government. In view of that fact, I now move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Wednesday next at 3 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.6]. - On the loth December last  Senator Sampson  asked the following question: - 
With reference to the statement made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate on the 13th instant with regard to Tasmanian shipping communications, will the right honorable gentleman say whether it is the' intention of the Government, irrespective of the state of the tide and weather conditions, to make it obligatory that the vessels of the shipping company carrying out the proposed new mail contract shall make their terminus a point on the river Tamar, in the vicinity of Rosevears, and not Launceston; and, if so, whether the Government's decision is in conformity with the report of the Public Accounts Committee? 
I pointed out that the question should have been directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, but promised that the information required would be obtained and supplied to  Senator Sampson.  The matter was duly brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, and that department was asked to communicate direct  with  Senator Sampson.  I am now informed that the Postmaster-General duly communicated with  Senator Sampson  on the 10th January last, and that he intended that this letter should be taken as a reply to the questions asked by  Senator Sampson,  though, perhaps, this fact was not made as clear as it might have been. The PostmasterGeneral's letter reads as follows: - 
Referring to your recent telegram and to your letter of 21st December, 1927, in connection with the proposed new contract for the Tasmanian mail service, urging that Launceston be specified as the terminus, the Government has given the closest consideration to this feature and to other matters relating to the service and has formed the opinion that much improved facilities could be given if the difficulty in connexion with the tides at Launceston were overcome by terminating the service at some point on the River Tamar near Rosevears, where there is deep water, and provision made for linking such point with the railway system of Tasmania or by road with Launceston. It is, therefore, the intention to adhere to the decision of the Government, which was announced by the Prime Minister in Parliament recently. The new service should considerably improve mail facilities, as it should be possible to give Hobart, as well as Launceston, a delivery of mails on the day of the arrival of the mail steamer. 
Some time ago I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  the conditions under which an area of land was offered by the Queensland Government for the purpose of conducting an investigation in regard to the prevention of droughts, and I was informed that the matter was receiving the careful consideration of the Government. Since then I believe the offer has been refused, and I now desire to ask if the Minister will, for the purpose of public information, give details of the reasons which actuated the Government in refusing it. As I understand that the reasons are sound, I trust that they will be made available to the Senate - 
Order! The honorable senator is not entitled to debate the matter. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government is building two cement houses at Alice Springs for the members of the Central Australian Commission that will cost approximately ?25,000? 
What is the cost of cement landed at Alice Springs? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers are: 
No. For the information of the honorable senator it is stated that the Government has let a contract at ?10,489 10s. for the erection at Stuart, , Central Australia, of Council Chambers and three houses of concrete block construction for the Government Resident, Stock Inspector, and clerks. 
?29 10s. per ton. 
asked the Min ister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What was the total cost, in connexion with the administration of the Commonwealth Shipping Board, for the years 1924-25, 1925-26 and 1920-27? 
What was. the total amount of salary, allowances, &amp;c, received by the members of the board for the same periods? 
What was the total cost of the London office for the same period? 
What was the total amount of travelling expenses and allowances received by the  chairman  of the board for the same periods? 
The answers are: - 

<graphic href="117332192803070_3_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="117332192803070_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as reported in the press, that foot and mouth disease amongst cattle in the Old Country is serious and has affected no less than 27 counties and districts of England ? 
If so, will the Minister have the necessary precautions taken to ensure that all cattle coming from England to Australia are clean and free from disease and are under proper veterinary inspection ? 
The answers are - 
Yes, although foot and mouth disease is prevalent over a wider area than indicated in the question. 
Under the Quarantine Act the importation of cattle from England is prohibited - this being considered the only safe course while the disease is prevalent in England. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen a published statement relating to a German method of transplanting wheat by machinery, which, it is claimed, increases the yield four -fold? 
Will the Minister endeavour to obtain all available information on the subject for the benefit of Australian wheat-growers? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
Information is being obtained and will be published for the benefit of Australian wheat-growers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen a statement in the English press to the effect that large dealers in Australian butter have gone over to foreign makes on account of the inferior quality of the Australian product owing to the absence of preservativep ? 
Will hecause representations to bo made to the Home Government with a view to the removal of the prohibition against the use of preservatives in butter exported from Australia to London? 
Will the Minister also have full inquiries made and take such action as will permit of Australian butter being sold in the London market at the highest market rates? 
The answers are - 
and 2. Owing to the British prohibition against the use of preservatives in butter certain shipments of unsalted butter from Australia arrived in a deteriorated condition. At thu time of shipment there was nothing to indicate any defect in the butter. By an alteration of the method of manufacture the difficultyhas to some extent been overcome, and it is hoped by means of research work to find a solution of the trouble. The British Government regrets its inability to accede to the Commonwealth Government's request to remove the prohibition. . 
The Commonwealth Dairy Produce Control Board and its London agency are endeavouring to secure the highest possible market price for Australian butter and have already achieved a considerable measure of success in this direction. 
asked the Minister for Defence - 
Does the department reserve the right to commandeer all carrier pigeons 
Is anything in the shape of bonus granted to breeders of such birds 
If not, why not? 
No. 
No. 
In view of the large number of carrier pigeons in Australia, and their diminishing use for communication in war, the payment of a bonus to encourage breeding is not considered necessary from a defence stand-point. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this hill is to extend to other industries the same measure ofprotection as was approved by the Senate when it passed a tariff schedule in 1926. It also increases the preference given to Great Britain on a number of items, and provides for reduced duties on various articles not manufactured in Australia. Since the passing of the tariff schedule in 1926, the Tariff Board has investigated the circumstances of a number of industries, and the board's reports concerning the industries dealt with in the schedule to this bill have been made available to honorable senators. The duties proposed cover a wide range of both primary and secondary, industries, some of which are of great national importance. The imports affected by the proposals are valued at £24,000,000 - of which £6,000,000 are British, and the balance, £18,000,000, foreign goods. It is believed that the new duties, if approved by the Senate, will result in a gain to Australian production of £6,000,000 per annum, and that British will displace foreign exports to this country to the value of £5,000,000 a year. It is not expected that any substantial increase in revenue will result from the higher ' duties proposed, as the decreased collections due to the reductions on many items must he set off against any increase. These calculations do not include the revenue which will result from the increased duties proposed to raise money for road purposes. 
The deferred duties proposed are to encourage the establishment of certain projected industries, the principal being iron and steel tubes, leather cloth and linoleum. Reduced duties are proposed in a number of cases. These relate to goods which are in. everyday use in the household, or to articles of general utility, and which are not manufactured in Australia. 
In the schedule now before the Senate, the principle of British preference has been maintained, in some instances amounting to 25 per cent., and averaging about 20 per cent. Preferences previously granted to British manufacturers are worth over £8,000,000 per ' annum. This will be increased under the present proposals by approximately £2,000,000. It is frequently alleged that our policy of protection, notwithstanding these substantial preferences, is injurious to British trade. It may be pointed out, however, that in 1901 the value of Australian importations of British goods amounted to £6 per head of population, while in 1925-26 we imported British goods to the value of £11 per head. Our population in the meantime had increased by over 2,000,000. 
These figures must not be regarded as indicating a failure of the policy of protection to encourage Australian production, but rather as proof of the prosperity promoted by protection, and the consequent high-purchasing power of the people of this country. Even when adequate protection is afforded, it is not reasonable to expect that our own manufacturers will be in a position to supply forthwith the whole of the country's requirements. In the case of new industries, before this can be done, capital has to be raised, factories have to be built and equipped, and employees trained. In many instances, consumers' prejudices against Australianmade articles have to be overcome. The latter frequently is a costly and tedious  process. The same difficulties have, in some measure at least, to he surmounted in connexion with the expansion of existing industries. In spite of numerous and serious obstacles, there has been a steady expansion in  mo3t  of our secondary industries during recent years, as the following figures indicate: - 
The value added in process of manufacture during the year 1925-26, (£152,220,554), was equal to the value of over 600,000,000 bushels of wheat at 5s. a bushel. 
The 1925 Tariff has stimulated the production of many commodities. In this way it provided employment for additional labour and capital, and kept in Australia much money which otherwise would have been spent overseas at a time when it was most important that it should he retained here. It has also induced British and other overseas firms to establish branch factories in the Commonwealth, thus increasing the working capital of the country and the employment of our people. 
When the previous Tariff schedule was before the Senate fears were expressed that higher duties would further increase the cost of living. Investigations made by officers of the customs department have failed to discover any material increase in wholesale prices, while it has been ascertained that substantial reductions have been made in the prices of a number of commodities. 
I shall give the honorable senator the details later. 
It is impossible to give all the details in a second reading speech. It was also contended that the increased duties would impose further handicaps upon the primary producer, but no evidence that this has occurred has been forthcoming. Australia has just passed through a severe drought, which has reduced both agricultural and pastoral production, but in Western Australia, where conditions were normal, last year witnessed the greatest increase in wheat area under cultivation and yield which has ever taken place in that State. So far from protection hampering our primary industries, it substantially contributes to their success by providing a large and profitable home market, the bulk of all our land products, with the exception of wool and wheat, being consumed within the Commonwealth. 
In the settlement and development of the Commonwealth our flocks and herds, farms, orchards, vineyards, and mines are all of the utmost importance, but to assure the progress and prosperity of almost any country, it is imperative that primary production should be reinforced and buttressed by such secondary industries as are commercially possible. This is more especially the case where primary production is so much affected as it is in Australia by seasonal variations. Even in favorable circumstances, land industries involve much casual labour, and when production is seriously curtailed by climatic conditions, as sometimes happens, much unemployment ensues. It must be admitted that some of our secondary industries occasionally suffer from periods of depression, hut on the whole they afford fairly continuous employment, and maintain from year to year a steadily increasing volume of production. The value of this constant and increasing flow of work and wealth cannot be overestimated. 
Protective duties, however, are not entirely confined to secondary industries. Many of our land products are protected by comparatively high duties, and in some instances also receive the benefit of a  bounty on export. Under this bill it is proposed to increase the import duties on rice, potatoes, butter, cheese, and timber. In protecting the iron and steel industry a market is provided for iron ore from South Australia; limestone from Tasmania ; fluorspar from Queensland ; and iron ore, limestone, sandstone, and coal from New South Wales, in the mining and transport of which thousands of men are engaged in addition to the many thousands who are employed in operating the smelters. In such an undertaking it is impossible to separate the interests of the primary from those of the secondary industry, the whole being interwoven and interdependent. The position is very similar in connexion with most of our productive activities. That the Commonwealth's policy of protection has not retarded the growth of our land industries is abundantly proved by the substantial increases which have taken place in most branches of primary production since federation. It is difficult to make satisfactory comparisons, owing to variations in seasonal conditions, hut the following statement showing maximum yields in a number of industries before and since federation is interesting and informative :  - 
Record Productions. 

 Prior to Federation. 

Butter, 1000, 114,380,780 lb. 
Cheese, 1896, 12,105,327 lb. 
Wine, 1896-97, 5,336,161 gallons. 
Wheat, 1900-1, 48,353,402 bushels (5,566,614 acres ) . 
Wool, 1891, 543,495,800 lb. 
Bacon and Hams, 1900, 32,388,029 lb. 
Sugar, 1898-99, 192,834 tons. 

 Subsequent to Federation. 

Butter, 1924-25, 313,952,291 lb. 
Cheese, 1921, 32,053,003 lb. 
Wine, 1925-20, 16,231,142 gallons. 
Wheat, 1915-10, 179,065,703 bushels (12,484,512 acres). 
Wool, 1925-20, 830,459,007 lb. 
Bacon and Hams, 1925-26, 74,774,537 lb. 
Sugar, 1925-26, 517,970 tons. 
A frequent argument against the policy of protecting our secondary industries is that we are unable to sell our manufactured products on the world's markets, and, therefore, profitable output is limited to home requirements. Unfortunately, this is also the case- with many of our primary products, the exportable surplus having to be sold ata loss. It is a mistaken idea that there, is an assured market at remunerative prices for every form of land production, which is increasing more rapidly than population in many countries. In the official report of the Economic Conference, held at Geneva in May last, appears the following: - 
A general impression of the change which has taken place since the war can be gathered from the statistics which have been compiled of the world's production of foodstuffs and raw materials. The figures show that, whereas in  1925 the  world's population was about  5  per cent, greater than in 1913, production of foodstuffs and of raw materials was from 10 to 18 per cent, greater. In other words, production and consumption, both in total and per head of the world's population are greater than before the war. 
This increased production of food and raw materials has, however, not been accompanied by a corresponding increase of international commerce, for the volume of trade in 1925 was only 5 per cent, higher than before the war. 
The following extract from the last annual report by the Secretary of Agriculture in the United States of America describes the agricultural position in a country where conditions are somewhat comparable with those of Australia: - 
On fewer acres, and with a farm population of 3,000,000 less than in 1919, the agricultural industry since 1923 has averaged a larger volume of production than in the year immediately following the war. ... In the nine years since the world war ended, agriculture has undergone far-reaching changes that have materially increased the output of both land and labour. Tractors have replaced many horses and mules, releasing land -for other uses than the production of feed and forage. Improved harvesting machinery has come into wide use. The size of the average farm has increased. More productive crops have been planted. Livestock of increased productivity has become widely dispersed. Farm management has become more efficient, a better balance has been established amongst agricultural enterprises, and progress has been made in adjusting production to market requirements. The result is an increase in farm production more rapid than the rise in the coun try's population. 
From these official statements, overproduction of foodstuffs appears possible, if not imminent, and in view of such a contingency, it would be criminal folly to depart from the policy of endeavouring to make Australia as far as possible selfsupporting and self-contained. 
I have refrained from discussing the details of the schedule, because this can be done more conveniently and usefully as the items come up for consideration in committee. The proposed amendments are the outcome of exhaustive investigation by the Tariff Board, and of most careful consideration by the Minister for Trade and Customs and by the Cabinet. They will, it is believed, if approved by the Senate, as they have been by the other branch. of the legislature, encourage the investment of Australian and overseas capital, stimulate production, and increase employment without adding to the cost of living or the burden of taxation. 
.- The Tariff is at all times a very interesting as well as an intricate subject. We have long since passed the stage at which there was any doubt in the minds of the people of Australia as to what should be the fiscal policy of this country. Many years ago the chief question that was debated either in Parliament or outside was that of freetrade versus protection, but for many years the different governments which have held office have, at the direction of the people of Australia, determined that in order to keep this country self-reliant and self-contained it is necessary to pursue a protective policy. My only objection is that our protective policy has not been sufficiently effective, and that the incidence of the different tariffs that have been in operation has not resulted in our being as self-contained and as self-reliant as the people wish. 
The Labour party has consistently advocated a form of new protection - protection for manufacturers and their employees as well as for the consumers of the manufactured article. Unfortunately the Constitution presents an obstacle to the attainment of its desire in that direction. It would, however, be wrong for us to depend entirely on imports from overseas. Australia's policy of protection has added to the number of our manufactories, and increased the number of persons employed therein. Although a young country - as a nation Australia is still in its swaddling clothes, we have made substantial progress, notwithstanding that the progress' has been slow. At the outbreak of the Great War in 1914 there were 15,428 factories in Australia in which 331,000 employees were engaged, the annual wages bill being £34,146,000. By 1925-26 the number of factories had increased to 21,242, employing 450,920 persons to whom wages amounting to £86,724,000 were paid. I am reliably informed that in the short period which has elapsed since this amended schedule was tabled in another place four or five new timber mills have been established in Tasmania. 
Notwithstanding these evidences of progress the tariff ,is not sufficiently protective, for we find that, despite the splendid increase . in our secondary industries our imports continue to exceed our exports by an increasing amount each year. In the Melbourne  Age  of yesterday there appeared a paragraph dealing with a report from the Commonwealth Statistician, from which I have taken the following extract : - 
Statistics of the oversea trade of Australia with other countries during 1920-27 have been made available by the Commonwealth Statistician,  Mr. C.  H. Wickens. Comparative figures for the year 1925-26 have also been included in the tabulations. The total value of Australia's oversea trade during 1926-27 was £309,011,777, as compared with £300,200,387. The value of imports increased from £151,638,178 in 1925-26 to £164,716,594 in 1926-27, which is the highest total ever recorded, while exports declined from £148,562,209 in 1925-26 to £144,895,183. Imports thus exceeded exports in 1926-27 by £19,821,411. 
That is because the tariff has not been sufficiently protective in its incidence. The same issue of the Melbourne  Age  contains the following report of a speech by  Mr. Hogan,  the Premier of Victoria: - 
During 1927 the imports into Australia were valued at £164,000,000, and the exports at £144,000,000, which together with interest on Commonwealth and State loans, amounted to an adverse trade balance of £44,000,000.  Mr. Bruce  had said that the figures for the lost twelve years were quite satisfactory. He was astounded at the Prime Minister adopting such a shallow and superficial argument. The last twelve years included the war years, when imports were at a minimum and exports at a maximum, so the comparison was not fair. However, he would take those years and show how imports had grown. In 1915-16 the imports were valued at £64,000,000; in 1916-17. £77,000,000; 1917-18, £62,000,000; 1918-19, £102,000,000; 1919-207 £98,000,000; 1920-21, £163,000,000; 1921-22, £103,000,000; 1922-23, £131,000,000; 1923-24, ,£140,000,000; 1924-25, £157,000,000; 1925-26, £151,000,000, and last year, 1926-27, they were £164,000,000, the  highest yet recorded. . 
At this stage I venture the opinion that a great factor in bringing about the unemployment we have in Australia to-day is the adverse trade balance we have as the result of our borrowing overseas. By borrowing overseas we bring goods, instead of money, into Australia, and these are goods which could and should be made by Australians. We have not only the men and the material, but also the skill to produce them. Instead of being an importing nation to the extent I have just shown, we should be an exporting nation; or at least if we cannot be that, our importations should not be as heavy as they are.. 
Our manufacturers have to compete with manufacturers in parts of the world where labour is cheap, and where men are working under conditions that, under no consideration, would be tolerated in Australia. 
In those countries people work longer hours, and receive less wages- 
No. It was  Senator Duncan  who referred to the United States of America. Although they are not as good as I should like to see them - there is still room for improvement - the working conditions which Australians enjoy are entirely due to the fact that there has been, and still is, an Australian Labour party. And if the worker of Australia is not getting the full measure for his labour to which he is entitled, he is, at any rate, in respect to working conditions, considerably in advance of his fellows in other countries from which we import annually millions of pounds worth of goods. 
With adequate protection I dare say we might not have in our midst those pernicious trusts and combines which are so evident in other parts of the world, particularly in ' that country referred to by  Senator Duncan.  I am not foolish enough to say that we have no trusts or combines in Australia, but if it had not been for our legislation of the past that evil might be more rampant than it is. Until we have new protection we must do the best we can under our Constitution. Therefore, I welcome an amended tariff schedule which will help to protect the manufacturers of Australia and provide work for Australian citizens. The Minister has said that one of the results of this tariff will be the development of a foreign export to the extent of, approximately, £5,000,000 a year. I hope it will. I should like to see a more pronounced result, because £5,000,000 is a very small proportion of £20,000,000. 
While I believe in a protective policy I am not a believer in . what might be termed unlimited protection which might tend to inefficiency on the part of the management of a factory. 
I do not say that it will have that tendency, but it might be the means of enabling some managers to postpone the installation of up-to-date machinery in their factories. In my opinion, we could get a larger output at a cheaper cost by the installation of up-to-date machinery in our factories. When in the Arbitration Court the employers were fighting against a proposed reduction of working hours from 48 to 44 a week, they contended that with the proposed reduction in hours the output of their factories would be decreased, but I think evidence was given to show that in many of our factories we did not have up-to-date machinery - an important factor in increasing output and at the same time reducing costs of production. 
Some people say that new protection interferes with private enterprise. But private enterprise frequently comes to Parliament for assistance. Time and time again this Parliament has passed bounty bills to give assistance to private enterprise. 
An almost unlimited number of them. If it is the dutv of this Parliament, as I think it is, to protect the manufacturers of Australia, it is also its duty to protect the people of the country against rapacious prices. On two occasions the Labour party has endeavoured to get the people of Australia to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to deal with new protection, but that power has not been given to .us, and therefore we cannot legislate along the lines that are necessary. If the worker wishes to have his wages increased or his conditions of work improved, he must present a case to the Arbitration Court, and the court will fix his hours of labour and what wages he shall receive for his labour. But I think wc ought to be able to go a step further. Wo ought to be able to tell the people whom this tariff schedule will' protect from unfair competition from abroad not only that they must pay their workers a proper wage, but also that their consumers shall not be charged exorbitant prices. 
I make no such comprehensive statement, but I do say that there are unfair charges and cases where manufacturers stipulate the prices that shall be demanded for the articles they make. As one instance I may quote the firm of Bond, which sells its goods to retailers subject to the condition that they must charge a certain fixed price for them. 
All that I am saying is that the firm fixes its price and tells the retailer that he must charge so much for the product of its factory. 
I am merely citing one instance to support my case. I might add that unless the retailer sells at the stipulated price he may find himself without the particular product of that factory. If the manufacturer who is given protection by this Parliament can say what the public shall pay for his goods, surely this Parliament ought to be in a position to say at what price he shall sell his goods. 
If the people of Australia would clothe this Parliament with the powers that have been sought in this respect, the problem would be easily solved. Under no consideration am I a revenue  tariffist 
No. I am an effective protectionist. Briefly, my position is that to any article that can be made in Australia - and I know of very few that cannot- 
To any article that can be made in Australia I am prepared to give effective protection. 
No. Any article that cannot be made in Australia - and there are very few that cannot be made here - I would admit duty free rather than have a revenue tariff. 
The Minister  (Senator Crawford)  referred to the wheat production of Western Australia. It is true that the Western State has increased its production. In 1903 it was importing . wheat ; but in the 1927 season it had a yield of 35,000,000 bushels. I am not prepared to admit- that this yield is the result of the tariff of the Bruce-Page Government. 
I say, unhesitatingly, that it is in spite of the tariff that Western Australia has had this yield. I was somewhat surprised to hear the Minister say that the increased wheat yield in Western Australia was one of the results of the tariff schedule that the bill now before us amends. 
There may be room for argument in that regard. If in our tariff schedule we imposed a very heavy duty on agricultural machinery, it might handicap a State like Western Australia, which is in its infancy as a primary producing State. The primary producers have to sell their products in the markets of the world, and we should not make their  conditions hard, particularly as they have to contend with the adversities which nature arrays against them. 
I presume that before this debate concludes we shall have an expression of opinion from the representatives of the Country party in this chamber, and may find that even at this stage there is a freetrader in its ranks, I do not know whether the Country, party is still in existence, as its members are now so closely associated with the Nationalist party that they have almost lost their identity. When a private member the present Treasurer expressed very strong opinions concerning the tariff and its incidence which I shall quote. 
-But he dare not express them, otherwise he would soon lose his present position. Since the Treasurer has been in office the revenue from customs and excise duties has increased to a remarkable extent, as the following figures show: In 1921-22 the revenue from this source was £27,630,000, and in 1926-27 it was £43,552,000, an increase of £15,922,000. During the same period the amount of customs and excise duties paid per head of the population rose from £5 0s. 3£d. to £7 2s. 6id., an increase of £2 2s. 3d. per head. When we remember the strong attitude adopted by the Leader of the Country party before he took office, it is difficult to understand why he should tolerate such a heavy increase of duties. On the 12 th October, 1922, the present Treasurer said : - 
We wore told that the tariff was to be definitely protective: but the Treasurer is actually budgeting to secure more revenue from the  tariff  this year. 
Later he said : - 
If a protective tariff fulfils its functions the revenue derived must become less and less as industries are established within the country. 
Our industries have not developed proportionately, but, as our customs revenue has increased to a remarkable extent, it suggests that the tariff is not sufficiently protective. The present Treasurer as Leader of the Country party also said : - 
The Country party fought against these excessive duties all the time, and I regard  the  action of the  Government  in reducing the duties on wire netting and galvanized iron and fencing wire as a confession that the policy we advocated last year was a proper one. 
The  Dr. Page  of to-day is entirely different from the  Dr. Page  of a few years ago. 
If  Senator Sir George  Pearce wishes to honour his compact with the people of Western Australia when he was elected in 1925, he must oppose many of the items in the schedule to this bill. Both he and  Senator Carroll  agreed then to advocate a low tariff.  Senator Pearce  may or may not oppose the schedule. If he did, it would probably involve his resignation from the cabinet, and that would be a calamity to the right honorable gentleman himself. According to a paragraph in the Melbourne  Age  of the 13th March, 1926, the honorable member for Wimmera  (Mr. Stewart),  in dealing with the agreement made by the two parties in Western Australia, said - 
Before the last elections an agreement had been made by the National and Country Party that as the present high tariff was inimical to Western Australia the full strength of both parties should be devoted to a substantial reduction in the duties, and that as a reduction could only be secured through united representation, neither party should give endorsement to any candidate who was not in agreement with this policy. The  primary  producers and united parties agreed to co-operate and the former was to have one representative, for the Senate and the other party two. 
I understand that  Senator Pearce  and  Senator Carroll  subscribed to that agreement and I am waiting to see the attitude they will adopt towards this bill, particularly as the customs duties have not been reduced since  Senator Pearce  was returned to this Parliament. I shall watch with interest the progress of the bill through the committee stages, and I hope that the duties adopted will give to Australia more effective protection than we have had in the past. Higher duties are necessary to help manufacturers who are providing employment for many of our people and assisting Australia to become a self-contained and self-reliant nation. 
.- If there are still any freetraders in this chamber, which I very much doubt, I suppose they will have something to say concerning the schedule to this bill. Like the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Needham), I am pleased to be able to call myself a scientific protectionist. There is, however, this difference between us, that whereas the honorable senator will support the highest possible duties on every occasion and for every conceivable industry, I am inclined to the belief that we are pushing the bogy of protection too far. With the advice of the Tariff Board to guide us, and using our own judgment, we should take stock of our position and see if we have not gone far enough. At one time a freetrader could be found in the ranks of the Labour party; but to-day there is not one. A member of the Labour party to-day who -dared to advocate freetrade would find himself cast, like the Roman traitors of old, from the  Tarpeian  Rock. The Labour party believes in the policy of high protection, because, amongst other things, it gives employment and incidentally increases its voting strength, in industrial electorates. But, instead of bringing about the millennium, as anticipated by some members of the party, the policy of high protection is actually increasing unemployment in the cities. Many of our industries enjoy high protective duties, but the cost of production is so great that it prevents successful competition with the older and more firmly established industries in the old world. This means stagnant and unprofitable industries which are unable to retain their full staff. Instead of high duties decreasing unemployment they have the opposite effect. The Leader of the Opposition directed attention to the fact that our adverse trade balance was about £20,000,000 and pointed out that a large proportion of our imports were coming from countries where cheap labour conditions obtain. I would remind him that our adverse trade balance with the United States of America, a country where the conditions, of employment are quite as good as those in Australia - the wages paid are actually higher- is £25,000,000. 
They are better in some cases. Where are these cheap labour countries? We import from British countries £85,000,000 worth of goods. I do not think the honorable senator will say that these goods come from countries where cheap labour is available. 
They are not; but' wages in Great Britain have in some cases increased by 100 per cent, since the war. Many mechanics in Great Britain are paid as much as they are paid in Australia. We import only £4,000,000 worth of goods per annum from Japan, where labour is cheap, and we sell her over £11,000,000 worth. France sends to Australia goods to the value of £3,750,000 a year and buys from this country goods to the value of £18,000,000. Italy is in much the same position. That country sells us goods to the value of about £1,500,000 a year and buys from us products worth about £5,000,000. 
A perusal of the figures relating to imports and exports shows that our most serious competitor with regard to secondary products is America, the country which pays the highest wages in the world. But America is not without its unemployment problem. The cabled reports in the newspapers to-day stated that there are 500,000 workers unemployed in the United States of America.  Senator Needham  declares that protection provides employment. If what he says be true, how is it that, notwithstanding that our secondary industrieshave enjoyed high protection for many years, unemployment in Australia is more serious to-day than at any other period since federation. Clearly the facts disclose that protection does not ensure continuity of employment, and is no guarantee against an industrial crisis such as that which now confronts us. 
I do not propose to deal in detail with the items in the schedule. I shall have an opportunity to do that at the committee stage of the bill. I wish, however, to stress the point that there appears to have been a disposition in certain quarters to over-estimate the value of high protective duties from the point of view of employment, and as a consequence the people of Australia have been penalized in order to protect certain industries which give only a limited amount of employment.  Senator Needham  admits that protection does not assist the primary producer in his State. Tasmania, possessing few secondary industries, also derives very little benefit from high protection. Only two States, Victoria and New South Wales, have benefited from the imposition of high tariff duties. 
At the outset I stated that I was a protectionist. I believe that tariff duties are absolutely essential to protect certain industries. I have voted for protection on former occasions and will do so again if I believe protective duties are warranted ; but I do not favour high protection for every little tin pot industry that asks for assistance. I believe in the adequate protection of our natural industries, including our iron and steel products - those industries which have some chance of competing with overseas rivals. Industrial concerns which do not give promise of employing a large number of men should not be protected. It would be far better to allow free competition in respect of such concerns. I hope that before the tariff schedule is  passed  we shall be able to reduce certain of the items. It is my intention to move for a reduction of duties in respect of one or two industries in which I believe high tariff imposts are working an injury to the producers pf Australia. 
I should not have taken part in this discussion but for the extraordinary statements made by  Senator Ogden,  who has just resumed his seat. He began by declaring himself to be a scientific protectionist. What does he mean? To me the term is rather ambiguous. 
My Leader  (Senator Needham)  has told honorable senators where he stands in respect of tariff duties and also what is the attitude of every member of the Labour party in this chamber.  Senator Ogden  at one time was a member of the Labour party and subscribed to its platform. 
The platform of the Labour party has always been worthy of the support of every man who believes in the principles of Labour, who believes in human progress, and who wishes to do something for the advancement and  devolpment  of Australia. 
 Senator Ogden  would have us believe that he is a scientific protectionist. With many other little Australians he is an advocate of the highest possible duties in respect of industries established in his - own State, but is not so keen about protection for industries in other States. He is a fiscal Cyclops - a one-eyed protectionist. If protection is good for Tasmanian industries, surely it is equally good for industries established elsewhere in the Commonwealth. Let me remind the honorable senator that an industry which, speaking figuratively, is a small one to-day, may be giving employment to-morrow to large numbers of men and women. Under the influence of protection, and in spite of the attitude of men like  Senator Ogden  of today, many industries have been established in the various States of the Commonwealth. Protection which fails to protect, is not protection in the true sense of the word. I believe in a high form of protection. I am Australian from head to heel. I wish to see Australia a self-contained nation. Therefore I am prepared to do all I can to encourage Australian industries. I firmly believe that under a system of protection it is possible to produce in Australia everything required for the needs of our people. To some the value of protection is to be measured by the ability of the industry to which it applies to compete with rivals overseas. It is true that in certain industries we cannot at present compete with manufacturers overseas. 
Never is a long time. The man who claims to be able to foretell the future is an optimist. Because of our higher standard of living, and improved conditions of labour, we are not able to compete with overseas manufacturers in certain industries; but it must not be forgotten that we are building up industries under conditions dissimilar from, those obtaining in many other countries. 

 Senator Ogden says that Labour supports the policy of protection because it means more industries and more workers in the main centres of population, and, consequently, a bigger vote for Labour. What a narrow and restricted vision the honorable senator must have. Surely he knows that the majority of the people have declared emphatically in favour of this policy. In any case, his argument presup.poses the existence of a large number of unemployed in our rural areas before the imposition of tariff duties which have been responsible for the establishment of manufacturing industries in our cities, and since our secondary industries have provided work for unemployed rural workers, it is clear that they have improved their position under protection. 
I shall endeavour to explain what I believe to be the main causes of unemployment, not only in Australia, but throughout the world. I do not claim that protection is a panacea for all the ills that flesh is heir, but I believe it is an immeasurably better fiscal system than freetrade. There are no logical freetraders in this chamber, or in another place now. 

 - Senator Grant is as logical a freetrader as it is possible for a man to be. The logical freetrader is opposed entirely to the raising of revenue through the Customs House. He believes in absolute freetrade, and in raising by means of a tax on land values all the revenue necessary for the government of a country. A number of honorable senators supporting the Government claim to be revenue tariffists; they are neither flesh, fowl, nor good red herring. 
And now as to the cause of unemployment. For every effect there is a cause. Unemployment is not peculiar to Australia; it is as farflung as the world itself. Every observant man knows that in both victorious and vanquished countries today there are many hundreds of thousands df men and women, youths and girls, out of work. What is the principal cause of that unemployment? It is the result of the world war and its aftermath. Europe is more or less in a chaotic state financially, commercially, and industrially. Prior to the war Europe was a potential customer of Great Britain; but the curtailment of her credit by a peace treaty rendered her unable to purchase in quantities equal to those that she purchased before the war. For her own protection Germany resorted to the printing press; but the more paper marks she printed the more depreciated became her currency. Behind that currency, however, she had goods which are now being supplied to her victors by way of indemnity. The consequence is that Great Britain has a large army of unemployed workers and is unable to do much trade with Europe. 
We depend for a substantial measure of our prosperity upon the exportable surplus of the goods that we produce. So long as good markets and high prices prevail for our primary products, of which we export large quantities, Australia will be all right. I admit that the nature of the season influences the position slightly.; but I also contend that the markets which we now have are not as profitable to us as those which we had before the war. Despite the assertions of  Senator Ogden  and others, if it were not for bounties and other forms of financial assistance which primary industries receive, the ' position of many a man on the land would be different from what it is to-day. Assistance to primary industries, in the form of either bounties or customs duties, is protection. Throughout the world there  is financial stringency. "When the rest of the world is more or less embarrassed financially, Australia must feel the effect. Meanwhile, we must do all that is possible to further the progress of Australia and to  open  up additional avenues of employment for our workers. 
Tariffs have done and are doing it. If the iron and steel industry in New South Wales, which employs thousands of men, received that measure of protection to which I think it is justly entitled, it would be in a position to supply the whole of Australia's requirements in steel rails and other goods which to-day are imported. 
The statement was made not long ago that unless the industry was given the protection for which it asked, the importations would have a very serious effect upon it and in all probability it would have to close down. 
I do not consider any duty effective that does not adequately protect an industry. 
I am prepared, if necessary, to make the duty 200 per cent, or as high as the Government is willing to go. I believe that protection is a good thing and that we cannot have too much of it. It has been said " If you increase the duty to 200 per cent., you will stop importations." That is true to a very large extent. But what would happen? Those who now send goods to Australia would establish their industries here. That has been and is being done to-day; the high duties which were imposed for the purpose of stopping importations led to oversea manufacturers setting up in business in different parts of Australia. Is there any reason why we should import -woollen goods? 
That is true. If the woollen industry is such a profit making one, we shall have manufacturers from oversea coming out here and setting up in opposition to those who are already established. Is there any reason  why the fullest measure of protection should be withheld from the timber industry ? I ask  Senator Ogden,  as a scientific protectionist, whether he believes that that industry should be adequately protected. 
The honorable senator comes from Tasmania, which is deeply interested in the timber industry. Australian timbers are the finest in the world; the furniture trade, which specialises in the use of high-class timbers, will supply evidence of that. Millions of feet of our best quality timbers have been ruthlessly destroyed in past years. Why do we want the highest degree of protection for the industry? In the first place, because it is a natural industry which is capable of development; and secondly, because it would, if developed, provide employment for thousands of men. To-day it is in a struggling condition. Mill after mill has had to be closed down. There is to-day, in some quarters, a prejudice against certain Australian timbers, and for this, members - of the " Get rich quick Wallingford " brigade are largely responsible. During the war and subsequent to the termination of that conflict, there was an acute shortage of houses, and a building boom was experienced. I built my house, with an unfortunate effect upon my pocket, during that boom period. If one were civil one could get a few bricks, and a little timber and cement. The demand was so great that almost any kind of timber could be sold, not every day, but at different times. Some of it was more or less sap wood, too green to burn. The parasites have a great liking for sap wood. The borer, a diligent worker, who apparently works night and day, caused millions of pounds worth of damage. That will always be the result when timber is not; properly seasoned. Australian hardwoods and other timbers have been seriously handicapped by imports. 
There is very little. It was difficult, at one time, to obtain supplies of either imported or Australian timber as required. Better methods are now being employed in the seasoning of our timbers. The boom period having passed, it may be possible to obtain a higher class of timber from the mill; and if those who are engaged in the industry succeed in obtaining the protection which they are seeking, they will no doubt be able to satisfy the demands of the Australian public. 
There are other items to which I might refer, but I shall refrain from doing so at this stage. I merely wished to make my position clear. The proposed duties are high, but they do not alarm me in the least. No matter how high they may be, I shall always vote for duties which will stimulate industries in Australia. 
I am not a scientific protectionist in regard to timber and a revenue  tariffist  in regard to other industries. I am essentially Australian in my attitude towards protection. Apparently  Senator Ogden  regards protection mainly from the Tasmanian viewpoint. Although that is an important State, he must not overlook the fact that there are other States in the federation. I believe that, before many years have passed, a number of big industries will be established in Tasmania. One which gives every promise of materialising in the not far distant future will probably be one of the biggest that has so far been established in Australia, and our fiscal policy will have been largely responsible for it. I refer to the paper pulp industry. 
Those who are interested in that proposition would not have gone to the trouble and expense of purchasing at the Wembley Exhibition a paper pulp machine for the making of paper at the rate of a ton a day ; and they would not have had it erected, or engaged experts and scientific men to advise them, if they had not felt certain of obtaining that measure of protection to which every industry is entitled if it is shown to be a commercial proposition. 
Those who engage in industry in Australia to-day take little or no chance. The majority of the people of Australia favour a policy of protection. 

 Senator Needham said that at one time the only question which was seriously discussed in Australia was whether our fiscal policy should be one of freetrade or protection. While I cannot go quite so far as that, it is true that no question has aroused more public interest or caused more bitterness and enmity than Australia's fiscal policy. I have seen the Melbourne Town Hall crowded to the doors long before the appointed hour for the commencement of meetings to discuss the fiscal policy of the country; I have seen hanging from balconies banners advocating one policy or the other; and sometimes, when the opposing parties got into close quarters, the situation was so tense that I wondered what the outcome would be. 
There is not today that bitterness in regard to fiscal matters that there was in the days of which I speak. More and more the people of Australia have identified themselves with the policy of protection, until to-day there are very few live freetrade organizations in this country. That even the Country party, some of whose members are opposed to protection, seems slowly, but surely, to be giving its support to that policy, is evident by the speeches made in another place by socalled representatives of that party in connexion with the schedule now before us. It would appear that a majority of Government supporters in this chamber favour that policy. It may be that they are not ready to go so far as I am prepared to go to give protection to Australian industries, but, in the main, honorable senators opposite are protectionists. It is true that there are grounds for doubting their wholeheartedness. 
That charge cannot, however, be laid against the members of the  Labour  party. Although opposed to much of the Government's policy the Labour party will assist the Government to give adequate protection to industries already established and to encourage new industries in Australia, thus providing further avenues of employment for our people. With more and more industries established, and consequently greater opportunities for employment, there should be a greater home market for our primary products. Foi that reason the primary producers and their representatives should do all in their power to establish secondary industries in this country. 
, - The Minister in charge of this bill  (Senator Crawford)  and his colleagues must be gratified at the preans  of praise which have come from the Opposition to-day. First, we had the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  singing the praises of the Government, and later  Senator Findley,  who in his concluding remarks said that however high the duties proposed by the Government the Labour party would support them. Such a position must be unique in the history of parliaments. I well remember the time when the then Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Gardiner)  criticized the present Government because of its protectionist policy.' He assured the Senate that if effect were given to that policy it would spell the ruin of Australian industries. But today those whom he at one time led say that the Government is doing right in increasing duties ; their only complaint is that the duties proposed are not high enough.  Senator Findley  has declared himself to be in favour of adequate protection. We have heard of scientific protectionists, reasonable protectionists, geographical protectionists, and more recently of new protectionists; but to-day a new brand has appeared - adequate protectionists. 
I shall have pleasure in telling  Senator Findley  where  I stand in fiscal matters and explaining why it gives me a great deal of pleasure to support, almost in their entirety, the recommendations contained in this schedule. I regret that in one or two instances I may have to offer some opposition. 
I am not complaining; I am supporting this tariff as I was sent here to do. 
I propose to do so. Indeed the task' is not difficult, because of the lead given by the Opposition, which has made it clear that it finds no fault with the Government. 
Having listened to honorable senators opposite, I find that some doubts which 1 previously entertained as to the wisdom of these proposals are disappearing. Like the poor who are always with us, we seem never to get entirely rid of tariff schedules. In the past when tariff schedules were introduced, we were told that the duties proposed were sufficient to establish various industries in our midst, and that no requests for higher duties would be made. But, unfortunately, our experience has been that almost before the ink on the schedule was dry, there was an agitation for further duties. 
I do not blame the unfortunate manufacturers for asking for higher duties. They have been forced to do so by reason of circumstances over which they have had no control. Having based their manufacturing costs and the future of their industries upon existing conditions, they have found that conditions in industry change more in Australia than in almost any other country, with the result that they have experienced difficulty in meeting not only the competition from overseas, but also, at times, that from within Australia. 
That is one of the contributing factors; but other factors need only to be mentioned to show how difficult it is for manufacturers to meet changing conditions. Recently I had the opportunity to visit the Lustre Silk 
Hosiery factory, one of the finest factories I have seen in this country, which manufactures a magnificent article. The tariff schedule now before us increased by  20  per cent, the cost of its raw material, notwithstanding that the duty on the finished article with which it has to compete was not increased. That increased duty may mean the difference between success and failure to that industry. Unfortunately, that state of affairs is not confined to the industry I have mentioned. The trouble is that the finished article of one industry is in many instances the ' raw material of another, so that any increased cost of the article produced by the one has to be borne by the other. For that reason we should consider carefully some of the proposals contained in this schedule. 
Although to-day we have not the fights between freetrade and protection which we had in the past, there is by no means unanimity on fiscal matters. To-day the issue before this chamber is net whether protection should be given or withheld, but what degree of protection should be given to the industries mentioned in the schedule. Protection has become the settled policy of the Commonwealth, and the fight now is for ever and ever-increasing duties. Honorable senators of the Labour party have pointed to statistics which show that the importations of Australia are constantly growing, in spite of an ever-increasing tariff. But why is this so? The goods would not be sent to this country unless there was a sale for them here. Who buys them? The statistics of importations show that they are largely manufactured articles, made, as  Senator Needham  has said, iu countries whose workers are paid lower wages than are paid in Australia. They are sent here, and bought here because they are cheap, and the people who buy them are those who want cheap goods - the working people of Australia. In any of the 6d., 9d., and ls. shops which are now becoming the vogue, or in any other shops having big sales of imported goods, can be seen long queues of workers and workers' wives, fighting and struggling to buy cheap imported articles. The muchvaunted policy of protection sounds all right; but unless it has behind it .the actual backing of the people who say they believe in it, it must fail, even if the duties are fixed at the  200  per cent, level supported by  Senator Findley.  The people who return the honorable senator to this Parliament will buy the imported article if they can get it at -Jd. or Id. cheaper than an article manufactured in Australia under decent conditions of labour. 
These are facts which cannot be denied, and if honorable senators opposite have at heart the interests of the manufacturers of Australia to the extent they say they have, I urge upon them the advisability of going among their own people and telling them that they do wrong when they buy other than Australian-made goods, or when they look for cheapness instead of quality. It is not easy to do this. The unfortunate worker's wife who finds herself at the end of the week with only a trivial sum of money with -which to do a very great deal for herself and her family, buys where she can get the most for what she has to spend. Is she wrong in doing so? She has either to do that or to allow some member of the family to go without something which is required. When one is faced with a problem like that, when one has either to go without something, or to buy imported goods because they are cheap, the scale always has a tendency to fall on the side of the imported article. Are we to blame the worker's wife for taking a. course of action we should probably take in similar circumstances. 
To my mind, the reason for this bigstream of importations to Australia is that we have for the last few years had a larger purchasing capacity than the people in any other part of the world, with probably the exception of America. We have had the ready cash, and have spent it more willingly and more readily perhaps than people in other countries. When we make a purchase, we do not ask whether the article is made in Australia or Germany, or anywhere else. We ask how much it is, or how many articles we can get for a certain sum. People will_ take what they can get the most of for the money they have to spend. Until we bring home to them the realization of the fact that Australia's industries, despite what  Senator Findley  may have said, are dependent not so much  upon the tariff or the height of our tariff wall, as upon the desire on their part to purchase Australian goods the position in which we find ourselves to-day is not likely to improve to any considerable extent. 
I can see with  Senator Thompson  the dangers of the day when production exceeds our local consumption. We can go on building our tariff wall and establishing factories, but when we have reached the point at which we have not only met all Australia's requirements, but also built up a huge surplus of products, what are we going to do about it? As  Senator Findley  knows, that point has already been reached in the case of the boot industry, and the industry has met it by closing factories for certain periods of the year. 
The boots imported were not to any extent similar to those made in the factories which were closed. They were higher quality boots. The trouble was that the boot factories in Australia had reached the point at which it was possible for them to supply all local requirements, and build up a huge surplus of boots, which they found it impossible to export. With the high cost of production in Australia they could not afford to sell their output in other coun-  tries at a price which would give them an adequate return on the cost of production. Therefore, they shut down their factories for a time. I think it can be said definitely that it was the policy of protection that compelled them to do so. We held out to the people who put their capital into those establishments the hope that our high tariff wall would give them immunity in Australia from overseas competition, and that there would . be a definite market for everything they might produce here. But because the tariff was so high, or the protection so effective, so many rushed into the boot industry that over-production took place, and as a consequence the industry very largely collapsed. It. would have been infinitely better Ibelieve had it been regulated more effectively by the imposition of an even lower rate of duty than was imposed, leaving it open to the overseas manufacturer to provide a certain amount of competition for the local manufacturer. There would then not have been put into the boot factories in Australia so much capital, and there would not have been that over-production we have had. There would have been a far healthier condition of affairs in the boot industry. 
I am referring not to the establishment, but to the stabilization of industries, in which we are somewhat deficient in Australia. 
Another aspect of the tariff before us has given me some little trouble. The parties supporting the Government have from time to time endorsed the policy of protection, and by the adoption of that policy and its application we have been responsible for the building up of a great many vested interests in Australia. We are, therefore, under a definite moral obligation to see that these interests are not permitted to suffer through any neglect of ours. We have to see them through so far as it is possible for us to do so, remembering all the time what is fair, and also what is more than fair. It has been clearly shown to the Tariff Board that many of these interests find that it is almost impossible for them to carry on their industries unless they are given more protection. 
The Tariff Board was set up by the Federal Parliament to investigate industries, find out what theyneeded, and what their actual position was, and recommend to the Minister and to Parliament what course of action should be taken. The board relieved legislators of a great deal of work in some respects - it did for Parliament work that it was not possible for Parliament itself to do - but, unfortunately, its recommendations, made after the most searching investigations, have not always been endorsed in the tariff schedule before us. On the contrary, in one or two instances they have been ruthlessly swept aside in another place. For instance, in regard to Oregon, the Tariff Board after the very fullest investigation reported against the course of action that is now set out in the tariff  schedule. The Government endorsed the Tariff Board's recommendations in regard to this matter. But the Minister's proposals were altered in another place, despite his opposition and that of his colleagues, and this chamber is now asked to endorse what was then done. I shall have a good deal to say about that matter when we are dealing with the schedule in committee. I am opposed to the course of action taken in another place, and I shall not vote for it because I believe that something entirely wrong has been done that will re-act very much upon Australian industry in general, and will have an effect that will perhaps be greater than it is possible for any of us to foretell to-day. 
The Tariff Board was opposed to the increased duty on 
Oregon.  Despite that, the Government is now sponsoring a tariff schedule in which it is not proposed to give effect to the Tariff Board's recommendations. 
It made the fullest investigation. 
Not nearly to the extent proposed 
On the second reading of a Customs Tariff Bill it is customary for honorable senators to confine their remarks more particularly to general principles, and when the schedule is under consideration, to deal with the items in detail. With most of the proposals I am in entire accord, and with some I differ  but I am not to be swayed by cajolery or threats of what may be done by certain individuals and interests if I do not see the light as they see it. In connexion with tariff matters it is most unfortunate that we should find our letter-boxes littered with letters, telegrams and printed matter circulated by certain persons solely in their own financial interest. I am not likely to be influenced in that way. I shall give my close attention to the consideration of the schedule, and trust I shall be able to justify every vote I record on the various items. In concluding I wish to point out that there are some industries to which the general principles I have referred cannot be applied. I have in mind key industries, which are of greater importance than ordinary manufacturing concerns; they are national necessities to any country. The iron and steel industry already mentioned in this debate has been referred to as a New South Wales industry. It is not an industry belonging to any State, but an Australian industry, the existence of which is absolutely essential if this country is to remain under our control. If  Ave  believe in a definite defence system the iron and steel industry is as essential to us as are battle ships, cruisers or aeroplanes. 
Yes, but I am now referring 'to manufacturing industries. If it is necessary to give a greater degree of protection to the iron and steel industry, even though it may mean a temporary increase in the cost of production, we 'must be prepared to give it for the reasons I have mentioned. I shall have pleasure in supporting increased duties on certain items in the schedule. I join with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and  Senator Findley  in congratulating the Government upon introducing the bill, and am pleased to note that in this instance we are holding the same views - a state of affairs which I trust will long continue. 
 I wish to bring before the Government and honorable senators the fact that under the existing act the members of the Tariff Board have not been able to visit the distant States and take evidence to the extent that the residents in such States desire. Persons in South Australia have complained that they have had to come to Melbourne to give evidence, and when the interests of the States are in conflict, those in distant States are at a disadvantage. I understand this is due partly to the constitution of the board. One is almost staggered at the volume of evidence taken and upon which the reports are based. 
I congratulate the hoard upon the exhaustive manner in which its investigations are conducted and the information contained in the valuable reports which it issues. 
The Tariff Board, in its annual report for the year ended 30th June, 1927, dealt with the difficulty to which I have referred, and pointed out the necessity for amending the act, with a view to materially increasing the efficiency of the Board, particularly by way of expediting its operations. It points out that a sitting of the board has to be called for each occasion on which it is to meet, and that two members constitute a quorum. As honorable senators are aware the full board consists of four members. It has to be recognized that as Australia is a country of vast distances it is difficult to obtain evidence from interested persons in all States. This, indeed, has been found impossible and the board, in dealing with this phase of the question, says - 
It is therefore suggested that the Act should be amended so as to make provision for the Board when, it is considered desirable, to be able to divide itself up and for two members, if necessary, to visit distant States and take evidence on oath with all the authority of the full Board. Incidental to this it would be necessary to provide that the members of the Board who remain behind and who would be reporting, and dealing with by-law applications, or preparing reports or inquiry cases already heard, should be able to be paid for their services. 
At present the board can be remunerated only when an actual board meeting is held. The board recommends that two of its members should be allowed to take evidence, the other two members to undertake other work, and that they all be remunerated as if the full board had been sitting. As an amendment in this direction would be in the interests of the people resident in distant States, I trust the Government will give early attention to the Board's recommendation. 
It is not my intention to deal at length with the tariff proposals of the Government, as I know there are other honorable senators who have had longer experience in tariff matters than I have had. I wish, however, to touch upon one phase which has  not  as yet been mentioned in this chamber. I refer to the opinions expressed by the representatives of other nations concerning our tariff. I shall quote from the report of the International Economic Conference held at Geneva, and from the report of the League of Nations, and, in doing so, shall confine myself strictly to the resolutions and the opinions which have a direct bearing upon the Australian tariff. As honorable members are aware,  Sir David  Gordon, a gentleman highly esteemed in South Australia, and possessing' extensive commercial, journalistic, and political experience, in company with  Mr. Warren  Kerr, who is well known to most honorable senators, attended the International Economic Conference in May, 1927, as one of Australia's delegates. These two gentlemen placed Australia's position before the conference, which was the greatest gathering of its kind ever held, and was attended by representatives of 50 countries, who were accompanied by 157 experts. There were also over 200 representatives of the world's press present. At the conference the tariffs of different countries .were discussed. It soon became evident that, apart from other considerations, an earnest appeal was being made to it in the interests of humanity, because it was stated that the unemployed in Europe, with their dependents, numbered nearly 20,000,000. 
From page 5. In opening the conference the  President  took an early opportunity of indicating that the task before the -delegates was "to conduct a general inquiry, a broad survey of the main aspects of the world's economic situation,, the economic causes of the present instability, and economic tendencies which may influence the peace of the world." As the discussion proceeded  it was evident that the conference considered that tariffs were a disturbing element in the economic system which might lead to war. Central Europe, it was said, is the cockpit of the economic struggle, but it was soon evident that other nations were vitally interested and must co-operate -in bringing about improved conditions. This was so apparent that  Sir David  Gordon was forced to state Australia's viewpoint. It was possible that the League of Nations, as representing international opinion, might pass resolutions which would vitally affect our tariff. The discussion reached a stage at which  Sir David  Gordon found it necessary to state Australia's position, and he did so in these words - 
During the discussion it lias been urged that many of the European tariffs arc too high, and that in order to encourage interchange it will be necessary not only to reduce them, but to interpret them with more clearness. Several declarations of fiscal faith have been made, and it becomes necessary for me to point out that Australia is committed to a protectionist tariff on at least two grounds - the building up of essential industries in a commercially young country, and for revenue purposes. Whatever may be the necessities of Europe, the requirements of Australia and the policy of that country must be left to 
Australians themselves..... Something has been said during the debate about prohibitions, and it was suggested that the resolutions would seek to deal with the practicability of prohibiting imports and exports. The right of prohibition on inward and outward goods was exercised in Australia during the war period, but oven then very sparingly; while at the present time with trifling exceptions, there is no prohibition on imports, while exports are practically free. The tariff applies equally to all countries excepting only certain preferential duties in favour of Great Britain, Canada, and New Zealand (all within the Imperial family), and these are mostly reciprocal, and, in many cases, are designed to benefit repatriated soldiers. ... An appeal has been made for stability of tariffs, and while, no doubt, this is desirable, and would be a great advantage, it will always prove a. difficult matter to fix tariff rates for a period during which no alterations will take place. The last Australian general tariff was passed by Parliament in 1925, prior to which there had been a period of five years of stability, excepting in those cases where the Tariff Board had exercised its right of recommending alterations. Australia could not regard favourably any attempt at the limitation of its powers, either in respect of a tariff policy or the right to make periodical alterations. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! The honorable senator is not in order in reading extensively from the report of the Australian delegation to the League of Nations. That document does not deal directly with the Tariff Bill now under consideration. It is permissible for the honorable senator to quote from the report, but not.  in extenso. 
Very well  Mr. President,  I shall obey your ruling. Despite the strong protest made by  Sir 
David Gordon, and his declaration that the imposition of customs duties in Australia was entirely a matter of domestic concern, the conference adopted resolutions expressing the contrary view. 
Australia was not mentioned in those resolutions. They dealt solely with the effect of European customs duties on European nations. 
Not one of the nations represented at the Assembly subscribed to the policy contained in the resolutions of the Economic Conference. 
In view of the fact that harmful effects upon production and trade results from the high and constantly changing tariffs which are applied in many countries; 
And since substantial improvement in the economic conditions can be obtained by increased facilities for international trade and commerce; 
And in view of the fact that tariffs, though within the sovereign jurisdiction of the separate States, are not a matter of purely domestic interest, but greatly influence the trade of the world; 
And in view of the fact that some of the causes which have resulted in the increase of tariffs, and in other trade barriers since the war, have largely disappeared and others are diminishing; 
The conference declares that the time has come to put an end to the increase in tariffs and to move in the opposite direction. 
The conference recommends: - 
That nations should take steps forthwith to remove or diminish those tariff barriers that gravely hamper trade, starting with those which have been imposed to counteract the effects of disturbances arising out of the war. 
I have read very carefully the report submitted by  Sir David  Gordon and I can assure honorable senators that the resolutions of the conference were very far reaching in their character. If eventually they receive the endorsement of the League of Nations they must influence Australia's tariff legislation. 
Does not the honorable senator think so too? 
I am much concerned about Australia's economic position. I view with alarm the rising costs of production, and many recent visitors share my anxiety. The Tariff Board has also issued a warning with regard to the alarming increase in the production costs. Referring to the position in the textile industry, the board states in its report for 1926-27 - 
This action of the Textile Workers' Union seems to have been influenced by the judgment of  Mr. Justice  Powers, wherein it was laid down that his court could take no cognizance of the capacity of an industry to pay certain wages, but would fix what wage it thought necessary, and the industry would then have recourse to the Tariff Board, which had been created by the Federal Parliament to make recommendations for the granting of whatever protection wasneccssary. In this case the various unions appeared before the Tariff Board to assist the employers in obtaining necessary increases in order to make it possible to work the mills at a profit instead of at a loss, and then immediately approached the Arbitration Court for their share in these increases. 
Thus it goes on. Employers and employees work hand in hand. When an industry receives tariff protection the workers engaged in it apply to the Arbitration Court, so as to get their share of the loot, and prices rise higher and higher. 
That was always the position. 
It has been urged that our primary producers are not being prejudicially affected by the tariff. That is not the case. Costs of production have increased so materially that, practically with the exception of wool and wheat, our producers are unable to export without financial assistance. They have to pay world's parity for the goods which they purchase, and, in addition, have to bear the burden of a high tariff, freight, and other charges. They are thus placed at a grave disadvantage. 
There is a very high protective tariff on the products which the honorable senator has mentioned. 
Co-operation between employers and employees along the lines suggested by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  would be the salvation of Australia. The Tariff Board has cited a number of instances of the absence of efficient machinery. One such relates to a manufacturer who asked for a higher tariff. The board said to him, "What about installing efficient machinery?" He appeared to be quite amazed, and replied, "It would cost altogether too much." We must not encourage such an attitude. In Adelaide, only the other day, a dismissed worker told me that about half of those who had been working for his former employer were put off; and, as those who were left did not wish to lose their jobs they were working at top speed, with the result that 20 were doing more than had previously been done by 40. There is a slackness in some industries; yet the unions deliberately discourage the piece-work system. Industry in Australia will be able to hold its own only if efficiency is secured, and if the men who are engaged give to the utmost of their capacity. 
Like  Senator Duncan,  I am in agreement, speaking generally, with the tariff proposals of the Government, but I reserve to myself the right, which should be that of every honorable senator, to move for their amendment where I think that is necessary. The great mining industry is in a languishing condition all over Australia; consequently I hoped to find in the tariff schedule a proposal to reduce the duty on mining machinery. When the increase in that duty was brought down in the last amending schedule, I opposed it in the Senate; and if some honorable senators who then agreed with me had been in their places when the vote was taken, the increase would not have been consented to. I am disappointed that there is to be no reduction, and that I shall not have the opportunity to move in that direction. The proposed timber duties may have an affect on the mining industry in Queensland. Two years ago at the instigation of, I think, Tasmania, there was a movement to increase the duty on Oregon pine. 
Queensland certainly did not. I was particularly requested to oppose it, in the interest of the mining industry in that State. It was pointed out to me that, although Oregon was not used in the Queensland mines, if a duty were placed upon it, the price of hardwood would rise in sympathy and an extra straw would be added to those which had already been placed on the camel's back. The position has undergone a change; unfortunately the camel's back has been broken, and many mines are not now functioning. The question is, whether it is intended to destroy by the imposition of additional duties any chance the camel might have of recovering. 
The position in regard to Oregon needs to be very carefully considered, and until I have heard the explanation of the Minister I shall not indicate the way in which my vote will be cast. I merely remind honorable senators that on a previous occasion I considered that it was wrong to impose a duty upon the Oregon which enters Australia. 
There is one proposal of the Government with which I am not in sympathy. I refer to the preferential coffee duty. As honorable senators are aware, the duty has been removed from coffee which is imported from within the British Empire. 
I am afraid that my honorable friend does not understand the position. We are proposing to cut off our noses to spite our faces. I yield to no one in my desire to give preference to other portions of the British Empire. But we have to consider first the interests of our own people. We shall antagonize a customer in the Dutch East Indies with whom our trade is constantly expanding. At the present time we export to the Dutch East Indies considerable quantities of meat and butter. Queensland shares largely in that trade. There is also an appreciable trade in cattle and flour. I do not know that Queensland will be affected in regard to flour, although she has a large area under wheat. At all events, the disadvantages that are likely to accrue more than counter-balance the problematical benefit which will be derived by India and British East Africa. 
I have received from Queensland two telegrams respecting the proposed duty on soya beans. Those who are interested in that commodity are so alarmed at the possible interference with the cotton and peanut industries, that they have sent two representatives to Canberra to express their views regarding the disadvantages that will result to Queensland. After I have heard their case I shall decide whether or not I should ask the Government to review this proposal. 
A good deal of complaint is made with respect to the methods that are adopted in the department in the administration of the tariff. I am not now in business, therefore, I have no first-hand knowledge of the matter. Certain articles are not manufactured in this country, and there is no likelihood of their being manufactured here. In some instances they are protected by patents that are held in other countries. Importers of those articles are put to considerable trouble because the maximum duty is imposed, and all sorts of disabilities are placed in their way, when it ought to be possible for the department to come to an immediate decision to charge only the 10 per cent, duty. Although the matter is eventually settled to the satisfaction of the importer, the inconvenience and delay to which he is put are to be deprecated. I should like good feeling to prevail between the department and the importers. We do not want a reversion to the attitude which was adopted during the regime of the late  Mr. Kingston,  who considered that all importers were dishonest until their honesty was established. I contend that they should be regarded as honest men until the contrary is proved. Very few of them are shown to be dishonest. I take this opportunity to ask the department to exercise a reasonable discretion in dealing with these admittedly difficult matters. 
The tariff is at last beginning to bear fruit in the shape of a reduction ir the amount collected by way of customs duties. I have previously voiced the opinion that that should be the result of a protective tariff. The more effective itbecomes, the more apparent should be the reduction. It is highly desirable that the Government should take note of the position and trim its expenditure accordingly. I feel reasonably certain that we shall not in the future obtain from tariff duties the abounding revenues that have poured into the coffers of the Treasury in past years. I shall reserve for the committee stage any additional remarks I have to make on individual items. 
.- Probably no measure opens up such a wide field for discussion as does a tariff bill, nor is there upon any subject a wider divergence of opinion. I desire to make a few general remarks on the result of the tariff schedules which have been brought before this chamber during recent years. Honorable senators will remember that last year, when we were dealing with a number of important amendments to the tariff, I contended that in connexion with a number of items there was no justification for such heavy duties as were then proposed. I questioned whether certain industries which had been successfully established in Australia, and were turning out good articles, had applied for increased protection. I have since then learned that they had not done so. That is sufficient to show that the increased duties were not warranted. My prediction last year has been fulfilled ; there has been an all-round increase in the price of commodities since the last increase of customs duties, without any advantage to the community. I believe that Australia should have as many industries, both primary and secondary, as will be useful to her as a nation. Particularly do I believe that every primary industry worthy of the name ought to be encouraged to the fullest extent . possible, because upon the success of our primary industries our national prosperity depends. 
Yes. Last year I was called a freetrader ; but a person who is prepared, as I am, to support high duties when they are necessary is not a freetrader. A young country like Australia should have a tariff sufficiently high to ensure that every business conducted on scientific lines, and in accordance with commercial principles, will be able to pay its way; but there are, unfortunately, a number of secondary industries in Australia which we should be better without. The price that the general public has to pay for the product of those industries is beyond all reason. My opposition to the tariff last year was not to a reasonable measure of protection, but to prohibitive duties - duties which would shut out the product of British factories. I said then that, even if we had a monopoly of the manufacture of certain commodities, it would mean an increase of only £60,000 per annum in the amount paid to Australian workers as wages, whereas the increased cost to Australian  workmen  for the commodities which would be manufactured would be £200,000 per annum. Australia would be better off without such industries. But there are other industries which are in need of slightly greater protection in order to give them a reasonable chance to compete Avith the products of other countries, and these should be assisted. 
I trust that in committee we shall deal with each item on its merits; there should be no block vote merely because the schedule has been introduced by the Government. 
I desire to protest against  what  I consider is the unfair attitude adopted by Australia towards British manufacturers. Each year large quantities of Australian wool are purchased by Great Britain, to be manufactured into goods in that country. We expect that British manufacturers will pay us the highest market price for our WOOl 
English manufacturers have a right to expect in the dominions a market for their goods. But by imposing excessive duties we, in effect, say to them that although' we expect them to pay us high prices for our wool, if they dare to manufacture that wool into goods, we shall erect such a tariff wall that the entry of those goods into Australia will practically be prohibited. It is not British to impose prohibitive duties on articles manufactured in Great Britain. 
Yes. 
I mentioned wool by way of illustration. Later, when the items are before us, I propose to refer to the duty on certain goods made of WoOl when I hope to show that my remarks were justified. 
From information in my possession it  would  appear that goods made in Great Britain from Australian wool are regarded as of foreign origin. I brought the matter under the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  and he denied that that was so. I have accepted the Minister's denial. I was interested in the Minister's statement that the measure of preference given in this amended schedule is similar to that granted last year. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

In some instances the so-called preference to Great Britain, which the Minister claims is extended by the present bill, is not preference at all. If one were to erect two fences, one 8 feet high and the other 10 feet high, knowing that neither the Britisher nor the foreigner could jump over either, could one claim that the British competitor was getting a preference over the foreigner by having an 8-ft. instead of a 10-ft. fence to jump? Of course not. The fence would prove an impossible barrier to both competitors. At this stage I cannot refer to items in detail, but there is one line of goods on which the importer of the British manufactured article who has been paying a duty of 2s. will now he called upon to pay 6s. At the latter rate it will be absolutely impossible for the article to be exported from England and sold in Australia. It is nothing short of absolute prohibition. On another line of goods, where the duty on the British article has been 2s. 9d., it will now be 8s., which will also prohibit the export of the goods to Australia. In the general column the increases on these two lines are from 3s. to 10s., and from 3s. 6d. to 12s. respectively, making their importation impossible. Yet the Minister claims that the principle of preference to British manufacturers is being extended. It is a misnomer to call it preference when it really amounts to prohibition. 
I am taking the items as I find them in the schedule. There is a line of goods in which the British manufacturer has always done a big trade with Australia; but now we say, " This must cease. No longer will you be permitted to trade with Australia in that line of goods." That sort of policy does not tend to cement the bonds of Empire, and if it is continued we must inevitably bring disaster upon ourselves. 
The feeling is growing stronger and stronger each year that, in connexion with tariff matters, we should weigh carefully . any suggestion for the prohibition of- the importation of goods from any part of the Empire, or even from other countries, except from a health-preservation point of view. 
I notice in the schedule a continuation of what I consider the most pernicious system that can be introduced into a Customs Tariff Bill - the substitution of a flat rate of duty, where the ad valorem rate will not realize as much revenue as the rate. If it becomes necessary for me to move to remove an anomaly which I shall now point out, I hope my Labour friends will help me with their votes. If they fail to do so, they will not be studying the interests of the poorer section of the community. An article in general use and worn only by the working men of Australia is manufactured in Great Britain at an export cost of 6s. Landed in Australia it will now cost 14s. l0d. The expense incurred in importing the article, in conjunction with the duty imposed, will amount to 150 per cent. The article will have to be retailed at a very much higher price than that at which it has recently been sold. It is a men's hosiery item that is only worn by working men. No man of means ever wears it. When we come to another article of the same kind, but superior in quality, which only a man of means can purchase, it is invoiced at 20s. per dozen - we find that it will be admitted under the ad valorem rate, which will be slightly in excess of the flat rate. The cost incurred in importing this article and in paying the duty will be only 60 per cent., in addition to the British price. The rich man will thus be called upon to pay only 60 per cent, more than the British manufacturer's price, while the poor man will be obliged to pay 150 per cent, more for that which he requires. 
He cannot do so because so far the article has not been made in Australia. 
SenatorFindley. - What is the article? 
It is a particular line of men's hosiery. The same thing applies to many other articles of men's apparel that we dealt with in the last tariff schedule,  and I  cannot understand why honorable senators opposite, instead of endeavoring to relieve of some of their burden those they claim to represent, should take every opportunity to make it heavier. 
If the honorable senator would ask the working man's wife he would soon find out whether or not there was any complaint, particularly if she knew that she had to pay 2s. for an article that she was able previously to get for ls. I object to the principle of applying a flat rate or an ad valorem duty, which ever yields the greater amount of revenue, because it does not apply fairly to all sections of the community. The Minister will realize this, when we come to the items in committee. 

 Senator Duncan maintains, quite correctly, that no matter what it costs, we should, do all we can by the imposition of customs duties to build up and maintain key industries in Australia. I quite agree with the honorable senator that a country like Australia, separated as it is by thousands of miles of ocean from the vest of the world, and from the principal manufacturing centres of the world, must be as self-contained as possible with regard to key industries. There are certain secondary industries which are essential to Australia and must  be maintained. But it is equally essential that we should pay very close attention to our primary industries, which are the ' basis of our prosperity. There is one of them which has been allowed to go to the wall during the last few years. At the risk of being described as a very moderate protectionist at one time, and a high protectionist at another, I am prepared to support a proposal which will come before the chamber to give adequate protection to that industry. It is one of the most valuable we have in Australia. I refer to the timber industry. 
Why a Queensland senator should make any reflection on Tasmania because it happens to be in a position to supply the mainland with a good deal of what it badly needs, I can not understand. 
Tasmania is now making some of the best hosiery produced in the Commonwealth.  Senator Reid  is evidently not aware of the flourishing industries we have in that portion of the Commonwealth. To Australia timber is just as essential as iron and steel. We can not do without it. Why should honorable senators ridicule a suggestion that we should g'ive adequate protection to the timber industry so that it may be revived, and in order that the magnificent forests of Australia may be utilized in the best interests of the people? 
I am prepared to support adequate protection for every industry; I do not mind what it is so long as it gives employment and is useful to the community ; but there are some industries without which Australia would be better off. The people would be better off in their pockets if they relied on the British manufacturer to produce certain articles. 
This is not the time to give details. 
The Leader of the Opposition made a statement to-day that I have heard him make on other occasions. As a matter of fact I have made it myself, but have since altered my views. I do not believe in a member of Parliament holding the same views during many years and deciding never to depart from them, despite what developments may occur in the meantime. We must all keep pace with the times. Conditions to-day are totally different from those which prevailed prior to 1914. What might have suited the years prior to the war would if operative to-day be entirely unsound, and might prove detrimental to the community. 
The honorable senator said that we ought to look forward to the time when Australia would be self-contained, and need not be dependent on any other country in the world. 
Do honorable senators realize what is happening in the world to-day. If that universal brotherhood about which they are always boasting is brought about, it will prevent any country from being absolutely selfcontained. No country can afford to say today that it will not trade with another. 
 Senator Needham  meant it when he said that he hoped the day would come when Australia would never have to import anything. He said that he hoped that Australia would be self-contained because we could manufacture all we require. That policy will not hold good to-day. 
Yes, it is too dangerous a policy for any public. man to support. 
I am sorry to hear such an admission. The future peace of the world will depend almost entirely upon every country giving fair consideration to the trade requirements of other countries. If we attempt to prohibit trade with other countries it will not tend to make Australia popular with other nations. I do not believe in free trade; I could not consider such a policy for a moment. Australia is a young country in which we are attempting to build up new industries, some of which if carried on in a reasonable way are useful; but if they are so conducted as to  improverish  the working people, we are better without them. I trust that when this measure is in committee the items will be discussed on their merits, and that if any honorable senator opposes the proposed duties on certain items he will be given credit for having the courage to act on his convictions. I trust that every honorable senator will study the effect of additional duties, not only upon a particular industry, but upon the whole community. 
Yes. We should have provided long ago so that when manufacturers or distributors are urging the necessity or otherwise of amending the tariff item, a representative of the consumers may also put their case before the Tariff Board. Nothing of the kind has yet been attempted, but I was glad to read in a report of the board some time ago a comment upon the necessity of some such provision being made. Up to the present the people have had to pay without even being consulted. I support the second reading of the bill, and trust that certain amendments to the schedule will be made. 
Tariff schedules have come before the Commonwealth Parliament on several occasions since I have been a member of the Senate, and their consideration is intimately connected with this branch of the legislature, which was created to protect State interests. Nobody who thinks for a moment will say that in another place, where the representation is on the basis of population, the smaller States - the smaller States, being as they are, in the initial stage of development, demand at least as much consideration as the larger States - have received just treatment against the preponderating influence of the representatives of New South Wales and Victoria. These two States, rightly or wrongly - I think wrongly- are crying aloud for higher and higher protection, and predominate to such an extent that it is quite impossible for the feeble voices of the representatives of the smaller States in another place to be heard? 
Only in respect of their number. The day has passed when the people are likely to mistake noise for numbers. The only means of protecting the interests of the smaller States is provided by this House where State interests should predominate. Personally, I look upon the tariff or any amendment of it as an Australian matter. I regard is also as something affecting the State which I happen to represent. I am absolved from looking upon it from a party view-point, because however much the party to which I belong may offend in the direction I have indicated, honorable senators opposite are ready to offend much more seriously. 
That, sir, if I may be allowed to bring proof, has been amply demonstrated within the last few days. It has been shown this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  boldly backing up a claim which was unsuccessful in another place for even higher protection. He even went so far as to bewail the loss of the new protection, which was a favorite cry some years ago, but which the gentlemen for whom honorable members opposite stand, have had without the force of law behind it. Whenever any higher protective duties are imposed upon any commodity those gentlemen are always awaiting, what, I understand is technically known as their " cut " of the extra price imposed. At all events an increase in prices is, I think, always the result of higher protective duties. Therefore I say that this is essentially a subject for the Senate, and carries with it no element of party. 
There is another factor which we have to consider in this  connexion. We have, undoubtedly, to make Australia as self-contained as we possibly can, but we must avoid isolating ourselves from the outside world. As a primary producing people we have to produce more than we require of certain commodities and export the surplus to the outside world. Already there have not been wanting some indications that our activities in regard to tariff matters have had the effect of seriously antagonizing some of the countries with which we have to do business. Is it to be supposed that a country which we are systematically - if I may use an Americanism - " knocking " will use any more of our commodities than is necessary? Is it to be expected that such a country will gladly welcome any development in trade which carries with it the use of goods from a country which has done its level best to harm it? When I say that we must not make Australia an isolated country, I repeat, that examples are not wanting in other directions to show what is taking place. The cost of production in Australia is rendering ' our manufactured products unsaleable at a profit in other parts of the world. 
We are adopting the best method of insuring that they never will be. The tariff is one example which I quote. 
When I consider the needs of the State I represent I find it difficult to study this subject calmly. There is one instance - I know honorable senators will anticipate what I have to say - in which we are adopting a foolish policy by a system of bounties, bonuses or duties on manufactured commodities which can be sold only at a great loss outside Australia. Honorable senators know well enough that every ton of sugar which cannot be sold in Australia is disposed of overseas at a disastrous loss. We are going the right way to bring about the same result with other commodities, and I entreat honorable senators before it is too late to see if there is not an alternative which will give the same commercial result as between country and country without unduly weighting the article we are producing. It appears to me that Australia's present position is due to three causes which I shall specify, but not necessarily in their order of importance. I refer to the tariff, the Navigation Act and the results to date achieved by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. These three are so inextricably interwoven  that  it is hard to say where the bad influence of one ends and another begins ; but it seems to me that unless Australia makes a wholehearted and' earnest effort to bring about an alteration in the conditions that are attributable to these causes, one or all of them, we must go on the way our feet seem to be bent: that of making Australia isolated - an isolation that I do not think can ever be splendid, but which I fear must prove disastrous. There are ways of effecting improvements in an industry without resorting to a tariff. Indeed, I look upon the tariff in the present state of trade throughout the world as one of the worst possible ways. A good example of this can be found in the schedule to this bill. The duties on timber have been referred to. If we wish to relieve the necessities of two of the States, Western Australia and Tasmania, more intimately affected by these proposed duties, we can best do so not by imposing heavier duties or increasing the scope of these duties, but . by repealing a provision in our legislation which interferes with commercial intercourse between the two States to which I have just alluded. If we  can  make it easier and more profitable for those States to market their timber at a cheaper rate, and without increasing to any extent building costs, we shall be doing a good work. The remedy which I suggest is the abolition of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act, a course which I firmly believe must be taken within the next year or two. 
Perhaps the honorable senator is right. Instead of imposing further restrictions upon the building trade, which is bound to be the outcome of these duties, it would be better to take the course which I have suggested and which, to use a French expression, leaps to the eye. These provisions' are hampering the prosperity and progress of the smaller States. 
Not at all. 
I do noi agree with the honorable senator. The principal competition, so far as our seaborne trade is concerned, comes not from countries that sanction the employment of black labour on ships, but from Sweden. 
We have heard a lot about the scientific nature of the tariff. I have also heard applied to the schedule certain other adjectives which I should not care to repeat in this chamber. If by " scientific " is meant the intention to incur the enmity of those who should be our best customers, then indeed the tariff is scientific. We should have an important trade in the Near East and in Java. Those countries should be our best customers. They should buy largely of our flour, our meat, .our fruits and many other commodities. But what has happened ? By imposing a heavy duty on bananas we have entirely alienated trade relations with Java, and have lost our trade with Fiji. The latter might not occasion much concern to an older country, but I should say that it means a great deal to Australia. Besides offering an affront to neighbouring peoples, we inflict a pecuniary loss upon ourselves. Therefore, if the term " scientific " as applied to the tariff is synonymous with the word "foolish," without a doubt our tariff is scientific. 
Let me cite another instance, bearing on the same point, that came before me the other day. In the State which I assist to represent in this chamber, we have a great asset in the blackboy, better known in the eastern States as the grass-tree. There are millions of tons of it available for commercial use. As a national asset it is in the same category as important coal deposits in some countries; that is to say from the point of view of its potential value. Not long ago certain people approached me with a proposition that I should endeavour to secure tariff protection for the manufacture of acetic acid and acetate, which is a constituent of the blackboy. I told my friends that while it was not part of my political faith to advocate the imposition of duties, I would, nevertheless, put their proposal before the Minister. It may not be known generally that acetic acid is manufactured in both Sydney and Melbourne from acetates imported, not from Great Britain, but from America and Germany. In the circumstances one would have thought that since the tariff is supposed to be scientific in its incidence, some measure of protection would be given to this projected industry in Western Australia. Instead, however, of encouraging the people in that State to make use of a valuable convertible asset, the Minister for Trade and Customs, I  presume on the advice of departmental officials, declined to give the measure of protection asked for. Can it be urged that this is a scientific way of building up industry? If to neglect the gifts of nature for the purpose of encouraging the trade in countries outside the British Empire, is scientific, then we may apply that term to our present tariff. 
This leads me to the consideration of another aspect of the tariff which might very well engage the attention of honorable senators and the Department of Trade and Customs. I refer to the procedure sometimes adopted not by the Commonwealth or State Governments, but by business men in the eastern 
States towards brother business men in Western Australia. I know of two industries in Western Australia that were absolutely crushed out of existence by what is known as dumping on the part of manufacturers in the eastern States. The Western Australia commodities were undersold by the eastern products which were marketed at below cost of production. This action, I suggest, is quite contrary to the spirit of federation. Personally I shall never regret the steps taken to bring the several States of the Commonwealth into a federation, but I should like to see more evidence of fair play in trade and commerce in the different States. In some cases at all events, there is marked hostility. 
Not as I understand the term. It was competition it is true, but it was not scientific. If, for example, I started an industry in Western Australia and if my friend  Senator Reid,  with much more money and more customers, by selling below cost sought to crush me out of existence, simply because there was a danger that I might secure a small portion of his trade, the competition, I submit, would not be fair as between people of the respective States. If it were possible to prevent what can only be described as interstate clumping, there. would be a greater feeling of security in the smaller States and certainly more evidence of progress. . 
-I am not certain if they are mentioned in the schedule to this bill. One was the boot manufacturing industry, and the other factories engaged in the manufacture of pickles, jams and other products of fruits. I am not sure that I can acquit Tasmania of some complicity in the competition which I allude to, at all events with regard to the latter industry. 
It could be if the local manufacturers had a fair chance against eastern competitors. 
I doubt whether, without infringing the Standing Orders, which have been punctiliously observed during this debate, I could say much more concerning this bill, though possibly I may be permitted to make some observations on the schedule. I am much afraid that in our effort to make Australia self-contained, we shall make the cost of production so high that, instead of Australia being selfcontained, it will be cut off from the rest of the world. It appears to me that by means of successive increases in our tariff schedule and in cost of production, we are building around Australia a wall so high and so strong that this country will become isolated long before she is ready to be placed in that position unless we are content to produce for the home market only and are prepared to allow our people to pay almost any prices for our products. I venture to say, however, that, at' this stage in our history, with only 6,000,000 of people, we cannot afford to do that. Under present conditions, with every modern facility to encourage intercourse between nation and nation, it would be almost impossible for any country to adopt that course. I earnestly pray that that may never come about; but I fear there is very grave danger of it. I speak not alone for Western Australia, but for Australia as a whole. I believe that this piling of tariff upon tariff, and production costs upon production costs, and this placing of legislative obstacles in the way of the efficient and economical performance of the tasks that lie to our hand, will make -Australia, not the envy, but the laughing-stock of the nations. As an Australian first, and, secondly as a Western Australian, I shall certainly do all that I can to counteract any tendency in that direction, in view of the danger which lies before us. I support the second reading of the bill, but I shall endeavour to prevent the schedule from being passed in the delightfully symmetrical, if unscientific, form in which it has been presented to us. 
In discussing this measure, we should remember that we are Australians, and no one should endeavour to bolster up what is of particular concern to his own State. If it is a good thing to protect an industry in Tasmania, it is equally a good thing to protect it in all other parts of 
Australia. We should keep that in mind and try to do our best for Australia. We have been taught to be protectionists almost since the advent of federation. When the Constitution was being framed, there was no question of Liberalism versus Labour; the fight was then waged on the relative merits of freetrade and protection, and protection won. So long as Australia is a nation, it will adhere to that policy. 

 Senator Kingsmill referred to the fact that the surplus production of sugar in Australia is exported at a loss. I can recall the occasion, 25 or 30 years ago, when the surplus production of lambs was first exported from South Australia. If my memory serves me rightly, the price in South Australia was 7d. a lb., and that which was obtained on the London market either 3£d. or 4d. a lb. Sugar is. not singular in that respect; the surplus production of many other Australian commodities can be purchased abroad more cheaply than within Australia. Some years ago it was proved that harvesters manufactured by Hugh V. McKay were sold in the Argentine for £10 per machine less than the retail price in Australia. 

 Senator Chapman this afternoon made the assertion that if Australia is to hold her own we must ensure the efficiency of our workmen, and that the way in which an employer can bring that about is by sacking half of those whom he employs. 
He said that an Adelaide employer had sacked 20 of his 40 men, and that those who were left became so efficient, that they did more work than had formerly been done by the 40. If that argument is sound, he would probably increase his output still further by additional dismissals. 

 Senator Kingsmill stressed the increase in the cost of production. We who sit on this side admit that the cost of production in Australia is far too high, but we say that that has, been brought about by the rise which has occurred- in the prices of commodities. If those who are responsible for the increasing cost of commodities will agree to revert to the prices that ruled in 1914, we shall be with them, because the worker would then obtain the purchasing power of the sovereign which existed in that year instead of the 12s. 6d. of to-day. 
That may be so. But surely the Minister does not believe that a family man on a wage is better off to-day than he was in 1914 1 
A continually increasing tariff strikes me as somewhat paradoxical. On the one hand, we build a tariff wall. around Australia, and urge our people to purchase only Australian-made goods ; while, on the other we make a breach in that wall to allow the entry of goods that we must import in consequence of our borrowing abroad. That is not a logical position for us to occupy. Protection should not increase the cost of any article that is manufactured in Australia, no matter how high it may be. 
Not many weeks ago I met a friend in Bourke-street, Melbourne. When I informed him that I was out to do a little shopping he asked me whether I' wanted anything in the woollen line. I replied ".Yes." He said, " Come along with me." I accompanied him, and he introduced me to a friend of his, who said, " We serve only shareholders ; you are a shareholder ? " I said, " Of course I am." I then obtained the goods that I required. I purchased for 5s. 6d. a piece of material the retail price of which in Bourke-street was 12s. 6d. Why should there be such a difference between the  price  charged at the mill and that which the purchaser has to pay ? If the services of Patterson, Laing and Bruce, and other big warehousemen in Flinders-lane, were dispensed with, the retail price of the Australian-made article would be very much less than it is. 
Australian goods would be worn to a much greater extent, and thus the avenues of employment would be widened.  Senator Guthrie  said on one occasion in Melbourne that a mill in which he was interested made certain woollen vests for 12s. 6d., and that h« was shown some of those vests in Bourkestreet for which the price charged was from 60s. to 75s. That is an illustration of the manner in which the wearer of those goods is exploited by unscrupulous individuals. If we are to build up Australian industry we must be fair in our dealings. Those who will not voluntarily deal fairly should have compulsion applied to them by legislative act. 
I recognize the impossibility of applying the principle of protection to the uttermost. If we wish other countries to accept our surplus production, we must be prepared to take theirs in exchange. America has become one of the mightiest nations of the world by following the policy of protection. Every country, Great Britain included, has some form of protection. I saw in the newspapers recently the announcement that England proposed to place a duty of 33 per cent, on foreign motor cars. Before the outbreak of the last war, Germany had almost captured the commerce of the world. In every portion of Australia one could purchase articles that had been made in that country. If it and the United States were able to become great nations under a system of protection, surely we can achieve a like result, despite the fact that we have such a small population. 
I am a protectionist because I want to see Australia grow and become a great nation. We can only build_up our industries by protecting them against the products of countries which employ cheap labour. For many years we have been increasing the duties on imported articles; but we cannot forever continue to do so. On each occasion we were told that further increases would not be asked for, because the increased duties- then proposed would result in a decrease of imports. That has not been the case. So long as we continue to borrow money abroad we cannot shut out imported goods. The remedy for excessive imports is to cease borrowing abroad. 
During the war more than £300,000,000 was raised in Australia. 
Yes. 
That may be so, but the money received by way of interest will circulate in Australia instead of being sent abroad. 
We found sufficient money in Australia to meet our requirements in war time, and we could probably do so again. 
That state of affairs is not peculiar to Australia. 
The United States of America, from which country Great Britain borrowed large sums of money, is probably the most prosperous country in the world to-day. 
That was not  always the case. 

 Senator Chapman said that in some directions the tariff should be lowered. The honorable senator probably referred to the duty on agricultural machinery. I remind him that if protection is a good policy in connexion with one thing, it should be a good policy in connexion Avith  other things.  Senator Duncan,  in referring to the boot factories which  had been closed in Victoria, said that during the period he mentioned the importations of boots were small. Seeing that in six months the value of the boots imported into Victoria  Avas  £276,298 it is evident either that the tariff was not high enough or that greater profits could be made from imported boots. 
If the tariff had been high enough, they would- have been kept out. I cannot agree with  Senator Kingsmill  that, a policy of protection causes isolation. The example of the United States of America is sufficient to show that that is not so. By adopting a policy of protection that country has gone ahead and, is to-day probably the most prosperouscountry in the world. 
This being the first opportunity I have had of dealing with tariff matters since I entered' the Senate on 1st July, 1926, I should like to make my position clear, particularly as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  this afternoon inferred that I entered the Senate as a freetrader. 
I am not a freetrader, and have never professed to believe in f reetrade doctrines, I belong to an organization which 'believes in moderate protection, and not in placing heavy burdens on the means of producing the country's wealth. So long as I am able I shall do what I can to relieve from the heavy burden of taxation the means of producing wealth. Applications by manufacturers for increases of duty are equivalent to requests for assistance from the public purse to carry on their private businesses against the competition of manufacturers in other parts of the world. 
In tariff matters there appears to be one law for the rich and another for the poor. Australia is justly proud of its legislation providing for old-age pensions. But before an old-age pension . is granted the applicant must disclose details of his financial position, and if the department is satisfied he may receive a pension not exceeding £1 a week. On the other hand Australian manufacturers who apply for increased protection have nevet yet, so far as I am aware, been required to produce evidence to show that further duties are necessary toenable them to carry on their businesses. 
That is true ; but he has to disclose full particulars to departmental officers. 
The Tariff Board may investigate claims for increased duties, but it rests with Parliament to say whether those duties should be increased. I remind the Minister that a few months -ago the Senate had before it a proposal to dispose of the Australian Commonwealth Line of' Steamers. Although it was made clear that the disposal of the Line would result in a saving of at.least £500,000 per annum, many honorable senators contended that they should not be asked to decide the question of the disposal of the Line without having before them the evidence tendered before the Public Accounts Committee. We are now asked, not to relieve the people of the burden of taxation, but to impose further taxation on them, without having before us data to enable us to come to an intelligent decision. 
I am not a rabid freetrader; I endeavour to examine tariff proposals from a common-sense point of view. So far as I am aware, the Tariff Board has never asked an Australian manufacturer who has applied for increased duties to produce his bank book. He may make certain statements before the Board, but is not called upon to produce the very evidence which would enable the Tariff Board to decide whether the claim was, or was not, justified. 
On several occasions I have appeared before the Tariff Board to oppose applications for increased duties on articles required by primary producers. My evidence has always been taken in public, and at times I have been subjected to severe cross-examination by the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. But when those whose claim I was opposing appeared before the Tariff Board, their evidence was taken  in camera,  and I had no opportunity of cross-examining them. In speaking in this way I realize the utter futility of what I am saying, because even if the Senate were to throw out this bill and wipe out this schedule  of duties, the Minister for Trade and Customs, under that little measure, the Australian Industries Preservation Act, could quite cheerfully restore the duties as they appear in the schedule to-morrow, and things would be just the same as they are to-day. As a Parliament we have placed an autocratic power in the hands of one man to override the will of Parliament. 
Yes, but the Parliament has not the courage to apply it. 
Of course, but the law may not always be in accordance with the Constitution. In my opinion the Australian Industries Preservation Act is not. 
It has not, but if any one had the courage to test the act, I think it would be found to be unconstitutional. Section 90 of the Constitution Act says that the Commonwealth Parliament shall have the exclusive power to impose duties of customs and excise; it does not say that this power may be delegated. At any rate that is my reading of the Constitution, but I am not a lawyer. 
When recentlyI was consoling a nephew of mine, a law student who had failed to pass an examination, I said that the law had always had a fascination for me, and that I had made up my mind that if I ever had any money to spare before I was too old, I would take a spell and study the law. He said, " Yes, I think you would do well at it. If you knew all the damn fools who are doing well at the law, I am sure you would have no misgivings about the matter." I suppose the Honorary Minister has the same sort of mind about me. 
Just before I took my seat in the Senate the Customs Tariff Bill was under review, and a clever little movement was made to alter the system of levying duties on sheet glass from so much per square yard to so much per lb. What appeared on the face of it to be a slight alteration reducingthe rate of duty, actually increased it by 500 per cent. The rate, which was previously 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per square yard, wasaltered to11/2d. and 2d. per lb. About the same time the Australian Glass Company held its annual meeting, and  Mr. Grimwade,  the  chairman,  of directors, showed that it had made a profit of £169,000 for the year. After paying a dividend of 10 per cent, the company carried forward £50,000 to profit and loss and wrote off a considerable amount of depreciation. 
No ; but the  chairman  of directors of the company said that if they could not get increased protection on some of the lines which they were producing , it would be necessary for the company to close down some of the works and dismiss some employees. He said that for the first time in his life he had been guilty oflobbying, inasmuch as he had taken some of the sheet glass manufactured by the company and exhibited it to members of Parliament in the Queen's Hall at Parliament House, Melbourne. To my mind that statement proves that I am correct when 1 declare that many manufacturers' secure increased protection when, in reality, they are not financially in need of it. 
I am not one of those who, during the war,went about advocating that every one should go to the front and swearing by all that was holy that never again would Australia trade with Germany or any other enemy country. There was some mention of German goods this evening. They can be secured to any extent in the capital cities of Australia. Retailers sell German goods because they can buy them cheaper than British goods, and the preference that Australia gives to. the British manufacture is to a large extent nullified. As  Senator Duncan  said, the fault lies with the buying public. Everyone knows that at least 90 per cent, ofthe buying public are the workingpeople of Australia. They constitute 90 per cent, of the total population, and can control any buying that is done. No one imports goods merely to see how pretty they look on a shelf. When goods are imported, buyers have to be found for them. Many years ago when 
I worked on the mines in Kalgoorlie, it was a favourite recreation for all the " free and independent " to get on a lorry at the corner of Hannan-street and Maritanastreet on Saturday nights and to indulge in heroics until the cows came home, about trading only 'with white men. At the same time their wives were engaged in buying from the 'dagoes, as they were called, who were selling at Id. per lb. cheaper than the British traders. That that is not invention on my part is known to any one who lived on the gold fields in those days. The same spirit is abroad in Australia to-day. We talk largely about preference to Great Britain and all sorts of patriotic stuff' but when we have the silver to spend we leave it with the foreigner. ' 
We have been told to-night that we ought to look at this tariff from a broad Australian viewpoint. I believe that the correct expression is "broad national viewpoint." That is a fine fruity phrase which reads well. It is like that other phrase " adverse trade balance," which, when repeated often enough, looks so imposing in the press, but really means nothing. After all what we really need to do is to look after the interests of our own States, which, of course, dovetail into those of other States. It is not always an advantage to see what another State does or should do. Sometimes it reminds us too readily of some of the difficulties of our own' States, and that is not always conducive to the promotion of a brotherly spirit. I think it will be admitted by all that, from a developmental standpoint, Western Australia is the most backward State. It has certainly, as the Minister has said, come rapidly to the front as a wheat producer, but it had to do so or admit that it was downandout. 
Certainly, and for this the Almighty has had a little of the credit, but the recent progress of the States is largely due, we are told, to the fact that it has had a good Labour Government in office. At least that is the impression I have gathered from the literature issued every now and then by that Government. 
In order to carry out its developmental work Western Australia is now embarking upon extensive agricultural water schemes. It has not the rivers that the eastern States have, and it is thus necessary for it to conserve water in the agricultural districts in a way that has not to be done in some of the other States. The State Government is therefore a buyer for hundreds of miles of water piping to run water from the different reservoirs to the farms served by them. The schedule before us to-night will hit it very severely. One item alone will add about £20,000 to the cost of the water piping. Furthermore, in order to develop and encourage the agricultural industry, the State- Government has in hand a big railway building scheme to the cost of which this Tariff Bill will make such a tremendous difference, that it will be obliged to reduce the mileage that could have been built before the schedule was imposed. That may not appear to be a very big item, but it is a big item to a State like Western Australia, where the farmers who are out on new agricultural areas have been hoping against hope for several years past that they would get a railway to transport their produce -to market at a reasonable rate. 
I notice that several speakers in another place have accused the Government of setting out to annihilate the iron and steel industry of Australia. I cannot help recalling the statement made by  Mr. Delprat,  Managing Director of the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited, -at a banquet which was given when the company first commenced to manufacture steel rails at Newcastle. He said that the company was getting the comparatively small bonus? of 12s. on steel rails and did not want a duty because it was able to carry on without one. We now find that the company is not satisfied with the duties already imposed and it is said that the whole iron and steel industry is on the point of annihilation, because it cannot get a duty of more than £3 a ton on steel rails. 
I admit it. Award variations are another necessary evil in our modern system. 
With all the protection that is being accorded to various industries in Australia I notice that there is no talk of giving assistance to the gold-mining industry. Although that industry has slumped very considerably in Western Australia, it is still producing about £1,500,000 worth of gold a year without new finds of any consequence, and is providing employment for many people. To my mind it is certainly due for some assistance from an admittedly protectionist Government. There are several items in the schedule upon which I shall have something to say when the" measure is in committee. It has been said that when higher duties are imposed the price of locally manufactured articles is increased. There is no reason why that should be so; but nevertheless it is a fact that on every occasion upon which additional duties have been imposed consumers have had to pay higher prices for the Australian article. 
The decisions of that court are to some extent responsible. 
I believe it has always been the practice to bring the price of the Australian article very near to that of the imported commodity. I am not saying that the importers are all white-headed boys, and the Australian manufacturers a lot of brigands. The one is as good as the other. If we had no tariff we should be bled by the importers, and, on the other hand, when the tariff duties are increased we are bled by the local manufacturers. We get it both ways. 
Yes; but we do not have competition in the real sense of the word. Some manufacturers sell their products to retailers on the definite understanding that they are to be disposed of at a fixed retail price. This suggests that there is an " honorable understanding," under which retailers all receive the same profit. If a retailer sells below that price his supplies are cut off. I remember a case heard in Richmond, in Victoria, where Lever Brothers sued a retailer for selling Palmolive soap at less than the stipulated price. Whilst supporting the second reading of the bill I reserve the right to do what I can in committee to reduce to a reasonable level duties that I think are too high, so that those industries upon which Australia really depends, will have opportunities equal to those enjoyed by other highly protected industries.  Senator Findley  said that there were certain industries which Australia could successfully conduct, and upon which , we should concentrate. There are only one or two industries which can compete with those in other countries. We have been told that Australian manufacturers must be assisted to compete with those in countries where cheap labour is available, and where the standard of living is below that which- we enjoy in Australia. It would be equally logical to say that, because our wheat-growers are compelled to sell their produce in competition with that grown by cheap labour - in India, for instance - they should receive protection. Does any one suggest that the wheat and wool growers should receive a bounty on what they produce? These producers are content to do their own job; but they do object to have to carry other industries on their backs while doing it. That is the objection I have to what is termed a " scientific " tariff. 
As Australians, it is our duty to encourage the production of goods in our own country for the benefit of the people, and to ensure the general prosperity of the Commonwealth. Under a protective policy, the Australian workers have received higher wages and have enjoyed better conditions than they experienced under any other system. If we were to revert to freetrade, the Australian workers, in less than twelve months, would be brought down to the level of cheap labour countries in other parts  p£  the world. That I am sure no one '.desires. We should produce all we require for local consumption and have an exportable surplus. Although our wheat and wool growers do not receive assistance in the form of bounties, they are able without tariff  protection to produce commodities which are recognized as superior to any in the world, and are in a better position than they have ever been. I trust that satisfactory prices for wheat and wool will continue to be realized so that those engaged in  primary  production will benefit and the ''future development and prosperity of , Australia will be assisted. Prior "to' 1914 Russia was producing 75 per cent, of the world's requirements of wheat at ls. lOd. a bushel, but if production had continued at that price the'- Australian wheat producer would have been in an unfortunate position. It has been mentioned during the debate that when lamb was selling at from 8d. to 10d: per lb. in Australia, it was being exported 13,000 miles and sold in Great Britain at 4ld. per lb. Similar conditions obtained1 in New Zealand some years ago, when  the consumers in that dominion were paying 6d. to 8d. for mutton while it was1 being sold in London at 3-Jd. a lb. It is,£he duty of honorable senators to support the imposition of duties to enable our industries to compete with those in countries where the wages are lower and the standards of living much below that which we enjoy. When I was associated with the softgoods business, men's and women's underwear was often branded "British Manufacture." I should like to know what guarantee we have that such goods are of British manufacture. At present Great Britain is receiving goods from Germany  in lieu of  cash, and this is forcing thousands  of industrialists  out of employment. Is it not possible that some of these goods which are manufactured in Germany are being brought out here as being of British manufacture ? Australian industries are producing articles as good as, and in many cases superior, to those supposed to be of British manufacture, but which may be made by cheap labour. About twelve months' ago I visited a factory where ladies' singlets were being cut off a machine 'in tubular length by the thousand, finished and boxed up in a few moments, and sold at 2s. lOd." each. I was informed that, the price of a similar article of Japanese^ manufacture was about ls. 4d., and that of German manufacture ls. lOd/ each This is the competition with which. the Australian manu- featurer has to contend.  Hundreds of thousands of pounds have been invested in plant, two-thirds of which is now lying idle. 
I do not intend to be drawn off my argument by the honorable senator's interjection. I- am concerned about the immediate future; I wish to see more of our people properly employed in our secondary industries. I no not favour taxing people off the face of the earth so to speak, but I believe that some protection is necessary to enable our secondary industries to maintain their footing and provide employment for Australians under Australian conditions. 
Many industries are in a bad way. The worsted woollen mill at Albany in Western Australia is as well equipped as any similar industry in Australia, and yet 75 per cent.' of its product is sold in South Australia simply because the people in Western Australia do not demand the local article. As a rule Australians do ' not realize that if they wish our secondary industries to prosper they should insist upon getting Australian products. One honorable senator this afternoon declared that he was an Australian from head to heel.  No man can be certain that every portion of his clothing is Australian made. I stand for Australian industries and, wherever possible buy Australian made goods. 
I make sure that my suits are Australian made because I obtain the tweed from the mills. As for the principle of preference to goods of British origin, it is doubtful if, in every instance, imports from Britain are British made. Prior to the war there was a considerable importation of German goods branded as British. There is every probability, therefore, that the same practice now. obtains. Australia has not, so far, reaped the whirlwind of the  war. We have not yet experienced the full economic effects of that terrible conflict between the nations. It is important, therefore, that we should do all that is possible to encourage Australian industries. 
I do not wish to weary the Senate, but I should like to place on record certain figures dealing with imports of commodities the bulk of which could be manufactured in Australia. The following were among the list of imports for 1926-27 : - 

<graphic href="117332192803070_40_0.jpg"></graphic>

The imports for 1926-27 showed an increase of £13,106,749 over those for 1925-26. It is not too much to say that 90 per cent, of the goods mentioned in the list quoted could be produced in Australia. If our secondary industries were developed along these lines we should not have the spectacle of 100,000 persons out of employment at the present time. 
Nor is there a desire to restrict migration in Australia provided we can be sure of the profitable employment of all those who come here. Unfortunately, many migrants have very bitter experiences. Only, to-day the newspapers reported the case of two men who had been encouraged by officials of Australia House to go on the land in Western Australia. They were advised that if they knew nothing about farming they would get all the necessary instruction and, therefore, need have no fear. One man who came here with £800 lost every penny of it, and a day or two ago was wandering about Perth demented. Is this the proper way to deal with migrants? There are scores of instances of men who come to Australia and. lose every penny they possessed when they landed on our shores. 
I was interested in  Senator Chapman's  rather startling suggestion for the solution of the unemployment problem.  His  proposal was a ridiculous one. The honorable senator referred also to the difficulty experienced by producers in his State in disposing of their wine and dried fruits overseas.  His  complaint was really an indictment of the Development and Migration Commission. It is possible, of course, that the fault lies with the- producers themselves. When  Sir Victor  Wilson returned from the Wembley Exhibition he stated that on one occasion tins labelled as pears proved, when opened, to be pineapples; and similarly tins branded as pineapple conserve proved to be tins of peaches. Carelessness in the packing and branding of products may be, in some measure, responsiblefor difficulties experienced in marketing them abroad. I have a lively recollection of a conversation which I had with a gentleman who came fromChicago about nine months ago. He told me that one of the storekeepers in that city, desiring to encourage Australian trade, displayed in his window a notice advising his customers to buy Australian fruits. He filledhis shop with Australian products, but within two hours was compelled, by his angry customers and the general public, to shift it all out and stock American products. They insisted upon getting the Cali.fornian products. ' "Wo want something of the same spirit in Australia. We should see that all Australian products intended for export are in good condition. What is the good of exporting primary products if they are not up to the necessary standard? There must be something wrong with the packing at this end if  out  fruits do not find favour with the people of other countries, because they will bear comparison with those produced in any other part of the world. The same applies to meat, wool, wheat, butter, and cheese. We must secure wider markets overseas. Although canning factories are established in Australia, it is a common sight to witness displays of Californian tinned fruits in our retail establishments. Is that an encouragement for those who are endeavouring to earn a living from the soil? Every town should have an Australia day upon which all retailers would exhibit only those goods that are produced in Australia. The middleman now calls the tune, and the consumer is obliged to dance to it. In nine oases out of ten he does not ask whether the goods which he purchases have been made in Australia or 

 J apan. 
We must make Australia selfcontained. Up to "the present we have been relying for our protection largely upon the Mother Country. The time has arrived for us to demonstrate our ability to protect ourselves. . We should not have battleships built in Scotland to relieve the unemployment in that country when our own artisans and mechanics are walking the streets looking for work.  The only obstacle in our path recently, when we decided upon the construction of two cruisers, was a roller 'to roll the plates. Certainly it would have cost £1,000,000; but consider the .millions of pounds that are sent abroad for commodities that could be manufactured ' in Australia ! We are relying too greatly upon other countries for goods that we should produce ourselves.  Senator Chapman  read a report of the League of Nations to the effect that we should exercise care in regard to tariff imposts lest international complications ensue, and a disagreement arise with some other nation. I say, " Let it come." We must stand on our own, and do all that we can to benefit not only our own people, but also those who are coming from Great Britain to assist us in making Australia the nation it should be. We should not be afraid to stand up in defence of our country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Reid)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 10.1 p.m. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Treasurer recently issued instructions that departments had to curtail expenditure for the present financial year? 
If so, will the Minister supply, for the information of senators, a statement setting out - 
The amount of money that it is expected will be saved in each department? 
Details of the works that will be effected, showing the savings expected to be made on each item? 
The number of men that will be or hare been, put out of employment as regards each of the works? 
Will any of the works that have been stopped during this financial year be proceeded with next financial year? 
If so, will the Minister give particulars of same? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
Yes, such instructions were issued by the Treasurer, in accordance with the decision of Cabinet. 
(a)In respect of revenue votes departments have been called upon to exercise the greatest possible economy, but no specific sum is laid down for any department. In the case of loan estimates the savings to be made by the respective departments are as follow: - 

<graphic href="118332192803086_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

The allocation of the savings to particular works is a matter for the respective departments, and cannot yet be fully determined.  3  and 4. All  works  in progress will be proceeded with as soon as funds are available, but until the budget for next year is framed it is impossible tosay what particular works will be proceededwith next year. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice - 
What is the number  of  males and females respectively who are employed in (a) the Public Service of the Commonwealth, (b) the Commonwealth Bank? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  uponnotice- 
Is it a fact that, at the first auction sale of land held at Canberra, intending purchasers were told that the cost of constructing footpaths and gutters would be borne by the vendors, and that land was purchased and leased under these conditions? 
If so, is it a fact that this contract is now being repudiated and that leaseholders, tenants of the Federal Capital Commission, are now being called upon to pay these costs, in addition to excessive rents and other charges? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
Representations to this effect which have been made to the Minister are at present the subject of an inquiry, and he is unable to make any statement in regard thereto until the inquiry is complete. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is thecost of compulsory military training in the Common wealth? 
What is the cost of same in Tasmania? 
What is the annual cost of Tasmnnian camps ? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate, upon  notice - 
What were the reasons which actuated the Government in declining to accept the offer  by  the Queensland Government to place at the disposal of the Council  for  Scientific and Industrial Research on area of first-class sheep country in Central Queensland for the purpose of assisting in scientific investigation of the  problems  affecting the sheep industry ? 
Blowfly work. - The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research considered that a specialstation for the study of the blowfly pest would be necessary, and certain proposals in this connexion were under consideration. But as the main centre in any proposed scheme would be at Canberra, it would not be at all convenient or economical to have the special station away in Central Queensland. 
The area would not be of any use for the investigation of worms in sheep or any other parasitological diseases, for the simple reason that those diseases do not exist there. 3.As to disease prevention generally, the veterinary advisers of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research were not attracted by the idea of establishing a big station at Saltern Creek. They pointed out that as a rule much work could be done in a properly equipped central laboratory and that, for the rest, it should be carried out where the disease exists. The Barcaldine district is a fairly clean area. It was considered that only diseases which are already found in itshould be investigated there, and of these there were remarkably few. 
While for the investigation of natural grasses best suited for wool production, the suggested station would certainly be valuable, the council pointed out that many such regions all  over  Australia would need to be investigated, and it hoped that pastoralists would themselves provide the necessary facilities in a great number of much smaller areas. 
As to artificial feeding and its effect on wool production, of course work could be done there. But as Saltern Creek was an area in which artificial feeding was generally  quite unnecessary, it had not the special value which would attach to a definitely " sheep sick " area or one commonly subject to droughts. It would, in fact, be definitely less useful than ah area of poorer country. 
While the study of nutritive values of fodder plants was necessary and a close study of ever so many plants must be carried out in numerous localities, the Council did not need a 25,000 acre station, or, in fact, any station of its own for the purpose. 
Various other reasons against the acceptance of the offer were submitted by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, which advised that, having in view the limited possibilities of real usefulness of the station, the cost of stocking it and the cost of equipping it and staffing it for investigational purposes, it would be impossible to justify a recommendation to spend thousands of pounds on the area in question.  Though unable to accept the offer, the Commonwealth Government very highly appreciated the action of the Queensland Government in the matter. 
In continuing the debate on this subject, which has been very fully discussed from time to time, I wish to direct attention to certain phases of our fiscal policy which require earnest consideration.  Senator Findley,  when speaking last night was very emphatic concerning the necessity of. making Australia a selfcontained and self-reliant nation, and even went to the extent of declaring that he favored the prohibition of imports I once held very strong views concerning the necessity for imposing very high customs duties, and of even, in some instances, prohibiting the importation of goods which could be manufactured in Australia; but the position has altered to such an extent during recent years that we have now to consider whether the imposition of higherduties may be of injury to Australia.The way to make Australia self-contained, according to  Senator Payne's  interpretation of  Senator Findley's  remarks, is to live within ourselves. I do not know whether  Senator Findley  accepts that . interpretation; but it is well known that no nation can live solely unto itself. It is a nation's exports which enable it to prosper. Under ourprotective policy a large number of secondary industries have been established, and it is pleasing to know that some of them have been able to make progress. The most disquieting factor, however, is that under our present fiscal system, which provides such substantial protection, these industries have not reachedthe stage at which they can profitably produce for export. I am an ardent protectionist, but I cannot overlook the fact that with the small population we have it is impossible for our secondary industries, which cannot export at a profit, to successfully continue and expand while dependent solely upon the home market. Notwithstanding that our supply of practically all the raw materials we require in production is unlimited our market is limited to a population of about 6,000,000. Honorable senators opposite who are opposed to immigration take a very narrow view of the situation. They do not realize that with a much larger population the prospects of our secondary industries would be considerably improved. 
I am referring to our secondary industries generally which cannot profitably export their products owing to the high cost of production and the long distances which separate them from the markets of the world. 
Some commodities are being produced in excess of the local demand and cannot be profitably sold  overseas. The industry in which the Minister is directly interested is an example. 
- Honorable senators are aware that rich sugar lands are lying idle in northern Queensland because the industry cannot be developed as it should be. Australian sugar cannot be sold overseas at a profit. Is there a secondary industry which can profitably export its products? 
There are many industries which ought to be producing for export. I am -a protectionist, but I cannot understand how our secondary industries can expand unless our population is increased. The Tariff Board; which has conducted many important investigations, has complained that awards of the Arbitration Court have interfered with the work which this Parliament has done in protecting industries. 
The Tariff Board has directed attention to an important fact. The employees engaged in secondary industries go to the Arbitration Court, as do other employees, with the result that when their wages are increased or their working conditions improved the higher duties imposed for the protection of an industry are rendered ineffective. I do not blame the employees for approaching the court; that is their right. But I am anxious to know how our secondary industries are to continue under our  present  system. I do not think any one wishes to interfere with the wages paid to and the conditions enjoyed by Australian workmen, but it seems to me that we cannot go on increasing customs duties indefinitely. We are simply proceeding in a vicious circle. With other honorable senators I am anxious to solve this difficult problem, and I believe that the remedy lies in the opening of our doors to the. introduction of more migrants from overseas. If honorable senators opposite surveyed the situation in its true perspective, they would realize that additional population will not jeopardize the interests of that section of the community, which they claim to represent in this chamber. 
 Recent statements by the Development  and Migration Commission indicate that that body is cognisant of the difficulties that confront our primary producers, and particularly those engaged in the dried fruits industry. I remind honorable senators that ten years ago the late  Senator Senior  predicted the difficulties which now beset producers of dried fruits. He urged that unless adequate measures were taken, to find a market for their products, the growers would be faced with insolvency. Unfortunately the world's market is now supplied, and primary producers in the industry are in great difficulties. This problem also touches the River Murray waters scheme, on which many millions of pounds have been expended by the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. As a protectionist, I am anxious to find a solution for all these difficulties, but I fear that if we adopt the expedient of reducing production costs by cutting down the cost of living, it will merely be a case of the survival .of the fittest. Actually, no one in Australia wishes to see a lowering of our present standard of living. 
Only two of our primary industries are able to stand alone, and one of them is in a precarious position. But for the high price that has prevailed in recent years for wool, Australia would be in financial difficulties. The outlook for wheat is not so favorable. Production in Canada is expanding, and if, within the next few years, the peasantry of Russia produce on any thing like the prewar scale, Australian wheat-growers will be shut out of the world's market, owing to the high cost of production in this country. In recent years there has been an astonishing development in wheat production in Western Australia, the total for this year being estimated at 35,000,000 bushels. What will happen to the wheat-growers in that State if, as is anticipated, production in Canada and Russia expands to any appreciable extent? Butter, another important primary industry, is not in a satisfactory position. It is estimated that as the result of the Paterson scheme, consumers in Australia are penalized to the extent of 2d. per lb. on all butter exported, and I was informed recently by a member of the butter board in Queensland, that the people in that State have to pay 5d. per lb. more for their butter than prior to the establishment of the Queensland pool for export. How long will the people of Australia be able to support these artificial aids to production? 
The timber industry is one in which we are all interested. Although a representative of a timber producing State, I can not conscientiously vote for higher duties onoregon, because of the important part which that timber plays in all constructional work throughout the Commonwealth. Nearly all modern buildings are now erected in concrete, and millions of feet of Oregon timber are required for framing and boxing. Practically the only timber employed in modern buildings is that required for doors and fittings; the floors for the most part being of concrete and the window frames of iron. If higher duties are imposed on oregon, building costs, even in regard to dwellings, will be affected. No Australian timber is as satisfactory asoregon for concrete boxing. As a matter of fact, Australian softwood, because of the shortness of the grain, is rarely used as beams. Whereever possible, iron, one of the products of the secondary industries, takes its place. Even the ordinary lintels in dwellings are now in concrete. The following statement which appears in the last report of the Tariff Board, sums up the position. Referring to the timber industry in Queensland, the Board states: - 
Queensland once occupied a position unique among the States of the Commonwealth in that it possessed, within its boundaries, a wealth of timber unequalled for variety and for value. In addition to great forests of hardwoods, there once existed large forests of softwoods, as well as areas rich in valuable and rare furniture woods. Owing to reckless prodigality and an almost utter lack of any attempt at re-afforestation, the situation in this State is fast becoming serious. From the Queensland Forest Service Report for year ended 31st December, 1922, it appears that - "At this date Queensland is within clear sight of the end of its important timber resources In five years' time there will, be scarcely a maple tree outside the State forests, and upon the State forests the maple resource is so limited that sale must be restricted considerably." 
Fortunately, it is definitely established by fruitful results, indeed, that a now maple crop may be produced by the forester but in the meantime the community must be content with a severe rationing of its most valuable cabinet- wood. The samemay be said almost of hoop and Bunya pine. The original 2,500,000 acres of this most valuable coniferous wood have dwindled to 1,000,000 acres, capable of yielding only 40,000,000 super. feet of timber per annum, as against the present demand for 120,000,000 'super feet, now being satisfied from farm lands in process of clearing for cultivation. Of hardwood it may be said that the chief resources of Queensland went with the farming development along the north coast line, and in five years' time the Forest Service expects to have to go out 50 miles to get ironbark girders. 
The timber is cut down to make way for settlement. I have seen millions of feet of some of the best timber in Australia, burned, because it did not pay to transport it to market. This is a serious problem. The report continues - 
The red cedar resource is now restricted to Bungella Plateau, of allplaces in Queensland the only one free fromthe red cedar twig borer, apest which renders impossible the reproduction of red cedar forests. Of kauri pine the southern resource is utterly gone. In North Queensland a considerable stand-still exists. In no other country in the world are so many valuable timber species collected together as in the remnant forests of Queensland. It is the duty and the profit of Queensland to conserve and to farm these remnant forests to a greater productivity. 
The following is an extract from " The State's Saw-mill Output, 1914 to 1923, Queensland ", page 28 - 
The business of the Forest Service in North Queensland should be - and, undoubtedly, in the future will be - on a scale of vastly greater magnitude. In this region there are probably 5,000,000 acres of the sub-tropical forest containing not less than 20,000,000,000 super. feet of cabinet woods, sufficient to supply Australia's needs in perpetuity and leave a margin for export to Europe and the United States of America. Unfortunately, however, a state of ruinous congestion exists in the timber trade of the north, and, despite the clamour from the south for supply, supply cannot be assured. Meanwhile, prodigious waste ensues. 
Local government has been partly responsible for that state of affairs. The Tariff Board stresses the necessity to preserve our softwoods, but the Queensland Government nullifies the efforts of the Commonwealth Government. The report of the Tariff Board also says :  - 
The result as far as softwoods are concerned is that according to this witness " the average royalty on pine throughout Queensland is much greater than the rates of duties paid on softwood timbers imported." 
Whenever an additional duty is imposed on imported timbers, theQueensland Government increases its royalty charge and scoops thepool. According to another witness 
The royalty is an appreciable charge on the Queensland timber industry, and in regardto nearly half the output neutralizes to some extent the protective incidence of the Tariff. 
-Oregon is used in work for which no other timber is suitable. 
Queensland pine can be used for frames, sashes and doors. 
SenatorCrawford. - Why should the timber industry in other States be penalized because of a misdemeanour of the Queensland Government? 
It is not a question of misdemeanour. The Tariff Board has said that no duty on softwoods will prevent the importation of Oregon, because that wood is necessary for certain work. Therefore we are merely placing a tax on industry. 
They are afraid that it will interfere with their trade. We are increasing the cost of buildings in which Oregon must be used, and indirectly the dwellings of the workers are affected. I have always held strongly the opinion that every worker should own his home and that the cost should be kept down as low as possible. All these taxes are increasing the cost. In Queensland timber is used in the majority of houses; but bricks are now beingresorted to, because the difference in costis so slight and the maintenance of abrick house is not nearly as great as that of a wooden house. Another reason is that the impression that the climate ofQueensland is not suitable, is gradually being dispelled. There is another aspect of the timber industry that requires consideration. At the present time millions of feet of tops are wasted, when they could be used with excellent results for cases. 
Because imported timber is used. It is well known that Queensland pine is one of the best timbers that can be obtained for butter boxes. I am quite willing to support any proposal that will prevent the wastage of the tops. Unless the Minister brings forward some good argument in favour of the increased duties I feel that I must oppose them, notwithstanding that I desire to assist the timber industry, particularly in the direction of preventing the waste which now goes on. 
.- I shall not speak at length at this stage; but before the bill gets into committee I desire to refer to one or two matters affecting Queensland in' particular. The costs of production in Australia have risen to such an extent that it is practically impossible for some industries to dispose of their products. It was recently my privilege to visit the Lustre Silk Hosiery Factory in Sydney, an establishment which manufactures high class silk and artificial silk hosiery. When that factory was established the price of imported hosiery was very much higher than it is to-day. As a direct result of its competition the price dropped considerably. I was pained to see, during my visit to the factory, that a large proportion of the extensive machinery, which had been installed, was lying idle. Production costs had increased so greatly that the company found it impossible to compete with imported hosiery. Another factor which has militated against the industry has been the unfavorable position with regard to exchange, which has given an advantage to countries which are competitors in the hosiery industry. 
Yes; but more recently increased production costs and the unfavorable position in relation to exchange has had an adverse effect upon the company. 
Legislation passed by State Labour Governments has so increased production costs that the company to which I have referred and other Australian companies manufacturing similar articles now ask for additional protection. The difficulty is that if their request is granted, further industrial legislation will probably be passed by the State Governments which will nullify the advantage of the increased duties. Queensland does not benefit from the tariff a 3 do some of the other States, for the reason that legislation passed by Labour Governments in Queensland during the last eleven or twelve years has prevented the investing of money in secondary industries in that State. The solution of the difficulty appears to be the development of a greater home market. That can only be accomplished by an increase of population. As an example of what can be done by good organization and the manufacture of articles of good quality, where there is a good home market, I desire to point out  that recently the price of Australian-made motor tires has been considerably reduced. 

 Senator Findley said that unless we went in for extensive developmental schemes it would be impossible to absorb more immigrants, because Australia was already producing more than she could consume or export. He referred particularly to the sugar industry. The problem of the over-production of sugar would readily be solved if there was greater cooperation between the Commonwealth and British Governments. Sugar entering Great Britain pays a duty of £11 13s. 4d. a ton. It is true that preference is granted to sugar grown in the dominions ; nevertheless the duty is still very high, with the result that the price of sugar in England is about the same as it is in Australia. As a result of this season's crushing there will be thousands of tons of sugar more than Australia can consume. This over-production will have to be exported at considerable loss. The producers will have to bear the loss proportionately. If the British Government removed the duty on sugar grown in the Empire, Australia could yet rid of the whole of its surplus  product, the whole of the rich idle" sugar lands of North Queensland could be thrown open for cultivation, our sugar yield would be increased enormously, provision could be made for absorbing thousands of British immigrants, and all our difficulties in regard to sugar production would be removed. 
It is,- I believe, a purely revenue producing duty. 
I-j admit that the British duty on  sugar  serves a double purpose, but even if the people of Great Britain succeed in developing the beet sugar industry to any considerable extent I do not think they anticipate ever being in a position to supply their own requirements. The duty on sugar is very large for the purpose of obtaining revenue. 
Great Britain and Australia are now co-operating with a view to the absorption of British migrants here. Great Britain cannot provide employment for the whole of her people and is now paying away millions of pounds annually in unemployment doles. The removal of the duty on sugar would serve a double purpose. It would enable thousands of British immigrants to be settled in North Queensland on one of the most fertile spots, in Australia, thus assisting in developing,' ' the migration scheme and would relieve Great Britain to some extent of  the necessity  for paying doles to unemployed. The amount that would be saved in this way should compensate for any loss"' cif revenue due to the removal of the duty on sugar grown in the Empire. 
Figures have been carefully compiled relating . to sugar production in the Empire. It is hoped that in the not far distant future a conference of those vitally interested, in growing sugar in the dominions will be -held with a view to asking Great Britain to give preference to British grown sugar. .Germany and other countries interested in the production of beet sugar and other countries growing sugar have formed a combination for the purpose of improving their sugar price and this will mean that the cost of this sugar will be greater to the United Kingdom. Great Britain has a unique opportunity to do something practical in the way of building up a sugar industry within the Empire; not in Australia alone, but also in other parts of the dominions. 
Yes; they are also faced with over-production. But ours is a mere bagatelle compared with the total quantity of sugar consumed in the British Empire, and when we realize the large quantity of foreign grown sugar that enters . Great Britain, there does not seem to be any reason why the duty now imposed on our sugar should not be very considerably reduced if not removed altogether. 
That is so, but the concession is not sufficient to allow us to get our sugar into the British market at the price we should like to get for it. I should like to see all Empire-grown sugar admitted into Great Britain free of duty. The loss of customs revenue would be more than offset by the additional development that would take place throughout the Empire, and by the fact that the dominions could absorb so many hundreds of thousands of those British workers who are now unemployed. 
Queensland has practically- a monopoly of the pine forests of Australia, but, unfortunately, owing to the neglect of the Queensland Forestry Department in not pursuing a policy of reafforestation and conservation, the saw-millers of Queensland cannot secure sufficient local softwoods for their mills. A few weeks ago an advertisement appeared in the Queensland  Government . Gazette,  intimating that certain areas were to be thrown open for timber cutting; but I suppose the total quantity of timber that would thus be made available, would not keep the local mills occupied for more than three days, and the chances were at the time that no further areas would be made available for another month. If the big sawmills in Brisbane had 1:6 rely on the local forests to keep them going, they would have to close down altogether, or work for only a few days a month. At the request of a friend of mine, who is a big saw-miller in Brisbane, I had a look at one of his mills, where he employs a large number of hands. His mills keep going all the year round, but the greater portion of the logs which are being sawn there are 
Oregon.  If it were not for the fact that this gentleman was importing these big logs of  Oregon,  the majority of the men in his mill would be thrown out of work. This also applies to many sawmills in Australia. The logs that could be secured from the local forests would not last any time. 
 What about using hardwood? 
As  Senator Reid  has pointed out, the Queensland Forestry Department has been the principal transgressor in the past, and has been largely responsible for the present shortage of hoop pine. Thousands of pounds paid in royalties have been simply thrown to the winds by the State Government. ' The following table shows the amount .collected by way of royalties, and the1 amount spent in the administration of the Forestry Department, inclusive of reafforestation and every thing else:- 

<graphic href="118332192803086_8_1.jpg"></graphic>

In five years the Queensland Government actually made a profit of £548,626 out of its forests, and wasted it on various Government enterprises. The figures for 1925-26 and 1926-27 are even worse. 
The essential features of the forestry position of Queensland at this opening stage, however, is that an aboriginal insufficiency of building softwoods exists for the needs of the civilized state. It is true that compared with our southern neighbours we are relatively rich in the possession of important hillside forests of hoop pine in the south, and kauri in the north, whence have come our supplies of building softwoods in the shape of hoop and bunya, pine, and. of kauri pine, supplemented by lesser supplies of the harder and more brittle cypress pine of the south-west. These assets, however, were always inadequate to the needs of a colony capable of carrying a population in 60 years' time of 3,000,000 souls, and no amount of husbanding could possibly have overcome the original smallness of the native coniferous timber lands. 
The Department of Forests does not make any apology for not husbanding its resources, and is not excusing itself for its dilatoriness in the past. The report continues - 
In the beginning of our  settlement  we possessed natural softwood assets measuring in volume between 3,000,000,000 and 4,000,000,000 feet. Some of these assets have been wasted in pioneering land settlement processes, but from 1883 to 1925 we actually used up for development work 2,450,000,000 super, feet of hoop and bunya pine saw logs, plus 600,000,000 super, feet of kauri and cypress. From a consideration of forest valuation surveys made over the last fifteen years, it is estimated that our hoop and bunya pine reserves at 30th June, 1925, stood at 1,070,000,000 feet of saw logs on Crown forests, and 230,000,000 feet on private areas. 
The departmentgoes on to point out that there are at present 257 mills in Queensland, a large number of which are depending upon supplies from the State forests, and that these will soon be in a serious position if they have to depend upon that source to enable them to continue working. The Forestry Commission of Queensland has stated quite candidly that the sawmillers will have to look elsewhere for their timber supplies. They cannot rely upon the forests of Queensland, because sufficient timber is not available theretokeep them working. The commission also states that if it embarked upon a policy of cutting out the forests there would in 20 or 30 years be no pine timber left in Queensland. They have now undertaken a system of rationing, which assists in husbanding the forests; but which places the timber millers in that. State in a very unfortunate position. If they are unable to obtain sufficient from the State forests to keep them in operation, they must look elsewhere for supplies. I am not directly objecting to the imposition of a duty on Oregon, shiploads of which I have seen coming into our Australian ports.I think, however, that it is a pity that we should receive such large consignments of sawn oregon and baltic when the sawing could be done by many of our mills which are not working full time. It would be much better to restrict the importation of sawn oregon, and allow junk timber to come in free. 
 A tariff debate in the good old days was a battle between free traders and protectionists; but we have now reached the stage where we can say that the battle for protection in Australia has been won. Although we still hear freetrade arguments from various quarters, I believe the great bulk  of  the people  of  Australia are now convinced that the policy of protection has come to stay. I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of this schedule. A tariff can never be entirely satisfactory because changes must be made as circumstances alter in consequence of the development of new industries and of existing industries engaging in new phases of manufacture. This makes it essential to review a tariff schedule from time to time and to make such changes as we consider necessary. Although I think there are one or two directions in which the Government might have acted differently from what is proposed, where the duties are not as high as I should like, I believe it has gone as far as it reasonably could. In dealing with the tariff the powers of the Senate are very limited, and consequently the opportunities for introducing new items and effecting amendments, are almost negligible. 
There is one matter to which I earnestly direct the attention of the Government. I refer to the cotton industry which if properly handled should have very promising prospects in Australia, and in connexion with which the provision made by the Government has turned out to be wholly unsatisfactory. The cotton industry is at present assisted partly,, by the tariff and partly by a bounty. The clear intention of the Parliament and the -Government when it last imposed; duties on cotton, and provided for the payment of a bounty was to encourage the use of Australian cotton in our own mills. Owing to a variety of reasons which I do not intend to enumerate - it would be futile at the present time for me to do so - the arrangement has entirely broken down. It , was thought at the time that the local spinners would be able to use Australian cotton in their mills, and that they would absorb the whole of the Australian crop. Though mills are erected in Australia with all the machinery necessary for dealing with a great deal more than the last cotton crop in Queensland or the crop which we are likely to have this season - I hope it will be double that of the previous year*--hardly a bale of the Australian production will be used in the Australian mills. I do not wish to go into the detailed reasons for this unfortunate state of affairs, though it would be easy for me to do so as I have the matter at my fingers end. All I ask, at this juncture, is that the Government shall give the matter its earnest consideration in the near future with a view to recasting the present tariff and bounty provisions. Very slight alterations will make all the difference in the world to the position of the cotton growers, whose crop will then be used in Australia. Though this is important also from the point of view of the manufacturers, the alterations I suggest are more vital in the interests of hundreds of growers in Queensland. I am not a representative of the northern State in this chamber; but I am, as honorable senators are aware, intimately associated with the cotton industry, and I am glad to be able to say that during the last two or three years there has been, a considerable increase in the number of cotton growers in Queensland. 
No. As I have already explained, there are well equipped mills already in existence, yet owing to the manner in which the duty and bounty have been arranged, they will hardly turn a spindle. 
Yes, but they cannot compete with overseas manufacturers. It is a rather alarming position, but I do not wish to go into the details at this stage. All I ask is that the Government shall look into this question carefully, and put things right. If that is done all the mills can then be profitably employed, and will be able to use the whole of the loca'l cotton crop. Perhaps honorable senators are not aware that the fact that our cotton is shipped overseas instead of being used locally makes a difference to the growers of about f d. lb. on their seed cotton, and since it takes 3 lb. of seed cotton to make 1 lb. of lint the total on a bale of 500 lb. means a great deal to the growers. I feel satisfied that it will be only necessary for the Government to order an investigation of the position to have it set right. Unless something is done we shall have to export practically the whole of the cotton produced during the coming season. This will mean a serious loss to the growers and it will entirely defeat what was clearly the intention of Parliament when it sanctioned the  impositon  of the duty and the payment of the bounty. 
There is one matter in connexion with the schedule to which I invite the earnest attention of the Minister. Though it may appear to be a little thing in itself it involves a big principle from which it authorizes a departure in a direction that I believe to be. entirely wrong and dangerous. I refer to the item which deals with coffee. It seems to be a small matter, but I fear that, unless we watch our step in connexion with it we may become involved in  many difficulties which we can easily avoid. 1 have never had the slightest objection to the preferential treatment given by Australia to the mother country. In a tariff which some years ago I had the honour to introduce in another place 
Great Britain was given a greater measure of preference than had ever pre1viously been conceded by this Parliament. The principle embodied in that tariff, and which is carried a stage further in this schedule, is entirely justifiable internationally. In giving the Mother Country preferential tariff treatment we can look the whole world in the face without fear that any nation can take serious exception to our action. We have never departed from that principle except that whenever we have extended preferential treatment to other countries we have always done so on a basis of reciprocation. That principle is definitely laid down in all our tariff legislation, and prior to the introduction of this schedule it was  always adhered to.  We have always given Britain a perfectly free preference. That is to say, we ask the Mother Country for such preference as she may choose to give us; we do not bargain for it. 
In our attitude to other countries we have always taken the stand that the tariff concessions must be reciprocal. This again is a perfectly safe international principle in regard to tariff legislation. No nation can take exception to the Commonwealth giving preferential tariff treatment to a particular country if, in return for that special treatment, we get a similar concession. If honorable senators will turn to the item dealing with coffee they will notice that there is a departure from this principle in the addendum to the item, which reads as follows: - 
The articles specified in paragraph ( I ) of sub-item b, being the produce of any part of the British Empire, shall bo admitted under the British preferential tarin". 
This, as I have stated, is a departure from the basic principle to which I have alluded and which Ave have laid down in all previous tariff legislation. I question the wisdom of this course, because we shall not be able to show that the countries to which we give this preferential treatment are giving us special reciprocal treatment. Unless the Government can convince me that there is good reason for the item as it stands I intend to vote against it in committee, and will ask honorable senators to support me in requesting the House of Representatives to eliminate the addendum. If another place adopts the request it will be necessary to recast the whole item. I think it will be sufficient if this chamber indicates its desire to have the addendum eliminated. In all probability the item will be put right in another place. 
Apart altogether from the principle which I have endeavoured to lay down in a brief form there is special reason why we should not depart from it in this particular item. In the first  place "we should be chary about making such a departure when dealing with the tariff, which necessarily is international in its application. In this case the fact that we propose to give a certain measure of preference to India, possibly to Kenya Colony, Jamaica and one or two other dominions of the Empire will seriously hit a near neighbour of ours, Java. Honorable senators will recall that some time ago we imposed a duty on bananas, which are produced in the Commonwealth. There was a perfectly - good reason for our action then:. 
Possibly it did, but Parliament approved of the duty on bananas, and, as I have said, there was every justification for it. The position is entirely different with regard to the item dealing with coffee in the schedule to this bill. It will seriously interfere with o'ur trade with Java. 
Is that an adequate reason for the alteration of the item? I do not think it is. Our principal imports from Java are those commodities which cannot be produced in Australia. After kapok, oil, and tea, which we do not produce in Australia, our chief import is coffee. Iri return Java buys from ns a great deal of our primary products, and as a matter of fact is one of the few countries to which we are able to sell certain of our secondary products. Java, I remind the Senate, has always' given to Australia exactly the same tariff treatment that she gives to her mother country. If the Minister examines the statistics, which I have no d'oubt are in his department, he will find that the duty on Australian butter sent to Java is the same as that levied by the government of the Dutch East , Indies on butter from Holland. We are almost the sole supplier of that butter. They buy from us also a large quantity of flour, and some meat, biscuits, jams, and canned fruits. I cannot see any reason why we should imperil that trade by giving Java a slap' in the face because of something out of which we get no return. If we were going to derive a benefit there might be some justification. Why should we cut off our noses to spite our faces ? I cannot conceive of any good coming out of this action, nor can I see any specific reason for it; but I do apprehend a great danger to our trade in the Dutch East Indies if we insist upon taking it. Having made my protest I shall endeavour, in committee, to give practical effect to it. Apart from that I shall support the proposals of the Government. 
With regard to the much discussed question of timber, I merely wish to say that, for reasons which are obvious when one examines the peculiarities of the industry, it is not possible to frame a satisfactory tariff in relation to it.' One could take any set of facts and argue a perfectly good case for both a duty and no duty. I am prepared to make out as good, a case for one side as for the other. We' must, import a certain quantity of softwoods, particularly Oregon. If we made the duties mountain high that position would not be altered. There are various uses in respect of which there is no substitute for Oregon, certainly in Australia and probably throughout the world. What will happen when the Oregon supplies fail can merely be conjectured. It is equally true, however, that in Australia Oregon is put to a number of uses for which  our  hardwoods are eminently 'suitable. It seems necessary, therefore, to get back to. first principles and do that which will ultimately spell the greatest good for the greatest number. Starting from those premises I say that the greatest amount of good will accrue to Australia by keeping our money within our own borders and depending upon our own resources. I have never been able to understand the argument of those who say that we should leave our' iron  deposits undeveloped  and purchase abroad our requirements of that commodity. If we were to adopt such a policy it would be logical to allow our fields to remain un tilled and buy abroad all the foodstuffs we required.  Scattered over a large area in Australia is a vast quantity of timber that is eminently suitable for many purposes. I frankly admit that the prevailing industrial conditions, some of which have been brought about legislatively, and others 'by  force majeure,  are responsible for a state of affairs which makes it extremely difficult and costly to produce a commodity like timber from our own hardwood forests. There is not a definite case on either one side or the other in regard to the tariff on timber, but the balance of the argument is in favour of using as far as possible what we have within our own borders. I do not refer to those uses for which a soft wood with the peculiar characteristics of Oregon is necessary. But as everybody knows there is hardly a frame of an ordinary wooden cottage in the erection of which oregon is not used. It cannot be contended that our hardwoods are unsuitable for that class of work. They are not subject to attacks by white ants to the same extent as oregon, and if faithfully put together, they make a better job. I intend to support the proposed limber duties. 
I have brought under the notice of the Government two matters that I regard as of first class importance, -and I hope they will be given earnest consideration. I refer to the re-arrangement of the duties and bounty connected with the cotton industry, so that we may make use of what we produce and keep our spindles at work, and the proposed preferential duty on coffee. Unless the Government can give me a more solid reason than sentiment for the alteration of the coffee duty, I shall endeavour at a later stage to have that item amended. 
I have noted with pleasure the generally favorable tone of the debate towards the pro'posals of the Government; but a few points have been raised which call for a reply. 

 Senator Ogden referred to what he termed the pushing of the bogey of protection too far, with a consequent undue swelling of the population of the cities. 
I am afraid that when the honorable senator expressed that opinion he overlooked the revolution, which has taken place within the last 20 or 30 years in connexion with our land industries. Surely he is aware that for a similar volume of production our land industries do not require anything like the labour which they needed some years ago ! I have seen many calculations respecting the labour that has been rendered unnecessary as a result 'of improvements in % farm appliances. Only quite recently I read the announcement that it is estimated that to-day on a farm of any size in America, one man is equal to an output for which 50 men were required at the beginning of the present century. 
It applies to a greater or less extent to the whole of our land industries and also to some extent to our secondary industries. There is no doubt that the people of Australia are very much better off to-day than they were two or three decades ago. That increased prosperity, however, has not led to any greater expenditure upon foodstuffs. The expenditure upon the products of secondary industries has considerably increased. The people to-day are living in better houses and have a higher quality of furniture, and they are spending a great deal more on amusements. Consequently, the population of the cities, not only in Australia but in practically every country in the world - certainly every country with a European population - has increased. Similar changes have not taken place in India and China; therefore the argument of one honorable senator that the wheatgrower of Australia is in competition with the wheat-grower of India does not carry much weight, because, as a rule, the Indian wheat-grower confines his operations to a few acres, and the only implement 'he uses is a small plough drawn by a couple of bullocks. No honorable senator has shown that remunerative employment for this excess city population can be found among our land industries. It has not been alleged that large areas of wheat lands in communication with markets, in any of the States are lying unproductive. I am aware that in very many of our agricultural districts sheep fattening is combined with wheat-growing. It is now the general practice in Australia to fallow wheat lands for a year or for two years; consequently millions of acres which, in other circumstances, would possibly be put under cultivation, are devoted to either the pasturage of sheep or fallowing. 
In my second-reading speech I quoted from the report of the Director of Agriculture in the United States of America to the effect that with 3,000,000 fewer people engaged in agriculture in that country, a greater volume of land products is being made available. Agricultural production increased more rapidly than did population. In the report of the League of Nations, from which  Senator Chapman  quoted, it is stated that while the population of Europe had increased only 1 per cent, since 1914, the production of raw materials and foodstuffs in Europe had increased by 5 per cent., and that whereas the population of the world in the same period had increased by only 5 per cent., the increase in the production of raw material and foodstuffs was from 16 per cent, to 18 per cent. It is well known that no profitable market can be found for many of our land products. For that reason it is necessary to find employment in secondary industries for a large proportion of our population. 

 Senator Ogden referred to " tin pot " industries. Similar references to some of our industries having previously been made, I made it my business some months ago to inspect a number of industries in New South Wales, in the desire to see these " tin-pot " or " backyard " industries. But though I searched for some weeks I neither found nor heard of one of them. On the other hand I was impressed by the efficiency pf the management, the skill of the workmen, and the up-to-date nature of the plant in many of the factories I inspected. In a large engineering works in Newcastle I saw some expensive machinery which, I was informed, made it possible for five men to do work which before its installation required 21 men. On the day of my visit new machinery arrived to replace those machines which had been installed only two years previously. I was ' informed that the new machines would do twice the work of those they would replace. Not every large industry starts in a big way, nor is it only the large industries which are essential to our national life.  Mr.  MacRobertson,  one of  the wealthiest men in Australia, makes the proud boast that his business commenced in one of the rooms of his house. 

 Senator Chapman referred at some length to the International Economic Conference held in Geneva in May of last year. The honorable senator said that the conference expressed its views on the Australian tariff. Although I have read the report carefully I have seen no such expression of opinion. Anyone who peruses the report with an unbiased mind must conclude that the conference viewed matters solely from a European stand-point. While  Senator Chapman  was speaking I glanced at the report, and found that in one paragraph the word " Europe " appears four times, in the following paragraph three times, and in the next paragraph once. A few paragraphs further on in the report the word appears twice, and in other paragraphs it occurs from one to three times. The report, which clearly refers to European conditions, 'stresses the fact that following the war there were 7,000 miles of new frontier in Europe, and that the number of European tariffs had increased from 20 to 26. It is true that the following paragraph does suggest that the conference had Australia in mind - 
The desire to deal with the problem of excessive industrial capacity has usually led to an attempt to reserve the home market for home production by means of tariff barriers erected with a view to creating an independent national economy capable of producing under the protection of the tariff wall, an increase of invested wealth and a more satisfactory return for the work of the nation. This effort to attain self-sufficiency cannot hope to succeed unless it is justified by the size, natural resources, economic advantages and geographical situation of a country. There are very few countries in the world which can hope to attain it. 
In support of his argument that our high tariff wall might raise antagonism in other countries,  Senator Kingsmill  instanced the effect that higher duties on bananas had had on our trade with Fiji. It is interesting -to see what actually did happen as a result of the increased duty on bananas. For the five years before the imposition of the increased duty our exports of Australian products to Fiji represented an average value of £368,219, whereas for the five years subsequent to the increased duty, the value of our trade with Fiji averaged £357,270, or £10,949 per annum less than for the preceding period. On those figures has been built the argument that the raising of the duty on bananas was a most disastrous proceeding. 
SenatorKingsmill. - What about our trade with Java ? 
That trade has not diminished. Australia buys from Java goods to the value of over £6,000,000 per annum, and in return sells to Java goods valued at over £2,000,000 per annum. 
I shall give the approximate figures. The principal items are: - Hats, £3,000; cocoa, £4,000; coffee, £93,000; fibre, £99,000; rice. £3,000; kapok, £395,000; kerosene, £138,000; residual oil, £10,000; petroleum, £2,628,000 ; tea, £1,783,000 ; timber, £9,000; and tobacco, £45,000; a total of £5,210,000. I remind  Senator Greene  that the value of the tea imported from Java is about twenty times that of the coffee imported. Surely the honorable senator does not contend that the importation of coffee to the value of only £93,000 per annum isat all comparable with the importance of a friendly gesture to other branches of the British Empire ! 
Our desire is to extend the trade between this country and the other branches of the Empire. 
It is considered advisable to extend that principle to other parts of the Empire in the hope that we shall receive reciprocal treatment. A start must be made somewhere. Our trade in coffee with Java is only a small proportion of our total trade with that country, with which we have always been on friendly terms, a state of affairs which we all hope will continue. 

 Senator Carroll made the rather astounding statement that the schedule before us is equivalent to an appeal by Australian manufacturers for assistance from the public purse. The honorable senator appears to be of the impression that only those who are engaged in the production of protected commodities benefit from our policy of protection. Surely he will admit that the benefits of protection are not confined to the manufacturers, but are shared by their employees and those in Australia who supply the raw materials. As a result of the production of this £150,000,000 worth of goods by our secondary and protected industries, the whole country is benefited and enriched. The honorable senator claimed also that the wheat-growing and wool-growing industries are carrying all other industries on their backs. A few weeks ago I journeyed through the Goulburn Valley district in Victoria, in company with an estate agent, who had an expert knowledge of the value of the land in the district. He told me that it was worth £20 an acre for wheat-growing, and, where lucerne could be grown, a good deal more for sheep raising, and I think it only fair to conclude that land in other localities must be equally valuable for those purposes. Certainly it could not be as valuable as I was informed it was for those purposes if the wheat and wool-growing industries were handicapped to the extent alleged by  Senator Carroll. 
I know as well as most people the difficulties encountered by the man on the land. I have been on the land almost all my life, first on a mixed farm in Gippsland, and latterly on my own property in North Queensland. I know that the life of the grazier or the agriculturist is not spent on a bed of roses. But I know that people engaged in other industries also have difficultiesto overcome, and I am satisfied that every branch of rural  industry is enriched and not made" poorer by the flourishing condition of secondary industries. 

 Senator Payne seemed to be more anxious about the position of the British manufacturer than of those who are engaged in secondary industries in Australia. It is not right that Australia should carry the whole load of the disability now suffered by British industries. 
I do not say that Australia has gone too far in giving preference to Great Britain, but the preference we give to British manufacturers is about four times greater than the preference extended by Great Britain to the products of Australia. 
Protection is useless or fails in its purpose if it is not high enough to be effective. It is simply a waste of time to impose duties which will not accomplish the purpose for which they are framed. 
Honorable senators are apt to overlook the fact that about two-fifths of our continent lies within the tropics. In the Northern Territory or Western Australia, north of a line drawn across Australia in extension, of the southern border of Queensland, I do not think there are 7,000 people.  Senator Kingsmill  has made reference to our tropical areas. I should like him to consider how we can establish industries in those areas which are likely to bring population to them. 
Timber duties are of importance to several States.. They are particularly vital to Tasmania, with its vast areas of forests, for the products of which there is only a limited market at the present  time. 
The Government originally proposed increases of duties, but they were still further increased in another place, and, as increased, are just as much the Government's proposals as were those which were proposed when the amended schedule was first tabled in another place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. (Saving.) 
 The object of this clause is, I understand, to avoid the operation of the new rates of duty on butter applying to butter coming here from New Zealand as long as our reciprocal arrangement with that Dominion is in existence. Now that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  has gone to New Zealand I want to know if the Government proposes to review the existing reciprocal arrangement with the Dominion, particularly with regard to the duty on butter. Otherwise the dairymen of Australia will not be benefited by the in7 creased rates in the present schedule. Their only competitors are the New Zea-: land dairymen. The consensus of public opinion in Australia is that our butter producers are entitled to something more than' they are getting, but any endeavour to secure higher prices for butter is upset from time to time by the New Zealand produce that enters Australia. I want to know exactly the general policy of the Government in regard to butter. 
 Under the present reciprocal arrangement with New Zealand six months' notice has to be given of any alteration in duty. Some  time ago the New Zealand Government increased the duties on wheat and flour, but they could not come into operation against Australian wheat or flour for six months except with the consent of the Commonwealth .Government. That consent, when sought, was readily given. When the New Zealand Government was requested by the Commonwealth Government to consent to increased duties operating against New Zealand butter without the requisite six months' notice, I regret to say that it would not give its consent. However, the required notice has been given, and at the end of six months. the new rates of duty on butter will operate against New Zealand. 
Clause agreed to. 
The Schedule- 
Division III. - Sugar. 
Item 27- 
By omitting the whole item and inserting in its stead the following item: - "27. Glucose, per cwt., British, 12s.; intermediate, 15s.: general, 15s." 
.- As honorable senators are aware glucose is a product of maize which is largely used in the manufacture of the higher classes of confectionery. It is not used because it is cheaper than sugar, but because in the manufacture of confectionery it is superior in many respects to that commodity. Glucose costs, I think, £40 a ton, while sugar costs about £36 10s. a ton: There are a large number of confectionery businesses in Australia in which large quantities of glucose, which previously came principally from America, are used. Under the old tariff, a. duty of 12s. per cwt. was imposed and no preference was given to Great Britain. The present proposal is to increase the general and intermediate tariffs by 3s. per cwt. and to leave Britain with a preference of 3s. over her rivals. I think I can show that there is a danger of serious injury to certain industries if the present proposal is carried, and as honorable senators have said they are open to correction and ready to remove any anomaly, I believe they will support the request I intend to submit. The Australian supply of glucose is controlled by Maize Products Proprietary Limited, which is controlled by one of the largest confectionery firms in Melbourne. At the end of 1925 this company applied for an increased duty of 6s. per cwt. on glucose, and urged as its reason that it wanted to prevent the importation of glucose, rather than to raise the price of the commodity to its competitors. At the time it made the request, 92' per cent, of the glucose trade was under its control, and it had only to prevent 8 per cent, of the quantity consumed from coming to Australia to obtain a complete monopoly. Immediately an increase of 3s. per cwt. was imposed, this firm increased the price by the amount of the additional duty, with the result that numerous confectionery businesses throughout the Commonwealth had to pay an increased fate whilst one very large firm in Melbourne which has the monopoly of the local supply, even though it had to pay a higher price for the glucose used in the manufacture of its own confectionery, was able to recompense itself from the profits of the glucose business. This is a serious position and leaves the competing firms entirely in its hands. It has the power to raise the price of the product, and is, therefore, making the position more difficult for its competitors. That is according to the evidence given. before the Tariff Board. 
Yes. 
Yes; but what is the use when this company, which is controlled by MacRobertson's Limited, has control of the Australian market? What is the use of duplicating an industry which at present is able to supply practically all that is required. The competitors of  MacRobertson's  Limited are placed in an unenviable position because it can increase the price of the product and recompense itself from the profit made by Maize .Products Limited, which it controls. Other confectionery manufacturers have to pay the increased price which they must add to the price of their product. 
I do not know. Confectionery manufacturers also complain because the company will quote only for 90 days' forward delivery, whilst American firms will quote for delivery twelve months ahead. In these circumstances I ask the committee to consider whether we are doing right in placing the power in the hands of a wealthy corporation to charge higher prices to its competitors. 
It has power to charge what it likes within limits which are governed by overseas competition, and then recompense itself from the profits made by Maize Products Proprietary Limited. 
Because they are depending solely upon their confectionery businesses, whilst the firm of confectioners which I have mentioned, controls Maize Products Proprietary Limited, from which it may make profits. I stress the point that when the higher duty was sought the company had control of 92 per cent, of the Australian trade. Apparently it asked for a higher duty so that it could increase the price. 
I am not disputing the price; but saying that there is no necessity for a higher duty when it controls practically the whole of the trade. 
Why impose an extra duty? The company had the trade when it asked for an increased duty, and when it was granted increased the price, which, some ardent protectionists say, is never done under a protectionist policy. 
Exactly. In order to test the feeling of the Committee, I move - 
That the  House  of Representatives  Vie  requested to make the duties, British, 9s; intermediate. 123; general 12s. 
That would bring the intermediate and general rates back to those previously in operation, but would give Britain a preference of 3s. per cwt. 
I propose to provide for a preference to Great Britain of 3s. per cwt. by making the intermediate and general tariffs 12s. and the British preferential 9s. per cwt. Obviously the industry does not need protection. I know that Cadbury, Pry and Pascall object very strongly to the high rate which they consider gives a very unfair advantage to one of their competitors. 
I trust honorable senators will not support the request moved by  Senator Ogden.  The schedule provides for an additional duty of 3s. per cwt. under the intermediate and. general tariffs which  has  been imposed largely in the interests of Australian maize growers. I do not think maize is grown in Tasmania. 
Its production is undertaken on an extensive scale in the mainland States, and the growers are in serious competition with the maize produced in America, Java and other countries. This matter was exhaustively investigated by the Tariff Board before which evidence was given for and against the request for a higher duty. The Board  Said  that in order to compete with the low American price the Australian manufacturer was obliged in some cases to operate on a very narrow margin of profit, and that in one instance without any profit at all. .In its report the Board stated that " the Australian maize was costing the local manufacturer from 4s. 7-£d. per bushel - the present price is from 5s. 7d. to 5s. 9d. per bushel - as against the American price of 4s. ltd in July, 1925; 3s. 2d. in October, 1925, and 2s. lOd. per bushel in March, 1926." I trust that in the interests of those engaged in the production of. maize, which affords a precarious livelihood, the request will not receive the support of honorable senators. About 500,000 bushels of maize are used annually in Australia in the manufacture of glucose, and the additional duty cannot seriously affect the confectionery industry, which enjoys very high protection: Only a few fancy lines of confectionery are at present imported. That is why overseas firms combined and established a branch factory in Tasmania. 
a l while ago, and with a considerable amount of emphasis, stated that the existence of secondary industries in Australia conferred a distinct benefit on our primary producers. 
I think that even the Minister will admit that the previous duty on glucose should have been adequate. The report of the Tariff Board indicates that that body recommended the increased duty on the clear understanding that the manufacturers of glucose had to pay from 5s. 7d. to 5s. 9d. a bushel for maize, the raw product of the industry. The market price to-day is 3s. 9d. a bushel. If the Tariff Board, recommended an increase in the intermediate and general tariffs on glucose of 3s. a cwt., because the manufacturers had to pay for maize the prices which I have quoted, clearly it is the duty of the Government now to see that the manufacturers pay that price instead of 3s. 9d., so that the primary producers may reap some benefit from the protection. 
The Minister knows that twelve months ago the market conditions were abnormal. As a matter of fact, for a while the Maize Products Limited had to import a small quantity of maize. 
Very little glucose was imported.  Senator Ogden's  figures dealing with those imports were approximately correct. 
That is not a large quantity.  Mr. MacRobertson  manufactures as much as that in. a month. 
I have nothing to say against  Mr. MacRobertson.  I realize that he is entitled to all that he has achieved in this country.  His  success is largely due ' to his business ability and initiative, coupled with a generous assistance given him through the tariff. The point I wish to make is that if this is  a  scientific tariff - we who are objecting to this item say it is not - those who are benefiting from the protection should be prosecuted for taking money under false pretences, because the increased duties were recommended on the distinct understanding that they would pay a fair price for maize. Current market quotations show that they are riot doing so. I therefore intend to support  Senator Ogden's  request for a reduction in the duties. The item as it stands is distinctly unfair. It is little wonder that country people are rising in revolt against these everincreasing duties, from which they derive little or no benefit. Maize Products Ltd., knowing that the maize grower has no other .market, pays what it likes for the raw product.- I feel satisfied that if the grower complained that 3s. 9d.  a  bushel was not enough, he would be told that if he did not take care he would have to accept 2s. 9d. It would have been better if the Tariff Board had recommended that, as the market for maize fluctuates from time to time, the amount of protection given to the glucose industry should be on a sliding scale, rising or falling with the price paid for maize. It appears that immediately the increased duties were levied the manufacturers of glucose dropped the price for the raw material. 
.- It is very rarely that 1 fail to follow the logic of  Senator Carroll.  In the debate on this item I am totally at variance with the honorable senator. 
I am endeavouring to look at this item from the view point of the maize-growers. No primary producers in Australia have had a harder struggle than the maize-growers in my own State and elsewhere. 
I believe they will. If  Mr. MacRobertson's  factories had not been in existence the maize-growers would have had to be content with a much lower price than they are receiving to-day for their produce. 
 The price to-day would be down to 2s. 6d. a bushel but for the existence of MacRobertson's factories. 
The higher duties imposed on maize in the last tariff were intended to protect the maize-growers of Australia against cheap maize grown in South Africa by poorly paid coloured labour. Last year during the drought there was a heavy demand for maize, which naturally rose in price in sympathy with the law of supply and demand. The average price over a period of years works out at  about  4s. a bushel. The increased duties now imposed are designed to protect Australian manufacturers against American competition. When this matter came before the Tariff Board for hearing on the 16th December, 1925, in Melbourne, on the 15th February, 1926, in Sydney, on the 18th January, 1926, in Adelaide, and later the applicants, the Maize Products Proprietary Limited, asked for an increased duty of 6s. a cwt., and the board recommended an increased duty of . 3s., which is nowprovided in the item. It was stated in evidence before the board that whilst the Australian manufacturers' cost of production was £33 6s. 4d. a ton, American glucose was being sold on the Australian market at £33 ls. 4d. a ton, or 5s. a ton under the cost of production in Australia. The increase of 3s. a cwt. in the intermediate and general tariffs means that on the basis of ruling American prices in 1926 the American product would now sell in our market at £36 ls. 4d., which is a flat rate in all the States. This would give the Australian industry a protection of 55s. a ton, or 9 per cent, to provide for profits, freight and other distributing charges. The Tariff Board, on the evidence that the imported article was selling at £33 ls. 4d. a ton, recommended an increased duty of 3s. a cwt., which Maize Products Proprietary Limited described as inadequate. No man in Australia has built up a finer business than has  Mr. MacRobertson,  who, as honorable senators know, started in a humble way.  His  many factories now give employment to a large number of people under the best of Australian conditions and wages.  His  products have a world-wide reputation, and are to be found on sale in Loudon and many other cities of the world. The Maize Products Proprietary Limited disburses  in wages about £60,000 per annum. For the year which ended on the 30th June last, 1,270 tons of glucose were imported from the United States of America. No' harm will be done to any of our own people if we keep out that American glucose. Honorable senators have been very greatly impressed by the figures published recently, which showed the adverse balance of trade between the United States of America and Australia. Last year we imported from that country £41,000,000 worth of merchandise, but it took from us goods to the value of only £8,000,000. " Practically the only commodity which America purchases fr.om us is wool, and on that it levies a duty equal to  15½d.  a lb. of scoured wool. It is not proposed that the duty should be raised against other portions of the British Empire. We should do whatever we can to help the maize growers to obtain a fair return for their labour,_and at the same time to foster a secondary industry of the magnitude and efficiency of MacRobertson's. For that reason I shall support the proposed duties. 
 Senator Carroll  is opposed to the increased duty on the ground that it will be of no benefit to the maize growers of Australia. Adopting that line of reasoning, they would be just as well off if there were no duty. Why should they not get some material advantage from duties that are imposed, with the object of encouraging maize growing in Australia? Upon whose shoulders does the blame rest? 
The maizegrowers are entitled to the fullest consideration of both this Parliament and the people of Australia. It appears to me, however, that they are not looking after their own business. They should organize, and unitedly use their influence to ensure a fair return for their commodity. In the years, that have gone labour was regarded as a commodity, and some employers acted on the principle that the conditions of employment should be governed according to the law of supply and demand ; but when labour organized, a different tale was told. I do not know what is the number of maizegrowers in Australia, but surely they have sufficient strength to demand complete recognition even from a combine! 
According to an official return, the quantity of glucose utilized in the Commonwealth for the year ended the 30th June, 1927, was- 8,265 tons. The quantity produced in the Commonwealth was 6,993 tons, audi the importations from the United States; of America totalled 1,272 tons. Wehave a fair distance yet to travel beforewe shall overtake the Australian market.. I shall avail myself of every opportunity that offers to give those who are engaged in either primary or secondary industries the measure of protection that I 'consider is justified. If the maize-growers have an ' organization, they should make their voices' ring. I am satisfied that the' members of this committee, and of the Federal Parliament as a whole, will listen to their plea, and see that the combine does not secure all the advantages of increased duties, which are intended principally to encourage the primary producer. I shall not vote for the highest measure of protection to encourage monopolies that will not give a fair and square deal to those who are engaged in other spheres of activity. If the maize-growers are not being treated fairly by the combine, I shall 'protest on their behalf as vigorously as I cac, both in this chamber and elsewhere. 
That is an effective reply to  Senator Carroll.  It shows that they are minding their own business. Apparently they believe that the increased duty will be materially to their advantage. 
It appears to me that the main point in this argument is being lost sight of. According to  Senator .Carroll  and the report of the Tariff Board, these fortunate manufacturers of glucose were given an increased duty on the ground that they had to pay from 5s. 7£d. to 5s. 10½d.  a bushel for their raw material. Apparently, that is not the present, the normal, or the average price of the maize that is used in the making of glucose. Therefore, the duty was given under a misapprehension. There is a very great deal of merit in  Senator Findley's  suggestion that the maize-growers do not look after their interests sufficiently well, and that if they did they would insist upon what I may without offence call a fair division of the spoils. When the price of maize drops below 5s. 7£d., Maize Products Proprietary Limited gets the advantage of the duty, and is enabled to pay a dividend at a very high rate. That is not fair. 
I am informed that the rate is 14 per cent. 
Instead of paying the 5s. 7^d. or 5s. 10^d. which would entitle them to additional protection, they are paying only 3s. 9d. a bushel for the maize which they purchase. We are not in a position to argue this matter with any very great degree of certainty, because we have not in our possession accurate data respecting either the normal or the average price of the maize that is supplied to Maize Products Proprietary Limited. When we have that information, we shall know whether or not this is a just claim. As their claim to greater protection is based on a price which does not exist, and which very seldom exists, they have been treated rather too generously. 
That strengthens my argument that the price of the raw material, to meet which this duty was imposed, was very much exaggerated. I intend to support  Senator Ogden,  unless it can be shown that the maize-growers will benefit by an increase in the price that ia paid by these people. They are a large body of men, and undoubtedly have a fairly hard time. I wish to protect them. MacRobertson and Maize Products Proprietary Limited do not need any further protection. The former, partly through his own initiative, but very largely as a result of the extremely kind treatment that has been meted out to him by successive governments, has become a millionaire. I understand that he is able to treat his employees on a most magnificent scale; they are clothed in purple and fine linen, and fare sumptuously. That is somewhat of a contrast to the lot of the maize-growers, who supply the raw material at a lower price than that which entered into the calculations of the Government when this duty was imposed. 
I am glad that there is another honorable senator who congratulates and commends  Senator Findley  upon that attitude. I hope that if the maize-growers get together they will assist their cause as much as  Senator Findley's  friends have advanced theirs, so long as they do not hold up the industries of Australia in the way that his friends occasionally do. Seeing that this duty was granted because of conditions which do not normally exist, I cannot support it. 
I hope that honorable senators 'will not be influenced by the statement of  Senator Carroll  that maize to-day is quoted at 3s. 9d. a bushel. Any one who has a knowledge of the cost of producing maize knows very well that 3s. 9d. a bushel in Melbourne or Sydney is not a payable price to the grower. It, therefore, cannot be regarded as an average price. If it could be so regarded, then I say without hesitation that no one would be growing maize in Australia to-day. 
Maize could not be sold to-day at a profit to the grower under 6s. a bushel. Maize is a crop which is sown in the spring and matures quickly, but as it is not a grain which keeps well . it must be marketed quickly. Probably on account of the abundance of green feed there is not a great demand for maize at the present time. If it is sold to-day at 3s. 9d. per bushel, the price realized is less than the cost of production. 
Their consumption would be nothing like that proportion. In fixing a duty on a manufactured article we must consider what is likely to be the average price of the raw material. In the case of maize, 3s. 9d. per bushel certainly cannot be regarded as an average price. I hope that honorable senators will not be influenced by the fact that at present the maize market is in a depressed condition. 

 .- Senator Carroll has suggested that the manufacturers of products of which maize is the raw material are in a position to dictate prices to the maizegrowers. Unless he can produce evidence in support of that statement I propose to vote for the item. 
Only a small proportion of the maize crop is manufactured into glucose. It is, therefore, impossible for  Mr. MacRobertson  to control the price of maize. Seeing that the manufacturers of glucose do not control the maize market, it is idle to say that they are taking advantage of their position to starve the maize-growers. In supporting this duty we shall be assisting the maize-growers of Australia. 
We are bringing additional competitors into the market. That should tend to raise the price of maize. 
According to the statements of Queensland senators it would appear that in times of drought it is about 9s. a bushel. 
By encouraging competition, we shall assist the maizegrowers. If the whole of our glucose requirements were manufactured in Australia, there would be a greater market for maize, which would, therefore, realize better prices, but if a large proportion of our maize crops is exported lower prices must be accepted. 
.- The example before us is one which tends to bring the protectionist policy into disrepute.  Senator Reid  said that in this matter I represented a "lolly shop." I could retort equally offensively, but as that would be discourteous, I shall not do so. I wish to make it clear, however, that at no time haveI been approached by persons interested in this item. 
I take the stand that to increase the duty on glucose still further would be to place a dangerous power in the hands of a monopoly, enable ing that monopoly to squeeze out its competitors in the confectionery business and also to injure the producers of maize. In 1925 an increased duty of 6s. a cwt. was applied for, notwithstanding that at that time the glucose manufacturers of Australia supplied 92 per cent. of the home market. Seeing that they already had practically the whole field to themselves, there was no need for a further duty. 
They said that increased duties would enable them to capture the whole of the market. They professed that their object was not to increase the price of glucose) but immediately the duty was increased by 3s. a cwt., the price of glucose went up. The increase was passed on to the consumer. 
The price of maize rose from 4s. lid. to, 5s. 6d. per bushel, or 20 per cent. ' To counteract that increase an application for additional duties amounting to 55 per cent, was made. 
I do not know. One Tasmanian firm which purchases large quantities of glucose from Maize Products Proprietary Limited, also purchases glucose from America in order to have two sources of supply. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 


 Private business talcing precedence after 8 p.m., 

I move - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the rate  paid  to the Amalgamated Wireless Company for messages from Australia to England, in plain language and not marked "urgent," should not exceed a penny a word. 
Honorable senators may remember that just prior to the Christmas adjournment I submitted a proposal that the charge for sending wireless messages from Australia to Great Britain should not exceed one penny a word. During the recess I have had an opportunity to obtain further information on the subject, and I think I am now in a position to submit a proposal that is within the range of practical politics. My purpose is plainly indicated in the motion. I desire that messages couched in plain language be charged not more than one penny a word. If messages are marked " Urgent," or are sent in code - Governments and business firms may, for the sake of secrecy, if for no other reason, send wireless message in code- I think there ought to be an extra charge. I leave that matter, however, absolutely in the hands of the Government department concerned, or Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. I am solely concerned in presenting a case for a maximum charge of one penny a word for messages sent in plain language. I do not propose, at this stage at any rate, to interfere with the terminal charges over which Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. has no control. Later on, perhaps, if my motion -is agreed to and the Government is prepared to ask the wireless people to send plain messages to Great Britain at one penny a word, the terminal rates, which I confess are a puzzle to me, may be reviewed. In any case, the charge of one penny a word for messages would be imposed by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. The terminal charges are a separate matter altogether. 
During the recess I was fortunate enough to come across a pamphlet I have had in my possession for the last nineteen years. It is a verbatim report issued by the  Town and Country J  Journal  of a most interesting discussion that took place at the Colonial Institute in London on the 2nd April, 1909.  Sir Henniker  Heaton gave an address on Penny Telegrams and Cablegrams throughout the' Empire. The gathering was a distinguished one, representative of all parts of the Empire. Lord Jersey, who had been Governor of New South Wales, presided. Among those present was  Mr. Neilson,  the representative of the Eastern Extension Cable Company, who, needless to say, did not agree with the arguments advanced by  Sir Henniker-  Heaton, and pointed out that to bring down the charge for cablegrams throughout the Empire to one penny, a word would necessitate the installation of so many cables to make the scheme a paying  proposition, that there would not be enough gutta percha  in the world to provide them. Whether he was correct or not in that statement I do not know,- but it is an indication of the tremendous advances science has made in the last twenty years, when wc find now that it is not necessary to have a single ounce of gutta  percha  to send all the messages that would be required to make a service between England and Australia pay at a penny a word. That meeting in London, with one accord, agreed to the suggestion " that very free, cheap, swift and accurate communication was essential, not only in the interests of trade, but also for the continued consolidation of the Empire." 
I am well aware that some honorable senators are greatly influenced by the opinions of business men, and that they regard any one who is not a business man as a visionary or dreamer. It is, therefore, necessary to support one's statements by the views of business men. One of the ablest and most distinguished business men Great Britain has produced in recent years is Lord Leverhulme. He was not present at the gathering in London, but in a letter which he sent  Sir Henniker  Heaton, Lord Leverhulme, then  Mr. W.  Lever, said - 
On universal penny a word telegrams I am in hearty accord with you, and wish you every success. 
And then he went on to say, what to my mind was rather important - 
I fail to see why you should advocate the purchase of existing cables and telegraph lines. Every year cables can be laid and made to work cheaply. Why should a mass of practically obsolete cables, with all the difficulties of dealing with the 10 per cent, dividend be purchased, when 'the Government could lay their lines and leave the existing private enterprise to compete with them? 
That statement was rather good, coming as it did from one of the most prominent and successful business men the British Empire has produced in modern times. Another letter, which was read at the meeting, came from Lord Curzon, who later became one of our great pro-consuls, and was Viceroy of India. He wrote - 
Cheap telegrams will be found to bc the most economical and also the most enduring of the bonds of Empire. 
That is a statement to which I can subscribe fully. The last great war taught us many tragic lessons, but no greater lesson than the urgent need of consolidating this great Empire of ours. I think that all honorable senators will agree that very cheap, accurate, and swift communication between Australia and the Motherland is desirable; but the question is whether it is  financially  practicable. 
Surrounded as I am by business men, I must not be too visionary. In this connexion I must cover again some of the ground I traversed in the speech I made in the Senate just prior to the adjournment. The figures I shall quote will be based on the supposition that the Beam wireless system will work eighteen hours a day, thus allowing six hours a day for fading. By the way, I think we have a right to be told by the directors of the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited how the Beam system is work.ing. The people of the Commonwealth own the majority of the shares in the company. Senators, therefore, are just as entitled to the fullest information in regard to the failures and triumphs of the Beam wireless system, as they are to a knowledge of what is happening to the telegraph system controlled by ' the Postmaster-General. 
I have never associated myself in thought or in word with any criticism that affects the manager of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. If  Mr. Fisk  has any fault at all it is that he is too mindful of the interests of his company and business men, of course, would not object to him on that score. If the charge for Beam wireless messages were fixed at one penny a word, does any one doubt that messages representing 50,000,000 words a year would be received for transmission? That traffic would return £204,000 a year. According to the Postmaster-General, £120,000 his been spent on a Beam wireless plant that is capable of sending 86,000,000 words a year to Great Britain. The expenses incidental to the Beam service amount to £80,000 a year, or £1,500 a week. Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, controls other things beside the Beam service, but to-night I am not concerned with them. If the company cannot make ends meet by charging a penny a word for plain messages from. Australia to Great Britain, we have a right to learn from its directors why it cannot do so. Let us contrast what is done in 
Australia on' our land lines. Messages are sent'  over our  land lines at one penny a  word,  but a large portion of the work is done for about three farthings a word. A great number of the telegraphic messages despatched cost a trifle over one halfpenny a word, whilst the department despatches no less than 15,600,000 words free of cost. We are losing on our telegraph service about £300,000 a . year, but if £65,000 - representing Id. a word - were credited to the work which is now done free of cost the loss would be reduced to £235,000. If the department charged, a flat rate of one penny a word the deficiency would be wiped out, provided, of course, the same volume of business was offering. It also costs £300,000 a year to deliver telegrams. This has to be paid for out of the rates received for the despatch of messages. I am not suggesting that the Amalgamated Wireless should, from the rates now charged, meet the cost of delivering the messages it receives. 
If it does it is very unfair when it has to' pay terminal charges. It is an easy matter for the company to deliver messages in the capital cities, but additional expense would be incurred in delivering a message at, say, Bathurst. As the company is paying terminal charges it should have its messages delivered. It costs the Telegraph Department over £300,000 a year to deliver messages, and if it were relieved of this liability our telegraph service, even 'at the present rates of Id., fd., and -£d. a word would be able to pay its way. It costs £65 a mile for supplying and erecting telegraph poles, and if the cost of wiring is added the cost is equivalent to £70 a mile. 
Yes, that' is the average cost per mile. Last year £236,000 was paid for renewing telegraphpoles which had become damaged by age, white ants, storms, or other causes. No such costs are incurred in connexion with an aerial service between Australia and Great Britain dr elsewhere. 
I think that it covers only construction. The aerial roadway is the free air we breathe, and Providence expects of us that we shall use it only in the interests of mankind. The improved telephone services and postal facilities are seriously cutting into the revenue ' of the Telegraph ' Department. In order to assist primary producers, the Government is erecting telephone lines throughout country districts to a greater extent than ever, and I think it was during the Hughes administration that a loan of £8,000,000 was raised to extend our telephonic, and other services of the Postal Department, more particularly in country districts. Every telephone service provided in the country affects the revenue of the Telegraph Department. In the service between Australia and Great Britain the submarine cable companies are the only competitors of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. It costs approximately £300 a mile to lay a submarine cable, and consequently if a rate of Id. a word were charged for wireless messages between Australia and Great Britain the cable companies could not show a profit. If cheap communication will be the means of bringing the people of the Empire together, creating greater cordiality and extending business, it should be provided. It is infinitely preferable that such a service should be provided at cost price rather than that the company should be paying a dividend of, say, 10 per cent. Perhaps I may be pardoned for referring to a personal incident of which I was reminded to-day when I met  Sir William  Mcpherson. While I was Postmaster-General a deputation, consisting of  Sir William  McPherson,  Mr. Henry  Berry, and other prominent business men of Melbourne, waited upon me, when the toll telephonic system was being introduced, and suggested that the department should not expect to make a profit from the service which they said was a public utility. They were of the opinion that it should be made to pay its way ; but should not be expected to show a profit. I told the deputation that I did not believe in the service being made a tax collecting machine. I am still of that opinion, and I think I am right in saying that we should not look for a profit on beam wireless. Under the present agreement with Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and the Commonwealth the company holds 499,999 shares, and the Government, as the representative of the people, 500,001 shares. I think it is unreasonable that practically onehalf of the shares in the company controlling the Beam service should be in the hands of private enterprise.  Senator J.  D. Millen and the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  are two of the Commonwealth's representatives on the board. If the Senate were asked to-day to select a representative on the directorate of that company, I should unhesitatingly support  Senator Millen,  who is not only a distinguished member of this chamber, but also possesses externsive scientific knowledge which fully qualifies him for such a position. If I were a member of another place I should undoubtedly support the appointment of  Mr. Hughes,  to whom we really owe the existence of the Beam service. But why are  Senator Millen  and the right honorable member for North Sydney on the directorate of the company? Are they there to watch the financial aspect of the company's operations? They were not appointed for that purpose. I contend that the other directors can do that better than they can, because they have long been closely associated with business, and in looking after the interests of their section of the shareholders would be safeguarding ours. 
Yes, that is what I am leading up to. Our representatives on the directorate are there to safeguard the interests of the Australian public. What are their interests? Are they anxious that the company should pay a dividend or provide a service at the lowest possible cost? I think it is their duty to see that a service is provided at a low price. I have no hesitation in saying that, sooner or later, the Beam wireless service must be taken over by the Government. I read recently, with very much interest in a book written by  Mr. J.  A. Spender, who, as honorable senators are aware, was for many years editor-in-chief of the  Westminster Gazette,  the statement that for over a year he wrote a weekly letter on European politics which was published in the  New York Tribune,  and that although he wrote these letters in a Kentish village they appeared without fail in the  New York Tribune  on the following day. This means, of course, that they were sent to America by cable or by wireless. I could not help thinking what an advantage it would be to us as an Empire, if, when important questions affecting Great Britain and Australia were under consideration, a leading article published in Australia appeared next day in the  Manchester Guardian,  or a contribution from some responsible authority in Great Britain was published the same day in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  A leading article of about 1,200 words would, at a penny a word, cost only about £5. The Government has at present a wonderful opportunity to render a valuable service to the community in this way. 
As honorable senators are aware, I have taken a great interest in the development of wireless for some time, and everything appearing in our newspapers concerning wireless and cable communications is of interest to me. At present a controversy is proceeding in Great Britain between the wireless companies and the cable companies who are considering amalgamation, not for the benefit of the Empire, or in the interests of the people, but so that they may be able to make increased dividends for themselves. Wireless is the most wonderful discovery of the age, and I object to it being made the battledore and shuttlecock of the stock exchanges, or being used. merely for the benefit of the wealthier sections of the community. I wish to see it used in the interests of the people generally. 
I stand by what the late Lord Leverhulme said on this subject. If we had a Id. a word wireless system in operation .we should not now have this controversy between the wireless and cable companies in Great Britain. "We should be in the full enjoyment of one of the greatest gifts that scientists have given to the world. I quoted just now, though briefly, the views of the late Viscount Curzon. He declared - 
I should like to see a low rate everywhere, but first I should like to see it between all parts of the British Empire. Let us talk first  - as all families begin by doing - to our own children. 
The late Lord Tennyson, a former GovernorGeneral of Australia, stated - 
A universal Id. a word telegram between all parts of the Empire would be an unspeakable boon. Work for that. 
I claim that wireless messages at Id. a word would do a great deal to help the migration activities of the Commonwealth. The Nationalist party, I believe, endorses this view. As a party, we stand for a policy of migration. The Government appointed a costly commission to inquire into the subject, and make recommendations for the furtherance of its policy. Being interested in migration, I wrote to a number of prominent citizens of the Commonwealth and I propose to quote briefly from the replies which I have received. I regret that I have mislaid a letter from Canon Garland, who, as honorable senators probably are aware, is the migration representative of the Church of England in Queensland. In his letter to me, he declared that at least 1,000 people had come to Australia as the result of his personal activities, and that, therefore, he was entitled to speak of the influence of cheap wireless communication on migration. He stated that nothing was more calculated to ensure the success of migration than cheap communication between Australia and the Motherland.  The best migrant is the person nominated, but, at present, owing to the long delay involved in correspondence, it is difficult to interchange views on this important subject between Australia and the Motherland. I wrote, also, to the Rev. W. H. Jones, who occupies in the Methodist Church of Australia much the same position as Canon Garland holds in the Church of England. ,  Mr. Jones,  who has had considerable experience during the last two or three years with migrants, is in favour of cheap wireless communication between Australia and Great Britain. He states - 
It seems to me that by cheapening the means of communication we are helping to make such people more contented settlers, and also helping them to feel that, whilst they are separated by many miles, actually they are not so far away because of being able to send and receive messages quickly and cheaply. 

 Sir Robert Anderson, the  president  of the New South Wales division of the New Settlers League of Australia, writes as follows : - 
I wish you all good luck in your fight for wireless messages at Id. per word. It looks as though the claims made by the wireless experts are sound, that these cheap messages at week-ends or other slack times Wil be possible at that price. I have been  president  of the Kew South Wales New Settlers' League for nearly three years, and I have seen that the enormous bar to immigration from Britain is isolation that strangers suffer by being cut off from their friends excepting by postal communication, which takes six weeks and lacks any crispness of touch. The present week-end messages, costing 6d. per word by cable or 5d. per word by beam with a minimum of 20 words puts anything like regular communication beyond reach of 90 per cent, of our immigrants. The chance of sending 24 words for 2s., or. better, 12 words for ls., would make an enormous difference; and you can picture the profound relief and satisfaction strangers here would feel with a message 48 hours old reaching them of the well-being and happiness of their loved ones; or, conversely, the thankfulness of the mother in England at having prompt and regular word that " John " was happy and succeeding, 12,000 miles away. 
Some time ago I learned that  Sir Benjamin  Fuller, another keen business man of Sydney- I like to quote the views of business men on this subject - had at a welcome to  Mr. Bankes  Amery, the British representative of migration in Australia, declared that Id. a word wireless messages would greatly assist the migration activities of the Government. I called on  Sir Benjamin  subsequently, and questioned him further on the subject. He assured me that he was strongly in favour of the proposal, and hoped that the Government would adopt it. He added that by means of a code, his business messages to Great Britain did not cost him more than about Id. a word, whereas the poor migrant, under the present system, has to pay an excessive rate. 
I admit that if my proposal is adopted, the interests of the existing cable companies will be affected. However, I am not anxious to protect the interests of the Eastern Extension Telegraph Company. Can honorable senators say that that concern has ever been the friend of the British Empire? Are they aware that at one time the company demanded a subsidy of £30,000 a year to establish communication between Australia and the Mother country? Are they aware also that Tasmania had to pay a subsidy of £4,000 a year for the privilege of cable communication between Melbourne and Launceston, and, in addition, had to guarantee a certain volume of business per annum ? When the Pacific Cable Company was established many years ago the Eastern Extension Company made an arrangement with the leading newspapers of Australia under which all press messages had to be transmitted over the Eastern Extension lines. I have always had a friendly feeling for the Pacific Cable Company. Possibly this is because the Government is, to some extent, financially interested in it. The first deputation which I, as a young member of Parliament representing Broken Hill, introduced to  Mr. Crick,  the then PostmasterGeneral of New. South Wales, made a request that a certain concession which was then asked for by the Eastern Extension Telegraph Company, should not be granted if it would place the Pacific Cable Company at a disadvantage. Many years ago, in the House of Representatives - before I was elevated to the Senate - I submitted a motion affirming that the land-line between Vancouver and the Atlantic sea board, which was then in the hands of private enterprise, should be taken over in the interests of the Pacific Cable Company. I urged also that  an Atlantic cable should be purchased so that the messages transmitted over the Pacific Cable Company's line should be completely under British control between Australia and London. That course has since been adopted, though I do not claim that it- was the result of my advocacy of it  many years ago. I cite the incident merely to show that I have always been a friend of the Pacific Cable Company. But even that concern must not stand in the way of progress. I remember when  Mr., afterwards Sir- George,  Reid, brought forward a proposal for the electrification of the Sydney tramway system,  Sir John  See, who strongly opposed the motion, urged that the electrification of the transport system of Sydney would mean the passing of the omnibuses, which were then in use. He argued also that if omnibuses were displaced by electric trams, the primary producers in north-coast districts would lose their market for maize and other products. Recently  Mr. Crawford  Vaughan, a former Premier of South Australia, informed me that when the late  Mr. Price  submitted the scheme for the electrification of the Adelaide tramway system, it was opposed in certain quarters on the ground that if the horse-drawn buses were taken off the streets, the orchardists in the hills district would be short of manure for their gardens!  Our telephone system, as I said a little while ago. is now entering very seriously into competition with the telegraph department. If the telephone gives an improved service to our people, obviously the telegraphic service will have to be scrapped. I know that some people say it is necessary to retain the cable service for purposes of defence. That is a matter of policy. What I want to know, however, is whether Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited can send messages at Id. a word and make ends meet. If it cannot I wish to know the reason. I am not asking that the wireless service be subsidized, although I do not overlook the fact that a subsidy is paid for the oversea carriage of mails, and the provision of refrigerated space, notwithstanding that the space provided by shipping lines that are not subsidized is five times as great a3 that which is subsidized. 
If the Government is willing to pay a subsidy it should be given to the wireless service to enable messages to be sent at the rate of Id. a word. There is as much justification for that as there is for subsidizing the carriage of mails and the provision of refrigerated space. A bounty amounting to £450,000 a year is given to the wine industry in order that the Englishman at Home may purchase his wine at a cheaper price. 
I notice that some persons who are interested in the production of peppermint oil have induced the Tariff Board to recommend that they be granted a subsidy. I do not know whether the Government will grant it ; presumably it will. If that can rightfully be claimed, we have a perfect right to ask for a subsidy for something which will bring us more closely in touch with people who speak our language and whose history and destiny do not differ from ours. 
When I last brought this matter before the Senate the Minister was good enough to reply to my representations. He had then been informed of a discovery by the use of which a letter written in Australia could be photographed to England. He said that that would result in a greater volume of business being done, with a consequent lowering of charges. A little while ago I spent a week at Wentworth Falls. I stayed at a house in which was a youth, fourteen years of age, with a broken leg. In conversation with him I ascertained that he had read some remarks of mine on wireless that had been published in the  National Review.  He informed me that there were some, points which he- understood, and others which he did not. I asked him, " What do you understand '' ? He replied, "I understand that if I can sell chocolate bars at Id., when others are charging 6d., I will get all the business. I also understand that if I can get a good A.J.S. motor cycle to-day, there is no -necessity for me to wait five years for a new make of machine." The Minister on the previous occasion to which I have referred, said that an increase in the volume of business done would lead to a reduction of the charges. Has he ever heard of 
Henry Ford? That gentleman has exceptional business capacity, and his guiding principle is that if you place an article within the reach of those who want it, you will secure their business. 
Any one who can start without capital and make £20,000,000 is a fairly good business man; quite .equal, even, to some of the business men who sit in this chamber ! I wish to know whether the Government intends to reduce charges. Democracy, does not become very enthusiastic over a government which merely appoints royal commissions, and calls together conferences of different interests, however necessary those may be. The people fall behind a a government which does things on a big scale, and makes the waters roar. 
This Government has the opportunity, by cheapening wireless communication, to annihilate the distance between Australia and the, centre of the Empire, thus conferring an inestimable boon on the people. The Fisher Government lost £400,000 a year by the introduction of penny . postage. 
 Senator Pearce  might tell me whether the present National Government wishes to be less imperialistic than a former Labour government? Eighteen or nineteen years ago the leading men of the day were asking for this concession. It is now possible to grant it. Are the Government prepared to turn the dreams of to-day into the splendid realities of to-morrow? If so, they will support my motion. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLachlan)  adjourned. 
.- The main argument of those who oppose my amendment is that the maize-growers are likely to suffer injury if glucose is allowed to be imported, and the Australian company is not able to obtain control of the local market. Maize Products Proprietary 
Limited has not been altogether a failure; it has paid high dividends, and, in addition has acquired in Queensland maize plantations which it hopes will enable it to manipulate the market in such a way that the "unfortunate farmer will not be able to get a high price for his product. 
That is not the opinion of the maize-growers in Queensland. 
When the Senate adjourned for dinner I was pointing out that an increased duty was sought because the price of maize had risen from 4s. Hd. to 5s. lOd. a bushel, equal to 20 per cent. Yet, before the Tariff Board, an increase in duty amounting to 50 per cent. - 6s. a cwt. - was asked for. Fortunately for the people of Australia that request was not granted, but an additional 3s. per cwt., equal to 27 per cent., was recommended. The direct result to the people of Australia was that they had to pay a higher price to the full extent of the duty, despite the statement made before the Tariff Board that the main object was to prevent importation. 
There is no evidence that the price has been increased lately. 
Believing that by supporting our secondary industries we should, assist our primary industries, I originally introduced a tariff providing for a duty on glucose. The whole of the arguments in this debate have been based on the assumption that glucose is the only product of maize. But besides glucose, corn flour, starch and oil are obtained from maize. In this item we are dealing only with glucose.  Senator Ogden  said , that although the price of maize had increased by only 20 per cent, the manufacturers of glucose applied for a 55 per cent, increase in the duty. I remind the honorable senator that the quantity of glucose obtained from maize is, if my memory serves me rightly only about. 13 per cent, of the raw material. A 20 per cent, increase in the duty on glucose 'would not cover a 20 per cent, increase in the price of maize. 
I have grown maize, and know something about the subject. 
So have I. 
I have not denied that. 
That includes the drought year. 
It was not my intention to say any more on this subject, but I have been accused of making statements which I did not make. I did not say that this industry should not be protected; that the industry was on the same footing in Australia, as it is in the United States of America, or that by encouraging secondary industries we were destroying our primary industries. But I do claim that the Australian manufacturers have not fulfilled the moral contract into which they entered when they received additional protection some time ago, because so soon as the duty was increased, the price of maize dropped 2s. a bushel. 
I give the Government credit for desiring to assist the primary producers, but increasing the duties on manufactured products will not achieve that end. It should not- be difficult in this case to fix a duty which would vary according to the fluctuations in the price of the raw material. The Government is doing that now in connexion with the wine bounty. Wineries may purchase grapes from small growers, but they can get a bounty on the wine produced from those grapes only on the condition that they have paid a specific price to the growers of the grapes. If they do not give that price, and it can be proved that they do not, they do not get the benefit of the bounty. 
 If it is possible to apply it to stone fruits and wine, it ought also to be possible to apply it to maize. 
There is no essential difference between a protective duty and a bounty. Both are assistance given out of the public purse. If it is the intention of the Government to assist the maize-growers by means of this duty, it is its duty to carry the proposal to its logical conclusion byseeing that the maize-growers are assisted. In their evidence before the Tariff Board the manufacturers of glucose declared that they could not carry on with the existing protection, because they were paying 5s. 7d. and 5s. 9d. for their maize, and, now that they are paying so much less for their maize, it is perfectly logical to say that they ought to be able to carry on with the lower duty.  Senator Greene  put up a case, fathered it on me, and then proceeded very ably to demolish it. I admit that had I put up such a case I should have been well and truly scotched; but I did nothing of the kind. 
 I should never be foolish enough to deny the possibility of such a thing. But my contention is that the effort of the Government to assist the maize-growers by means of this increased duty on glucose, is being defeated by the manufacturers, now that they have got all that they sought. 
I should like to know what benefit is likely to accrue to the dairymen of Great Britain from the preference we propose to give them on butter. The Government has included butter in a list of items on which increased preference has been extended to the United Kingdom, and it must be very gratifying to the dairy farmers of Great Britain to learn that we are giving them a preference of1d. a lb. on butter, although we are increasing the duty from 3d. to 7d. a lb. I think we ought to know from the Minister how much butter we are importing from Great Britain, and what need there is for us to fear competition from that country. If we are giving the butter producers of Great Britain a preference, where is the need for increasing the duty against them to the extent of 3d. a lb. ? I have yet to learn that the dairymen of Great Britain are in the habit of exporting butter to Australia. I was always under the impression that Australian dairymen were seeking a market in Great Britain for their butter. There must be some justification for the action of the Government in increasing the duty against the British Empire. I can understand New Zealand, as part of the Empire, being desirous of sending to Australia, butter which might seriously compete with the produce of Australian dairymen, but I have yet to learn that the dairymen of Great Britain are anxious to export butter to Australia. 
In every item throughout the schedule a rate of duty has to be inserted in the British column. One of the reasons for fixing the duty on butter at 6d. British, is that it forms a basis for negotiating reciprocal agreements with other dominions. For instance, 6d. is the rate which would probably apply to New Zealand butter. It is not expected that there will be any material imports of butter from Great Britain, but at times butter in British ships' stores has to be charged duty, and the rate will now be 6d. a lb. 
I agree that 3d. a lb. is a substantial increase in the duty on butter, and I have my doubts whether the people who are supposed to benefit from this extra protection will reap any  advantage from it. I am under the impression that a bounty would be of far greater assistance to the dairy farmers than the duty now imposed, and that while the dairymen will not benefit by the increased duty, the consumer will pay more for his butter. Good butter is essential in every home. From what I have gathered by a study of the Government s proposals I believe that, instead of protecting the dairy-farmer, the increased duty will benefit the speculator. The higher duty may also increase the difference in the price between New Zealand and Australian butter by 8d. a lb. In 1925-26 60,000 boxes of New Zealand butter were imported into Australia, and during the same period 93,000 boxes of Australian butter were shipped overseas, where it was sold at 6d. per lb. less than Australian consumers were paying for New Zealand butter. This is a phase of the question which the committee ought to take into consideration, particularly when we are asked to support an increase of 50 per cent, in the duty upon a commodity which is a necessity in every home. The duty will not assist the dairy-farmer, who receives only the overseas parity for his product, and who in exporting butter does not benefit as he should, owing to the importations from New Zealand. Butter from that dominion can be brought in to fix a standard for the butter held in the cool stores in Australia. I am also informed that the Dairy Export Control Board, which was the largest importer of New Zealand butter, was also the largest exporter of Australian butter. When the late Honorable Frank Tudor was Minister for Trade and Customs in the Fisher Ministry, he refused to lift the embargo upon the export of butter until the local requirements had been met at a reasonable price. If the increased duty is imposed the butter dealers will place a certain quantity in cool storage when supplies are plentiful, perhaps to the extent of 300,000 boxes, in preparation for a winter shortage. That quantity could be obtained at 172s. a cwt., and on the approach of winter' arrangements could be made for a judicious clearance. This opens the way for market rigging. New Zealand butter is imported and a standard price fixed on its landed cost, which benefits the speculator. If the Government's proposals are adopted I cannot see how the  butter producer will benefit. I have every desire to assist the dairy-farmer; but, as I said during the second-reading debate, I do not want that assistance to be given at the expense of the consumer. In this instance I can see the possibility of butter consumers being exploited in the interests of the speculators. Those who have had a considerable experience in the butter trade are of the same opinion. 
There are, perhaps, more persons engaged in the butter-producing industry than in any other rural occupation in Australia. Its ramifications were thoroughly investigated by the Tariff Board, and I presume that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and other honorable senators are familiar with the conclusions at which it arrived, and the recommendations which it made. At present we are producing butter in Australia far in excess of our requirements, and consequently 40 per cent, of our total production has to be exported. Some of the conditions under which butter is produced in Australia are set out on page 8 of the Tariff Board's report, to which I invite the close attention of the committee. The whole of the evidence submitted to the board showed the dairying industry to be in a stagnant and unpayable condition, and witness after witness, without exception, described the lot of the dairy-farmer as a constant struggle to make ends meet. The report goes on to show that it is possible to make the industry a payable one only by utilizing the labour of the dairyman's family, and by the dairyman himself working unduly long hours. Even under the best conditions the dairy farmer can hardly pay his way. The industry, the board states, does not give anything like a fair and adequate return to the butter producer. With a view to improving the dairying industry those engaged in it adopted what is known as the "Paterson scheme," under which a levy of  lid.  per lb. is collected on all butter sold_ in Australia, and a bounty of 3d. a  lb.  is paid on all butter exported. This scheme has been of material advantage to the industry, and has placed the dairy farmers in a better position than they ever previously occupied. The Leader of the Opposition seems to be under the impression that only a small quantity of New Zealand butter is imported from New Zealand, whereas the quantity received during 1926-27 totalled over 7,000,000 lb., valued at £526,000. For every pound of New Zealand butter imported and consumed in Australia an additional pound of Australian butter had to be exported, and 3d. on each pound taken out of the butter pool. Any one can see that if such a state of affairs continued for any time it would have the effect of completely destroying the Paterson scheme, which would be detrimental not only to those engaged in the dairying industry, but would have a most disastrous effect upon Australian prosperity. In the circumstances I am sure honorable senators will admit that the Tariff Board has made out an unanswerable -case in support of a substantial increase in the duty. 
Yes. I do not think it is the intention to advance the price of butter in Australia ; but the butter producers are anxious that the pooling system shall be continued. It is necessary that the butter market shall be protected from the competition of another country which has a greater surplus than we have, and in which a similar pool is not in operation. A levy is not imposed on New Zealand butter, and it is therefore possible for New Zealand producers to undersell the Australian producers.  It pays them better to export to Australia rather than to the overseas markets. I think the Leader of the Opposition will admit that the payment of a bounty on butter exports would involve the expenditure of a large sum of money, and as the producers have a scheme which they are conducting very effectively, 1 cannot see that there is any justification for the Government assuming control over a business with which the dairymen are immediately concerned, and are quite capable of managing. 
It is admitted by everyone with a knowledge of the dairying industry of Australia that if there is any worker in Australia who deserves the fullest consideration it is the dairyman. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  is concerned about the price Australian consumers have to pay for their butter; but the inevitable effect of higher duties on foodstuffs is to increase the price. Unless the dairymen get the increased price they will continue to be the slaves of the community. Does  Senator Needham  expect the dairymen of Australia, with their wives and families, to work for less than a living wage? 
The honorable senator is clear on that point at all events. He is not prepared to allow the dairymen of Australia to work for less than a living wage. I can assure him that if Parliament grant this proposal the dairymen will even then not be earning a living wage. I know, because I have had experience in the industry.  Senator Needham  is also concerned about the possibility of the speculators reaping the benefit intended to be given to the dairymen. If I had the slightest doubt on the matter, that is to say, if I thought the speculators would reap any benefit from the item, and that the dairymen  would not, I should not vote for it. I know, however, that the dairymen will get the full benefit of the Government's proposal. For reasons which I think must appeal to  Senator Needham,  the dairymen of the Commonwealth have, in recent years, followed the lead given by trade unionists. They have come together in what must be regarded as the closest combination that it is possible to imagine. I can remember very well how they fared about 30 years- ago when there was no cohesion on their part. In those days the butter industry was entirely in the hands of speculators. I delivered milk to a butter factory at Kyneton for the magnificent payment of If d. a gallon. All that has been altered in recent years. The dairymen, as I have said, are now in the closest combination,  and the industry is entirely controlled by co-operative societies. I do not suggest, of course, that there is no proprietary interest now in the industry. There is, but its influence is so slight that the proprietary companies have to do what the co-operative societies tell them to do. The cooperative companies are of two classes. One controls the manufacturing side of the industry, and the other the distributing side; but the shares in the distributing companies are, in almost every instance, held by the manufacturing companies, which, therefore, control the policy of the distributing concerns. Every increase in the price of butter is reflected in the monthly cheques received by the dairy-farmers. It is impossible for the few proprietary companies that are still in competition with the co-operative societies to do other than follow the lead set by the latter. If they attempted to do otherwise they would soon lose their entire business. There is no doubt that the consumer will pay more for the dairyfarmer's products, but there is no doubt also that the dairy-farmer willstill be receiving less than a living wage, though thanks to the influence of the co-operative societies, he will get the full benefit of every increase in the market price.  Senator Needham  also expressed grave fears oh the subject of butter ' storage. That is always a difficult problem for the reason that the butter producing areas of Australia stretch from away north of Cairns, in Queensland, to Adelaide, in South Australia. 
I was about to say that from Adelaide there is a gap across the Great  Australan  Bight, until we reach the south-western district of Western Australia, where butter production is now carried on. Practically the whole of those coastal districts of the Commonwealth are engaged in the dairying industry. Reference is .made .frequently to the immense value of the wheat and wool industry to Australia. While I say nothing in derogation of those important industries, I think I am right in stating that few people realize the extent of the dairying industry in the Commonwealth. It does not contribute to our export figures as much as either of the other two industries I have mentioned, but .the total value of dairy products in Australia amounts to well over £40,000,000 a year. Because the industry is spread over such a large area and because also of the variation in seasons in the different States, it is extremely difficult for those who are controlling it to determine, as they must do months- in advance, how much butter to put into cold storage. It is absolutely necessary, in order to meet the winter trade of Australia, to make adequate provision for cold storage; but owing to the circumstances I have mentioned, it is. difficult to say how much should be put into storage. As honorable senators know, storage costs money. The co-operative societies have to pay their share-holding farmers every month for the butter they produce and in addition have to meet interest and cold storage charges as well as face the risks' of deterioration. Then if, as sometimes happens, there is a mild winter in Queensland and New South Wales, or an early season in Victoria, or both, calculations as to the amount that should be stored may be upset to the extent of thousands of cases. However, I can say from my knowledge of the industry that those who are controlling it have for a long time past recognized their  obligations to the people and accordingly they make full provision for winter storage so as to avoid any undue increase in price during the winter months. In this way the co-operative societies have served Australia well. There is a temptation, of c urse, not to put any butter into cold store at all and to allow the winter supply to take care of itself. If that policy were adopted, winter prices for butter would soar sky high. I know personally the people who have been controlling the industry in Australia for a number of years. I have met them on many occasions in conference and I know that they realize to the full their obligations to the consumers of Australia. If honorable senators have followed the market quotations for butter over a number of years they will have noticed that prices are steady within certain limits, and that the winter quotations advance only sufficiently to cover the actual costs of storage. I hope that I have removed from  Senator Needham's  mind any misgivings he may have had as to the possibility of the speculator coming into the picture. I can assure him that there is no danger of that. As the industry is entirely in the hands of the co-operative organizations, every penny that it is possible to get out of it by cold storage or otherwise, goes directly into the pockets of the primary producers. 
I listened with interest to  Senator Greene  who, I know, has had considerable experience in the industry. Nevertheless instead of convincing me, the honorable senator has merely confirmed me in the view that the duties will operate to the disadvantage of dairy farmers and the consumers. I have had a conversation with a gentleman who has had as much experience in the industry as has  Senator Greene,  and whose views are entitled to every respect.  His  opinion is entirely at variance with that of my honorable friend.  Senator Greene  has confirmed me in the view that under this item the consumer will have to pay more  for  his butter. The Minister has admitted that the Paterson scheme will continue to operate alongside the increased duties. 
So I am.  Senator Greene  asked me just now if I wished to see the dairy farmers of Australia working for less than a living wage, and I assured him that I did not. 
I take the view that every person, whether he be an employer or an employee, is entitled to the full reward of his labour. If the lot of the dairy farmer is as bad as has been painted by  Senator Greene,  a bounty of 1d. or l½d. per lb. would be of more assistance to them than the proposed duties which  Ave  are now asked to impose. 
The public of Australia, of course. Already we are assisting many other industries by means of the bounty system. If the position of the dairying industry is as bad as has been stated during this debate, it is the duty of the Government to come to the rescue of the dairy farmers. 
Other industries are being assisted by the bounty system, and I see no reason why the same benefits should not be extended to the dairying industry. There is another factor which may have assisted to bring about the present condition of the dairying industry. I refer to the high prices which dairy farmers in Victoria have had to pay for their land. I still hold the view that if this duty is imposed, the speculator, and not the dairy farmer, will benefit, and the consumers will have to pay an exorbitant price for their butter. 
This duty is proposed by the Government in the hope that the producers of butter will obtain a fair price for. that commodity.  Senator Needham  has frankly stated that he is afraid the consumers will have to pay a higher price. The protection of many city industries has, resulted in an increased price being charged for their products.  Senator !Needham,  therefore, is not consistent when he adopts a different attitude in regard to country industries. He has expressed a desire to assist the primary producer, and has said he does not want him to work for less than a living wage. The butter industry has been made one of the most important in Australia. The exports of butter in 1921-22 were valued at £7,968,078, and in 1925-26 at £7,006,830. The estimated production for 1926-27 was 250,000,000 lbs. The number of persons engaged in ' the dairying industry in Australia is 143,785, comprising 89,760 males and 54,025 females. 
It is an industry which we must consider. Unfortunately, because of the high cost of production, producers have had to work for far less than a living wage. But for the employment of their wives and families, many dairy farmers would not have been able to carry on. They have also been compelled to work long hours. Evidence was given before the Tariff Board of the returns from a number of average farms. The figures in relation to one were as follows: - 

<graphic href="118332192803086_38_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192803086_38_3.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that there was a balance of £39 15s. for the farmer's own labour aud the living expenses of himself and family. The evidence that has been tendered to a number of commissions during the last couple of years has gone to show that the average price received by the dairy farmer for his butter has been in the region of ls. ed. per lb., and that the cost of production has generally been over 2s. per lb. If  Senator Needham  does not want to see these men working for less than a living wage, he should take some action to protect them. Prior to the advent of this tariff New Zealand butter was being dumped into Australia at certain periods, with the result that the price of Australian butter was knocked to pieces. If that state of affairs had continued the dairyman would have been driven off the land, our commercial houses would have suffered, we should have lost our export trade, and when supplies became scarce the consumer would have had to pay a great deal more than he is paying to-day. It is to our advantage to protect the industry and retain our export trade.  Senator Greene  has put the position clearly in regard to the speculator. Speculators can import overseas butter at smash prices, and make huge profits by manipulating the market. If the industry is not protected tho speculator will import butter from New Zealand and elsewhere.  Senator Greene  also stated that to-day the co-operative companies practically control' the industry. In South Australia the farmers' Union purchases a tremendous quantity, while in Victoria the cooperative companies practically fix the price. As other industries are protected, dairymen should not be asked to work for less than a living wage. At the present time Australian consumers can purchase primary products at a cheaper rate than that which rules in any other country. . 
On many occasions I have proclaimed myself a protectionist. By that  I  mean a comprehensive protectionist. There are no boundaries or geographical limitations to my fiscal faith. I say emphatically that protection is a sound policy for the Commonwealth of Australia, and the majority of the people agree with me. Is there to be protection for one section only ? No ; it must embrace both primary and secondary industries. The man on the land will receive from me as much consideration as those who are engaged in other activities. I have said many times that for years there was as much sweating .in the field of agriculture as there was in our secondary industries in the  yeaTs  gone by. I belong to a party which time and again has declared war on sweating in every shape and form. This industry has been carried on under conditions which in some cases are almost indescribable. No holidays are gazetted for the dairy fanner; ne works on 365 days in the year, whether the weather be wet or fine. Many of us are acquainted with his struggles and his strivings, and know what his net return is at the end of the year. A member of another place has said that the conditions that obtain in the dairying industry are due largely to the high wages that are paid. To use an Australianism he was " talking through his hat." A short while ago the industry could not afford to pay anything like reasonable wages. According to. a report of the Tariff Board they varied from 25s. to 40s. a week, and keep. Those who are engaged in other spheres of activity are ' paid a much higher wage than that. I am not foolish enough to believe that the imposition of high duties will immediately reduce the price of commodities. In certain cases the effect for the time being has been to increase the price. On the other hand, other industries have been brought into existence, and with the adoption of uptodate methods have cheapened the cost of certain commodities. When I consider the matter I do not ask myself whether the result will be an increase, for the time being, in . the price of a pair of boots, a suit of clothes, or a hat. If I were actuated by such a motive I could not vote for a high duty. If it is a good thing to protect the clothing manufacturer, the boot manufacturer, or any other manufacturer, why should not the principle be applied also to the primary producer? I am an Australian, and I want the local market to be held by the Australian producer. In the case under discussion the producer is the dairyman. Labour .supporters in Australia do not want to wear boots, clothes, or hats that have been manufactured by sweated labour. I am satisfied that their sense of justice is such that they desire for others the same conditions that they themselves enjoy. The item may mean a. slight increase in the price of butter, but that is no reason why we. should not vote for it. The primary producers of Australia are entitled to the fullest consideration. Into the Australian -market which should belong to the Australian producer, butter to the value of £750,000 was imported during a period of two years. I am glad to be able to support this item, and  to  intimate that any other proper proposal which is in the interests of our primary producers will also receive my support. 
Item agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if he has yet been furnished with replies to questions which I asked some time ago, as to the salaries, fees and expenses paid to the directors of the Commonwealth Bank for the year 1926-27 ? 
What was the total amount paid to the directors of the Commonwealth Bank by way of salary, fees, travelling expenses, &amp;c, for the year 1920-27? 
The honorable senator was then informed that the information was not available in the Treasury, but that his question' would be brought under the notice of the Bank. In accordance with this promise, the question was brought under the notice of the Bank, which advises as follows: - 
The fees paid to the members of the board are prescribed by Act of Parliament, and such fees and no others are paid by the Rank. On the question of travelling expenses, a scale has been fixed on a basis which, in the opinion of the Bank, is reasonable to cover the actual cost to directors, and as this is a matter of internal administration of a purely domestic character, the information cannot be made available. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that certain orders for furniture for branches of the Commonwealth Bank have been placed, specifying that the timber used shall be Pacific maple and Japanese oak? 
If so. will the Minister give instructions that only timber grown in the Commonwealth shall be used in the manufacture of furniture for Government buildings? 
The Treasurer is not aware that any such orders have been issued. 
The matter is one for decision by the Board of Directors of the Bank, which, it is understood, strongly favours the use of Australian timber wherever possible. 
asked the Min ister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
How many motor cars and/or trucks are owned by the department? 
How many of such cars and/or trucks are in part or whole of other than British manufacture? 
The information is being obtained and the honorable senator will be furnished with a reply as soon as possible. 
I intend to submit a request in respect of this sub-item, the effect of which will be to remove the differentiation now proposed. In my second reading speech I referred to the advisability of giving careful consideration to the effects of these proposed duties on our commerce with those countries with which we may expect to develop important trade relations. One of the markets which Australia might legitimately hope to secure is materially affected by this item. For many years we have been doing our best to antagonize the people living in the Dutch East Indies - chiefly in Java - which, by the way, is a very inadequate description of the fertile islands to which I refer. These proposed duties will particularly affect the business of the State which I assist to represent in this chamber. There appears to be a good deal of misunderstanding on the part of honorable senators and the general public, or, at all events, those people who have never visited Java, concerning the immense possibilities of that market. I do not wish to pose in any way as an opponent of the White Australia policy. I strongly approve of it, and there is nothing I know of in the general principles underlying that policy to prevent our taking full advantage of a market which providence has placed at our' doors, though in doing so we shall be trading with people whom we rightly refuse to admit to Australia. Java is peopled not, as many think, by a governing race of tyrants and a subject race of slaves. It is inhabited by millions of what I might term peasant proprietors holding the land under one title or another and cultivating it intelligently. In them the spirit of independence has been developed to an extraordinary and laudable extent. I can assure honorable senators that an immense amount of money is waiting to be spent in that country. Australia should seek to develop that market. The people there are ready to buy our flour, butter, bacon, cheese, condensed milk, biscuits, preserved meats and fruits, to mention only a few Australian products that should be readily saleable in the Dutch East Indies. The fruits of the temperate zone, I may add, are very much appreciated in tropical countries. There is also a good market in South Eastern Asia for second class leather, the disposal of which' has always been the despair of Australian tanners. Unfortunately, as I have said, we have always done our best to antagonize the people of the Dutch East Indies. Many years ago we imposed an embargo on sugar. When in those parts in 1917 I made inquiries on behalf of the Govern- ment of Western Australia as to  the  trade possibilities between that State and the Malay Peninsula. Mill-white sugar was then obtainable in Java at £11 a ton but owing to the embargo we could get none of it. 
During my visit to those islands I ascertained that the trade possibilities were practically illimitable; but as the State Government which asked me . to make the investigations went out of office at about that time, nothing was done to develop it. I think it should be possible to build up an important trade between the western portion of the Commonwealth and the Malay Peninsula. The people there are becoming more accustomed to our products, and are learning to consume flour instead of certain native commodities. Unfortunately, we have neglected our opportunity, but I hope that it has not been altogether lost. It may be news to some honorable senators that certain interests have for some years been importing the worst class of American flour, which is shipped in barrels and then put up into packets, which are a successful imitation of those of certain prominent Australian firms. This American flour, disguised in that way, is being sold as Australian flour, so that not only are we losing trade but we are also losing our reputation. There appears to be an impression in some quarters that almost anything is good enough for the Oriental races. As a matter of fact, they have discriminating tastes, and are rather particular as to the class of goods which they buy. Chinese merchants deeply resent and never forget or forgive a trader who imposes upon them in any way. They expect to be able to buy articles of good quality, and also to be sure of regularity in supplies. For these reasons, and in order, if possible, to put an end to what appears to be a systematic policy of antagonizing the people of the Dutch East Indies, I suggest that this differentiation in the duties be removed. We do not grow coffee in Australia, and I do not see the need for this preference, especially in view of the fact that  in an earlier item we imposed under the British preferential tariff a duty of 6d. a lb. on butter, which is not imported from Great Britain. Let us compensate these people by allowing them to sell to Australia a. commodity which we cannot readily obtain elsewhere, and which is greatly appreciated and extensively used by the Australian people. I was rather amused at the statement in the report which the Minister read, to the effect that after many years the decrease in trade with Java amounted to only a few thousand pounds. Let me remind the Minister that if circumstances had permitted it, and if antagonism had not been .shown by Australia, instead of there being a decrease, the trade would have quadrupled. 
Yes, and that will continue. "We have to remember that as duties are increased, we shall find that we are not the only pebble on the beach; we have competitors who are eager to get the business. It should be our aim to get an adequate share of the trade with other countries. In order to test the feeling of the committee, I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duties on pub-item (u), paragraph 1, per lb., British, 3d.; intermediate, 3d. 
 I understand that it is  Senator Kingsmill's  desire to dispense with any discrimination between Empire and foreign grown coffee. If this proposal is agreed to certain consequential amendments will be necessary. I stated yesterday, that discrimination has been shown because the Government recognizes the growing importance of some of our British Crown Colonies in which coffee is produced, and towards which it is desirable that a gesture of this character should be made. This has been done in the hope that it may lead to closer commercial relations and assist in establishing reciprocal preferences which would be of advantage to the Commonwealth, and to those countries with which such preferential arrangements may be made. In deference to what appears to be a strong feeling in favour of  the  proposal submitted  by  Senator Kingsmill,  I may  say  that  the  Government do  not  intend  to  divide the" committee on the request. 
 In view of what the honorable member  (Senator Crawford)  has said,  I  do not propose to take up the time  of  the committee beyond making a suggestion which may facilitate matters. Instead of acting in the direction suggested by  Senator Kingsmill,  I think we should for the moment be content to strike out the paragraph in which discrimination is provided for. The net effect of this .would undoubtedly be that all coffee would be dutiable under the general tariff. 
I am sure that it would. The intermediate tariff can be used only in connexion with imports from countries with which we have entered into a treaty, and as we do not import coffee from Britain the effect of striking out the paragraph would be that all coffee would be dutiable under the general tariff, There would then be' no discrimination against any country. The necessary adjustment of duties could be made in another place and the schedule then returned to this chamber for its approval. I therefore suggest for the Government's consideration, that the position would be met for the moment  by  striking out the paragraph at the end  of  sub-item b. 
I do not know if the Government will have sufficient time to study the duties and consider the consequential amendments which will be necessary. The Government may decide that it may be better to admit all coffee free of duty; but I hardly  think that  likely. 
Then I have nothing more to say, as I  am in favour  of the proposal. 
 It was stated in  another place  that if this duty were not  imposed it  would mean a loss in revenue  of  about £15,000 a year. The Government has reduced certain duties, and in order to balance the position, has provided for the imposition of others. If the request is agreed to, the committee will be increasing the duties above those which the Government propose. 
The duty under the general tariff of 3d. per pound would be payable on coffee imported from Java and India. 
The paragraph to which reference has been made, provides that the coffee specified in paragraph (1) of sub-item (b), being the produce of any part of the British Empire, shall be admitted under the British preferential tariff. The British preferential tariff is free, and under the Government's proposals coffee from India will be admitted free of duty. 
Yes, but the general tariff will include Java and India, and will not apply to the United Kingdom. According to the footnote to sub-item (b), the articles specified in paragraph (1), being the produce of any part of the British Empire, which includes India, shall be admitted under the British preferential tariff. The Government's proposal is that coffee from India shall be admitted free of duty, and the request which some honorable senators do not seem to fully understand, provides that it shall be dutiable at 3d. per pound. 
I am opposed to it. I would prefer to allow all coffee to come in free. I am opposed to discrimination against Java, a country with which we are doing business. It would be far better to allow all coffee to come in duty free. 
I hope that the Government will agree to the request and thus avoid discrimination against Java. I wish to show honorable senators the importance of our export trade with the Dutch East Indies. The values of some of our exports to that country last year were :  - 

<graphic href="118332192803090_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

The total amounted to £2,000,000. 
I agree that there is room for a considerable expansion. I have been puzzled by the very serious decline in the value of our exports of preserved milk. In the year before last they were valued at £451,000. There must be some reason for the falling off. If we were to discriminate against the Dutch East Indies as the schedule proposes, there would be a grave danger of our exports to that country declining, particularly in regard to flour, butter and preserved milk, which are very important items. 
When the schedule was passed by another place it was viewed with alarm in Queensland. At a largely attended meeting of the Rockhampton Chamber of Commerce which was held on the 15th December last, a unanimous protest was made, and Queensland senators were asked to do what they could to have the former position restored. The proposed preferential treatment means a differentiation against the Dutch East Indies to the extent of 50 per cent. That is sufficient to cause the complete stoppage of our importations of coffee from that country. 
Indian coffee is dearer than that which is imported from the Dutch East Indies. Therefore the Australian consumer would have imposed upon him an additional tax. The reply of the Dutch East Indies would inevitably be the withdrawal of their open-door policy. I do not think we can afford to take the risk.  Senator Guthrie  has referred to the value of the trade which we do with them. At one time Holland supplied 55 per cent. and Australia 44 per cent. of their requirements of butter. The figures for 1926 show that Holland in that year exported toits dominions only 61/2 per cent. of its requirements of that commodity, while Australia supplied 93 per cent. I understand that the quality of butter which we  send there cannot be exported to London. That is an advantage which cannot be lightly foregone. Our imports of coffee in 1925-26 totalled 3,750,000 lb., of which the Dutch East Indies supplied 2,062,220 lb., and India 809,160. Our exports to the Dutch East Indies in 1926 were as follow :  - 

<graphic href="118332192803090_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

Our total trade, according to the latest figures that I have, amounts to £6,209,694, comprising imports £4,607,681 and exports £1,602,0.13. 
An aspect of the matter that may appeal to honorable senators opposite is that many secondary commodities which might not otherwise find a market are being sold to the Dutch East Indies. I am pleased that the Government is willing to restore the position to what it was formerly. 
Request agreed to. 
The duty on raw and kiln dried coffee will be the same as that on roasted or ground coffee in liquid form or mixed with milk or other substance if the House of Representatives agrees to our request to make the duty on the former, both British preferential and intermediate 3d. per lb. I, therefore, move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duties in sub-item (b), paragraph 2, per lb. British, 6d.; intermediate 6d. 
Request agreed to. 
Requests (by  Senator Crawford)  agreed to - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duties in sub-item (b), paragraph 3, per lb. British,6d.; intermediate, 6d. 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the words "The articles specified in paragraph 1 of sub-item (b), being the produce of any part of the British Empire, shall be admitted under the British Preferential Tariff." 
Item, subject to requests, agreed to. Items 83, 85 and 101 agreed to. 
Division V. - Textiles, Felts and Furs, and Manufactures thereof, and ATTIRE 
Item 105. (Piece Goods). 
.- It is proposed that, in sub-item (a.a.), the duties on piece-goods, knitted, in tubular  form  or otherwise, of cotton, silk or containing silk, artificial silk or containing artificial silk, or being an admixture  of  wool with other fibres, shall be as follow : - 
For the manufacture of goods other than apparel,! as prescribed by departmental bylaws, ad. val. - British preferential, free; intermediate, 5 per cent; general, 15 per cent.; 
Other, ad val. - British preferential, 30 per cent.; intermediate, 40 per cent.; general, SO per cent. ; 
Or, per lb. - British preferential, 2s. 0d.; intermediate, 3s.; general, 4s., whichever rate returns the higher duty. 
Will the Minister explain the effect that the proposed new duties will have in view of the fact that alternative rates are proposed ? We should be informed as to how a flat rate of 2s. 6d. per lb. would operate in comparison with an ad valorem duty of 30 per cent. 
The rates referred to by the honorable senator apply  to  tubular knitted goods which have been coming into Australia at low prices from cheap-labour countries and underselling  the  Australian product, with most serious results to manufacturers and employees in that particular industry. The application of a duty per lb. in the case of these very cheap goods will provide effective protection for the Australian industry. 
I understand that, in the case of cotton goods, it is worth about 2s. per lb. Of course, that is  a  cheap line, and its introduction is having a most disastrous effect on a number of local factories, which give much employment and produce an article that was formerly finding  a  ready sale at reasonable prices. 
Lately, however, similar goods have been coming in from Asiatic countries, and, even with the ad valorem duty, have been sold at a price much below the cost of production in Australia. 
I thank the Minister for the information he has supplied ; but it is vital that honorable senators should thoroughly understand the. position if they are to cast an intelligent vote for or against the proposed duties. The information given by the Minister is somewhat scanty. He said that the value of low-priced grades of this material was 2s. per lb. The proposed . general tariff is 50 per cent, and the alternative duty a flat rate of 4s. per lb. Honorable senators will thus see that the 50 per cent, ad valorem tariff will be supplanted by a 200 per cent, tariff on that particular grade of material. 
I have no doubt that, if the tariff amounted to 1,000 per cent., it would meet with the honorable senator's approval; but I am trying to conserve the interests of his own constituents. It appears that, with regard to several items, persons who are compelled to buy lower-priced articles will be penalised much more heavily than wealthy individuals who can afford to purchase higher grades of goods. I do not intend to oppose the item, because I realize that that would be futile. However, I think that the committee is entitled to further information to justify the proposal for a general tariff equivalent to 200 per cent. 
 Ii&gt; 1924- 1925 the imports from the United Kingdom of knitted cotton piece-goods in tubular form amounted in value to £88,665, and from Japan £23,555, making a total of £112,220. In 1925-1926 the imports from the United Kingdom were £90,531, and from other countries, £80,091, a total of £170,622. In 1926- 1927 the imports from the United Kingdom totalled £93,345, and from other countries £157,554. The imports under the heading "Other countries," were chiefly from Japan, and they increased in two years from £23,555 to £157,554.  That  is to say in 1926-1927 they were more than six times greater than in 1924-1925. The total importations of these goods increased from £112,220 in 1924-1925 to £250,899 in 1926-1927. 
I admit that I cannot at the moment give definite information regarding the value of the goods that come from Great Britain; but they are certainly of a better class than the Japanese goods, which are chiefly cotton. From Great Britain we receive woollen goods, materials that are -a mixture of cotton and wool, and, iri some cases, silk and artificial silk. The ad valorem duty on these goods is considerable, and the only way to give adequate protection to the Australian manufacturer is to accept the proposals now submitted. 
The duty on British goods has been 20 per cent. It is proposed to increase it to 30 per cent., or 2s. 6d. per lb., whichever is the higher rate. Say the invoiced price of a pound of cotton material from Japan is 2s, If I double that and say that the lowest-priced goods manufactured in Great Britain should be worth 4s. per lb., it seems to me that the present British duty of 20 per cent, would be increased to somewhere between 60 and 70 per cent, ad valorem. Whether or not that large increase is warranted, I cannot say. 

 Senator CRAWFORD (Queensland- Honorary Minister [12.0]. - I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to insert after sub-item (e) the following. - By omitting paragraph 1 of subitem (f) and inserting in its stead the following paragraph : - 
Piece-goods, woollen, or containing' wool (but not including flannel), ordinarily used in the manufacture of outer clothing for human wear and weighing more than 6 oz. per square yard, per square yard, British, ls.; intermediate, ls. Cd.; general, 2s.; and ad val.. British, 30 per cent.; intermediate, 40 per cent.; general, 45 per cent. 
In 1925 the Tariff Board held a comprehensive inquiry into an application for increased duties on woollen piecegoods with the result that in the 1926 tariff, piece goods, woollen, or containing wool (but not including flannel), ordinarily used in the manufacture of outer clothing for human wear and weighing more than 6-J oz. per square yard, the invoice selling price of which did not exceed the equivalent of 3s. 4d. per square yard, were made dutiable at composite rates of ls., ls. 6d., 2s. per square yard and ad val. 30 per cent., 40 per cent., 45 per cent. The weight limit was inserted in order that light-weight, women's woollen dress goods, which are not manufactured to any great extent in the Commonwealth, should not be liable to the composite rates. This weight limit was agreed to by prominent Australian weavers, it being considered at the time that  6i  oz. was a fair line of demarcation between the goods, manufactured in Australia, and those not commercially manufactured here to any considerable extent. It was also considered that woollen piece-goods over 6£ oz. per square yard in weight, sold at 3s. 4d. per square yard or under, were detrimentally affecting the Australian industry, but that Australian weavers were able to compete with the imported goods invoiced at prices exceeding 3s. 4d. per square yard with only a slight increase in tariff, the rates being made 35 per cent., 45 per cent., 50 per cent: Experience of the working of these duties shows that they have not been fully effective; Australian weavers are not receiving sufficient orders to keep their mills working full time and have been forced to put off a number of operatives. In some cases it has been found that the weight of cloth has been reduced just under 6£ oz. thereby taking the goods out of Item 105 (e) (1) and escaping the composite duties. 
 That will be found to be the case, no matter what weight is fixed. 
It is considered, by the Government that it would be lacking in its duty if it did not afford the great woollen industry of Australia adequate protection .against overseas manufacturers no ' matter whether they be in the United Kingdom or on the continent. 
Request agreed to. 
It is proposed to increase the duty from 1st July next on leather cloth from 5 per cent. British, 10 per cent, intermediate, and 15 per cent, general, to 20 per cent. British, 25 per cent, intermediate, and 35 per cent, general. I want to know if the manufacture of leather cloth is an accomplished fact in Australia; if not, whether there is sufficient evidence to show that machinery is being installed to manufacture with success this substitute for leather, and why the preference hitherto accorded to Great Britain has, to a great extent, disappeared. 
What steps have been taken to establish the industry in Australia? I have no knowledge of any company having been formed to manufacture leather cloth  locally. I am  prepared to support any reasonable proposal for the encouragement of the industry, but the duties should not be imposed before they are actually required. 
I should like to be furnished with the fullest information as to the possibility of the industry, to which this item refers, being successfully established in the Commonwealth. In previous tariffs the duties have been levied for revenue purposes. As honorable senators know, I am not in favour of duties that fail to encourage the establishment of industries in this country, but governments are prone to take the line of least resistance and therefore impose duties on certain commodities chiefly for revenue purposes. It is obvious that the industry for the manufacture of leather cloth has not yet been established in Australia, otherwise, we should have heard from those interested in it concerning the low rates of duties imposed in previous tariffs. We are now informed by the Minister that there is every likelihood of a company being formed for the manufacture in Australia of this class of goods. Can the Minister say where it will be established? 
It is immaterial to me whether it is to be started in Melbourne or in any other city of the Commonwealth. My chief concern is to know whether a concrete proposal has been submitted to the Government, and if the proposed duties will be sufficient to enable the industry to be conducted successfully. To  me  they appear to be low, being only 20 per cent, in respect of British goods, 25 per cent, in the intermediate tariff and 35 per cent, in the general tariff. Is the Minister satisfied that the industry can be established with a 20 per cent, margin of protection? - 
Did that company take action before the new duties were levied? 
Then can the Minister say if the company is satisfied with the proposed duties ? 
It is news to me that no leather cloth is imported from countries other than America, and I have some doubt on the point. 
That is a different statement. If what the Minister now says is correct, I shall offer no objection to the proposed duties. 
Item agreed to, subject to a request. 
Items 106, 107, and 108 agreed to. 
Item 112 (Apparel or attire, including furs) - 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to add at the end of the item: - "By omitting the whole of the subitem  b,  and inserting in its stead the following sub-item :  - 
1. Fur and other skins n.e.i. (except rabbit skins) dressed or prepared for making up, ad val., British, 15 per cent.; intermediate,15 per cent.; general, 20 per cent. 
Rabbit skins dressed or prepared for. making up, ad val., British, 30 per cent.; intermediate, 35 per cent.; general, 45 per cent." 
Within the last year or two a considerable amount of money has been invested by a company in Tasmania, and a smaller amount by a company in New South Wales in providing the necessary machinery and plant for the treatment of Australian furs, chiefly rabbit skins, which are made into what are known as coney seal skins. This is a highly skilled manufacturing process. At present it is almost entirely in the hands of German, Belgian, and French manufacturers who have been doing a large business with Australia for many years. Several British firms are also engaged in the same business but on a smaller scale. The Tasmanian company at the outset was faced with unlooked-for difficulties in securing the essential dyes for the production of a first-class article. These troubles were overcome last year through the action of the Government in granting permits for the importation of certain continental dyes so that the company might be in a position to demonstrate . its ability to produce a high grade article. There has been an excellent demand for its product during the last six months, but the company finds that continental manufacturers can land their products in the Australian market at a price slightly below the cost of production locally. I have been supplied with a full range of coney seal skins manufactured by the Tasmanian company. As honorable senators will notice they compare very favorably with the imported article of the same grade. The import figures show that there is an enormous trade in this class of goods. On the continnent the dyes cost 6s. 3d. per kilo as against 15s. in Australia. Peroxide of hydrogen is obtainable at 81/4d. per pound in Europe, against1s. 6d. per pound in Australia, and acetic acid, 99 per cent. glacial, costs 3s. 3d. on the continent compared with 2ls. in this country. These extra charges, as well as the higher wages paid and improved labour conditions obtaining in Australia, make necessary a reasonable amount of protection for the Australian industry. There is no industry of any importance in Australia that is not receiving the benefit of higher protective duties than I am asking for in this instance. Although the duties which I suggest will enable the company to carry on operations, they will not give it an opportunity to make excessive profits. This is not an instance in which a company "proposes" to start operations; the industry has been established for two years, and has during the last six months produced goods valued at £22,000. If we were to send to Adolf Petzold, of Leipzig, the largest and best coney manufacturer in Germany, who has a staff of nearly 3,000, a consignment of 1,000 raw skins, he would make them into coney for £37 10s., which is at the rate of 9d. a skin, whereas it would cost this company £93 13s. 4d., or1a.10d. a skin, owing to the additional costs in Australia. The difference between the existing duties and those I propose are only sufficient' to enable the company to meet overseas competition. 
It has been established only about two years, and the duties which are 15 per cent. British preferential, 15 per cent. intermediate, and 20 per cent. general, were imposed, I think, only for revenue purposes. This is a bona fide concern, and has already spent £47,000 in erecting building and plant and conducting its operations. If Parliament will agree to my reasonable proposal, I am confident that the industry, which at present has a fairly substantial turnover, will become a very important one. 
I feel sympathetically disposed towards the request submitted by  Senator Payne;  but, as I am not at the moment in possession of certain essential details, I shall have to give the matter further consideration. 
The increased duties proposed by  Senator Payne  are considerable. The present duties on furs are 15 per cent. British, 15 per cent, intermediate and 20 per cent, general. 
That may be so. If the duties on furs are increased to the extent proposed, and those on furred garments, which are 40 per cent. British preference, 50 per cent, intermediate, and 55 per cent, general, are allowed to remain, the request, if adopted, may not accomplish what the honorable senator desires ; furred garments may then be imported in place of furs. As I wish.to look further into this matter, I ask that the consideration of the item be postponed. . 
.- If the committee agrees to the postponement of this item, I trust the honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford),  who has expressed some sympathy towards the request, will not allow his interest to wane during the period of postponement. The case submitted by  Senator Payne  is worthy of favorable consideration, as I understand that if the industry, which has been in existence for about two years, is forced out of business, about 400 workers who are directly and indirectly employed by it, will be added to the already large army of unemployed, and a large amount of -capital will also be rendered idle. 
Item postponed. 
Item 113 agreed to. 
Item 115 (Socks and stockings). 
There has been some discussion in committee concerning the effect of a flat rate of duty, and the conditions under which these duties are imposed. The Minister to-day carried a request that under item 105, piece-goods, certain material weighing more than 6 oz. per square yard be dutiable at an ad valorem rate or at per square yard ls. British, ls. 6d. intermediate, and 2s. general tariff, whichever rate returns the higher duty. I am sure honorable senators do not realize the exact effect of duties fixed on that basis. The same principle is applied to cotton socks and . stockings for which the ad valorem .duties imposed are 30 per cent. British, 40 per cent. inter mediate, and 45 per cent, general tariff, or per dozen 6s. British, 8s. intermediate, arid 10s. general tariff, whichever rate returns the higher duty. For woollen socks and stockings, or socks and stockings containing wool the rates are 45 per cent. British, 55 per cent, intermediate, and 60 per cent, general tariff; or, per dozen, 8s. British, 10s. intermediate, and 12s. general tariff, whichever rate returns the higher duty. For such articles of silk or containing silk but not containing wool and n.e.i., the rates are 35 per cent. British, 45 per cent, intermediate, and 50 per cent, general; or, per dozen, 7s. British, 9s. intermediate, and lis. general tariff, whichever rate returns the higher duty. These flat rate duties are fairly high, and I contend that very few honorable senators realize their, actual  effect.  I submit for the information of the committee an exhibit marked " D " of "Mazol" children's unshrinkable cotton and woollen socks made in England, the invoice price of which is 8s. a dozen, and the flat rate of duty 8s. per dozen. The landed cost was 12s. 10d. a dozen, but under the new duty it is 17s. 7d. a dozen. The flat rate of duty under these proposals is 8s. a dozen, which is equivalent to 100 per cent, on children's socks of British manufacture. I also submit a sample of children's socks of all wool made in England, the invoice price of which is 5s. 9d. per dozen and the flat rate of duty 8s. per dozen, which is considerably over 100 per cent.  Sitting suspended from 12.1^ to 2.15 p.m. 
By way of interjection, an honorable- senator asks why Australian socks are not bought. I point out that whereas the local manufacturer can obtain his supplies of wool on the spot, the English manufacturer is obliged to pay freight both ways, wharfage dues at each end, shipping and other charges, and the duty. Thus the Australian manufacturer is placed at a distinct advantage, and he should be able to manufacture hosiery in competition with the English manufacturer without the assistance of a 100 per cent, tariff. I have already given particulars of certain lines of socks; but I still have other lines. One is a man's sock of English manufacture, which is worn by working men and farmers in the country. The invoice price is 5s. 9d., and upon it there  is a flat rate duty of 8s. a dozen. This line is peculiarly suitable for use by men, whose work is such that they require a cheap sock. The landed price previously was 9s. 7d. a dozen, but under the new duty it is 14s. 9d. a dozen. I am not advocating the cause of the foreigner, but it is well that honorable senators should be made acquainted with the position. The invoice price of a foreign manufacture sock that I have in my hand is 2s. 8-Jd. a dozen. Under the old duty it was lauded in Australia for 4s. a dozen. The landed price under the new duty is no less than 12s. lid. a dozen, the duty amounting to over 300 per cent. 
Importers who have to pay the extra duty must naturally add it to the price which they charge the consumer. I have not troubled to obtain particulars of the retail prices. 
I understand that it is a Japanese sock. I have particulars also of a child's sock that is made in Germany. In times gone by, my. children wore socks, the quality of which was no better than this. The invoice price is 5s. Id. a dozen.. The landed price until recently was 8s. 8d. a dozen, but under, the new duty it is 16s. 2d. The flat rate of duty is 10s. a dozen. Thus we are asked to pay a duty of 200 per cent, greater than the price at which the article is invoiced. 
Australia cannot be absolutely self-contained. Although I admit the necessity to build up industries,' can we afford to do so by placing a 100 per cent, duty on British goods,, and a 300 per cent, duty on foreign goods? Only a prohibitionist would vote for such duties. 
-In addition to all the other costs and charges that have to be borne by. primary industries, our wine producers are saddled with a tremendous excise which other industries have not to pay. 
I wish to place before honorable senators evidence that was given before the Tariff Board in Melbourne, by  Mr. Hedley  Goode, representative of the Wholesale Softgoods' Association of South Australia. ' He said - 
The Wholesale Softgoods' Distributors of South Australia are opposed to a flat rate of duty because they believe it will unduly increase the price of certain lines of hosiery and, incidentally, the cost of living, will prevent the public getting certain lines of hosiery that they require, and severely penalize them. It is our opinion that the Australian manufacturers of hosiery are not at present in a position to supply the needs of the buying public of Australia, both as regards quantity and fashion, and the imposition of a flat rate will have the effect of absolutely prohibiting the importation of a quantity of hosiery goods that will be required. Our experience in the past is that when samples of hose or half-hose that are in demand are produced, the output of the Australian factories is, in many instances, taken up before we in Adelaide have samples submitted to us, and it is not until the wants of the eastern States are filled that we have the opportunity of buying Australian-made goods that happen to be greatly in demand. 

The honorable senator's time has expired. 
The proposed duties, on hosiery are worthy of the most sympathetic consideration of the well-wishers of Australian industries, and I am confident that a substantial majority of honorable senators will support them. A few months ago I had the opportunity of inspecting some of our hosiery factories, in one of which I was shown a room full of socks that had been made from Australian wool. 
They were. 1 was told that there was no market for them, except at a price greatly below thu cost of production, because of the large importations of. inferior goods at what were believed to be dumping prices. 
That is a matter of extreme difficulty. In many instances such action cannot be taken until a long and very careful investigation has been made in the country of production. By the time the necessary information is obtained very serious  damage has been done to the Australian industry. When the previous tariff was before this chamber, complaints similar to those which are now being made were voiced, particularly in regard to women's singlets, upon which the proposed duties were quite as high as those it is now proposed te place on socks and stockings. We were told that the inevitable effect would be to increase substantially the price of the. garments to which they were to be applied. But what has been the result? Instead of an increase there has been a reduction in the  price  of many lines. That is noticeable in regard to the output of a Swiss company which, since the imposition of the higher duties, has established itself at Bendigo, and is selling its products at a lower price than that which was charged before the increased duties were imposed. 

 Senator Chapman referred to the freight on wool from Australia to other countries and the return freight on manufactured articles. Any one who has given the matter consideration must admit that the freight on the quantity of wool used in a pair of socks or stockings, and on the manufactured article, is infinitesimal. . I doubt whether it could be expressed in terms of any Australian coin. I know that there are such charges, but they are made on quantities in bulk. It is doubtful if they would amount to a farthing per pair of stockings. In one factory I saw the whole process of the manufacture of these goods from pure silk, and they were retailed in Sydney and Melbourne at 7s. 6d. per pair, equal in quality to those that, before the imposition of the 1926 tariff, were retailed at 15s. In another factory, I saw pure silk hose, retailed at 10s. 6d., the price of which was 17s. 6d. twelve months before. 
I have paid for a few pairs of Australian stockings, and I have never heard any complaints about them. I am glad that  Senator Chapman  has produced some samples of imported socks, but I should say that the pair I now hold in my hands contains very little pure wool. I should imagine that it is chiefly, if not wholly composed of what is known as junk. I admit, however, that the children's socks he has exhibited are of a better quality. For a considerable time I have worn Australianmade socks. They were sold to me retail in Melbourne at 2s. 6d. per pair. They are of good appearance and quite comfortable. I have never known socks to wear so well. So far as my experience goes, the whole of the woollen goods made in Australia have excellent wearing qualities. I have worn several suits of Australian tweed, and for years I have used underwear made in Australia. These goods have given me the greatest satisfaction. Our statistics show a reduction in the importation of woollen hosiery, but that is because- of a great change in fashion. The fact that ladies have favored silk in preference to woollen hosiery is a striking indication of the prosperity of the country. There is still a considerable demand for both woollen and cotton hosiery, and I am sure that nobody would complain if the price were slightly increased. 
We have every reason to believe that these increased duties will have a similar effect to those imposed on underwear.  Senator Chapman,  I do not say designedly, but unfortunately, has not been supplied with the retail prices. Does anybody imagine that because an article can be imported at a low rate of duty, the consumer gets the benefit in every instance? We know that he does not. The effect of large importations has not necessarily been to reduce the price to the consumer, but to greatly reduce the price to the distributor, and hundreds, if not thousands, of good Australians have been thrown out of employment. A number of our knitting mills have been working either half-time, or have put off a great percentage of their employees. The proposed duties on cotton goods will be of great assistance to the cotton industry, because they will encourage local manufacture. We ' are now producing more cotton than the Australian market requires, and it is very doubtful if any of the cotton crop gathered this year will find a market in this country, because manufacturers have a large quantity of last year's cotton on hand. 
The Minister has represented that our industries are suffering from the large importations of foreign cotton stocks; but I point out that that is not so. During the last few years, the importations have considerably decreased, although the population of Australia has increased appreciably. Turning to the Tariff Board's report we find, on page 4, that the total value of the importations of cotton hosiery during the five years ended 30th June, 1927, was as follow: - 

<graphic href="118332192803090_14_3.jpg"></graphic>

Yes; it states- 
The United Kingdom was by far the largest individual country exporting cotton hosiery to the Commonweal th. It will be seen that the importations of cotton socks and stockings have declined. This position, however, has not been brought about by an increased output on the part of local manufacturers, but is duc to a change in fashion under which cotton hosiery has to a large extent been displaced by silk and artificial silk. A decline in prices may also account to some extent for the lower total value for the later years.' 
The position is exactly as I have stated it to be. The importations have decreased from £366,000 to £258,000. The Minister also questioned certain, evidence given before the board, and stated that he had been shown a room full of socks. That does not take us anywhere. Further evidence was given by the Wholesale Softgoods' Distributors of South Australia and Western Australia, as follows : - 
We emphatically state that there is very much to be desired in this direction, and it seems to us that we, who are not very close to the place of manufacture, find a great deal of difficulty in getting our supplies, and the goods we want at the time we want them, and prompt delivery is a- very essential point to the successful conduct of our business. It is also our belief that if the duties as asked for are imposed, deliveries would be far worse than they have been in the past, and we should not be able to supply goods that the public want at the time they want them.  Mr. Louis  Jarrott, representing the Softgoods Warehousemen's Association of Brisbane, said - 
A cotton hosiery from London, dyed with Hawley's "famous dye," is quoted at 6s. lid., f.o.b. London. Witness had never seen a cotton stocking made in Australia, and he had never been offered cotton socks or cotton stockings of Australian manufacture. The landed duty-paid price of the hose quoted at 6s. lid. per doz. f.o.b. would, with the existing duty, be 10s. per dozen pairs. 
We find that although these goods can be landed in Australia at a very low cost, the landed cost of some very good- socks under the old duty was 8s., 9s. and 10s. per dozen.  Mr. R.  N. McLean, representing Bond and Company, said that the lowest priced cotton socks, plain and fancy, manufactured and sold by his company was 21s. per dozen pairs. The public of Australia is asked to pay these tremendous extra prices when what they require is not good material, particularly, but a cheap article. 
No; but lowpriced socks are suitable for the rough wear of the working man. Turning to the comments of the Tariff Board we find these words - 
It would appear that no children's hose entirely of cotton are being made in Australia. The prices tendered in evidence show that children's imported cotton socks are being sold retail in Australia as low as 6$d. per pair, the prices ranging up to 2s. 3d. per pair. A local manufacturer, who is making children's socks in silk and cotton mixture, gave 13s. Cd. per dozen as the lowest figure at which he could produce cotton socks to compete with the imported goods. So far as men's cotton hose is concerned retail prices on imported lines quoted in evidence ranged from 6d. per pair (Japan) to 2s. 3d. per pair (United States of America). The lowest price quoted in evidence of men's cotton socks of Australian manufacture was for those made by Eastaugh Limited, namely, 16s. per dozen pairs wholesale, the retail price being 2s. 6d. per pair, and in some cases as a " cut " line, ls. lid. per pair. The cheapest cotton hose made by Geo. A. Bond and Company Limited was sold by that company at 21s. per dozen pairs with a retail price of 2s. 6cl. per pair. Another line was sold at 24s. per dozen pairs with a retail price of 2s. lid. per pair. 
It is all very well to talk about building up Australian industries, but are we to build them up by imposing a duty of over 100 per cent, on British socks and over 300 per cent, on foreign socks, raising their prices to a tremendous extent? It will penalize the farmers and the workers of Australia. I appeal to honorable senators of the Labour party, not on behalf of the farmers, but on behalf of working  men generally, not to support a duty of 100 per cent. on the socks worn by the children of the working men and by the working men themselves. These are' articles that the workers ought to be able to get at a reasonable price. My complaint is against the flat rate which alters the incidence of the duties to such an extent that, instead of the rate being 45 per cent., in some instances it is increased to 300 per cent. I propose to move that the House of Representatives be requested to bring the flat rates more into conformity with the ad valorem rate on this item. 
 Senator Chapman  seems to have developed an eleventh hour anxiety for the interests of the working classes. : of Australia. He has made a pathetic appeal to honorable senators of the Opposition to help him to reduce the rates of duty on this item so that the farmers and the working classes generally may be able to wear imported cotton socks. 
We have heard the phrase " rotten cotton socks," although I do not say that it can fairly be applied to the hosiery exhibited in the chamber to-day. Figures have been quoted to prove that there has been a decline in the importation of this particular kind of hosiery, but they merely prove that fashions have changed, and that the tastes of the working classes of Australia have changed. When silk stockings were first introduced it was thought that their price would be so prohibitive that they would be beyond the reach of those engaged in the ordinary work-a-day world. We know "now that, for some days of the week at any rate, all our women folk wear silk stockings. In days gone by many working men wore cotton socks because they could not afford tobuy anything better; but to-day working men are better circumstanced, and thousands of them are wearing a better class of socks. If a certain quality of socks is good for one section of the community it ought to be good for all sections, particularly the working classes, who produce all the good things of this life. Socks of the kind exhibited in the chamber to-day can be manufactured in other parts of the world, particularly in Japan, and even in England, much more cheaply than they can be turned out in Australia. It is impossible for the Australian manufacturers to compete with overseas manufacturers unless they are given adequate protection. Why should they not get it in this industry? We can turn out excellent stockings in Australia. One firm in Sydney, to its credit be it said, has well advertised its ability to manufacture stockings. 
There is one in particular, which without mentioning names, I have in mind. If it had been . suggested a few years ago that encouragement should be given to the hosiery industry, the reply would have been that we could not turn out that kind of goods in Australia, or that the time was not ripe for it. We shall never have big industries in Australia unless we are prepared to give them that big measure of protection they merit at our hands. I shall not vote for any reduction of duty. Is  Senator Chapman,  who made such a pathetic appeal for the working classes, as anxious to have cheap wine as he is to have cheap socks? 
Some people would say that socks are more or less a luxury; not long ago the newspapers informed us that womenfolk in Paris were endeavouring to set the fashion of not wearing stockings. I shall support the Government in imposing these higher duties. I want to see the hosiery industry in Australia grow until it is in a position to supply all of Australia's needs in stockings; and the only way to bring that about is to shut out as completely as possible the output of its competitors. Many people, while sympathetically inclined towards the Australian manufacturer, have also a keen regard for the importer, and many excellent citizens who are importers honestly believe in free trade or in a revenue tariff, I am equally honest in the opinion, that it is my first duty to give every consideration to Australian manufacturers, and to do everything I can to assist in building up Australian industries. 
.- I have just as much admiration as the Minister has for the Australian manufacturer who is " doing his bit," and I agree with the honorable senator when he says that the Australian hosiery manufacturer is turning out an excellent article - so far as I know no one has suggested that he is not doing so - but when I am told that hosiery manufacturers have been so blocked by importations that they have stores full of hosiery on their hands, all I can say is that I do not think the Minister has got his information from the most reliable source. 
From the observations made by the Minister one could draw no other conclusion than that the Australian hosiery manufacturer was not getting a fair deal. Last year I heard the Minister say that the importers were 
So keen to deal in imported goods that they would not give the Australian manufacturer a chance. To prove that that statement is also incorrect, I can quote the experience of one of the largest softgoods distributors in Australia. Of last year's transactions in the hosiery department of that firm, 73 per cent. represented dealings in goods manufactured in Australia. That is ample rebuttal of the charge that has been levied against the wholesale distributors of goods - that they are influenced against Australian manufacturers. Honorable senators opposite, and others, have frequently said that Flinders-lane - that is the term by which the softgoods distributors are generally designated - objects to high duties because their imposition prevents it from making large profits out of imported goods. 
I have no desire to say or do anything that may hamperthe development of Australian industries. My objection in this instance is to the manner in which the schedule has been presented. I object to a flat rate in conjunction with the ad valorem duties. These will have the effect of placing the heaviest burden on the working classes and giving relief to those better able to meet any additional costs that may be entailed. 
I claim to repre sent all sections, and since the workers constitute the majority of the people of Australia, I, with other honorable senators who think with me in this matter, represent the workers. Honorable senators opposite have been misled, and it is my duty to put them right. It has been suggested by more than one honorable senator to-day that the working men of Australia should be compelled to wear socks manufactured from Australian wool. 
Because up to the present there has been no attempt to manufacture from Australian cotton socks suitable for the working men of this country. 
I make that statement because I have an intimate knowledge of the industry. 
I can assure my friend,  Senator Greene,  that I am right. The largest wholesale distributor of hosiery in Australia has advised me that nothing of the kind has ever been offered to him. For some years the working men of Queensland have been wearing a light mixture of wool and cotton, suitable for tropical countries; for the working men of New South Wales there has been a slightly heavier line ; and for the working men of Victoria and Tasmania a somewhat stronger mixture. Up to the present, cotton socks have not been manufactured in Australia. I know what the Australian manufacturers are making, because I am a" shareholder in one company. I am sorry to say I am financially interested in one that is in a most unsatisfactory position, notwithstanding the higher protection given in the last tariff. On more than one occasion I have expressed my gratification at the splendid progress made during the last few years by Australian manufacturers of hosiery. I am bound to say, however, that if we pass the item as it stands the working men of Australia will be compelled to wear cashmere hosiery, which is unsuitable. Cashmere gives satisfactory service when worn with light boots, but it will not stand hard wear in heavy boots. Socks made of that material will cost from 2s. to 2s. 6d. a pair ; and if the Australian manufacturer produces the kind of hosiery to which this item refers, instead of being able to obtain socks at from 6d. to ls. 3d. a pair, the workers will have to pay from ls. 9d. to 2s. 9d. a pair. 
It would be just as reasonable to compare the wearing qualities of a hard twist cotton tweed suit with a suit of woollen tweed. I have been supplied with a number of samples of socks of British manufacture. One, a heather mixture, containing a small quantity of wool, is being retailed in Australia at ls. a pair. It is in general use in our temperate climates by the working men. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).Order  ! The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I am interested in this item, because there is in the State which I assist to represent in this chamber a number of well-equipped mills engaged in the manufacture of socks and stockings. Unfortunately, the position is not as  Senator Payne  has put it. Fully one-half of the machines used for the manufacture of hosiery are lying idle, because of the difficulty in securing orders. 
The Tariff Board's report does not bear out the honorable senator's contention. On page 9 there appears the following: - 
Witnesses supporting the request for increased duties strongly stressed the detriment resulting to the local industry from the importation of a class of hosiery manufactured from material described as "shoddy," that is, yarn made from mill waste liberally treated with oil to permit of it being spun. This class of hosiery was represented by samples of men's worsted half hose tendered at the inquiry. It was claimed that, large quantities of the hosiery described are imported into Australia, being invoiced at prices as low as 5s. per dozen f.o.b., and retailed at ls. 4Jd. per pair. The lowest retail price of the competitive Australian line was given at 2s. per pair. 
Evidence was tendered as to the effect of importations on local' industries. It was stated that in Victoria there were 100 worsted and 100 cashmere knitting machines idle. In one factory making cashmere socks, worsted half hose and scout hose, 05 machines out of a total of 70 were idle. Another factory specializing in cashmere stockings had twelve machines idle out of 20. 
That is a complete answer to the charge made by  Senator Payne  that the local manufacturers are unable to fill orders. 
Of course, I can. The Tariff Board gave special consideration to the point that has been raised by  Senator Payne.  It was particularly interested in proposals to manufacture cheap cotton shoddy socks from a lowgrade material, which has to be liberally treated with oil before it can be spun. That is what  Senator Payne  wishes to force upon the people of Australia. He suggests that we should permit such goods to come freely into Australia. We do not want that sort of thing, particularly when there are factories in Australia producing all that we require in this direction. We are not only able to manufacture these articles, but are producing the raw material, and if, in addition to encouraging production of the rawmaterial we can provide a local market for the manufacturers, we will be assisting to solve the cotton problem in Australia. At present large quantities of locally produced cotton are sold overseas instead of being used in Australia, and until we have .an efficient protective policy it will be impossible for us to give any guarantee to the producers of locally grown cotton that their product will be consumed to any extent in Australia. This is a bigger problem than that of merely providing cotton socks at low prices for those who desire to wear them. The importations of certain of these articles are very heavy. According to the figures for the first seven months of the financial year 1927-28, the value of the importation of cotton sox and stockings was £134,S74, silk £343,140, artificial silk £13S,656, and woollen £304,892, or a total of £921,562. 
When almost £1,000,000 worth of these goods are imported we have to consider what security we have to offer to local manufacturers in the future. I am surprised to find  Senator Payne  at this stage endeavouring to strike a blow at the local industry, and to prevent it from getting upon its feet, particularly when it is in competition with what the Tariff Board describes as "low type shoddy foreign articles ". I trust that the committee will endorse the proposal which the Government has submitted, and give the local manufacturers that protection which is so essential if they are to continue in business. 
Progress reported. 
 I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
I regret that I have to submit this motion. When the Senate met a fortnight ago the Government was prepared to introduce this bill, and at that time the term for which the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr. Atlee  Hunt, was appointed had not expired. Our friends in opposition in another place, however, submitted a motion of censure, which prevented the Government from introducing the bill for a fortnight. In the interim the Public Service Arbitrator's term of office expired. Under the present Arbitration (Public Service) Act a new appointment has to be made for seven years, but as  Mr. Hunt  will reach the retiring age of 65 in two years' time, we are submitting an amendment of the Act under which  Mr. Hunt  will be re-appointed for two years. The bill does not provide for any other amendment of the law. The procedure I am now asking the Senate to adopt has been followed in another place, and in view of the unusual circumstances, I ask honorable senators to agree to the motion so that the bill may be passed through all its stages without delay. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator McLachlan)  read a first time. 
.   -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is really a formal measure, the object of which has already been explained by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  It is to amend the Arbitration (Public Service) Act, so that the present Public Service Arbitrator may be re-appointed for a period of two years when he will reach the retiringage. Under the existing law, the Public Service Arbitrator must be appointed for a period of seven years.  Mr. Atlee  Hunt was born on the 7th November, 1864, and is therefore now 63 years of age. Clause 2 provides that section 6 of the principal act shall be amended by inserting at the end of sub-section 2 the following proviso :  - 
Provided that if the person who is appointed Public Service Arbitrator is, at the time of his appointment, more than 58 years of age, the term of his appointment shall be the period which will expire upon his attaining the age of 65 years. 
In the circumstances I have outlined I trust that the Senate will agree to the passage of the bill. 
 I did not offer any objection to the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders, because I realized that, in this instance there was some urgency; but I cannot allow the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to shelter behind the motion of censure which was submitted in another place. The Government should have anticipated the possibility of such a position arising. It knew that the Public Service Arbitrator was approaching the end of his term, and in these circumstances should have introduced the bill in sufficient time to enable it to be passed without the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders. I objected to the Government's proposal to place public servants under a special tribunal, as I thought that they shouldcomeunder our general arbitration system. Parliament, however, decided otherwise, and from what I have seen and heard of the working of the court, I believe that it is operating to the satisfaction of those concerned. As I understand the only object of the hill is to make the term for which  Mr. Hunt  is to he reappointed synchronize with the date of his retirement from the Service, I have no objection to offer to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[3.32].  -  Honorable senators are aware that on Wednesday afternoon next, if our hopies are fulfilled,  Mr. Hinkler,  the famous aviator, will arrive in Canberra. It is desired to accord him a fitting reception, and arrangements are being made for certain official functions is both the afternoon and evening of that day. Under those circumstances it will not be possible for the Senate to meet for the transaction of business next Wednesday. I, therefore, move - 
Thursday next, at 3 p.m. 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- 1 draw the attention of the Government to information that has come into my possession in Canberra this week to the effect that a large quantity of imported timbers has been used' for the embellishment of the new Assembly Hall in this city. The matter is so serious to me, as one who believes in fostering 
Australian industries, that I consider I am justified in bringing it before the Senate. It ought to be investigated so as to  Ascertain  who is responsible for it. Magnificent timbers are grown in Australia. I trust that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will institute inquiries during the week end so that he will be in a position to make a statement when we reassemble next Thursday. I have no first-hand knowledge, because I have not been able to inspect the building; but the information came from what I believe to be a reliable source. 
[3.34]. - I shall have the remarks of the honorable senator brought under the notice of the Minister for Home and Territories  (Sir Neville Howse),  who, no doubt, will have the suggested inquiries made. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to intimate that a highly distinguished Australian airman, in the person of Captain Herbert Hinkler, A.F.C., is within the precincts of the House, and I propose, with the consent of honorablesenators, to invite him to take a seat on the floor of the Senate. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 

 Captain Hinkler thereupon entered the chamber, and was seated accordingly. 

On the 9th inst.,  Senator Guthrie  addressed the following . questions to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General :  - 
Howmany motor cars and/or trucks are owned by the department? 
How many of such cars and/or trucks arc in part or whole of other than British manufacture ? 
I am now in a position to furnish the following particulars :  - 
Motor cars, 32; motor trucks and vans, 237. 
Country of manufacture. - Motor cars - 4 British, 18 Canadian, 10 foreign; motor trucks and vans - 47 British, 182 Canadian, 8 foreign. With the exception of one British car ( the body of which was imported from England with the vehicle by the agents), the bodies of all the vehicles were built in Australia. In the case of many of the vehicles - British, Canadian, and foreign - a certain amount of assembling was done in Australia. 
On the 3rd November last,  Senator Andrew  asked a number of questions in regard to wireless broadcasting in country districts and the need for relay stations. TheMinister representing the Postmaster-General replied as follows: - 
The whole position with regard to wireless is now under consideration by the Government, and it is hoped that an announcement will shortly be made. 
On the 17th November the Government introduced the Wireless Agreement Bill and the Prime Minister made . an announcement in regard to wireless matters generally. The questions asked by  Senator Andrew  are bound up with wider questions, some of which have since been settled while others still remain to be determined. The present position is as follows: The establishment of broadcasting in the country centres is still under consideration. At the suggestion of the Government, the various Class . "A" Broadcasting Companies are negotiating for an amalgamation of their activities with the object of securing more economical management of the services, improvement of the existing services and their extension to localities where a satisfactory service is not now given. The installation of relay stations is thus dependent more or less on the completion of these negotiations, and the companies have been requested to expedite them. It is hoped that within the next few weeks the Government will be in a position to make some announcement on the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What is the present position at the oil bore at Popo? 
Boring at the site now being tested at Popo which is known as No. 5 bore, commenced on the 22nd February, 1928, and, on the 5th March, had been carried to a depth of 100 feet. Bore was abandoned on the advice of  Mr. Clark,  one of the principal drilling experts of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, owing to difficulties caused by a breakage of casing. Various expedients had been adopted to overcome the trouble but without success, and it was therefore considered advisable to select a new site. 
SALARY OF  Mr. M.  L. SHEPHERD. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state what Federal Minister entered into the agreement with  Mr. M.  L. Shepherd regarding his salary? 
Was such agreement made with the sanction of Cabinet? 
Why was such agreement made? 
Will, the Minister state the full contents of such agreement? 
If not, why? 
Has a similar agreement been entered into with  Mr. Trumble  regarding his salary? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers are 1 to 5. The appointment of  Mr. M.  L. Shepherd as Official Secretary in Great Britain of the Commonwealth of Australia was approved by  His Excellency  the Governor-General in Council on the6th January, 1921, with salary at the rate of ?2,000 per annum. The Prime Minister at the time of  Mr. Shepherd's  'appointment was the Right Honorable W.M. Hughes, and the papers show that the decision to recommend  Mr. Shepherds  appointment for the approval of the Governor-General in Council was made by Cabinet. The papers do not, however, contain a record of any definite agreement having been entered into regarding  Mr. Shepherd's  salary, but the terms of the approved Order in Council are definite on this point. 
The arrangement decided upon by the Government, with the concurrence of the Public' Service Board, and agreed to by  Mr. Trumble,  was that  Mr. Trumble  should receive the salary of his former position, viz., ?1,350 per annum together with an allowance at the rate of ?650 per annum whilst occupying the position of Official Secretary in Great Britain, making his total remuneration ?2,000 per annum. 
I was pleased that the discussion on this item was not concluded before we adjourned on Friday last, because I was anxious to produce further evidence in justification of the attitude I had adopted in regard to the proposed imposition of prohibitory duties on certain classes of men's and women's hosiery of British manufacture. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford)  stated last week that be had recently visited a hosiery factory in which he was shown a room full of hosiery of Australian manufacture, which he was informed the manufacturers were unable to dispose of. Imported goods, we were told, were being dumped at . such low prices that local manufacturers were unable to dispose of the stocks they were holding. I informed the Minister that I had visited a factory, where the proprietors bad assured me that they could not supply all the orders they had in hand. 
When in Melbourne during the weekend my attention was directed to an advertisement in one of the daily papers. Being anxious to ascertain the facts and to refute the statement as to why stocks of Australian stockings were being held in such large quantities, I obtained a sample of hoisery, made by a well-known Australian firm, which can be purchased to-day at a retail price of 9d. per pair. &amp; Melbourne firm has purchased 3,600 dozen pairs of these stockings, which were regarded as being of good value when sold at 2s.11d. per pair, and is retailing them to-day at 9d. per pair. A stock of 3,600 dozen pairs would occupy considerable space, and possibly would go a long way towards filling a room. It is possible that the manufacturer referred to by the Minister was unable to get rid of his stock because he was not conducting his business efficiently and had on his hands goods that were unsaleable. 
No manufacturer, having in mind the rapid changes that take place in fashions, particularly with regard to articles of ladies' wear, would stock up to the extent described by the Minister. 
But this item deals also with ladies' stockings. I am therefore justified in explaining how a change in ladies' fashions may affect a manufacturer's business. Not long ago it was decreed that skirts should be worn shorter, and consequently very few young women in Australia will now wear silk hose unless the silk extends above the knee. This possibly explains in part the difficulties of certain manufacturers of hosiery. Possibly the manufacturer referred to by the Minister had thousands of dozen pairs of ladies' hosiery with lisle thread tops, which owing to the change in dress fashions are now useless and may be obtained at 9d. a pair, although the cost -might have been 24s. a dozen. 
I am aware of that, and I propose now to direct my remarks to that point. The Government's proposal is to impose on cotton hose, under the British preferential tariff, a duty of 6s. a dozen pairs, or an ad valorem duty of 30 per cent., whichever rate returns the higher duty. I have procured a number of samples of that class of hose, as well as samples of woollen half-hose, the British preferential tariff on which is now 8s. a dozen pairs, or an ad valorem duty of 45 per cent. Lines that are much in demand amongst the working men in Australia are a blue-grey cotton half-hose, and a knitted sock containing a small proportion of wool, which are retailed at1s. a pair. The new duty on this latter class of hose is a flat rate of 8s. a dozen pairs, or an ad valorem duty of 45 per cent., whichever rate returns the higher duty. The increased duty on this class of sock is 100 per cent., and in the case of the cotton hose it is from 150 to 160 per cent. This added burden will fall chiefly upon the working men. The wealthier sections of the community will not be called upon to pay one penny more for their hosiery. One sample of English half-hose which I have in my hand is invoiced at 6s. a dozen, and the landed cost in Australia under these duties will be 14s. 7d. a dozen pairs. Men of means can very well afford to pay from 3s. l1d. to 4s.11d. for their halfhose, and men in receipt of say £7 a week can afford to pay 2s.11d. or 3s. for their socks. 
Yes. Another line of English half-hose which I have here, is invoiced at 16s. a dozen. The ad valorem duty on this line is 35 per cent., It is wrong in principle to impose a flat rate in conjunction with the ad valorem duties, as the burden falls principally upon theworking men, their wives and their families. 
The woollen  socks  which the working men of Australia could afford to buy under this tariff would not give decent wear in heavy boots. At present they can buy a good British  sock  for from Is. to Is. 3d. a pair. I have made careful inquiries as to the position of the hosiery manufacturers in Australia, and I am advised that they are not offering a line of women's hose at less than 15s. a dozen at the mills, and that if the item is passed as it stands, the poorer woman will have to pay Is.11d. a pair, in lieu of1s. 3d. The departmental manager of one- of the largest stores in Sydney has assured me that the Australian manufacturers are not offering anything to take the place of the men's cotton half-hose, which is now in general use in the warmer climates of Australia. Consequently the Australian working man will have to pay1s.11d. for cotton socks instead of1s. as formerly. Immediately the cost of living rises, the working men are of necessity obliged to apply to the Arbitration Court for a new award to meet the increases. The burden invariably falls upon the working men and their families. If honorable senators opposite realized this, I feel confident that they would agree that it should be possible to reduce the duties in these items without inflicting hardship on Australian manufacturers. 
I desire that the flat rate shall be discarded, because  it'  operates unjustly and its burden falls only on that section of the community which is least able to bear it. I do not wish the foreign manufacturer to capture the market that should be held by Great Britain. I, therefore, move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested  to  amend sub-item  (a)  by leaving  out  " 6s," British preferential tariff. 
If that is carried, an ad valorem duty of 35 per cent, will be imposed on cotton hosiery and children's sox under  the  British preferential tariff. Surely  that  ought to be sufficient? During  last  year the additional protection  which  had been given to Australian manufacturers enabled many  of  them  to  flourish exceedingly. Those  who are  turning out hosiery that meet with the approval of purchasers have nothing of which to complain. 
The shareholders in hosiery companies, and not the manufacturers themselves, have felt the pinch. I say unhesitatingly that a great deal of the trouble has been due, not to the dumping of goods into Australia, but to ineffective methods of distribution and other causes. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
I understood  Senator Payne  to say that the inevitable effect of the imposition of theseduties will be to increase the prices of the different lines of hosiery to which they apply. The honorable senator must know that they have been operating for some time, and that the price of a number of lines now is no different from what it was before they took effect, while in the case of other lines a considerable reduction has taken place. I have in my hand two pairs of children's socks that were made from cotton and artificial silk. Honorable senators must agree that they have the appearance of a superior quality. Before this tariff schedule was tabled the manufacturer's price of these lines was from 20s. to 22s. a doz. They are being sold at the present time at from 17s. to 18s. a dozen. 
A line of all cotton men's half hose, of which I have a sample, is sold at 10s. 7d. a dozen. It could probably be retailed at ls. 3d. a pair and return the retailer quite a good profit. It is the product of Eastaugh Limited, of Melbourne. 
I cannot say. There is no reason why Australian cotton should not be used. A further line of black half hose is sold at 9s. lOd. a dozen, and one of brown cotton at 8s. 5d. a dozen. They could be retailed at about ls. a pair for the browns and a little more for the blacks. 
I am unable to give that information. I am in possession of only the manufacturer's prices. They are quite good socks.  Senator Payne  has posed as the friend of the working man in this chamber, but other honorable senators have just as tender a regard for the working man and his dependents. It is strange that, although we have in Australia a large number of working men's organizations, who diligently watch their interests, the Department of Trade and Customs has not so far received any complaints. I venture to assert that no complaint has been received from those organizations by any honorable senator. 
We should not concern ourselves with what may happen in the Arbitration Court as a result of any alteration of the tariff ; that court might very well be left to carry out the duty for which it was created. Our function is to impose tariff conditions that will enable industries to be carried on in Australia in a reasonable way. The duties which were imposed by Parliament nearly two years ago did not increase the cost of living. 
The last tariff did not have that effect.  On the contrary, many lines which were given much greater protection are cheaper to-day than they were before the new duties came into operation. 
There is now considerable competition among Australian firms, and it has had the effect of reducing the prices of some 0 lines of hosiery by from 25 per cent, to 35 per cent. That applies to practically every class of hosiery. The reason is that a number of firms were encouraged to commence business, and those which were already established increased their capital, their equipment, and their output." At times hosiery, in common with other commodities, can be purchased at very  low prices in foreign countries because their seasons are the opposite of ours and manufacturers and merchants, at the end of summer, frequently find themselves loaded with large stocks which they are pleased to dispose of at very much below cost price. 
The British manufacturer is not given any tariff protection in his own country and his mar"kets have been flooded with cheap goods from the continent. He has bad to bring down the price of his (products to the level of that charged for continental goods. At the end of the season British manufacturers with large stocks on hand are glad to sell them to overseas buyers at almost any price. The position in Great Britain is critical, but while any reduction that we might make would not assist them to any extent, it would probably have the effect of destroying our own industries. Although I have every sympathy with the British manufacturers, in this case I believe that charity should begin at home. We shall be serving the Empire best by establishing our own industries on a satisfactory footing. I therefore hope that the committee will not agree to  Senator Payne's  request. On a previous occasion  Senator Payne  spoke in a similar strain in connexion with underclothing, but his doleful prophecies have not been fulfilled. Investigations made by the Customs Department in Melbourne and Sydney 3how that there have been reductions in the price of many of the lines included 3 'i the last schedule, particularly in connexion with cotton underwear. There has been no material increase in price in relation to any line. There is no reason to believe that the increased duty on hosiery will have a different effect from that of the increased duties imposed on cotton underwear. A number of overseas firms have already established hosiery factories in this .country, aru! others are about to do so. There will, therefore, be keen competition among Australian manufacturers, which will keep prices down to the lowest level consistent with a reasonable margin" of profit. 
I do not think that many members in another place understood the effect of the flat rate. I shall support any proposal to eliminate the flat rate in regard to goods of British manufacture and to leave the British duties where they were before this schedule was introduced. Should  Senator Payne's  request be negatived, I propose to move that in respect of sub-item  a  the House of Representatives be requested to make the duties, flat rates 3s., 4s. and 5s., or ad valorem 30 per.cent., 40 per cent, and 45 per cent., whichever rate returns higher duty; that in respect of sub-item  b  the duties should be flat rates 4s., 5s. and 6s., or ad  valorem  45 per cent., 55 per cent, and 60 per cent., whichever rate returns the higher duty; and that in respect of sub-item  c  the duties should be, flat rates 5s., 7s. and 9s., or ad valorem 35 per cent., 45 per cent, and 50 per cent, whichever returns the higher duty. That would leave the ad valorem duties where they now are while considerably reducing the flat rates. A flat rate of 8s. is now imposed in respect of cotton and wool socks made in England the invoiced price of which is 8s. That is a duty of 100 per cent, on British goods. In the case of woollen socks made in England and invoiced at 5s. 9d., the flat rate is 8s. - a duty of considerably over 100 per cent, against goods made in the dear old Mother Country. The proposal before us increases the duty from 30 per cent, to 100 per cent., yet a little while ago honorable senators, in commenting on what England had done for us, advocated that we should do something in return. My proposal would mean that, in respect of cotton socks, the flat rate would be reduced from 6s. to 3s. in the case of British goods, and in respect of foreign socks from 10s. to 5s. Foreign made goods would still have to bear a duty of 200 per cent. I said the other day that on socks costing 3d. duty amounting to" lOd. was imposed. That is a duty of over 300 per cent. My proposal would reduce that rate to 200 per cent. In the case of socks of wool, or containing wool, my proposal would mean that a flat rate of 4s. would be imposed in respect of British socks invoiced at 5s. 9d. Surely a duty of about 70 per cent.   should be sufficient. In the case of socks made of silk, or containing silk, I propose an all-round reduction of 2s. on the flat rate where the imported price is 7s. - leaving the ad valorem duties as they are as present. The Minister said that I did not quote retail prices. I quoted the prices at which socks could be landed in Australia and compared them with Australian manufacturers' factory prices. That is a fair comparison. I do notthink that the Australian wholesale men are anxious to make more on foreign socks than they can make on Australian socks. It is their business to supply something that the Australian public wants, and they sell these cheap foreign socks because there is a demand for them. Cotton socks can be landed in Australia for 4s.  a dozen. The Tariff Board's report says - 
It would appear that no children's hose entirely of cotton is being made in Australia. 
Some kinds of socks are being made in Australia, but not all kinds. 
Cotton socks can be landed at 4d. a pair. The Tariff Board's report continues - 
Prices tendered in evidence show that children's imported socks are being sold retail in Australia as low as 6-Jd. a pair. The local manufacturer who is making children's socks in silk and cotton mixture gave 13s. Cd. a dozen as the lowest figure at which he could produce cotton socks to compete with the imported socks. So far as men's cotton hose is concerned, the retail prices of imported lines quoted in evidence ranged from 6d. a pair. The lowest price quoted in evidence for men's  cotton socks of Australian manufacture was for those made by Eastaugh &amp; Company, viz., 16s. a dozen wholesale. 
It is true that the Minister has given other figures ; but I am quoting the sworn evidence of Eastaugh &amp; Company, as tendered to the Tariff Board. The report of the board continues - 
The cheapest cotton hose made by Bond &amp; Company was sold by that company at 20s. per dozen pairs, with a retail price of 2s. Od. 
It is dated  November , 1927. If we can build up an industry in Australia, by all means let us do so; but not if it requires the imposition of duties of 100 per cent. British, and over 300 per cent, foreign on some of the lines I have mentioned. Honorable senators realize, I am sure, that what is putting Australia in a grave position to-day is the increase of costs in all directions, and these duties can have no other effect than to increase the cost of living. 
.- We have had a line of socks shown to us which  Senator Chapman  says can be landed at 4s. a dozen, and also an Australian line of socks produced at 10s. 7d. a dozen. I should say that the Australian article would wear three times as long as the other. Any one who knows anything about hosiery would come to the same conclusion. The Australian sock is, therefore, the better -investment for the working man, for whom  Senator Chapman  has put up a special plea. I can understand the honorable senator putting up a fight for his particular views; but even if the duty on foreign socks is 300 per cent., it is Australians who are employed in manufacturing Australian socks, and the value of these is three times that' of the foreign articles.  Senator Chapman's  concern is for the working man! 
I do not know very much about the country man, but I know from observation that there are very few cotton socks worn By Australian workmen in cities. 
Certain lines of hosiery which our Australian manufacturers turn out under the existing tariff can compete- with ease with the imported articles; but the difficulty which we are always encountering - and the position is the same with regard to many other . lines - relates to the shoddy article brought in from, countries where the manufacturers have large quantities of low-grade material which they work up with very cheap labour. Prom a tariff point of view  there is only one satisfactory way of dealing with these shoddy lines, and that is by imposing a flat rate of duty. 
I do not know whether they are shoddy or not. All I know is that the only way to meet the case of the imported shoddy article is to impose a flat rate of duty. That principle does not apply to this item alone; it is duplicated in various forms throughout the tariff, because it is the only way to meet the competition of the imported shoddy article. The difficulty of the Australian manufacturer who is producing socks which he is selling at 10s. 7d. a dozen, is to get a market for them. The importer brings in socks at 4s. a dozen, makes a good profit at that price, and sells them to the storekeeper, who makes a still larger profit. The Australian sock is probably retailed at ls. 3d. a pair, while the imported sock, which is landed at 4s. a dozen, is retailed at ls. a pair. 
It has been shown over and over again that the traders and not the general public get the benefit of these cheap imported socks. The general public, having no knowledge of the quality of the article on sale, buys that which is cheaper, so long as the appearance is good. Consequently, far more is paid in twelve months for imported socks than for the Australian article. I am certain it will be proved in this case, as it has been proved scores of times previously in the history of Australian manufacture, that if we give the local industry a chance, local competition will very soon give the Australian public a thoroughly sound article at a price which is relatively lower than that which is being paid to-day. I have no hesitation in recommending the Senate to do what has been done over and over again in regard to other items, and that is to impose this flat rate of duty, which is the only satisfactory way of dealing with what are called  the  bread-and-butter lines of 'the hosiery trade of this country. It will help the whole trade. In modern industry we need mass production more than anything else. It is useless to give manufacturers a high-class trade only and shut them out of mass production. They must have the greatest possible output, because only by these means can we get the lowest possible price. "When the manufacturer has only a small output, which is being constantly upset by importations, prices must keep up, and so long as that state of affairs continues, the public cannot get the full benefit of the customs tariff. When I was Minister for Trade and Customs, in quite a number of cases we imposed a flat rate of duty - the Senate, I am glad to say, consented to it - and today factory after factory is working at full pressure. That would,, not have been the case if it had not been for the imposition of the flat rates. I can give  Senator Chapman  an instance of a great industry that was established in South Australia by the imposition of a flat rate of duty which was not 100 per cent, or 300 per cent., but in some cases amounted to nearly 500 per cent. That was the duty on motor car bodies.  Senator Chapman  has seen the result. I venture to say that if we do the same in regard to cotton socks, a similar result will be achieved. 
Exactly the same. It is the only way in which it can be done. I think that Ford motor-car bodies were valued for customs purposes at £12 a piece. If I remember rightly we imposed a duty of £60 on foreign motor car bodies. That amounted to an impost of 500 per cent. 
Yes, it put the motor body building industry of Australia on its feet, and the Australian public is getting an infinitely better body, and at a cheaper price than it was getting from the foreign maker. 
Prices have been decreasing all the time, and the same will happen in connexion with socks and stockings. 
Can the honorable senator give me one reason why it will not ? The principle is just the same.   Senator Verran.  - One is a necessity and the other a luxury. 
That does not affect the principle. Under this system the Australian manufacturers are given a fair opportunity to compete against overseas manufacturers of these particular goods. 
The Australian manufacturers do not produce shoddy lines. The Government desires to prevent the importation of shoddy lines which are always affecting the regular and proper trade of the country. The importation of such goods is the most disturbing factor in .trade that I know of, and it is most pronounced in connexion with lines of this nature. When inferior articles are imported at a low price, out of which the traders make a big profit, the public does not derive any benefit, but the whole basis of our industrial system is seriously disturbed. For the reasons I have stated we should have no hesitation in supporting these duties. Personally, I believe they will have the effect of enabling purchasers to obtain a better article, which will give greater service, although the price may appear to be a little more. 
.-- It is strange that some honorable senators should raise such strong objections to the imposition of flat rates ot duty under this item when there are numerous other items in the schedule on which similar duties are imposed. As  Senator Greene  said, flat rates of duty have been imposed in all the tariff schedules introduced during recent years. We are indebted to the honorable senator, who was one of the most successful Ministers for Trade and Customs we have ever had, for pointing out that duties fixed on a percentage basis, are, in some cases useless. 
Not at all. As  Senator Greene  said, goods are sometimes exported to Australia and sold below the cost of production, and in the absence of flat rates of duty it is impossible to 
I know that; but I am -merely using this as an illustration of the point I am making. Why does the honorable senator say that flat rates of duty should not apply to socks and stockings, when there are other items under which similar duties are imposed ? He should be consistent. 
The same system is provided for in other divisions of the schedule. 
The wholesale price of the garment, which I produce, and which consists of artificial silk and cotton, is ls. 8d. The retail price is 2s. 6d., and the flat rate of duty is 2s. 6d. each, or 30 per cent. Notwithstanding this,  Senator Payne  is protesting against a flat rate of duty on socks and stockings which is very much less than the duty on this garment. 
I contend that the honorable senator is adopting an inconsistent attitude because flat rates of duty are imposed on other articles. 
Flat rates are imposed on sizes 3 to 13 of these garments, and of course as the size increases the prices are higher. 
Four shillings and sixpence each, or 45 per cent., and the retail price of the article is 3s. lid. That disposes of the argument of  Senator Chapman,  who said that when a duty is increased the price of the locally produced article also increases. In this case a locally manufactured article is being sold at 20 per cent, less than the duty. 
Yes. If these manufacturers wished to exploit the public they could easily sell these garments at ls. more and still be under the rate at which imported articles are sold.  Senator Duncan  and  Senator Greene  directed attention to the fact that in consequence of the imposition of these duties, Australian manufacturers have been able to reduce prices. There is nothing unusual or strange, as suggested by  Senator Payne  and  Senator Chapman,  in imposing a flat rate as in this case. This system has been adopted to keep out- cheap articles which are of very little use to the public, and to ensure that people will buy superior Australian goods instead of the shoddy articles which  Senator Payne   would like to see coming into this country.  

 .- Senator Poll should obtain his information from a reliable source. He has just made a statement which is not based upon facts. He produced a garment on which he said the flat rate of duty for a size 9 was -4s. 6d. That is entirely wrong. I also remind the honorable senator that I have not had an earlier opportunity while this schedule has been under consideration to oppose flat rates of duty, as this is the first item to which that principle has been- applied. 
I opposed the principle last year and declared that it was wrong.  Senator Greene  made two statements which are quite contrary to fact, and had the audacity to say that a line of hosiery which is imported at 4s. a pair was retailed at ls. a pair. The honorable senator is not aware of the position, as the particular line to which he referred is being sold in the capital cities of Australia at 6d. per pair. I except Canberra, where the price is 8d. I am conversant with the position, because I have been in touch with the industry all my life. The honorable senator also said that the object of a flat rate of duty is to prevent Australian men and women from buying shoddy stuff that will not give them any satisfaction. Why should the honorable senator cast such an aspersion upon the Australian people. Does he suggest that the average Australian is so ignorant that he will persist in buying articles that are of little use to him? 1 maintain that the Australian people are highly intelligent and are as capable of protecting themselves as are those in any other civilized country.  His  statement is absurd. Let us see if these goods are shoddy. For the information of honorable senators I produce an article of British manufacture and made of the best cotton. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford)  produced an article, almost identical, which can be manufactured in Australia, although it is not yet on the market, but he did not say it was shoddy. It is unfair to British manufacturers to say that their products are shoddy; they have a reputation for being honest and genuine in their transactions with their customers. 
He said that the goods which would be imported under this item and which would come into competition with those of Australian manufacture were shoddy. I cannot allow that assertion to pass without contradiction. Every one knows the difficulties experienced by British manufacturers in recovering the trade which they lost during the war period. They are having a hard fight, and when the Minister suggests that British manufacturers are dumping useless stuff on the Australian market, at a low price, he shows that he is not aware of the facts. 
-I am not making statements which I cannot verify. I produce a pair of socks of British manufacture which are sold in Great Britain today at 5s. 9d. a dozen and which, before the war, were sold at 2s. lid. a dozen. That is sufficient to show that the British manufacturers have had to contend with increased costs. Goods which are now invoiced at 6s. lOd. per dozen were, before the war, sold at 2s. 9d. to 4s. per dozen. I know what the distributors in Australia were paying for these goods prior to the war. I know also that since the war the cost of production of these socalled shoddy articles has increased by at least 50 per cent. 
An increase in wages and an increase in the cost of the raw materials. It is not fair to suggest that the British manufacturers are attempting to flood the Australian market with so-called shoddy goods. Actually they are not shoddy. If the Australian manufacturers supplied the local market they would use the same material, and the quality of the article would be the same. 
Does the Minister suggest that it is a crime for an importer to buy cheap job lots of any class of goods? If he saw bargains offering he would be as eager as any one else to secure them. 
As a matter of fact there is a continuous demand for these cotton socks. I have never known of any importer being able to buy them as cheap job lots. If the Minister objects to cheap articles being placed on the Australian market, then surely he has good reason to complain of certain Australian manufacturers, who, at times, flood the market with goods at below cost, to the injury of their competitors in business. 
We have had a long and interesting discussion on this item. It would appear that some honorable senators have more consideration for and sympathy with overseas firms than they have for Australian manufacturers. This afternoon we heard  Senator Chapman  pleading for " dear old mother England." That is a fine patriotic sentiment; but as a representative of the Australian people, I conceive it to be my duty to encourage, by high duties, the establishment of industries in Australia. 
Is it not  a  fact that  We  have given, by way of a bounty, on Australian wine, what is in effect equal to a fixed duty of 300 per cent? That is of special interest to South Australia. Did  Senator Chapman  object? I wonder if we shall see  Senator Payne  frothing at the mouth about the high duties on timber - designed to protect, among others, the sawmillers of Tasmania - when we come to those items in the schedule. It is true, as  Senator Greene  has said, that a flat-rate of duty  is  absolutely essential to encourage  Australian  industries. I have in my possession  a  sample of a lady's undervest, made in Australia by Australian workers from Australian cotton. A year or two ago there was imposed on this article, an ad valorem duty of 30 per cent., and a flat rate of ls. each, British preferential tariff, and a flat rate of 2s. each and an ad valorem duty of 45 per cent, under the general tariff. I have not had time to look up the debates when those items were under discussion, but I have no doubt that  Senator Payne  said then, as he says now, in regard to the new duties on cotton socks, that the proposals of the Government would increase the cost of that article. 
What has been the net result of those high duties? They have given encouragement to the industry, which is now established in New, South Wales, with the result that the wholesale price of the article is ls. 2d., and the retail price from ls. 6d. to ls. 9d. each, a good deal less than the flat rate duty. I am satisfied that our experience in regard to women's cotton undervests will be repeated in connexion with the manufacture of cotton socks in Australia, as well as other articles dealt with in this schedule. I never hesitate to vote for the highest protection being given to Australian industries, and I find it difficult to follow the logic of certain honorable senators opposite in these tariff debates.  Senator Chapman  is consistent only in his inconsistency. The same remark may be applied to  Senator Payne.  I should  like all honorable senators to be con:sistent in their attitude towards this schedule. If high duties on imported cotton socks are harmful to the general community, then high duties on other commodities ' must likewise be harmful. 
I am more concerned about that section of the people, which I endeavour honestly to represent in this chamber, than is  Senator Payne.  It will be interesting to note his attitude when we are discussing the new timber duties. Of course, we shall be- told by opponents of the Government's proposals that they will add to the cost of housing. I do not share that view. The Government can rely on my support for all duties that are likely to encourage Australian industry. I hope, therefore, that the committee will pass the item as it stands. 
I propose to support the Government. There are other items in the schedule, which we shall have to consider. I intend to vote for the new duties on timber, and to be consistent, I must vote with the Government on this item. One of the objections urged against these duties is that they will increase the cost of socks and stockings to the working people of this country, and the suggestion has been made that they should not apply to British goods. It must be obvious to honorable senators that the origin of certain goods that are arriving in Australia is very difficult to trace. Although they are supposedly of British manufacture, they are partly processed in a foreign country, and then finished off in Great Britain. With the knowledge that Australia has been and is being flooded with cheap, shoddy, low-grade timber from overseas, which is a serious competitor of our timbers, it is my intention to support the proposed timber duties. I cannot, therefore, withhold my support from this proposal of the Government, 
I am not reflecting1 on the honorable senator. 
On previous occasions I have voted for a lowering of duties. 
If the figures quoted by the honorable senator are correct, that is so. But industries must be fostered in Australia, and this particular industry cannot compete with the cheaper lines of hosiery that are imported, many of which are of foreign manufacture. 
I realize that. But it cannot be denied that large quantities of hosiery are imported into Great Britain at a low price, and that the British manufacturer exports t6 Australia low-priced lines of a similar quality. Either' we must have an all-round reduction of the tariff, or we must give additional protection where it is needed. The people of Australia stand for high protection. Accepting the position as I find it, and in view of the fact that I am in favour of the protection of the timber industry, which is in a languishing condition, and is on allfours with this, I must vote for the proposal of the Government. 
I take no exception to the attitude which is being adopted by  Senator Payne.  He can vote as he chooses. To be consistent, I must support the item as it stands. 
The charge of inconsistency that has been levelled against  Senator Payne  cannot be sustained. During the consideration of the last tariff he consistently opposed flat rates, but was willing in some instances to support an ad valorem duty.  His  views, however, do not find favour with me. I believe that he has approached the question from the wrong angle. The effect of the proposed duties upon those who are likely to use these articles of apparel will not be nearly as great as he imagines. I have been able to obtain figures relating to the imports of the various States for the year 1925-26. If they are multiplied by five, the approximate figure for last year can be obtained. They show that during 1925-26 Tasmania imported from overseas cotton socks and stockings to the value of only £3,670, which represented only11/4 per cent, of Australia's total imports. 
The population of Tasmania in that year was estimated to be 217,032, or31/2 per cent, of the total population of Australia. It will thus be seen that the importations of cotton socks and stockings by that State amounted to only 41/4d. per head of the population. 
I have the figures for the other States worked out in a similar way. Does  Senator Payne  contend that they use cotton socks and stockings to a greater extent than Tasmania? If they do, Tasmania's proportion is infinitely less than theirs. The figures for South Australia show that the expenditure on imported cotton socks and stockings in that State was 81/4d. a head. 
These figures do not take into consideration the State which the goods entered; they represent the- total importations into Australia, and the value on a population basis. This is such a comparatively small matter that I am at a loss to account for the fuss that is being made.  Senator Payne  and.  Senator Findley  have had a dispute as to who is more entitled to speak on behalf of the working people of Australia. We do not want to hear from either of those honorable senators what are the views of the working people respecting this item. 
They have declared emphatically on a number of occasions their belief in the policy of protection, and their preparedness to pay for it. 
Yes. I refer my honorable friend to the federal platform of the Australian Labour party, which has the endorsement of every Labour organization. It provides for a policy of protection. 
Evidently the working people of Australia are prepared to pay for protection. Why, then, should we worry if it costs them a little more for cotton socks and stockings? I do not intend to allow that fact to perturb me. My concern is to see that Australian industries are maintained on a proper basis. When capital has been largely expended in the erection of factories that are a credit to this country, and in the employment of workers at remunerative rates of wages and under -good working conditions, it is our duty to see that those factories are given conditions which will allow them to carry on. We have placed fairly heavy burdens upon the raw materials that are required by some of our factories ; so why should not we give them the protection they need? Time and again they have shown themselves to be a splendid advertisement for Australia under a reasonable degree of protection. Therefore, we should not begrudge a little extra payment for their commodities. The creation and development of this particular industry have brought about a decrease in the cost of the article which it produces, very often in competition with the imported hosiery. 
Some honorable senators seem to forget that conditions on the other side of the world are not normal, that manufacturers there are prepared to make almost any financial sacrifice in order to continue operations. 
Yes ; but British manufacturers have not hesitated to use the preference given to them under the Australian tariff to take an unfair advantage of Australian manufacturers. 
British manufacturers are not different from manufacturers in other countries. Unlike Senators Guthrie and Payne, I am more concerned with the interests of Australian manufacturers than with those of British manufacturers. 
I am an Australian, and the Australian manufacturer is more to me than is the British manufacturer. Our chief consideration should be for the people of our own land. That British manufacturers should be given preference over those in Australia is a new gospel to me. 
We should first consider the interests of Australian manufacturers. After that the claims of British manuf acturers should be our next consideration. I shall not be a party to injuring the Australian manufacturer in order that a Britisher, with a name like Levinsky, may send cheap cotton goods into this country. 
.- lt is a matter of history that the passing of previous tariff schedules has enabled hosiery factories in Australia, which were about to close down, to continue their operations.  Senator Payne  objects to the imposition of a flat rate in respect of British goods. 
I am as British as is any other honorable senator; but I object to British goods under-selling Australian goods. 
No; but I shall not be a party to assisting British manufacturers at the expense of Australian manufacturers. As a protectionist I can take no other view. This Parliament has protected some industries and it cannot consistently . refuse to protect others. During 1926-27, cotton socks and stockings to the value of £124,320 were imported from the United Kingdom. The importations from foreign countries during that year were - Germany, £44,319; Japan, £22,494; United States of America, £58,096 ; other countries, £9,283 ; making a total of £258,512.  Senator Payne's  request, which would protect the interests of the British manufacturers who send to Australia cotton socks and stockings valued at about £124,320 per annum, is a matter of considerable concern to Australian manufacturers. 
Only during recent years has the cotton-growing industry been established in Australia. People are being settled on the land to grow cotton. 
They are growing it now. In spite of set-backs, the cottongrowing industry has progressed. If we can use in Australia the cotton grown here we should do so. It is true, as  Senator Payne  points out that protective duties, at the outset, forces the Australian public to pay more than it otherwise would pay for certain, goods. 
The benefits are not always felt at the establishment of a new industry; but honorable senators have only to consider the benefit to Australia of the duties imposed on motor car bodies to see the advantage of protection. 
The imposition of high duties on imported motor car bodies has led to the establishment of large factories in Australia. We have only recently commenced to grow cotton and to manufacture cotton goods. There is no reason why those industries should not develop in Australia as has the motor car body-building industry. I have given the value of the importations of cotton socks and stockings during 1926-27. It would be as well if I were to give similar information in respect of woollen socks and stockings. During the year mentioned we imported from the United 
Kingdom woollen socks and stockings to the value of £759,751. Our importations from France were valued at £558; from Germany, £5,385; and from the United States of America, £1,280. The total value of the importations was £767,518. 
I do not know; but the figures I have given show the field which we have to exploit. 
Tes, if we could produce the goods here. 
So far as the cotton industry is concerned, I am willing to go to any extent that the people of Australia can afford to go in order to build it up. I am aware of the unemployment which exists in Lancashire, and I deplore it, but our first duty is to look after ourselves. 
The cotton industry is one in which Australia can become self-supporting. I shall support the item for the reason that it will help land settlement, an important primary industry, as well as a valuable secondary industry. 
Having regard to some of the prices quoted during this debate for British and foreign socks and stockings I realize that under the ad valorem duties certain lines df British imports are taxed about twice as heavily as are goods from foreign countries, even though the duty on British products is only 30 per cent, as against 45 per cent, in the case of foreign goods. That being so, I can appreciate the object of the Government in providing for a flat rate; hut I cannot see that there is any justification for such a prohibitive flat rate as is proposed in the schedule. In face of all that has been said, both in the press and on the public platform, about giving preference to Great Britain, it is now proposed to impose a flat rate, the effect of which will be to prohibit the importation of British-made hosiery into Australia. The Government would be well advised to reduce the flat rate by one-half. By so doing it would accomplish its object and provide a measure of protection sufficient to satisfy all reasonable persons. Even then the flat rate would be considerably above the ad valorem duties. In my opinion, it is pure hypocrisy to provide for both a flat rate and an ad valorem duty and to say that whichever is the higher will be collected. If the figures quoted by  Senator Reid  are correct, Australia does an immense import trade in woollen socks and stockings. It is now proposed to impose a duty of 8s. a. doz. on all such goods. The effect of that will be that for some years at any rate the Australian public will pay more for these articles, because the Australian manufacturers, according to their own showing, have nothing to take their place. With a duty of 45 per cent, ad valorem surely the local manufacturers ought to be able to capture some of the enormous market which is apparently available to them. A little while ago  Senator Duncan  said that these industries were a splendid advertisement for Australia. I should like to know where the advertisement is given, and where the goods are advertised. According to the Tariff Board's report it is not possible for the product of a single Australian secondary industry to be exported and sold in competition  with the rest of the world. If people have to come here to see the advertisement referred to by  Senator Duncan  it seems to me that it will prove to be a rather bad one. If visitors realize that with all the protection we have - generally speaking our rates of duty are high- we cannot export a single manufactured article, the advertisement will not be a good one for us. All we can hope to do now is to supply our own local needs, and when we have done that the manufacturers will come forward with the claim that they cannot further extend their operations without higher duties. Having no market to exploit and not being able to export we shall thus be adding to our cost of living, and each increase in the cost of living will mean further increases of  wages  through the Arbitration Court. The Minister in charge of the bill would be  well  advised to announce that the Government is willing to cut down the flat rate by  50  per cent. If he will do so he will have very little trouble in getting the item through the Senate. There is no comparison between the ad valorem duty and the flat rate. One is three or four times greater than the other. 
The flat rate on British goods will amount to  200  per cent. I am not worrying about the foreign goods. It has been said over and over again that Australia is living on its wool and wheat. Great Britain isthe best customer we have for wool. Yet we say to the British manufacturers, "You can buy your wool here, but we shall take jolly good care to see that we do not wear any of the clothing you make out of it." 

 Senator GUTHRIE  (Victoria)  [5.9!.  - I am as staunch a protectionist as is any other honorable senator. I believe in building up Australian industries and I am pleased that we are growing some cotton in Queensland, although we are doing so under a heavy bounty. Cotton-growing like many others, is a spoon fed industry, but I do not say that it is wrong to pay a bounty if the objective is to make  a  start with an industry. I should like to see Australia grow enough cotton to supply its own requirements, even if we cannot export any, which, I am afraid, we shall never be able to do, because of our labour conditions. I am in favour of protection, but I do not like prohibition, especially against the Motherland, which has protected us and financedus since the foundation of Australia. Flat rates of duty amounting to about  300  per cent, on cotton socks are neither revenue nor protective duties. They are absolutely unadulterated prohibition. We expect Great Britain to buy  60  per cent, or  70  per cent, of the total products of Australia, which she does, and to defend us in our hour of need; yet we propose a prohibitive flat rate of this kind. I do not care . how high the tariff is against foreign countries that do not buy goods from us. From the United States of America, for instance, each year we import goods worth  £41,000,000,  and it takes from us practically nothing except a little wool, on which  We  have to pay a duty of Is.  31/2d.  per lb. on a scoured basis. I was shocked to hear  Senator Duncan's  sneering remarks about the dishonesty of the British manufacturers. Throughout the centuries the British manufacturers have been regarded as the most honest, honorable and efficient in the world. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).  No point of order is involved. 
I am pleased to accept  Senator Duncan's  assurance that he did not make the remarks that I certainly thought I heard him make about British manufacturers, but I think other honorable senators will agree with my version of what he said. He even mentioned a foreign name in this connexion. 
I am in favour of the ad valorem duties and of some flat rate; I am in favour of giving Australian manufacturers of socks adequate protection in the hope that they will build up the industry.  Senator Greene  hit the nail on the head when he pointed out that while we were giving Australian manufacturers protection on the finer lines, they needed it on the larger and cheaper bread-and-butter lines to enable them to establish their industries and profitably carry on. 
Yes ; up to a point, but in the item under consideration the flat rate amounts to a duty of  200  per cent, against Great Britain in the case of certain lines. 
I should have said that the duty amounts to over 100 per cent, against British socks; mathematicians close by tell me that it is 150 per cent. At any rate, it is a very high rate' for cotton socks, and I should like to see some slight modification of it. I am very anxious that Australia should be able to build up secondary industries, particularly to supply its own requirements, but I resent imputations against the honesty of British manufacturers. I want to point out how much  Ave  owe the Mother country. How can we expect her to finance us and protect us if we put up a tariff wall which will prevent us from buying anything from her? "We expect her to buy 60 per cent, of our products every year, and we must take goods from her in return. We do not want gold; we export gold. 
Yes, but if we impose too high a tariff wall we shall make the importation of goods prohibitive. 
The Minister is referring to the duties on light worsteds. In that case there was sufficient evidence to show that they were being dumped here below the cost of yarn and material. That was sufficient proof to me that the yarns of which they were made were made on the continent of Europe. If I can be convinced that cotton socks imported from Great Britain are produced whole or in part in foreign countries I shall not care how high the tariff is. My object is to foster trade within the Empire, and I do not care how high the tariff may be against foreign countries, particularly those that do not buy produce from us. I cannot support  Senator Payne's  request, but if a request is put forward to make the flat rate a little more moderate than it is now, I shall support it. 
I shall not support  Senator Payne's  request, but I will support a request to make the fixed rates of duty under the British preferential tariff on cotton socks, 4s.; woollen . socks, 6s.; and silk socks 5s. That would give a benefit to the Mother Country and at the same time sufficiently protect the local manufacturers. 
I think that would be going too far. 
.- I propose to persist in my request even if I stand alone. I am as good a protectionist as  Senator Greene,  but I am not a mad protectionist. I know how far protection ought to go. It ought to protect, not injure, the people. I am out against the injury that will be done to a very large section of the people of Australia if this item stands as printed. I want to remind ' the honorable senator who said that he was not going to froth at the mouth over the matter that I do not intend to froth at the mouth over it, nor do I intend to babble about it. The figures I have submitted have been compiled with accuracy. If the item is agreed to as printed it will mean a burden on a section of the community that is least able to bear it. The poorer people invariably wear a lower priced article than the wealthier people. 
They do if they want to pay for what they get, and most of them are honest. A man with a salary of £5 a week cannot afford to pay for goods the high prices that a man with a salary of £20 a week can afford to pay. The poorer people will be called upon to pay the fixed duty, amounting to 100 per cent., on British manufactured socks of low grade, but when we come to the finer grades of cotton socks, lisle thread and others of that type, which are invoiced, at 18s. a dozen and upwards in England, the people who buy them will be called upon to pay only 30 per cent, ad valorem. That is not fair. 
It is approximately 6s. 
The fixed duty is 6s. If the honorable member studies the schedule, he will see that I am correct. 
Yes, on cotton hosiery the British preferential duty is 6s. per dozen.  Senator Duncan  had the audacity to cast an aspersion on the Tasmanian people. 
He quoted figures which he knew were unreliable, as they applied only to the direct importations from overseas into Tasmania. He knows as well as I do that four-fifths of the goods imported by Tasmania pass through the mainland States, which receive credit for the importations. 
The honorable senator said that the total importations of cotton hosiery, into Tasmania represent 41/4d. per head per annum of the population. The honorable senator knows that no records are kept of the quantity of such goods actually used in Tasmania. He is also aware that when I first introduced this subject I clearly pointed out that the duties proposed under this item do not affect the people of Tasmania to any material extent. They affect mainly the people of New SouthWales and Queensland, who wear cotton goods. In these circumstances he cannot say that I am pleading for the people of Tasmania whom I help to represent in this chamber. All this talk about preference to Great Britain is only so much " eye-wash." 
I am dealing with the importations under this particular item. The Minister and those associated with him have erected a tariff wall 10 feet high against British manufacturers, and another 12 feet high against foreign exporters. The Government know that the highest that British manufacturers can surmount is one of 8 feet, but they have said as the wall erected against Japan and America is 10 feet, and that against Great Britain only 8 feet, they are giving Britain a preference. They know it is impossible for British manufacturers to profitably export to Australia under such conditions. I hope, however, that a majority of honorable senators will support the request and that the Government will bring forward an amended schedule. 
Question - That the request  (Senator Payne's)  be agreed to-put. The committee divided - 
Ayes . .  . . 9 
Noes . .  . .  . . 17 
Majority . .  . . 8 

<graphic href="118332192803145_17_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192803145_17_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
Request negatived. 
I indicated earlier in the debate on this item that if the request on which we have just divided were negatived, I would move for a general reduction in the flat rates of duty. In view, however, of the discussion which has taken place, I propose to limit my request to a. reduction in the British preferential rate, and to allow the intermediate and general tariffs to remain as they are. I therefore move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duty (flat rate), sub-item (a), 4s., British preferential tariff. 
I am particularly interested in socks of British manufacture made of cotton and wool, the invoice price of which is8s. a dozen, and the flat rate on which is approximately 75 per cent. In connexion with other exhibits of children's socks which I submitted, the invoice price is 5s. 9d. a dozen, and the Sat rate of duty being 6s. per dozen, is over 100 per cent. I have submitted "this  request, because I believe a number of honorable senators are opposed to increasing the duties against British manufacturers from 30 per cent, to more than 100 per cent. If we impose higher duties against British manufacturers, we shall not be assisting that imperial sentiment which we desire to foster. 


 Senator Payne moved  a  request to eliminate the flat rate of 6s. That request was negatived, ' and the request by  Senator. Chapman  to reduce the duty to 4s. is in order. 
I ask honorable senators not to support the request moved by  Senator Chapman,  because a reduced flat rate of duty would be insufficient to adequately protect those engaged in the manufacture of this class of goods. As previously stated, there is not likely to be any increase in the retail price of the socks and stockings mentioned in this item. Owing to internal competition, prices are likely to remain as they are, and may even be reduced. 
This item affects only State governments, because no private firms in Australia use rails weighing 50 lb. and over to the yard. Higher duties on iron and steel have rendered necessary higher protection for other secondary industries, for which iron and steel are the raw products. The Government has not shown that the increases proposed in this item are justified. In addition to a substantial duty the iron and steel industry in Australia has been further assisted by a tremendous bounty. This item will seriously interfere with big railway building schemes so necessary for the development of Western Australia. I should like to have some explanation from the Minister with regard to it. 
The proposed increase in the British preferential tariff is only 15s. a ton. The Tariff Board made an exhaustive investigation into the position of the iron and steel industry and made recommendations which were carefully considered by Cabinet and embodied in this item. It is considered that the rates of duties proposed are necessary and in the circumstances reasonable. I need not stress the need to encourage this industry. We all recall the service which it rendered to Australia during the war when it was impossible to obtain supplies of rails from overseas. At the request of the British Government, Australia supplied South Africa with a considerable quantity of railway material which was urgently needed. This is one of our biggest industries. Two English firms, Messrs Dorman Long and Co., and Baldwin's, have amalgamated with two Australian firms, Messrs. Hoskins Bros., and Howard Smith Limited., with the idea of establishing new works at Port Kembla in New South Wales. The capital of the new concern will be about £5,000,000. As the industry develops it should benefit the whole of the States. We all hope that the day is not far distant when the valuable deposits of iron ore in. Western Australia will be utilized. Several secondary industries that depend for their raw material upon the manufacture of iron and steel, have been established in Australia.  It is advisable that we should take all steps necessary to ensure that Australia will have an adequate supply of iron and steel and not he dependent upon outside sources. I trust that the Government's proposals will commend themselves to the committee and that the item will be agreed to. 
This item certainly does not commend itself to me. As  Senator Carroll  has stated, the proposed new duties on steel rails weighing 50 lb. per yard and over, will be paid by State governments, . because few if any private enterprises use rails of that weight. Western Australia is a State of huge distances and railways are urgently needed to insure its development on satisfactory lines. . These increased duties, added to the other, two curses o£ Australia - the Navigation Act and the administration of the Arbitration Act - particularly affect that State. The administration of the Arbitration Act makes the manufacture of iron and steel in New South Wales extremely difficult, and has been responsible for a substantial increase in the price of the finished product. So far as Western Australia is concerned the effect of the Navigation Act is that by the time freight is paid from Newcastle to any port in Western Australia, the cost of the article is almost out of reach. The development of primary industries in that State is being seriously interfered with. I am not satisfied with either the item or the explanation of the Minister, and I do not see how any representative of Western Australia can vote for it. The succeeding items are almost worse. When an honorable senator or an honorable member of another place is unwilling to consent to the raising of any duty to an exorbitant rate - as is proposed in this and other cases - the tendency is to allude to him as a freetrader. I should characterize as ultra protectionists those who advocate such high duties. 
They are not new protectionists. Advocates of that policy seek to dictate the ratio in which the spoils shall be divided among employers and employees, the public suffering all the time. Whenever a duty such as that now before the committee is  proposed  the friends of honorable senators who sit opposite are to be found awaiting its passage so that they may get a " cut " out of the increase. That is a wrong policy. We are building around Australia a wall which is steadily isolating us from the rest of the world. Far from doing good, it will ultimately make us the laughing stock of every other country. The proposed duty that we are now considering is a most iniquitous one, particularly in relation to its effect upon Western Australia. I cannot support it. 
.- I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duty, sub-item  (a),  35s. British preferential tariff. 
The Government proposes a duty of 50s. If my request is. agreed to, the duty will revert to what it was formerly. 
I hope that the committee will not agree to the request. Recently very many overseas quotations have been lower than those of the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited, but because of goodwill towards the local industry a majority of the ' States have obtained the bulk of their requirements from Newcastle. It is scarcely fair to place upon those governments , the responsibility of having to decide between a lower oversea and a higher Australian tender. The Broken Hill Proprietary Limited have undertaken not to raise their prices if the duties are increased. 
.- I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make sub-item  (c)  read - 
Single lever mortice locks and single lever mortice lock sets - ad valorem, British, 45 per cent.; intermediate, 50 per cent.; general, GO per cent. 
Since these duties were tabled importers have been endeavouring to defeat their intention by importing locks separately, and claiming that they should be admitted under sub-item a at 35 per cent. British preferential, and 45 per cent, general tariff. If my request is agreed to the matter will be placed beyond dispute by the addition of the words, " Single lever mortice locks " to the words, " Single lever mortice lock sets." 
.- Am I to understand that the duty under the British preferential tariff has been increased by 10 per cent.?- If that is so, what is the reason for it? 
The duty has been increased by 10 per cent,  so as  to protect an Australian industry. These locks are being manufactured in large quantities in Australia. 
Request agreed to. 

 Senator CRAWFORD  (Queensland- 
Honorary  Minister) [6.5].  -  I  move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to add at the end of the item - " By adding a new sub-item  (e)  as follows - 
Barrel and socket bolts - ad valorem, 
British, 45 per cent.; intermediate, 60 per cent.; general, 65 per cent. 
Whenthis matter was investigated  by  the Tariff Board there appears to have been  a  misunderstanding, and seeing that increased duties have been provided in connexion with another part of the same application, it is proposed to rectify the omission in respect of barrel and socket bolts. The effect will be to increase the duties in the existing schedule  by  10 per cent. 
Request agreed to'. 
Item agreed to, subject to requests. 
Division VIII. - Earthenware. Cement, China, Glass and Stone. 
Item 242 (Hood lights). 
.- Can the Minister give the Senate the reason for the proposed duties on hoodlights for motor cars, and the average value of the hood-lights imported into and produced in Australia? 

 Senator CRAWFORD  (QueenslandHonorary Minister [6.8] .   -  Hood-lights are now being manufactured in considerable quantities in South Australia. The proposed increased duties will not affect our trade with Great Britain, as nearly all the hood-lights imported come from the United States of America. The manufacture of hood-lights in Australia was commenced in 1919, when it was difficult to obtain them from abroad and the price of American hood-lights was high. At that time the Australian manufacturers could compete with the imported article, with the result that the price of American hood-lights was gradually reduced from 12s. 6d. to 8s. 6d. each. A new oval design, costing 17s. each, was then introduced, but as hoodlights of this design were also made in Australia, the effect of the Australian competition caused the price to be reduced to 9s. each. Later, to meet the demand for a cheaper hood-light, American hoodlights which could be landed here at 3s. 3d. each, after paying a duty of 35 per cent., were used. This cheap hoodlight has driven the Australianmade article from the market, because Australian manufacturers cannot produce hood-lights under 4s. 9d. each. 
Item agreed to. 
Item 243 agreed to. 
Division IX.  -  Drugs and Chemicals. 
Item 278 agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.10 p.m. to 8 p.m. 


 Private business taking precedence after 8 p.m. 

The terms of the motion submitted by  Senator Thomas  involve an expression of opinion on the part of the Senate which is not justified on the facts as I propose to state them; and but that the honorable senator has based his case on the lofty principles of closer Imperial unity, I should have felt it unnecessary to do more than submit to the Senate a few figures and some relevant truths. If the motion were carried and effect were given to it, involving as it does an interference with the charges made by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, the inevitable result would be either the acquisition of the company's business by the Commonwealth Government, or the payment of subsidy equivalent to the reduction in its charges. The attitude of the Government is to allow Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited to pursue its course and develop without political or governmental interference so long as it conducts its business on reasonable and properlines. I think the position was clearly summarized by the Prime Minister in the debate that took place in another place on the Wireless Agreement Bill prior to the Christmas adjournment. The right honorable gentleman said - 
The Government feels strongly that if initiative and progress with regard to wireless matters in Australia are to be assured, it is highly desirable that these activities should not become merely one of the instrumentalities under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. 
While the ideal aimed at by  Senator Thomas  is worthy of every consideration, and while the honorable senator is to be commended for the interest he has at all times taken in the advancement and progress of wireless generally, that is the attitude of the Government with regard to acquiring the interests of Amalgamation Wireless (Australasia) Limited. As the result of the inauguration of the beam service, at which my friend particularly aims, the saving to this community in the cost of overseas communications has been variously estimated to be from £250,000 to £400,000 per annum. The estimate of £400,000 was made, I think by the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. The honorable senator will see therefore, that a vast saving to the community has already been brought about by the introduction of beam wireless. 
One matter which seems to have escaped the observation of  Senator Thomas  is best illustrated by explaining the rates and charges made by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited for overseas communications. I should like it to be understood that the total number of words with which we are  dealing includes not only outward messages, but alsothose received from over seas. The following are the rates charged by Amalgamated Wireless: - 

<graphic href="118332192803145_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Whatever the effect on the cable companies may be a conference is now taking place overseas at which the Commonwealth is represented by the Director of Post and Telegraphs, and by another gentleman who is representing commercial interests, and efforts are being made not only from the stand-point of communication, but also from the more serious stand-point, that of defence, to bring into line the two means of overseas communication, cable-  grains, and wireless messages. But that is another story.For the moment I propose to address myself to  Senator Thomas'  motion. The honorable senator admits that there ought to be an extra charge in respect to messages marked " Urgent," or those sent in code, and he would leave the fixing of the rates for those messages in the hands of the company. Nor docs he propose to interfere with the terminal charges over which Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited has no control. I put it to honorable senators that at present the rate at which  Senator Thomas  aims is almost attained, in so tar as the company itself is concerned, in the case of the cheaper classes of messages, which are largely availed of by the public. The honorable senator in moving his motion used the homely illustration of a young man separated from his own folks in the Old Country. I take it that men of that type are sufficiently alert to their own interests to take every advantage of the cheaper rates imposed for week-end messages, or the daily letter telegrams. I have no desire to go into the subtle distinctions drawn by the cable companies, the wireless company and business men generally in regard to the use of ordinary plain English in the coding of messages. Coding is resorted to extensively by big business houses; as a matter of fact many of them employ experts for the- purpose. The beam service has not been in operation twelve months, but if it has already reduced the charges on the community generally to the extent I have indicated, surely that is an accomplishment of which the company and Australia should be proud. It is most desirable to cheapen means of communication, and how much further the company will go in this direction depends on how much cash it has available for developing this new science to the fullest degree. . 
During the debate in the Senate on the Wireless Agreement Bill I indicated that improvements in the transmission of messages overseas were under consideration. What has already happened is almost revolutionary, and there are tremendous possibilities ahead. Certain experiments are now being undertaken by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. In the circumstances I advise honorable senators to leave this new method of transmitting messages overseas to the company which has already accomplished much, and gives promise of accomplishing a great deal . more. The honorable senator has not suggested that it is badly managed.For non-urgent messages in plain language the rate received by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited varies from 1 5-32d. to 2d. per word. The honorable senator will admit that we cannot interfere with the British Post Office; nor do I think he would suggest that we should interfere with the terminal charges here. On 43 per cent, of its total beam traffic 
Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, charges not more than  1 5/8d.  On 25 per cent, of its beam traffic the company charges 2d. per word. Nearly 70 per cent, of its traffic is carried at 2d. at word or under. I refer to the week end message, daily letters, press messages and deferred press messages. These are all plain language messages, not classified as urgent. The company has no control over the terminal charges or the charges imposed by the British Post Office. The remaining 30 per cent, of the beam traffic carried by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited consists of messages in code or in plain language which take precedence over other, classes of traffic, and, therefore, come within the category of messages, which  Senator Thomas  admits should be liable to an extra rate. Commercial houses which have large overseas telegraphic correspondence employ specialists to code their messages, and I do not think that  Senator Thomas  had that class of business in his mind when he was suggesting a reduction. I regard his motion as being in the nature of a gesture, and the mention in it of the rate of Id. a word as merely an indication that, in his opinion, some reduction should be made. I venture the opinion, however, that when honorable senators consider the rates at which these messages are now transmitted, and other facts which I' have put before them, they will be satisfied that the people of Australia are being given a reasonably cheap service. It is not unreasonable that an extra rate should be charged for code messages or messages in code language. Putting it broadly, it appears to me that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited itself, apart from its cooperation with the British Post Office, is already approaching very closely to. the ideal which  Senator Thomas  has in mind in advocating a charge of Id. a word for what I may term ordinary social messages.  Having regard to the outside interests involved, it seems to me that it is impossible, at all events at this stage, and under present conditions, to ask Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited to further reduce its charges. As I am not sure that honorable senators have a clear view of what the terminal charges really are, I should like to clarify the position. It would appear from matter with which the mover of this motion was good enough to supply me, that he thinks the terminal charges are necessarily imposed by virtue of decisions reached at the International Postal Convention. That is not the actual position. The terminal charge in Australia is levied by the Postmaster-General and in England by the British Post Office; but whatever rate is levied on one company in regard to overseas communications,whether by wireless or by cable, has, in accordance with the decisions of the International Postal Convention, to be levied on all other . companies. If Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited were charged a terminal rate of 2d., we should be bound to charge the cable companies a similar amount, and vice versa. 
We should have to reduce to Id. the terminal charge levied upon the Eastern Extension Cable Company and the Pacific Cable Board. Nothing, however, hinges on that point. It is within the power of the PostmasterGeneral of the Commonwealth or the British Post Office to. reduce the terminal charges; but once they are reduced to one company a similar reduction must be made to all other companies. 
That may be so; but I want to make it clear that, while certain services are given or may be demanded in return for these terminal charges, they are not always sought by either Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited or the cable companies. It often suits their book to transmit and deliver their own messages; but they are always entitled to call upon the PostmasterGeneral or the British Post Office to do a certain amount of work for them in connexion with the transmission of messages. These terminal rates are to cover the cost of the service provided by the Postal Department, although it is not always fully availed of. As I said when the honorable senator was speaking, these terminal rates are to an extent a national charge. If a reduction in terminal charges were made, and we desired to maintain our present revenue from the Post Office some increase would have to be made in the charge for the transmission of ordinary messages in Australia. I have already stated that the whole question of future wireless and cable communication is under consideration by a conference which has been sitting in London for some time. Australia is represented at that conference, and representatives of the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa are also in attendance. Amongst other matters attention is being given by it to. the subject of rates, and until it has completed its investigations, and submitted a report, it is not intended to take any action in the direction of amending the present terminal or other rates. 
Viewing the question from a business stand-point, I should like to direct the attention of honorable senators to the. reductions that have been made in the charges for overseas communications. Last year the cable rates between Australia and Great Britain were as follows: - Ordinary rate, 2s. 6d. per word, deferred rate, ls. 3d. a word ; daily letter cablegrams, 9d. a word; week-end rates,  7½d.  a word. A few weeks before the beam service commenced operations, however, the cable rates were reduced to 2s, for ordinary messages, and to ls. for deferred messages. At present the com.parate rates for cable and beam messages are as follows: - 

<graphic href="118332192803145_24_2.jpg"></graphic>

This comparison shows that for the weekend and daily letter telegrams the cable rate is 50 per cent, higher than the beam rate, and that for deferred and ordinary messages it is 20 per cent, higher than the beam rate. The cheap rates of 5d. and 6d. a word, via beam, for week-end and daily letter messages are largely availed of by the public. 

 Senator Thomas was incorrect in stating that the capital cost of the beam was £120,000. What he had in mind, apparently, was the actual amount of the contract for the purchase and erection of the apparatus here. 
The figure was not accurate if it was given as representing the total capital cost. 
I am not blaming the honorable senator; I am commending him for what he has done. The capital cost of erecting masts and other apparatus was £120,000, but in addition other expenses were incurred in research work, staff training, and land line rentals paid by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. A sum to meet the cost of feeder stations had also to be provided. We may take it that the beam service has cost Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited approximately £300,000. That sum represents only one-half of the cost of the beam system, as a corresponding service has to be provided on the other side of the world. Without it the expenditure here would be utterly useless. The expense of equipping the service, keeping it up to date, and sending officers home for training is one of considerable magnitude, and having regard to the company's balance-sheet for the year ended the 30th June last, it cannot by any stretch of imagination be said that it has made large profits. It is only fair, however, to point out that the figures cover only a few months of the working of the beam service, and that we shall not be able to form an accurate estimate of a full year's operation of the beam service until the balance-sheet for the twelve months ending the 30th June next is issued. We shall then be able to say whether the wonderful profits which have been visualized by some will materialize under the conditions I have indicated. On a capital of approximately £760,000, the profits of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited for. last year, after making proper allowance for depreciation, were only about £25,000, and I am sure that after a longer period has elapsed those honorable senators who ventured to express certain opinions regarding the action of this courageous Government in investing money in this wireless adventure will admit that excessive profits have not been made. 
A - A. portion of it is here. As an honorable senator pointed out at the time, the Government showed great courage and foresight in entering into this enterprise and deciding that such a highly technical commercial concern should be placed under the control of business men and allowed to develop without political interference. 
We have the courage, but there are so many carping critics of every government enterprise that heaven only knows how they manage to carry on as well as they do. 

 Senator Thomas has urged that the reduced rate proposed by him is designed to bring about a closer Imperial relationship. Let me deal with the motion from that point of view. I have already shown that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited is called upon to bear a very heavy expenditure, but I have no doubt that the company, in the interest of its own business - I shall show presently that it is not the only pebble on the beach - will make its charges as low as possible. For the year ended the 30th June, 1926, the inward and outward messages transmitted between the United Kingdom and Australia totalled 12,930,241 words - a total far short of the 50,000,000 words of which  Senator Thomas  spoke. Of this number the Pacific Cable Board transmitted 6,460,435 words, and the Eastern Extension Company 5,469,806 words. Honorable senators will see that the trade was pretty well divided between the two companies at that stage. For the year ended 30th June, 1927, before the beam service had been operating for any length of time, the total number of words transmitted inwards and outwards was 13,328,076. Of this total the Pacific Cable took 5,936,110 words, the Eastern Extension Company 6,100,642, and Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, which had been operating from 8th April, 1,291,324. 
They include everything. But there are other considerations. Certain interests associated with the Eastern Extension Company did not utilize the beam system; and it would be hopeless to expect Amalgamated Wireless to secure that business, even if rates and terminal charges were still further reduced. What I have said is, I think, a sufficient indication of the trend of the business in overseas communication. I am sure that Amalgamated Wireless will seize every opportunity to advance its interests, and get as much business as possible. The best way to do this is to provide an efficient and cheap service. I believe it can truthfully be said that the company is doing this. I do not propose to make any comparison of the cost of transmission overseas by the three services available, because I think I have said sufficient to convince honorable senators that the charges on the class of business which  Senator Thomas  had in view are reasonable, and that Amalgamated Wireless and the Government are not unmindful of the fact that cheap wireless messages will do much to further the Government's migration policy, as well as assist in tightening the ties which bind us to the Motherland, if that be necessary. 
There are one or two further facts which I propose to bring before the Senate. In the first place I should like to refer to the suggestion of  Senator Thomas  that if the rate were reduced to 1d. a word 50,000,000 words per annum would be transmitted and a revenue of £208,000 thus secured. It would be a very long time indeed, even if charges were reduced, before anything approximating 50,000,000 words could be transmitted by Amalgamated Wireless. The figures dealing with the business to date show that for 43 per cent of its messages Amalgamated Wireless receives 1 5/8d. per word. This, I may add, is the only class of business which would be affected by the motion now before the Senate. For 2 per cent, of its messages it receives 1 5/32d. ; for 25 per cent, of its business, it receives 2d. a word; for 11 per cent., it receives 4d., and for 15 per cent, only of its business does it receive the full rate of 81/2d. Judging by the figures for last year, the total cable and wireless business this year, unless there is a remarkable increase in volume, will be between 15,000,000 and 20,000,000 words. If honorable senators, having these facts in mind, will attempt a simple sum in arithmetic, they will be able to estimate for themselves what the revenue of Amalgamated Wireless is likely to be, and also have a fair idea of the expenditure necessary to maintain its equipment in a state of efficiency and to carry out experiments. At ' present, the company's expenditure is in the neighbourhood of £80,000 per annum. Additional traffic will, of course, mean an increase in expenditure. I feel sure that all honorable senators are agreed that wireless will, in the future, play a still more important part in the affairs of the world than it has in the past. From what little I have learned during my association with the Department of the PostmasterGeneral, I believe that Australia, is in the very forefront with regard to wireless communication. For this enviable position we have, I think, to thank Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and those associated with the company. They have never hesitated to incur expenditure to secure the latest information obtainable concerning the progress of this science, and they have always courageously striven to keep in the forefront. In the circumstances I ask honorable senators not to bring this company within the ambit of a discussion as to the reasonableness or otherwise of its charges. Any questions that may arise will receive sympathetic treatment at the hands of the Postmaster-General. I deprecate any -interference with the policy which has developed along the lines I have indicated. We should all like to see the charges reduced. I have no doubt, also, that those responsible for the management of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited would like to bring the rates down ; but they are proceeding with caution, having regard to those developments which are still under consideration, and which we may say, without being too optimistic, point to an even better means of communcation than that which exists at the moment. I. trust, therefore, that  Senator Thomas  will not presshis motion. The subject has other angles. 
Wireless is a new science. As a layman, I confess that developments which have been brought to my noitce recently have amazed me, and I feel that it would be little short of criminal to interfere, in any shape or form, with the work that is now being done. I say this with all respect to  Senator Thomas,  because I believe it should be our business to assist and sympathize with the company in the service which it is rendering to the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
It seems to me that of late years, whenever an industry languishes, those associated with it are under the impression that the one remedy is to secure additional protection, and accordingly they rush to the Government or to the Tariff Board for relief. Very often those ills from which an industry suffers are in no way attributable to the lack of, and, very often, cannot be cured by, protective duties. A point has been made during this debate, both here and in another place, that one of the principal causes - indeed, almost the only cause - of the inability of the Australian timber industry to meet overseas competitors, is the extremely low freights which prevail between timber-producing countries and Australia, and the extremely high freights ruling between the Australian ports. Therein, I think, lies the remedy which we may apply. I believe we should have a permanent cure for the ills which beset the timber industry in Australia if some substitution of the remedy which has become so fashionable in industry could be made. It has been stated that it costs considerably less to bring timber from American or Scandinavian ports to Australia than to ship timber from a Tasmanian port to Victoria, from a New South Wales port to Western Australia, or from a Queensland port to any other part of Australia. That, unfortunately, is a true statement of the position, and  since we cannot bring about an alteration in freights from other parts of the world to Australia, does it not behove us, instead of seeking relief by the imposition of higher duties, to consider for the moment whether it is not possible to obtain relief from the extremely high freights that obtain around the Australian coast? That is not only possible but, in the near future, inevitable. Let us consider the factors that contribute towards the raising of freights. The main contributing factor is the Navigation Act, of which I honestly believe the Australian people are becoming heartily tired. It cannot continue to operate for many more months. It is imposing upon the people of Australia an irksome burden which they find extremely difficult to bear. It renders unprofitable many industries which otherwise would flourish. For what purposes has it been allowed to operate ?  It brought about conditions in the maritime industry, of the like of which the world had not previously had experience; yet the workmen who are engaged in that industry are the most discontented in Australia. Dissensions in their ranks are continually holding up the commerce of this country. At the present time 25 ships are idle around the coast of Australia. The class of shipping engaged in the coastal, trade is steadily deteriorating and the number of vessels is daily becoming fewer. Because we do not remedy the position by abolishing the coastal trading clauses of the act we are forced to create a tariff which undoubtedly will have the effect of increasing the cost of building throughout Australia. The substitutes for timber are steadily increasing in number and destroying what should be a most profitable industry. I refer more particularly to the remote parts of Australia. I feel sure that my Tasmanian friends will pardon me for referring to their State as a "remote" one. It is remote only from the point of view of the freights that obtain between it and the mainland. It is true that in "Western Australia the timber industry has suffered to a less extent than in Tasmania. Partly on account of its geographical position, and partly also because of the excellence of its products, a very large and profitable export trade has been built up with South Africa. The high freights that have ruled from Western Australia and Tasmania have prevented the timbers of those two States from playing as prominent a part as they should in the building and manufacturing operations in the large centres of population in the eastern states. The reduction of freights which inevitably would follow the repeal of the coastal trading provisions of the Navigation Act would result in the restitution to Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland of a very large share of the markets on the eastern seaboard. 
Undoubtedly they would. In Western Australia Ave have to include in our reckoning the possibility of a diminution in, if not the total extinction of, our South African trade. We have already sent to South Africa and various other ports in Africa a sufficient number of sleepers to lay and relay the Cape to Cairo Railway. If honorable senators will reflect for a moment they will realize what an immense quantity of timber such a work would require. The supplying of those sleepers was a highly payable proposition, due mainly to the fact that a very large proportion was obtained at piece-work rates by timber hewers, who deservedly earned a very high wage. 
Certainly. I point out, however, that wastage would have occurred in any case because the biggest proportion was taken from private lands on a royalty basis. Such an idea did not occur to the owners before this trade was instituted, and in other circumstances the timber would have been destroyed. It is admitted by both sides to this argument that the tariff, if passed in its present form, is bound to cause an increase in the cost of building. The estimate of what that increase will be varies according to the fiscal faith of those who make it. The advocates of these duties represent it as negligible, while those who would abolish the duties argue that it will be very considerable. Probably the truth lies between the two. If it does, the increase will amount to a considerable sum. In this connexion I ask the Government to consider for a moment the effect upon the financial liability it is shouldering in connexion with its building scheme - -the biggest that Australia has ever seen - and also what it will mean to the welfare of its potential clients, and what will be the effect upon the securities it will be offered for the money it advances. 
It is not like my honorable' friend to adopt the role of a pessimist. 
I have always regarded the honorable gentleman as the most cheerful Leader of the Opposition I have ever met.  His  cheerfulness and resignation in the office that he holds are so great that I hope he will continue to occupy it for many years to come. There is another factor which has to be considered. In/the present state of forestry in Australia,  Oregon  is absolutely indispensable. For certain purposes in the construction of buildings no other timber can take its place. In addition, the instances in which  Oregon  displaces Australian hardwoods are few. Under those circumstances is it not extremely injudicious to do what will inevitably cause its price to be raised? In perhaps 30 or 40 years' time there may be an appreciable growth of softwood in Australia. When that time arrives it will be advisable to place a duty on  Oregon  and other foreign softwoods ; but in the meantime we shall only raise false hopes if we prohibit the importation of  Oregon  with the object of substituting our hardwoods for it. I have alluded to the fact that there are other' troubles connected with this industry. One, this industrial trouble, applies, to all other industries. There is no doubt in my mind that the industrial leaders throughout Australia are anxiously following the progress of this debate and awaiting the result. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
 I hope that the committee will agree to the proposed duties. I am in accord with all that  Senator .  Kingsmill has said regarding the baneful effects of the Navigation Act and other acts upon the timber industry. If the Navigation Act had not caused freights to be increased to an unreasonable extent; if the Arbitration Act had allowed sawmillers to manage their own business; and if there was not such an exorbitant tariff on other commodities that are required by the sawmiller, the probability is that there would now be no necessity to advocate these duties. But we have to accept the position as we find it, and endeavour to keep the mills working by imposing a duty on foreign importations, hoping that in the near future the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act will be repealed, and that other laws will be so amended that the sawmillers will be able to manage their own business. I wish to reply to a few of the arguments that have been adduced in opposition to these duties. I have in my hand a nicely prepared pamphlet entitled, "Increased duties on softwoods, and why they should be rejected." Doubtless those responsible for its compilation have put forward the best arguments of  which  they are capable. The first argument advanced against these duties is - 
The increased duties will not assist the local sawmillers because they will not lead to an increase in the consumption of Australian hardwoods. 
Unfortunately for that argument, there is evidence of an increase in the consumption and sale of local timber since this schedule was introduced. There is to-day in the sawmilling industry a feeling different from that which prevailed before the higher duties were imposed. Men are being engaged, new mills are being opened, and orders are being received for timber which would not have been the case but for the higher duties. I have received a number of telegrams bearing out that statement. One from the  president  of the North-Eastern Sawmillers' Association in Tasmania reads - 
New tariff helping timber industry substantially. Many mills re-opening. Prospects much brighter. 
Another reads - 
Mills actually re-opened as result increased tariff; others contemplated on large scale with seasoning kilns making prompt supplies available provided Senate confirms duties. Undoubtedly consumption will vastly increase' as organizations Tasmania, Victoria combining to standardize prices qualities and organized sales. No justification assertion by opposition that sales will not increase. Saw millers can meet any demand that can arise. 
Another "reason why it is said that increased duties on softwoods will fail in their purpose is - 
The most serious depression in the timber trade of Australia at present is in those sections which use high grade timbers with which softwoods do not compete. 
Australian hardwood has to compete against hardwood from the Pacific Islands, Manchuria and Japan. All imported timber competes with our hardwood. Baltic competes with our weatherboards, floorings and linings, Oregon competes with scantlings for the frames of buildings; Manchurian oak and Pacific maple compete with our furniture woods. A third reason why it is said the increased duties on softwoods will fail in their purpose is - 
The burden of the increased duties will fall upon those sections of the community which are' least able to bear it, viz., new settlers in the country and the small wage earners. 
Fancy new settlers in the backblocks importing timber to build their houses. Some time ago I visited the outback country of Victoria and New South Wales, where I found a great many of the settlers living in houses made of timber and hessian. In Tasmania rough hardwood was used for houses in the early years of settlement. So far as the effect of increased duties on the homes "of small wage earners is concerned I have here some figures which show that for a house designed by the Victorian Savings Bank, the additional cost, by reason of these duties, would be £7 6s., or about 2d. a week. If hardwood were used instead of Baltic, a five-roomed house would cost an additional £25 because of these increased duties. But it would last twice as long. I -have seen in Tasmania houses built of Tasmanian hardwood which after 50 years still look new and are quite sound. 
The figures I have quoted refer only to the timber. The labour costs would be slightly higher with hardwood; but the amount would not be a serious item. It is also urged that the ri42T local timber industry is depressed because of inefficiency in the saw-milling industry. I have always found that those v/ho have been in a business longest know most about it, whereas those with only a superficial knowledge are generally the most willing to give advice. I know of instances in which large sums of money have been expended in the installation of uptodate plant, and in obtaining the best expert advice, and yet the project has failed, whereas smaller mills with plant easily moved from place to place have succeeded. I have no hesitation in saying that Australian saw-millers know as much about their job as do saw-miller's in any other country. It must be remembered, however, that whereas in some countries there is very little waste - no heart or sap, but solid timber right through - in Australia probably not more than 60 per cent, of the timber can be used. It is further contended that - 
One of the main causes of the depression in the country milling branch of the industry is that architects, including government architects, will not specify the use of .such timber as blackwood or Queensland maple owing to the excessive prime cost, and the high cost of working them, and Pacific Island timbers take their place. 
That is partly true.. The other day I asked a question concerning the timber used for furnishing a branch of the Commonwealth Bank. The specifications provided for Pacific maple and oak - I believe Japanese oak. I saw the timber, which was imported, and I also had an opportunity of learning its cost, which was about twice that of seasoned Tasmanian hardwood. I also" saw specimens of furniture made is the same establishments of Tasmanian hardwood and blackwood, as well as of imported timber, and so far as I was able to judge, the Australian timber more than held its own. 
The Treasurer said he had no knowledge of the kind of timber used. 
I hope that whoever is responsible will be sufficiently loyal to use Australian timber in the future. One of the best authorities on timber in Australia is  Mr. Lane-Poole,  who when Conservator of Forests for Western Australia made the following statement :  - 
Between 500,000 and 750,000 tons of utilizable wood are being burned by sawmillers every year, and this destruction is mainly due to the quantity of small. sizes not required. If there was a proper duty these sizes would be of commercial value. I should welcome a revision of the tariff, and would like to see so heavy a duty placed on imported woods as to force the community throughout Australia to use its own wood. 
I do not know. But it is more applicable to-day than it was years ago. The only way to save timber is to use it. If forests are allowed to mature without being cut, and settlement advances, the timber is burned either deliberately or accidentally. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
In opening his attack on the timber duties,  Senator Kingsmill  complained that the remedy generally advocated for reviving languishing industries was an increase of duties. The honorable senator then gave us his remedy. Apparently, his panacea for all the evils that Australia is heir to is  the abolition of the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act and the introduction of black labour to vessels trading on our coast. 
According to  Senator Kingsmill  Australia's prosperity would be ensured if only the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act were repealed. It is remarkable that a young country like Australia, whose natural wealth in her timber is so great, is importing timber. In 1920-21, when the duty on timber was last under review, we imported 243,000,000 super, feet. By 1926-27 our importations had increased to 464,000,000 super, feet, an increase of 221,000,000 super, feet. 

 Senator is quoting an abnormal year. 
It is curious that that abnormality lasted for nearly six years. Much of that imported timber comes from countries where timber workers are paid wages very much lower than they are paid in Australia. During the general debate it was stated that higher wages were paid in the United States of America than in Australia. That certainly does not apply to the lumber industry, for according to the  Bulletin of the United States Bureau of Labour,  No. 413, in which, at page 16 statistics dealing with wages and hours of labour in the lumber industry of that country for 1925 are published, in some cases the average full-time earnings for one week is only 17 dollars. 
It is 48hours, as against 44 in the timber industry in Australia. In 1925, in this industry, 36,698 labourers working approximately 48 hours a week received an average of 17.77 dollars, which is something like £3 14s. a week, compared with the Australian average wage offrom £5 to £7 a week. Machine feeders in the planing mills receive 20 dollars, which is also lower than the Australian weekly wage. It has been said by some who object to the increased duties on timber that they may affect the number of houses being built; but I have a return prepared by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, which shows that, since the imposition of the increased duties, there has been a considerable increase in the number of houses constructed. I could quote a lot of figures in support of the increased duties. A supply of wood is as essential for the nation's development as is a supply of food for the sustenance of the nation's citizens. The low duties we have had in the past have been responsible for the closing down of many mills, and for causing a considerable amount of unemployment. The plea put up by  Senator Kingsmill  that the increase in duties will add to the cost of building homes, has been answered completely by  Senator J.  B. Hayes, who has shown that the increased cost in the building of a house is infinitesimal. It is certainly infinitesimal compared with the extra employment afforded to our people, and the better use to which our timber may be put. 
One could go on at considerable length in support of the increased duties. I can scarcely understand any one, with any idea of the necessities of Australia's development, opposing them. The figures relating to past importations should be quite sufficient to make any honorable senator consider very carefully what he will be doing if he votes against the increased duties on timber. 
We have to decide what are reasonable duties to impose on timber. I am quite aware that the timber industry is a rural one, and I am equally alive to the fact that it is an important one; but we have to realize the effect any increase in the cost of materials may have on our national development. I understand that the latest increases in duties have had the effect of increasing the cost of a five-roomed brick house, under the Victorian Government specifications, by £7. That is admitted by those who have applied for the increased duties. On wooden houses the increased cost is very much more. It is all very well to say that it does not amount to very much; but we have to think nationally. If we are to give increased duties every time they are requested, in the end we shall come to national bankruptcy. Originally the duties on timber were : - Undressed, 12 in. x 6 in. and over, 4s.; 7 in. x 2£ in. and up to 12 in. x 6 in., 5s. 6d. ; under 7 in. x 2£ in., 7s.; and dressed, n.e.i., 8s. 6d. The Tariff Board, after going exhaustively into the request for increased duties, recommended the following rates: - 5s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 9s., and 10s. 6d. In its report it said - 
In the opinion of the Tariff Board, to recommend anything beyond the rates recommended herein would be a serious mistake, in view, of the depression in the building industry, and the high cost of construction obtaining in the different parts of the Commonwealth. 
Despite this recommendation the Government, because of certain representations made to it, introduced rates of duty which were considerably higher than those recommended by the Tariff Board ; but even then honorable members of another place were not satisfied. They forced the Government to impose still higher rates, and these we have in the schedule now before us. They are, respectively, 8s., 9s. 6d., Ils., and 15s., compared with the original duties of 4s., 5s. 6d., 7s., and Ss. 6d., but the duty on redwood is not altered. Honorable senators must admit that they are very substantial increases. The duty paid on importations of undressed timbers in 1926-27 amounted to £700,531, and on dressed timber to £346,798, making a total of £1,046,829. Had the timber thus imported paid duty at the increased duties in the present schedule it would have yielded a revenue of £1,774,567. In other words, the people are now asked to pay an additional £727,738 a year for their timber. We find that these duties are, to a large extent, paid by the people of New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia, and that Tasmania's share is only 1 per cent., or 4d. per head of the population. 
I admit that. Of the timber duties I have mentioned, New South Wales pays about 46 per cent., Victoria 28 per cent., and South Australia 19 per cent. .Of the duties on dressed timber, New South Wales pays 23 per cent., Victoria 66 per cent., and South Australia 7 per cent. I can understand the attitude adopted by the Tasmanian representatives in this chamber, but we must consider how the duties are affecting timber-users in the other States. I have figures in connexion with South Australia, which I believe are correct, but the accuracy of which I cannot vouch for, showing that the timber duties paid last year under the old rates were £134,483, and that under the new rates the increase will amount to £107,000, or about 70 per cent. This will make the amount of duty payable in South Australia nearly £250,000 yearly. 
I shall deal with that aspect of the question shortly. It is evident, however, that in all cases, hardwood cannot be used in place of softwood. The invoice cost of 4 x 2 oregon up to 32 feet in length, delivered c.i.f. 
Port Adelaide, is £6 10s. 6½d. per 1,000 feet super., and if we deduct freight and insurance amounting to £2 19s. lid., the net f.o.b. price per 1,000 feet is £3 10s.  7§d.  Duty at lis. per 100 feet is £5 10s. per 1,000 feet, which is equal to 155 per cent, on the f.o.b. cost. 
 What is the price per 1,000 super feet? 
 Is that the duty paid price? 
 Is the honorable senator referring to running or super feet? 
 Is the price based on lineal or super, feet?- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
As honorable senators are aware, I believe in the policy of protection, which has been approved by a substantial majority of the people of Australia. I also believe in the White Australia policy, the Navigation Act, and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There are some honorable senators who are opposed to the White Australia policy and to the two statutes which I have mentioned. From time to time we are supplied- with so-called solutions of our difficulties.  Senator Kingsmill,  for instance, believes that even if we did not have straight out free trade we should have nothing more than a revenue tariff. The honorable senator believes that if we abrogated the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act and wiped out the Arbitration Court the clouds of depression which overhang Australia would speedily pass away and would be followed by the sunshine of prosperity. I believe in affording the highest measure of protection to the' timber industry, which is a natural industry, and has not received the measure of justice it deserves. When I hear  Senator Kingsmill  and others, who profess to be enthusiastic in regard to afforestation, opposing these duties, I naturally wonder what they really mean. One would expect them to believe that the fullest consideration should be given to our timber resources and to the possibilities of our forests. 
It does. Why do we impose high duties ? Because industries cannot be established in Australia without the imposition of such duties. How is it possible for those engaged in the timber industry in Australia to compete with others engaged in. similar industries in other parts of the world if they arc not protected by customs duties? The 
Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  referred to the wages paid in other countries, but before I quote them, let me say that I am somewhat amused when I see certain honorable senators seized with sudden spasms of sympathy for the poor settler and the poor working mau whom these duties, we are told, will prejudicially affect if they erect timber dwellings. In my opinion these duties will not mean increased costs to those who build hardwood houses. Hardwood houses will, as  Senator J.  B. Hayes said, last longer than those built of softwood, and will not depreciate to the same extent. The cost of the upkeep of a hardwood house when compared with that of the upkeep of a house built of softwood is infinitesimal. A softwood tenement has to be painted fairly frequently. In the case of buildings constructed of softwood timber, the cost of painting is much higher. Hardwood does not require to be treated so frequently, and probably it will last twice as long as softwood. Let us now consider the wage conditions in the timber industry in Australia and other countries. I find the following information in the report of the Tariff Board : - 
Canada. - Lowest wage payable is 25s. per week (black labour). The average weekly hours are 58. 
America. - Lowest wage paid is 40s. Cd. (black labour). Average of 57.5 hours is the working week. 
Sweden. - Wages paid, 7s. 7d . per day. Working week 48 hours. 
Australia. - Lowest wage payable is 83s., for 48 hours per week. 
Canada. - Average hours per week, 58; average weekly wage, £3 14s. 6d. 
America. - Average hours per week, 57.5; average weekly wage, £3 14s. Cd. 
Australia. - Average hours per week, 44; average weekly wages, £4 13s. in 48 bush sawmills. 
In Canada and America no holidays are paid for, whilst nine holidays are paid for in Australia, also travelling time, &amp;c.' In Sweden there is no overtime, holiday pay, or travelling time. In America, of the 45,068 employees in the industry, 25,310 are classed as labourers. Under Australian awards all that we can classify as labourers is between 10 per cent. -and 15 per cent. 
These statements were given in evidence on oath before the Tariff Board. The Victorian  Forestry Commission, in its annual report for 1925-26, stated- 
Should the utilization of timber be prevented in any way, not only will an economic area of tremendous value bc lost to the State, but the forests themselves will ultimately be lost, for such is the nature of the species peculiar to these mountain areas, that whilst trees mature rapidly, they also deteriorate in a correspondingly quick time, becoming in their weakened state a prey to the forests pests, and more inflammable. 
That, at all events,  is the viewpoint of the Victorian Forestry Commissioners. In recent years there have been serious bush fires in Victorian timber areas and many lives have been lost. Much of the timber that was destroyed by those fires would, no doubt, have been marketed had these new duties then been operative. We have heard a good deal lately about the need for decentralization. Those who believe in that policy should support the Government up to the hilt with regard to these duties, because sawmilling is naturally a country industry. Many small towns in Victoria are largely, and, in some cases, wholly, dependent upon the timber trade, and, in former years, large numbers of men were engaged in the industry. Unfortunately, overseas competition has seriously interfered with the saw-milling business of Victoria and the other States of the Commonwealth; but the imposition of these duties has given an impetus to the industry. While it may not be true that all the mills will be re-opened immediately, I am sure that many will be profitably employed in the near future. With better organization the industry should shortly be more firmly established, and should give employment to a large number of men. No reasonable argument can be advanced against the Government's proposals. It is true that Oregon, no matter how high may be the duty, will still be imported. It was not contemplated that the duties should be prohibitive. For certain work I believe Oregon is more or less essential. 
The  CHAIRMAN" (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's .time has expired. 
I doubt if there is one item in the schedule with regard to. which honorable senators find it so difficult to obtain reliable information in connexion with this item, which deals with the timber industry of Australia.  Senator J.  B. Hayes spoke just now of the mass of information which had been sent to honorable senators concerning timber. It is obvious that the inclusion of this item in the schedule has directly benefited the postal revenue. Like  Senator J.  B. Hayes, I have been inundated with information, doubtful and otherwise, upon this important, matter. It is not easy for me to determine how much of it to accept as sound and how much may be regarded as unreliable; but I have endeavoured, to the best of my ability, to arrive at correct conclusions concerning the industry. It ia generally admitted that the timber trade of Australia is in a serious position. Many mills have been closed and their owners are in dire financial straits; but, as  Senator Carroll  has pointed out, other industries are suffering' to a like extent. Why is the timber industry in its present parlous condition? Those who advocate increased duties say that, up to the present, it has not been adequately protected. It is possible that, had the importation of foreign timber been discouraged by higher duties, there would - have been a greater demand for Australian timber; but I am inclined to believe that other factors have to be taken into account. The building trade, as we all know, is passing through a phase that was not contemplated a few years ago. There has been a remarkable development in concrete construction, and builders are utilizing more and more substitutes for timber. For example, fibro-cement sheets are now being extensively used in ' certain localities because they are cheap, easy to work, and are white-ant resistant. 
I think that may be explained by the fact that for certain classes of work imported timber is essential. I have in mind particularly concrete construction for city buildings, for which there is no satisfactory substitute for 
Oregon, which is used so largely for framing or casing. We seem, also, to be within measurable distance of the time when concrete will be more generally used for cottage construction work. Experts' have expressed the opinion that the subjection of Australian hardwood to wet. on one side, and dry heat on the other, in concrete work, causes it to buckle, and to interfere seriously with the construction of the building. That does not happen with Oregon. 
That is so. These considerations impel me to suggest that by imposing an additional duty we are placing a severe handicap upon our own people without having any guarantee that the result will be the use of Australian timbers to an increasing extent. I take it that before the Government brought down this tariff they gave the most serious consideration to the requirements of the position. The dutieswhich were tabled in another place, were different from those that we are now considering. These were forced upon the Government by a majority of honorable members of another place, who perhaps had not had the opportunity to' sift the information in the possession of the Government and their advisers. 
Oregon used for casing is infinitesimal. 
It is used' also in many other directions. Some of these duties appear to me to have been designed to assist the United States of America at the expense .of portions of the British Empire. For example, the duty on American redwood is lower than that proposed on timber from Canada and British Borneo. Thus the users of timber in Australia are practically being invited to use redwood from the United States instead of timber that has been produced within the Empire. 
Some of it may be, but a great deal of it is not. 
I certainly do not. Both have distinctive uses. I cannot see that the use of redwood is more vital to this community than the use of 
Oregon;  yet for some reason that I have been unable to fathom, the duty on redwood is lower than that on  Oregon.  It is true that we have not in Australia a satisfactory substitute for  Oregon. 
As .  Senator Kingsmill  says, it applies to all excessive duties. I do not believe that our adoption of these proposed duties will result in considerable increase in the use of Australian hardwoods. Oregon will continue to come in, and the only effect of these duties will be- to add to the costs of the Australian home builder and those who are building up our industries. "We are not justified in placing additional hardships upon Australian industries. This tariff was designed to assist them. If it could be shown that these duties would have the effect of building up the Australian timber industry, I should be prepared to withdraw my objection to them. New South Wales produces a large quantity of timber, and sawmills in different parts of that State have been in a parlous condition for some time. If I thought these duties would help them to any considerable extent, I would support them; but I do not believe that they will. On  the  contrary, they will do injury to others. I, therefore, oppose them. 
 I have listened with interest  to  the reasons given by  Senator Duncan  for his opposition to these increased duties. In the past, he has been a keen supporter of high protection for Australian industries. Now, for the first time, we find that he is a free trader. If his argument were applied to all industries, they would be able to compete on an equal basis. A little while ago I moved the adjournment of the Senate, to draw attention to the position in which the timber industry found itself. I then endeavoured to show that, as a result of legislation that had been passed from time to time by the Parliament of the Commonwealth, this industry had been changed from a thriving into an unprofitable one. The Government of the Commonwealth has on different occasions increased the tariff with the object of assisting Australian industry. Whenever the Prime Minister addresses a public meeting, he refers with pride to the standard of living that has been reached in Australia. I do not defend that standard of living, because I believe it has not an economic basis. But this Parliament is bound to see that those who have invested their capital in the timber industry receive fair treatment from the Government.  Senator Duncan  doubts whether these increased duties will place it on  a  more profitable basis. The Minister  (Senator Crawford)  and other honorable senators have urged the necessity to afford greater protection to other industries which . find it impossible to compete with countries in which the standard of living is lower than that which obtains in Australia. This industry  is essential  to Australia. Unless our  timbers are put  to a commercial use, they have to be destroyed. If we wish to encourage their use, we must pass these duties.  Some  honorable senators claim that  the  cost  of  building will be substantially  increased.  That is a debatable point. 
There  will not be an appreciable difference  in  rent.  Senator Kingsmill  has argued that Australian woods cannot take the place of those that are imported, and that there are particular uses to which  Oregon  is put and for which our hardwoods are not suitable. I remind him that during the war softwoods were not imported, and our hardwoods were used almost exclusively, although the prices were very high. I admit that  Oregon  is specially adapted to certain uses. It  is true that in some instances Australian hardwood cannot take the place of  Oregon.  Seeing that protection is the accepted policy of Australia, it is not right that it should be applied to other industries and denied to the timber industry. Each year hundreds of thousands of pounds are sent out of this country for timber which could be obtained in Australia. By increasing the duties on timber, we shall find employment for a number of our unemployed. 
It is true that the sawmilling industry is not immune from industrial troubles, but the industry will not be established on a proper basis merely by repealing the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act. If we set up tribunals for fixing- wages, we must give adequate protection to industries which suffer thereby. 

 - Senator Kingsmill has on a number of occasions advocated that Australia should adopt a more vigorous policy of reafforestation. Already the Government has established in Canberra a Forestry School, and placed at its head a man who has had considerable experience in forestry. That gentleman has advocated that duties on timber should be so high as to prohibit the importation  of  softwoods in order to com  pel  the people  of  Australia to use Australian timbers. 
Surely it is sound reasoning that if we give protection to other industries we should give protection also to  the  timber industry. 

 Senator THOMPSON (Queensland) duties on timber were before us for consideration, I opposed them because I felt that they would adversely affect the mining industry of Queensland. Although 
Oregon  was not used in Queensland mines, I feared that an increase in the duty on  Oregon  would be reflected in the cost of Australian hardwood. 
Unfortunately, the mining industry of Queensland is in anything but a flourishing position. I have therefore to reconsider the position to some extent. The Minister's statement was certainly not very helpful. It would appear that because in another place the Government was forced to accept increased duties, this chamber must do the same. I do not subscribe to that view. Probably honorable members in another place are now in a more reasonable frame of mind and would agree to a request for lower duties on timber. Like other honorable senators, I have received numbers of telegrams and letters relative to the duties on timber. From my perusal of them I have concluded that the advocates of lower duties have made out the better case. Timber getting to-day is more expensive than it was in earlier years for the reason that sawmillers now have to go further back to get suitable timber, with the result that transport difficulties are increased. In Queensland, sawmillers have to meet heavy royalties on timber. 
Yes. In such circumstances Queensland saw-millers naturally look for some protection. 
I agree with those who urge that the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act should be repealed. When in Adelaide some time ago I saw at Holden's motor body building establishment a large stack of timber. When I asked if it came from Queensland the manager replied that, although he would prefer Queensland timber, which he knew to be of good quality, the timber in the  stack caine from the Philippine Islands because, notwithstanding the duty on it and the longer distance that it had to be carried, it could be landed more cheaply than could Queensland timber. Recently when in Mildura 1 saw shooks for fruit cases branded " Made in Sweden." When I suggested that shooks could be obtained from Queensland, I was informed that it was cheaper to get them from Sweden. I cannot accept the figures quoted by  Senator J.  B. Hayes as to the additional cost of building which these higher duties would necessitate. Prom information in my possession, the additional cost, instead of being about £7 as mentioned by the honorable senator, would be over £20. The Directors of Forestry in both New South Wales and Queensland advocate saving our timbers and importing timber for some years to come. The Queensland Director of Forests recommended that in order to preserve the forests for the future, importations should be continued for 30 years. 
According to information received only to-day, I understand that he is of the same opinion as is the  chairman  of the Provisional Forestry Board in Queensland. Although T had received no communication from Queensland in regard to this item prior to this sitting. I have now received from inspired sources a number of letters and telegrams. To some of these communications I attach little importance, but one of them is worded so reasonably that I propose to read a few extracts from it. It is from James Campbell and Sons, Ltd., large' saw-miller of Brisbane.. On the 9th inst, this firm sent me the following telegram : - 
Timber industry never in worse state. Accentuated frequent large- importations from New Zealand and overseas. Appeal you strongly support tariff passed Representatives. 
In a letter dated' the 12th March, 1928, the firm wrote- 
Regarding the wretched state of the timber trade in Queensland during the past twelve months, we really could not exaggerate the position. Several mills have closed down altogether, and, if present conditions continue, many more will follow. You will no ' doubt have heard a good deal during the past year or two regarding the timber industry, such as shortages of pine in Queensland, &amp;c, but we might state that Queensland has pine to fulfil our requirements for a good many years yet. Unfortunately, . Oregon pine - we mention this timber, because it is our biggest competitor - is competing greatly with our hardwoods, of which Queensland is richly endowed, and there is no visible shortage whatever of this timber. This is the cause of so many of our millers going out of business. When we see so many shipments arriving from overseas, many of them with 1,000,000 or 2,000,000 feet at a time for our port, and realize that it means that quantity less of our own timbers to be used, it brings one to sternly realize how our industry, with its vast number of employees, is encroached upon. The labour on imported timber is very small as compared with the labour on our own timbers, when you come to take into consideration the labour entailed right from the falling of the tree to the putting it through the mills. Compare this with imported timber. We could really work our mill plants with about 25 per cent, of our normal employees if we dealt solely in imported timbers, but where the sawmill employs in its mill and timber yards, say, 100 employees, it necessitates a further 75 in the forests or scrubs. Then; also, with these bush workers, there is a number of other dependent trades in the country such a? blacksmith, wheelwrights,  harnessmakers,  .farmers, &amp;c. 
That communication has induced me to favour a modification of the timber duties rather than the complete elimination of the increases and I therefore propose to ask the Senate to request the House of Representatives to make the duties on item 291, sub-item f3 (timber n.e.i.), 5s. British, 5s. intermediate, and 5a. general. Those rates, I think, would enable the millers to carry on and at the same time would avoid the high cost of dwellings which high duties must inevitably bring about. 
Progress reported. 
[10.36]. - I move - 
That the House do now adjourn. 
As honorable senators are aware,  Sir Henry  Barwell is about to resign his seat in the Senate with a view to taking upthe position of Agent-General for South Australia. Last week I asked him if he would he coming to Canberra before his departure for London. He promised to let me know if he could do so, and I am now in receipt of the following telegram from him: - 
I regret exceedingly that owing to many important engagements here it is quite impossible for me to visit Canberra prior to de- parture. Will forward resignation to Presient in few days. With kindest regards and wishing farewell to yourself and fellow members in Senate. 
I think I am expressing the feelings of honorable senators when I say that we all wish  Senator Barwell  every success and happiness in his new career, and that we hope he will be spared for many years, and eventually may return to Australia. Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
-I echo the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I hope that  Senator Barwell  will have a pleasant voyage to England and will be long spared to carry out his duties in his new sphere of activity.  His  politics and mine are as far apart as the poles, but I have always admired bis pleasing personality - and charm of manner. These are attributes that endear a man to his fellows, and for these reasons alone, if for no other, we shall miss him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What are the quantity and value of importations into the Commonwealth of newspaper printing paper? 
What portion, if any, of the local requirements is met by newsprint manufactured in the Commonwealth? 
The answers are - 
Imports of newsprinting paper, not glazed, millglazed, or coated, during the last three years were as follows: - 
In rolls not less than 10 inches in width. 1924-25, 95,008 tons, £1,932.535; 1925-20, 104,906 tons, £2.079,320; 1926-27, 108.595 tons, £2,089,011. 
In sheets not less than 20 inches x 25 inches or its equivalent, 1924-25, 8,438 tons, £.169,423; 1925-26, 3,909 tons, £79,147; 1926-27, 14,833 tons, £287,502. 
Newsprint is not yet commercially manufactured in the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
How many new buses have been purchased recently by the Federal Capital Commission? 
Were tenders called for ? 
When were the buses put into commission ? 
What was the price paid for the chassis? 
Who are the agents for the buses? 
Have there been any breakages in connexion with the new buses; if so, what was the nature of such breakages, and how much has been spent on repairs? 
Is it a fact that these buses will not accommodate more than seventeen passengers each ? 
Is it not a fact that these buses are totally unsuitable for the work they are called upon to do? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Is he aware whether certain of the chairs in the members' rooms, Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, cannot be used by members because of the condition of disrepair into which the cushions have been permitted to fall ? 
Is he aware whether the messenger in charge of the roomshas, in accordance with his general instructions, reported this fact to the department? 
Is it afact that he has been informed that no funds are available to carry out these very necessary repairs? 
The answers are - 1, 2 and 3. A requisition for repairs to cushions, &amp;c, was received by my department, but funds were not available to enable the service to be carried out. The work will, however, be put in hand at the beginning of next financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state whether the Government has received copies of the papers, &amp;c, read and discussed at the World's Poultry Conference in Canadalast year? 
If so, will he make them available to members, and when? 
The answers are - 
No. 
The papers, &amp;c., when received will be made available. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to introduce a bill this session providing for national insurance? 
If so, will friendly societies' representatives be given an opportunity of considering the proposed legislation before it is dealt with by Parliament? 
During the tariff debate we have heard of geographical protectionists, revenue tariffists, scientific protectionists and fiscalists of other types, but I do not think that  Senator Duncan  is in any of those categories. He may be regarded as a will o' the wisp protectionist. 
When we were discussing the duties on socks and stockings yesterday, he was a most pronounced protectionist; but immediately we reached the item of timber he adopted a different attitude. He favoured the use of redwood, which I understand is imported from British Borneo, where Chinese coolies are engaged in the timber trade. It is remarkable to find that  Senator Duncan  is an ardent protectionist when some items are under consideration, but is willing to leave the Australian timber industry to the tender mercies of those who employ Chinese coolies. 
The honorable senator laid particular stress on the use of substitutes for Australian timber. 
I understand from information I have received, that importers stress the use of substitutes in modern buildings; but statistics do not. support their arguments. In 1920-21 the  per capita  consumption of timber had risen from 136 to 160 super feet. The consumption of foreign timbers increased from 33 per cent. in 1920-21 to 48 per cent. in 1925-26, and the reduction in the consumption of native timber was from 66 per cent. in 1920-21 to 51 per cent. in 1925-26. When I was discussing the timber duties yesterday, I quoted the quantity of timber imported into Australia during a period of six years, the values of which are very interesting. In 1924-25 we imported timber valued at £4,448,000, and exported timber to the value of £1,630,000: In 1925-26 our importations were valued at £5,305,600, whilst our exports were valued at £1,377,000. 
Yes. Our exports decreased by £253,000, whilst our imports increased by £857,600. That position should be entirely reversed. The object of the timber duties under consideration is to place the timber industry, which is now in a languishing condition, on a proper basis. Although we propose to increase the duties on timber, we should concurrently pursue a systematic policy of afforestation and re-afforestation. So far as I understand from the information at my disposal, a majority of our conservators of forests favour high duties and a vigorous policy of re-afforestation. 
They advocate adequate protection in the form of Customs duties, and a vigorous policy of reafforestation. Large quantities of timber are imported from countries where the wages paid are much lower than those ruling in similar industries in Australia, and where the conditions of labour do not approach those which obtain in Australia. Sweden has supplied large quantities of timber to Australia, although the quantity received during recent years has diminished somewhat. In 1922-23 we received from overseas approximately  30,000,000 super feet, in 1923-24 46,000,000 super feet and in 1924-25 45,000,000 super feet. The wages paid in the timber milling industry in Sweden are £2 8s. a week - I do not know the number of hours worked by employees in that industry, but I am certain that they are not 44- whereas the basic wage fixed on 1st August, 1927, was for Sydney £4' 9s. 6d., Melbourne £4 7s. Brisbane £3 18s. 6d., Adelaide £4 6s., Perth £4 0s. 6d.. and Hobart £4 6s. 6d. These rates do not obtain in Brisbane or Perth because the awards of State tribunals provide for higher wages. The awards for the timber industry in the several States are as follow New South Wales - Males, £4 5s.; females, £2 6s. Queensland - Males,' £4 5s. ; females, £2 3s. South Australia - Males, £4 5s. 6d.; females, £1 19s. 6d. Western Australia - Males, £4 5s.; females, £2 5s. lid. No awards have been declared in Victoria or Tasmania, but in those states Federal rates are observed. These figures show that in Australia wages are higher, the hours of work are shorter, and the conditions of employment are better than in other countries. This is a state of affairs which we should strive to maintain, and honorable senators therefore should have no hesitation in voting for the increased duties which, it is believed, will materially assist in placing the timber industry on a more satisfactory basis. 
I intend to state my attitude towards this industry in a few brief sentences. Though I may be charged with inconsistency, I propose to support the duties as set out in this item. Since the policy of the Commonwealth is one of high, protection, I believe that all sections should share in its benefits. If nine-tenths of the people enjoy the privileges of high protection which are denied to one-tenth of the community I am not sufficiently altruistic to say to the minority that they must not attempt to share in the plunder. Those engaged i.n the timber industry have as much right as any other section of the people to enjoy the benefits of protection. After all, these proposed duties are only 50 per cent. - in some cases they are less than 50 per cent, - ad valorem. In other items we have passed duties which represent increases of 100 per cent, to 150 per cent. I may be accused also of being a geographical protectionist. I plead guilty to the charge and I suggest that all honorable senators are tarred with the same brush. Yesterday  Senator Duncan  was at pains to explain his attitude towards this and other items. To me the honorable senator did not appear to be logical. When he resumed his seat I was iti doubt as to whether he was a protectionist or a freetrader. The timber industry, as all honorable senators know, is an important one to Tasmania. The percentage of population engaged in secondary industries in that State is lower than in any other State in the Commonwealth, and I regret to say that the percentage there is declining, whereas in other States it is increasing. Since prosperity in the timber industry vitally affects Tasmania, I feel perfectly justified in supporting a policy the purpose of which is to extend protection to my State. I remind honorable senators also of the steady increase in our adverse trade balance. Last year it was £20,000,000. Timber imports were responsible for £3,000,000 of that amount. I submit, therefore, that protection for the timber industry will materially help Australia to correct its adverse trading position. I should like to see definite action taken in other directions. Personally I would welcome an attempt vo reduce the importations of motor cars which bulk very largely in our volume of imports. Because the timber industry vitally affects the State which I assist to represent in this Chamber,- and because the general policy of protection hitherto has imposed burdens upon it, I consider we are justified now in voting for these increased duties so that our timber mills may be galvanized into activity and the industry brought back to that state of prosperity which it enjoyed a few years ago. 
.- During the second reading debate I expressed the view that the imposition of increased duties on timber would not materially alter the position of the industry in Australia. . I am still of that opinion. Nevertheless, I propose to vote for the duties imposed under this item though I. believe that before long representation will be made to the Tariff Board again to inquire into the industry and, if necessary, revise the duties.  Senator Kingsmill  correctly stated the position when he mentioned the effect of the Navigation Act upon freight between Australian ports. "When one considers that it costs more to ship timber from a North Queensland port to our southern markets than it does to  bring timber from Baltic ports to Sydney, one realizes that the higher shipping freights ruling on the Australian coast are a serious handicap to the timber industry. Like other honorable senators I have received a considerable amount of correspondence on this subject.  My informants state  if these increased duties are passed there will be revival in the industry and I propose, by voting for the item, to give those engaged in the business an' opportunity to regain some portion at all events, of their former prosperity. 
I doubt, if the increased duty of 4s. per 100 super, feet on Oregon will materially assist those mills engaged in cutting hardwoods, but in view of the opinion expressed by leading millers that it will, I propose to give it a trial. Messrs. James Campbell and Sons Limited, Brisbane, inform me that the timber industry was never in a worse state than it is at the present time, owing to heavy importations from New Zealand and overseas. Messrs. Hancock and Gore, another Brisbane firm, state that the existence of hardwood sawmills is dependent upon the passing of these duties. I have also received the following telegram from  Mr.  Headrick  the secretary of the Atherton Tableland and North Queensland Timber Merchants' Association:- 
We definitely submit Oregon particularly greatly interfering with local building timbers owing low price almost annihilating sales. Present use extends almost all classes building timbers. Imperative protection be given, and yet more particularly to northern cabinet timber against Japanese oak, Pacific maple, and Noumean kauri. the importation of  oregon  has undoubtedly cut into the business of the better class of hardwoods produced in North Queensland. I was not aware previously, and I can hardly realize now, that importations of Oregon will injure the production of our furniture timbers such as silky oak and maple; but there is no doubt that the introduction of Japanese oak is seriously interfering with the North Queensland trade in furniture timbers. While I propose to vote for these protective duties, I think we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that increased rates on Oregon will add to building costs in Australia.  Senator Needham  this morning quoted some figures that were of considerable interest to honorable senators. Can the honorable senator say that if there had been an absolute embargo against the importation of softwoods since the war, we could have supplied Australian needs from local sources? I have received the following telegram from the secretary of the Eacham saw mills : - 
Our sawmill closed indefinitely twentythird ultimo, throwing twenty-four men out employment caused through inability compete with imported cabinet woods. Japanese oak selling Sydney to-day 25s. 100 ft. super, less than we offered silky oak last week. 
I cannot see that it will have any great effect. I have received from practically every big timber centre in North Queensland telegrams calling upon me to render whatever assistance I can so that the mills, may be re-opened and employment be given to a large number of men. I shall vote for the proposed duty to see if it will have the desired effect. 
I confess that that is what it will be. I sincerely hope that the anticipations of the sawmillers will be realized and that their mills will, regain their former flourishing condition. 
Building was practically at a standstill during that period ; it was not nearly so great as it has been since the termination of the war. Concrete construction, which requires the use of so much timber, was  not very  widely employed.  Senator Needham  knows that concrete is now being used throughout our building operations. I sincerely trust that the proposed duties will restore the hardwood timber industry to the condition that it occupied prior to the advent of softwood competition. If the prosperity which the sawmillers expect is realized, I shall be the first to admit that I was in error in supposing that that result would not be achieved. The Tariff Board does not adopt a sanguine view, although it has had a splendid opportunity to investigate the position. 
 I cannot understand why there should be any doubt as to the effect which the proposed duties will have upon the timber ^industry. There is no reason for supposing that the protection of that industry will have an effect different from that which it has upon other industries. I am confident that in very many instances the imposition of the duties will lead to the substitution of Australian hardwoods for imported softwoods. 
In a matter of this kind my opinion is quite as valuable as that of any member of the Tariff Board. Only a few weeks ago I was shown in Melbourne samples of Australian building timbers which appeared to me to be suitable for practically every purpose to which imported timber can be applied. There is no doubt that Australian hardwoods have a lasting quality two or three times as great as that of the softwoods which are being imported from overseas. Even though the cost of building may be a little higher, those who have to meet it will receive full value for their outlay. The need for using  Oregon  in connexion with concrete buildings has been somewhat overstressed. The quantity required is not very great, because the same' timber is used over and over again, even in the larger buildings that have been and are being erected.  Only a few feet is built at a time. That is allowed to stand for perhaps  24  hours. When the concrete is properly set the timber is removed and used in the next section. The practice in connexion with our larger buildings is to erect a reinforced concrete frame and fill in the spaces with bricks. If honorable senators will consider the matter care fully, they will find that only a small quantity of timber is required for even the largest concrete buildings. I hope that  Senator Thompson  will not persist with his proposal, because it will aim a very serious blow at those mills which are dealing largely in furniture timbers. 
I am opposed to a compromise in this matter, because  it  would mean the subordination of the interests of the Australian sawmillers to those of the importers of oversea timbers. 
I am considering the interests of the general public. An industry of this nature is  entitled  to the support of every section of  the  community. The sawmillers are the best judges of the needs of their business.  So  far only one sawmiller has expressed any doubt regarding the effect of these increased duties, and his business is chiefly in the building of homes. 
He knows that the cost to him will be increased.  It  is doubtful whether the person who has to pay for and live in the home will  be  substantially affected. Perth is the only city in which imported timber is not used. In the construction of its buildings Western Australian hardwoods are used, and there is no desire to introduce cheap softwoods. 
[n some respects Western Australia is a newer country than the eastern States. It has a bountiful supply of first-class timber, which has not been as largely drawn upon as the forests in the other States.  Senator Kingsmill  is an enthusiast with respect to afforestation. How can we expect private enterprise to engage in afforestation without the guarantee that the people of this country will take all reasonable means to ensure the payment of a profitable price for the timber tha't is grown ? The popularity of afforestation will depend very largely upon the vote which the committee gives in relation  to  these proposed duties. If honorable senators decline to give to the timber industry, which is essentially a country industry, the degree of protection they are prepared to extend to our town industries, I do not believe that private enterprise will undertake the work of' afforestation, and the whole of the burden of that work will be thrown upon the governments of the'-States. 
He is not in favour of allowing Asiatic and Pacific Island timbers to enter Australia at a reduced rate of duty. That unquestionably would be the result of the acceptance of  Senator Thompson's  proposal. Building timbers might not be affected, but a very serious injury would be caused to the furniture timbers of North Queensland, because the timbers of the Pacific Islands are similar to maple, cedar, silky oak and other woods. that grow in abundance in that portion of Australia. I admit that some of those timbers are becoming scarce, and that restrictions have been imposed upon those who wish to fell them. The Queensland Government will not allow them to be felled if they cannot be absorbed in a profitable market, nor will it allow the land upon which they are grown to be cleared and settled. 
Yes ; and I am sorry to say that that Government is not using for afforestation purposes the large revenues it obtains from that source. The royalty is chiefly upon pine. 
The other States do not grow the same class of timber. 
It is more costly to produce them because the sawmillers are paying white men's wages. In the Pacific Islands, Kanakas are employed, and in Asiatic countries the ser vices of coolies, who get less for a day's work than Australian timber workers get for an hour's work, are utilized. 
I do not admit that excessive royalties are charged. 
Some of . it goes into the consolidated revenue, and a small proportion is spent in reafforestation. But one may well ask what encouragement there will be for governments to spend money in afforestation if cheap timber from other countries is allowed to enter Australia. Afforestation and protection must go hand in hand. I hope that the committee will pass the duties in their present form. 
According  to  cables that have appeared from time to time in the press, there has been a substantial diminution in the orders for 
Oregon  since these duties became effective. I understand that it is now practically impossible to get orders for a full shipload of  Oregon.  The uncertainty which so far has existed as to the duties which will finally be approved by Parliament has not enabled the full effect of the duties to be felt. 
Unlike other honorable senators, I have not been deluged with correspondence and telegrams, nor have I been approached by the sawmillers, in relation to the duties on timber. Anything that I shall say to-day is the outcome of my personal observations. I cannot understand the objection to these duties on the ground that they will place a heavy burden on the people. My experience has shown conclusively that in the long run a hardwood dwelling is much cheaper than one constructed of  Oregon  or Baltic timber. A few weeks ago I saw in Tasmania a dwelling constructed entirely of Australian hardwood, which although 42 years old, was still sound. The owner assured me that the cost of upkeep during that  period was infinitesimal compared with the cost of buildings constructed of Baltic timber. 
The timber is quite sound to-day. The suggestion that Australian timbers can never take the place of Oregon is ridiculous. If I had the time I could quote the opinions of some of the most eminent architects in Australia that such' a statement is unwarranted. Complaint has been made regarding the weight of hardwood structures; but there is no necessity to use timber of the same dimensions when hardwood is substituted for Oregon.  Senator Duncan  said that Australian timber could never replace Oregon. 
It has been urged that for casing for concrete construction 
Oregon timber is essential ; but anyone who has witnessed the construction of concrete buildings knows that even in the largest buildings only a comparatively small quantity of timber is used, because the moulds are used over and over again. 
Even if Australian hardwood could not be used for that purpose, the quantity of Oregon which would be required would be small. I desire to quote the opinion expressed by Mr: K. Henderson, of the well known firm of architects, Anketell and Henderson, of Collins-street, Melbourne - 
Australian hardwood floor boards - I have never had a failure, and have literally used miles of it. Weatherboards a,re beautiful when stained and oiled, and I have never had any trouble with what I have used. Linings - ditto. 
I could continue all day with quotations showing the suitability of Australian timber for the making of furniture. In my own home I have a quantity of furniture made of Tasmanian hardwood, which has shown no sign of warping or shrinking. 
Baltic timber cannot compare with Australian hardwood for flooring. The former will not stand staining, or if it is stained it soon shows signs of wear, and must either be covered or replaced. On the . other hand, Tasmanian hardwood or myrtle makes a beautiful and lasting floor. As the result of the flooding of the Australian market with imported timbers, one of our most important industries has practically been destroyed. Nature has provided us with a wonderful asset in our forests; but because of the huge importations of timber during the last ten years, much of our valuable native timber has gone to waste. When, a tree has attained a certain age it should be felled and the timber used. If that is not done it commences to deteriorate. It is a crime to allow magnificent trees to remain standing after they have attained a certain age. 
It is true that King Billy pine will last for 600 years; but that is not the case with most trees. 
I agree that our timber industry should be controlled. I believe it will be, for the conscience of the Australian people as to the value of our timbers is being awakened. Our forests will have to be scientifically utilized, and the timber cut  at the proper stage of growth. Since the introduction of this Tariff Schedule a number of sawmills which had closed down, have been reopened. I know also that numbers of men in business on tha mainland hav&amp; recently visited Tasmania to inquire as to future supplies of timber from that State. If sufficiently protected the timber industry will revive.  Mr. G.  W. Hudson, the managing director of George Hudson Limited, whose establishment .is in  Senator Duncan.'s  State, is in favour of increased duties on timber. He contends that the duties will overcome most of the grievances of the sawmillers, and give employment to a number of Australians in the milling of flooring, lining and weatherboards, to replace timber now imported from abroad. 
According to officials of the State Savings Bank, Victoria, the additional cost of a timber dwelling, by reason of these increased duties, will be about £8. On the basis of  Ti  per cent, interest per annum, that represents an additional 12s. a year. But the savings in upkeep which will be effected will more than compensate for that additional capital cost. 
The right honorable gentleman's interjection suggests that I am inconsistent in my attitude towards this Schedule. I challenge any one to show that this Parliament has not given to ' our secondary industries - although they are not nearly so important as are our primary industry - a greater measure of protection than is now sought for the timber industry.' Unless we take a stand to-day the position of our timber industry will get worse year by year. Unless we stop the rot that set in a few years ago, when, because of the operation of certain of our laws, the timber industry was practically wiped out, the people of Australia will incur heavier and heavier losses. I agree with  Senator Kingsmill  that one of the problems we have to face in connexion with our timber trade is the high coastal freights. In the meantime we have an opportunity to bring about a revival in the trade and perhaps, later on, Parliament may see its way to amend the laws which now prevent us from getting cheap freights. I hope that the Senate will approve of the protection now proposed to be afforded to the important timber industry of Australia. 
I have very little to add to my remarks on the second, reading debate in support of the duties on timber; but a great deal that has been said in the present discussion is a little bewildering. 
Like other honorable senators I hav.; received all sorts of correspondence of various kinds relating to the timber industry. Most elaborately worked up cases have been presented to rae, but I confess candidly I have not read any of them, because any set of facts in connexion with the timber industry can be worked up into a perfectly good and, in many respects, unanswerable case. The reason of it is that the timber industry is unlike almost any other industry covered by the tariff. For example in the case of textile duties we have in Australia all the raw material for the manufacture of textiles and we can make every ounce of any material or garment we require. But the circumstances in regard to timber an; entirely different. We have not within our borders all the material we require and whether we like it or not, are obliged to' import a certain quantity of softwood. On the other hand we have a vast quantity of timber which we can and undoubtedly should use and we have a timber industry which we should exploit in exactly the same way as a good protectionist would stand behind any other Australian industry. Difficulty arises from the fact that certain classes of timber which we must import are used in substitution of Australian timbers for which the latter are equally suitable. Australian hardwood may not be as easily worked as imported softwood, but when we put its longevity against the relatively short life of imported, softwoods I think it .will be generally conceded that in the long run its cost will stand favorable comparison with that of "imported timber. The person who is capable of judging one building against another will find very little of our . Australian timber in a jerry built house. It is much easier to work imported material into the jerry built house than it  is  to put Australian timber into it. 
1 am not suggesting that it would not. Yesterday  Senator Chapman  with an enthusiasm which certainly did him credit, attacked an Australian industry with a vehemence which is remarkable. Why he of all men should do so I do not know. 
 In considering the timber duties, we must abandon those theses which can be put up by either side in an  almost  unanswerable way  and  get down to the first principles upon which  a  protectionist tariff is supposed to be built. Looking at the matter from that stand-point what do we find? For a number of years importations of softwoods timber have been constantly increasing while side by side there lias been a gradual diminution of our own Australian saw-milling industry. "We have seen mill after mill in the country going out of action and the workers drifting to the city  saw-mills,  where they are engaged in many instances in sawing imported timber. That is not a desirable state of affairs, and we have now an opportunity to remedy it. When we see the definite closing up of an Australian industry and money steadily going out of the country for the purchase of material which we can procure within our own borders and from our own natural resources, it is clearly our duty to stop the drift. I do not know whether these duties will achieve that object or not. All I can say is that the evidence tends to show that their imposition will help to restore the Australian timber industry to something of the prosperity it enjoyed during the war. In how many suburban buildings in Australia to-day do we find Australian hardwood joists being used? The joists used are mostly softwood. Yet no one can say that the Australian timber does not make a good flooring job. 
 Having laid a good many thousand feet of flooring and put the necessary joists into position, I know the difference between using hardwood or softwood for joists, also the difficulty in getting an even floor with hardwood. But no one will say that an Australian hardwood joist when put into position will not stand up to its work as well as an  Oregon  joist, or that it will not last a good deal longer than the imported timber. I admit that there is room for argument in connexion with this matter, but from a protectionist standpoint the balance is clearly in favour of our adopting the schedule of duties which the Government proposes.  Senator Chapman  and his colleagues have a unique opportunity to do a definite service to an Australian country industry ; and why  Senator Chapman,  of all men, should single out gone of our native Australian primary industries for attack is beyond my comprehension. 
A great deal that has been said in this discussion has, like the flowers that bloom in the spring, nothing to do with the case. I take my stand upon the ground that imported foreign timber is displacing Australian timber in classes of work for which the latter is eminently suited, and that the money which is going out of the country for the purchase of this material should remain within our own borders. 
I do not know what correspondence has been received by other honorable senators, but I have with me now about 100 sheets of it, and I congratulate my good friend,  Mr. Moore,  on the good work he has evidently done in this connexion. But the issue seems to have been clouded. It is not a question of whether we are to have a low duty or a high duty; it is  a  question of whether we are to have a reduced duty. The Tariff Board, which was appointed to take evidence and report upon the evidence given, is opposed to the high duties on timber set out in the schedule, and we know that the Government after considering the report of the Tariff Board showed that it was also opposed to them, because the duties it first proposed were considerably lower than those we have now before us. No one is more anxious than I am to preserve a local industry, but after reading the various documents submitted to me I am convinced that the timber industry could be carried on profitably with considerably lower duties that are now proposed. I shall therefore support the request that is to be submitted by  ''Senator Thompson.  It is  a  compromise which the Govern* ment should accept. I have been informed by contractors that it is impracticable  to  entirely dispense with the use of Oregon. When coming to Parliament House this morning I noticed that Oregon timber was being used for the boxing of borders of concrete footpaths which are being laid down in front of the Hotel Kurrajong; apparently the Federal Capital Commission consider it essential' to use Oregon even for that class of work. It has been said during the debate that trade has been stimulated since the higher timber duties have been in operation; but according to the returns submitted by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works for the months of December, 1927, and January, 1928, there has been a reduction of 30 per cent, in the number of building plans submitted, to the board for its approval. In December, 19.26, 469 applications were received by the board, and in December, 1927, the number fell to 370. In January, 1927, 683 were received, and in January, 192S, only  441.  This, decrease is undoubtedly due to the increased cost of .imported softwoods, which has been brought about by the imposition of higher duties. If these duties remain in operation higher rents will undoubtedly have to be paid. 
That is the opinion of the Timber Merchants' Association of Melbourne and suburbs, and of the Timber Merchants' Association of South Australia. 
The members of that association may think that some of the titter ances in this chamber are of the same nature. 
If the security is good ample money is available. 
The ' Tariff Board, after studying the evidence and journeying through_the forests, reported on the 28th November, 1927, as follows : - 
The Tariff Board has carefully reviewed the circumstances surrounding the industry as a whole, and in the light of the evidence tendered and opinions gained from an extensive tour through the forests and around the sawmilling districts, and taking into consideration the position as disclosed by the latest official statistics of importations, has arrived at the conclusion  that the granting of inincreased duties to the extent asked for is not justified by circumstances. There is no call for a serious or general departure from the conclusions and recommendations embodied in the board's original report of the 2nd September, 1925. 
Yes; and the Government also thought so. 
The board was appointed to collect evidence and make recommendations, and if we do not accept its recommendations, it should be abolished. 
I am entitled to my own opinion. Last week I decided to erect an extensive ceiling in my business premises, and in connexion with that work I interviewed two or three contractors. They informed me in the first place that it would be necessary to use Oregon principals. I asked why Australian timber could not be used, and was told that it would shrink to such an extent that the ceiling would be twisted and torn. As they were experienced men in the trade I accepted their advice. If we continue raising the duties on timber the cost of living must increase. The Government recently passed an act in which provision was made for the expenditure of £20,000,000 on a housing scheme, and if the cost of each house is increased by only £25, the expenditure of a large additional sum will be involved. Working men in particular will have to pay more for their homes. 
That is a debatable point. I was a witness in a recent Supreme Court case the other day, where one of the parties declined to- pay for a house because he alleged faulty timber had been used in its construction. Th" court, after hearing the evidence, was satisfied that faulty timber had been used, and decided that reasonable compensation should be paid. I am not condemning the use of Australian timbers for certain purposes, because we can produce timber of good quality. The timber industry can be satisfactorily conducted with moderate protection, and if reasonable duties are imposed home builders will save a considerable sum. I sympathize with the difficulties experienced by Tasmania owing to its geographical position. If Tasmanian millers wish to dispose of their products on terms of equality with timber producers in the mainland States, the Tasmanian Government should assist them. 
I am in favour of lower duties. The Conservator of Forests in Tasmania in referring to the timber industry in that State said - 
As a forester I would like to refer more particularly to the question of the difficulties of getting into our hardwood forests. They are genuine difficulties. The Tasmanian bush has almost invariably to be worked by tram lines and log haulers - expensive methods of getting the timber out. Undoubtedly, all the land is patchy; that is to say, you have got to cover  country  with your tram in which you are noi taking out any timber at all, to get into the beds of timber. When you have cut out the bed you go on again through poor country before you cut another good timber bed. and all that adds very much to the cost of production, and the whole question of getting the logs out of the bush. 
I believe it would be an advantage if the timber producers of Australia were to conduct their operations on a co-operative basis, as is done in other industries. It would do away with interstate competition and allow them to sell at profitable rates. Last Monday ' a gentleman from Queensland, who delivered an address on our timber resources, stated that there would be a great demand for Australian timber, particularly in Queensland, for the manufacture of paper pulp. 
Yes. In certain parts of Queensland, where the rainfall is good, the timber is sufficiently matured in four years for making paper pulp. 
That will mean the denuding of forests. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain").The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
During the debate on the tariff reference has been made to different types of protectionists, but I do not know in which class  Senator Thompson  could be placed. It is difficult to understand his fiscal views. South Australia m'ay be regarded as the Cinderella State of the Commonwealth in the matter of timber supplies; but I am not so concerned about the effect that duties will have on a particular State as I am about their effect on the whole Commonwealth. I intend to support the duties proposed in this item, as I think they will be of advantage to the people as a whole 
The honorable senator follows a peculiar line of reasoning. He is prepared to give increased protection to the glucose industry because maize is largely grown in his own State ; but he gives no thought to the added cost of confectionery due to the higher duties imposed on glucose. He takes' a different stand with regard to the request for increased protection for the timber industry.  Senator Kingsmill  also is inconsistent. He poses as a staunch advocate of re-afforestation, upon which he advocates the expenditure of many millions of pounds; yet yesterday he protested against increased duties being imposed on timber imported from Borneo, where, I remind him, only coolie labour is employed. 
-That is so.  Senator Kingsmill  professes to be a supporter of the White Australia policy. If he is sincere in that belief, why is he not prepared to give protection to this Australian industry against timber grown in cheap coloured labour countries? 
These are duties which  Senator Thompson  might very well support.  Senator Kingsmill  said not long ago that if we shut out supplies of timber from other countries there will be a danger of timber supplies in Australia becoming exhausted. 
T have no doubt that  Senator Kingsmill  will change his views on. this subject when it suits him to do so.  .Mr. L.  G. Irby,  the Conservator of Forests in Tasmania, in his evidence before the Tariff Board in 1925. said - 
Of the balance of timber land in Tasmania, 700,000 acres should be a conservative estimate. As the bulk of this is unexplored, let us consider 10.000 feet to the acre as the yield. This gives 7,000,000,000 super, feet in the round, which with a' 50 per cent, reduction, conversion works out at 3,500.000.000 feet of timber. Therefore, on these figures, the total yield of sawn timber on leased and  unleased  areas would bo 5,500,000,000 super, feet. ... It will be seen that on a very conservative estimate the present rate of timber cut in Tasmania (hardwoods! can be largely increased without risk of a future timber famine. In fact, it is safe to assume that the present cut could be doubled. 
The Queensland forestry report for 1926 dealing with the hardwood resources of that State contains the following statement - 
There are large untapped resources of semihardwoods and fancy woods -in Queensland of which greater use should be made, sufficient indeed to serve any particular objects catered for by imports from Czecho-Slovakia. Japan and other countries. There are 00,000.000 idle feet of red  satinay  on Fraser Island, and 00,000,000 idle feet of grey and red satin ash on the  Bungella  Range near Mackay. There are untold millions of feet of tulip oak in the forests of the west coast line. 

 Mr. Lane Poole, when he was Conservator of Forests in "Western Australia, made the following statement concerning the position in that State: - 
Between 500,000 and 750,000 tons of utilizable wood are  being burned  by sawmillers every year, and this destruction is mainly due to the quantity of small sizes not required. If there were a proper duty, these sizes would be of commercial value. I should wel-  come a revision of the tariff, and would like to see so heavy a duty placed on imported woods so as to force the community throughout Australia to use its own wood. 
These are recent opinions. Sincere protectionists should offer no objection to these increased duties. Let us be honest in the expression of our convictions, whether we be  protectionists  or freetraders. Our purpose should be to impose such duties as will ensure the establishment of industries in Australia on a sound footing. 
Did the honorable senator take that view the other day, when we passed an item imposing a duty on butter from Great Britain. 
Senato'r HOARE. - If existing tariffs are not high enough to protect the local industries, we should be prepared to vote for higher duties. South Australia, in 1897, established a ' pine plantation for commercial purposes. At the end of last year upwards of 28,000 acres had been planted out in softwoods. In his evidence before the Tariff Board a representative of the South Australian Government stated - 
It is urged that the tariff protection of locally-grown pine timber should be continued. At present over 0,000,000 super, feet of beautiful pine timber is waiting to be cut. but the Government is unable to dispose of same owing to the keen competition of imported timber. 
The late  Mr. Walter  Gill, F.L.S.. who was Conservator of Forests in South Australia, in his evidence before the Interstate Conference on Forestry, said that South Australian locally-grown pine had proved very satisfactory for the construction of the framework of houses, stables and sheds, and also as weatherboards, floorings and linings, and, when varnished, had a most effective polish. The federal executive of the Australian Timber Workers' Union, in supporting the increased duties, urged all its members to vote for .the further protection of the timber industry, so that it could be stabilized in the interests of from 20.000 to 30,000 employees. What will happen to. our reafforestation schemes if we allow the importation of timber from cheap labour countries? 
I understand that pine trees become marketable in about 25 years. 
South Australian forests date from 1879. Already a considerable acreage of the Wirrabarra forest has been cut, and the timber utilized for the making of export fruit boxes. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15. 

 As this very interesting and extremely, varied debate proceeds, new issues are introduced' and further points are raised which are susceptible of a different meaning from that which is stressed by their sponsors. I shall deal first of all with the views of forestry experts; secondly, with the Tariff Board aspect; and thirdly, if I have not exhausted my fifteen fleeting minutes, with one or two other features. Those who are supporting this proposed increase of the timber duties have quoted in support of their case views that have been expressed by men who hold prominent positions in regard to forestry in the Commonwealth, but more especially by  Mr.  Lane-Poole, whom I regard as the foremost forester in Australia. He has had in forestry more comprehensive technical training and practical experience than any other person whom I can call to mind. -I wish to lay stress also upon  Mr. Norman  Jolly's views. Probably the most important document on forestry to which  Mr. Lane-Poole  has appended his signature is the report which he furnished to the Parliament of the Commonwealth on the 30th February, 1925, after he had become thoroughly acquainted with the forests of Australia, Papua and New Guinea. In it he made the following observations. 
It will be asked how is it that with a population of a little under 6,000,000, the country is unable to provide its own timber requirements from an area of 24,500,000 acres which should obviously be yielding over 1.2,000,000,000 super, feet per annum. Why are we importing 304,500,000 super, feet? I have already partially answered these questions, and have stated that on the one hand our hardwood forests are not adequate and our demand is for softwoods, which we must import. The inadequacy of our hazelwood forests is duo to the gross  overcutting which  has taken  place  in the past, and to the very paltry efforts tha states have made to restore their forests and so manage them as to get a maximum yield per acre. 
I stress the sentence " our hardwood forests are not adequate and our demand is for softwoods, which we must import." As I view the position, those who are supporting the higher duties demand that we shall displace imported softwoods with our hardwoods to a far greater extent than has been the case in the past. That would immediately lead to a material increase in the quantity of hardwood cut. Yet  Mr. Lane-Poole  has told us that gross overcutting has taken place in the past, and that only paltry endeavours have been made at replacement. How would it be possible in less than 25 or 30 years, to grow a sufficient quantity of softwood or hardwood to take the place of the imports which this tariff seeks to prohibit? Obviously it would be impossible. Softwoods can be produced in Australia ; but we should not waste our time with  pinus -insignis,  which is a second or a third grade timber. 
 Pinus ponderosa. 
It will grow just as well, though not so rapidly. If the honorable senator will stroll over to Westridge, near the .'forestry school, and also visit the nursery at Yarralumla, he will see some very wellgrown specimens which have an exceedingly healthy appearance. When the action that I have suggested has been taken it will be time enough to increase building costs by placing higher duties on imported timber. Such a policy at the present time would be uneconomical, unstatesmanlike, and in the highest degree foolish, The opinion of  Mr. LanePoole  that I. have read to honorable senators is from the actual report, not from any collated synopsis, such as that with which I understand honorable senators have been furnished. While they may be absolutely accurate in their text, they are robbed of a great deal of their value by the absence of the context. The opinion of  Mr. Jolly,  Chief Commissioner of Forests in New South Wales, is regarded very highly by every one who is acquainted with his scientific and practical attainments. In his report for 1925 he said-* - 
The right policy for the State would be to fix the amount of timber it would sell from its own forests in any one year, and to utilize by the medium of importations the timbers of other countries for the purpose of supplying the balance of requirements. 
Naturally that estimate would be. made by skilled officers in the department of each State, and be based on the experience of past years. 
Not to any greater extent than the forests are now. All State forests should undoubtedly be under State control. I know that my friends, from Tasmania are not used to this sort of thing, because Tasmanian forestry has been shockingly neglected for many years. 
I am not alone in holding that opinion. If my honorable friend will look up a little book entitled,  A Discussion of Australian Forests,  written by  Sir David  Hutchens, who was knighted for his services to forestry- and who has an acquaintance with the forests of the world,, he will learn that gentleman's* opinion of Australian forestry. Although his opinion of the other States: was fairly bad, with respect to Tasmania it- was almost unfit for publication. 
Not in any; but New South Wales and Western Australia  have approached most closely to it. For nine or ten years Western Australia had the advantage of the services of the gentleman whose opinion I first quoted; and in recent years forestry has been far better controlled in New South Wales than in the other States. The fearful effect of a lack of proper control has been illustrated by the devastating forest fires that have occurred time and again in' Victoria. They could have been avoided if reasonable principles of forest fire prevention had been adopted. The Queensland forest authority,  Mr. Swain,  has the following to say: - 
To supply the accumulating deficit in the local softwood supplies, Queensland has no possible alternative but to enlarge its importations. Between 1920 and 1952 we will have to buy from foreign countries over £30,000,000 worth of coniferous wood. 
If the proposed additional duties are imposed, the burden will be further increased by the higher price that will have to be paid for imported softwoods. It is recognized that until our afforestation reaches the stage when we can legitimately compete with importations, those importations will have to continue. The Government must be aware of the circumstances that are operating. Why, then, does it propose to make more difficult and more expensive the task of those who are developing  the country by building houses and putting up other works? It has undertaken to finance an immense building scheme. 
I am glad that the honorable senator's sense of humour is so well developed. Unfortunately, when a joke touches us so closely we have to regard it seriously. The £20,00.0,000 which the- Government proposed to. make available for housing will not go nearly' so far if these additional duties are imposed. Is the Government willing to make harder the lot of its clients, and reduce the value of the security they are likely to offer ? Before -dealing briefly with the recommendations of the Tariff' Board, I should like to point out that, in this chamber,, at all ©vents, no1 adequate' reason has. been given for declining to accept its advice. The Minister (  Senator Crawford)  said he did not accept the advice of the board because he knew more than its members, and his opportunity for obtaining information was as great as theirs. 
Order! The honorable senator's time has expired. 
 Senator Hoare  has accused some honorable senators of inconsistency. I desire to point out the inconsistency of the party to which the honorable senator himself belongs.  Senator Hoare  favours increased duties on timber, which will have the effect of increasing the cost of houses throughout Australia, including South Australia. But what is the attitude of the Labour party in South Australia in regard to this matter? Some time ago the leader of that party in the State Parliament asked the Premier of South Australia whether he would make representations to the Prime Minister in connexion with the iniquitous timber duties, which were raising the cost of houses to the people of South Australia. We, therefore, have the Leader of the Labour party in the State Parliament opposing further duties on timber, whereas in the Federal sphere the representatives of the same party, not satisfied with the increased duties proposed by the Government, voted for still higher duties. A political party cannot speak with two voices for other than purposes of political propaganda. I am also at a loss to understand the attitude of  Senator Foll  towards this item. The honorable senator confesses that he does not believe that the increased duties will have the desired effect; yet, because he has received a number of telegrams urging him to support them, he proposes to do so. 
The honorable senator said that .he did not think the increased duties would have the effect claimed for them. 
Honorable senators may not be aware that about a fortnight ago the interests concerned in Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales issued a circular to the country saw-millers urging them to communicate with their representatives in this Senate' pointing out that unless the higher duties were agreed to the mills would have to close. A), 
Honorable senators should know the real source of the communications they have received. I remind honorable senators who may fear that they will lose support in their electorates if they do not vote for the increased duties on timber, that housebuilders, farmers and home-seekers are watching their actions. It is true that, since 1920-21 the importations of timber have increased considerably; but that was not a normal year, because, owing to conditions immediately due to the war, the importations of timber during that year were considerably lower than they were in pre-war years. The Tariff Board would not accept the importations for 1920-21 as a proper basis for comparison. A more correct idea as to the importations of timber will be gained from the following table : - 
It will be seen that the average importations during 1912 and 1913 were about the same as they were between 1923 and 1927. During 1926-27 the importations of timber dropped considerably below the quantity imported during the previous year. To meet the slightly increased importations, the Tariff Board recommended a small increase in the duties. If we consider this question from the  per  capita  stand-point, we find that the importations have decreased considerably since 1912, the figures in 1912 being 93.33 per cent., dropping to 67.16 per cent. in 1924- 25, increasing to 82.68 per cent, in 1925- 26, and falling to 75.50 per cent, in 1926- 27. 
SenatorGreene. - My figures show the reverse. 
I have given the Tariff Board's figures. During the same years the native timber produced was as follows: - 

<graphic href="118332192803160_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

From that table it will be seen that the production of native timber has not varied to any extent. I have already shown that importations have been practically stationary, comparing the normal years 1912-13 with 1924-27. With a considerably larger population there should have been a bigger demand, and the only explanation of the fact that there has not been a greater increase in the use of timber is that housebuilders, instead of using timber, have used substitutes. Honorable senators who claim that further duties on timber will force builders to use Australian hardwoods, should realize that their action will tend to a still further use of substitutes. Already the people of Australia pay over £1,000,000 annually as duties on timber. It is unreasonable to expect them to pay the further £700,000 per annum which these duties would impose. In its report the Tariff Board says - 
Witnesses in favour of the request for additional duties admitted, however, that hardwood could not be used as a substitute for Oregon for many purposes, and that no matter what duty was imposed Oregon would still be imported. There are many purposes for which hardwood is not suitable and for which oregon is essential, amongst which might be mentioned - 
Falsework for bridges; 
Scaffolding ; 
Facing boards for concrete work; 
Operations where very long lengths are necessary. 
Considerable evidence was tendered as to the respective selling prices of hardwood scantlings and those of competitive oregon. 
From the figures submitted it would appear that in some cases, even with the additional duty asked for, the hardwood would be at a disadvantage in the matter of. price as compared with oregon. As in the case of other timber it is obviously not practicable to provide a duty that would meet what are regarded as the needs of the various local saw-millers concerned, operating as they do under different circumstances and conditions. 
Towards the end of its report the Tariff Board has a good deal to say regarding the inefficiency of many of the timber mills. It points out that there are many ways in which the industry by its own efforts can improve its conditions. I have never seen a more scathing comment on any industry than is contained in the Tariff Board's report on timber. We are not justified in imposing high duties to encourage inefficiency. Instead of asking for assistance in the nature of increased duties, thus placing a further burden on the people of Australia, the timber industry should organize to help itself. 
SenatorREID (Queensland) [2.45]. - All sorts of statements have been indulged in during this discussion, but  Senator Chapman  has just made a charge which I do not think should be made in this chamber. He asserts that a letter has been sent out to all the country saw-millers advising them to deluge the Senate with telegrams saying that they will have to close unless we pass these duties on timber. No responsible man should make a statement of that kind without absolute proof of its correctness. Like other honorable senators, I have been deluged with telegrams. On the second reading I quoted from the report of the Tariff Board and the Queensland Forestry Department, and I said that unless evidence was brought forward to convince me that I was wrong I should not vote for the increased duties on timber. 
That is so. I do not know whether my remarks were reported in the Queensland press, or whether the information was forwarded to Queensland from Canberra, but these telegrams have come to hand since I made my speech on the second reading. I have known many of the owners of these saw-mills for 40 years past; I have known the fathers and the families of the present, owners of many of the mills. I know the Campbell family exceedingly  well. There are no more honorable men in business in any part of Australia. I am sure they would not lend themselves to such a trick as  Senator Chapman  has charged against them. Surely practical men engaged in the timber industry are entitled to tell us of the difficult times through which they are passing, and to say they are firmly convinced that if this tariff is passed they will have a better opportunity of keeping their mills going. It has already been shown that saw-mills are receiving orders that they were not getting prior to the step taken in another place to increase the timber duties. Evidence has been brought under my notice to convince me, as a protectionist, that there is need to give further protection to the Australian timber industry. "We. all have our own opinions, but they are not as valuable as those of men engaged in the industry. "We have been assured on many occasions that industries would succeed if given protection, and in many cases they have succeeded as a result of the protection afforded to them. We all know that the position of the saw-milling trade in Australia is precarious, not only because of the insufficiency of the protection afforded, but also because of the bad condition of the building trade in all cities. There is a slump in suburban dwellings, mostly those made of cheap timbers. 
That is so. It has been said that if this item is agreed to, it will add to the cost of workmen's dwellings. . In Queensland half the houses are built of softwood with hardwood frames. In my opinion the increased duties will not add more than £12 to the cost of a five-roomed wooden cottage. 
Yes. Any one who has handled hardwood know that it takes a great deal longer to work than it takes to work softwood. Although nails can easily be driven into hardwood when it is wet, if it is dry, no one can drive a nail into it without first boring a hole. That operation entails extra time, which adds to the cost of labour. But against that we have the further fact that it is unnecessary to paint a hardwood house. If the sap is out of hardwood it lasts just as well without paint as with it. 
Hardwood houses are painted merely for the sake of appearance. The cheapest method of treating a hardwood house is to put a coat of oil on it ; it costs only a few pounds. Paint does not adhere too well to hardwood ; in stormy weather it comes off hardwood much more quickly than it does off softwood. On the other hand, it costs £25 or more to paint a small softwood house, and to maintain a respectable appearance a dwelling built of softwood must be painted every four or five years. The Queensland Workers' Dwelling Act requires a house to be painted every five years. If we set against the extra labour involved in handling hardwood, the cost of painting a softwood house every five years, we must see that it pays to put up a hardwood cottage which does not require the same amount of painting. One of the most serious things affecting the Australian timber industry is the importation of Borneo timbers. Although it cannot be definitely proved that the borer has been introduced into Australia by the importation of timber from Borneo, we have ample evidence that it is the greatest medium we could have for bringing this pest into Australia. Very little good wood comes here from Borneo that does not contain borers. In the circumstances I would vote to prohibit the importation of Borneo timber. I can show honorable senators splendid cabinet work in this building where borers are at work. The white ants we have in Queensland are bad enough, but one can trace them at their work and exterminate them. That cannot be done in the case of borers. They do their work in a most subtle way, and one never knows when one is liable to fall through a floor where they have been at work. The importers of Borneo timber are a menace to Aus: tralia. They may be ignorant of what they are doing, but if they make inquiries they can easily ascertain the immense damage they are likely to do to Australian timber. According to  Senator Kingsmill  all the difficulties of the timber industry would be removed by the repeal of certain provisions of the Navigation Act. But if we start to interfere with those who are engaged in the shipping industry we shall interfere with all the trades of Australia. The provisions of the Navigation Act affect Queensland as much as they do any other State, but to interfere with them would mean a subsequent attempt to interfere with the Arbitration Act and with every industry in the Commonwealth. 
I am' not lacking in courage ; the honorable senator has not all the courage in the Senate. He knows that I am right when I warn the Senate of the dangers of interfering with the Navigation Act. It would be one of the biggest tasks undertaken in Australia. 
I am not disputing that, but one cannot be consistent in matters of this sort any more than one can be consistent in deciding tariff matters. A protectionist may have his. own private opinions, just as I have about the timber industry, because I have a knowledge of the building trade ; but he cannot uphold them against those of practical men engaged in. industry.  Senator Thompson  has suggested a shandygaff timber tariff; but I cannot submit his proposal. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
.- I should not have taken part in the discussion to-day but for a statement made by  Senator Kingsmill  to which  Senator Reid  has just referred. It is true that  Senator '  Kingsmill and others from Western Australia who support his opinions, as well as certain honorable senators representing Tasmania, have often said that the timber industry of Australia is severely handicapped by the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. 
That is mere assumption, and I challenge any honorable senator to prove it. 
No honorable senator can say that those who have been affected by what they term high freights have made any attempt to charter a vessel to carry timber. ' 
Let me proceed with my answer to those who favour the repeal of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. In 1919, before those provisions were in force the .freight on 100 super, feet of timber from Western Australia to Port Adelaide was 5s. 5d. The .Navigation Act came into operation on the 1st July, 1921, and in 1922 the freight on a similar quantity of timber from Western Australia to Port Adelaide was 5s. 2d., or a reduction of 3d. per 100 super, feet. 
From the report of the commission which inquired into the operations of the Navigation Act. At that time the cost of the timber despatched from Western Australia to Port Adelaide was £7 18s. 6d. a ton; but those engaged in the timber industry in that State increased the price to £13 5s. 3d. a ton. Following upon that increase the ship-owners raised the freight by 2s. a ton. Although the timber exporters increased their price by £5 6s. 9d. per ton, the increase in freight was only 2s. per ton. The argument that the timber industry is in difficulties because of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act is untenable, since, as I have already shown, freights on timber were reduced after the coastal provisions became operative. In what way would we benefit by the abrogation of the provisions ? Would tramp steamers come to Australia and enter into competition with organized ship-owners trading on the Australian coast ? 
The honorable senator is very innocent. If we attempted to trade with tramp steamers or with ships that were not wholly engaged in the coastal trade, we would probably have to rely solely upon those vessels for the carriage of our timber. 
No, there is a shipping combine on the Australian coast. 
There is a worldwide shipping combine. I know what is in  Senator Kingsmill's  mind. He is opposed to the Navigation Act and to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and thinks that with cheap coloured labour we should be on the road to prosperity and happiness. 
It has been said that imported timbers do not enter into serious competition with Australian  hardwoods. I contend that they ' do. The proof is forthcoming not merely from within Australia but from persons directly interested in the timber industry overseas. In the  Commercial Intelligence Journal,  No. 1087, dated' Ottawa, 28th November, 1924, and issued by the department of Trade and Commerce of Canada, the Acting Canadian Trade Commissioner in New Zealand,  Mr. C.  M. Croft, when dealing with the question of imported timber, stated - 
It is now used to a great extent for studs, rafters, &amp;c., and it is taking the place of certain native timbers to which it is equal though probably not superior. The price has proved the deciding factor. 
In his opinion, imported timber is equal but not superior to the native timber; but the price is the deciding factor. The position is similar in Australia, and the price has been the deciding factor. The case submitted in support of increased duties on timber is unanswerable. I congratulate those engaged in the industry on the splendid case they placed before' the Tariff Board, and for the. untiring efforts they have displayed in an endeavour to get that measure of justice to which they are entitled. The representatives of the industry stated before the Tariff Board that forestry opened up the country and assisted immigration. That statement is absolutely correct. Without forestry- there would be no small farms. Next to food they state thatwood is an article of which an abundant supply is essential to- the nation, and that on many of our railways 84 per cent, and up to 93 per cent, of the traffic carried consists of timber. They further state that many of our main ports have been built up as a result of the export wharfage rates on timbers, and that if these ports were forced to close, the backbone of many of our rural industries would disappear. Those statements are indisputable.  Senator .  Kingsmill based most of his arguments, against the imposition of these duties, on the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act ; but later he changed his ground. 
He said that if we were to meet Australia's requirements of hardwoods, our forests would be depleted. 

 Senator' Kingsmill. That is the opinion of an authority on the subject. 
When was that opinion expressed. 

 - Mr. Lane-Poole's statement is at variance with the one which  Senator  J.  B. Hayes quoted last night, in which it was stated that hardwoods should be more extensively utilized in Australia? 
For varied purposes. There are no finer timbers in the world than those grown in Australia. Have honorable senators inspected some of the magnificent panelling and flooring in some of the most modern buildings in Australia? The woodwork in Australian pianos is most beautiful, and compares more than favorably with that in the best instruments produced overseas. Architects have been unstinted in their praise of the  artictic  beauty of Australian timbers, and some of the most modern private buildings in Australia are panelled throughout with Australian woods. Is there any imported timber which is better than Australian hardwood for flooring purposes? I have seen magnificent floors, but not any which can equal those of Australian hardwood. The buzzer gives them a beautiful surface, and after they have been polished they please the most- artistic tastes; I have recently seen  in Melbourne motorlorries and horsedrawn vehicles heavily laden with imported timbers on their way to the timber yards, when many timber mills in Australia have been closed owing to overseas competition. The time has arrived to give the timber industry the protection which the Government now proposes. I do not intend to deal with the question of the possible increase in the cost of building. 
Higher, duties will not add to the construction costs. I endeavored to show last night, and other honorable senators emphasized the point, that hardwood houses are cheaper because they last longer. They are more satisfactory, and the maintenance costs are lower. It is incorrect to say . that these higher timber duties will increase the cost of houses by £7 or £8. Even if it means, as some honorable senators assert, that houses will cost more - a statement which we deny - members of the Labour party in this chamber will vote for this item, just as our party voted for it in another place. If we measured every proposal for higher duties by what it would cost the country, industry in Australia would make little or no progress. 
 The Government is asking honorable senators to agree to an increase of 100 per cent. in the timber duties. If they do this with their eyes open I shall have no complaint to make. For my part, I think the case for increased rates is wholly inadequate. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend the Senate during the earlier stages of this debate. Sickness in my family prevented me from being here, and illness, as honorable senators know, will admit of no postponement. If that were possible, however, it would pay the people of Australia to postpone all their sickness so as to come together and resist this tendency to increase duties, to ensure prosperity for a limited number of people. In the light of the knowledge that the proposed new duties represent an increase of 100 per cent, on the cost of a certain class of imported timber that is in general use, it is surprising that there has not been a greater public outcry against the Government's proposal. A year or two ugo, when the Government attempted to levy an impost of a few pence per gallon on petrol, there was a united protest from one end of the Commonwealth to the other. Similarly, any proposal that may have the effect of increasing the price of a suit of clothes, or even the price of beer, is immediately resisted ; ' but in this case, because of the incidence of the new timber duties, there has not been a public outcry. The wholesale importer will, as I have shown, actually be called upon to pay an increase of 100 per cent. on the price of certain timber imported, which can be bought at 8s. per 100 feet. He will pass this added cost on to the builder, who 'in turn will pass it on to the landlord and the latter will recoup himself at the expense of his tenant. Levied in this way the additional duties do not appear to be so burdensome. Nevertheless, they are wrong in principle. Unfortunately, certain business men are under the impression that unless they can get assistance from Parliament by way of increased protection, they will have no chance of success. There are in this country two classes of people - one that is indisposed to seek government assistance for the carrying on of industry, and the other which has developed a chronic habit of appealing to Parliament for assistance in every shapeand form. The timber industry must be placed in the latter category.  Senator Ogden  takes the stand that, as protection is the policy of the Commonwealth, there is no reason why the timber industry should not share in its benefits.  Senator Greene  appears to be of the same opinion. Their viewpoint clearly implies - this is particularly true of  Senator Ogden  - that protection in itself is not a sound public policy; that, on the contrary, it is pernicious; but that as it is the settled policy of the Commonwealth, the timber industry should enjoy its share of whatever benefits it confers. I" fail to understand the attitude of the honorable senator. The arguments of supporters of these duties are extraordinarily contradictory. We had  Senator Reid  a little while ago suggesting that protection for the timber industry was, after all, such a little thing,  affecting only certain phases of the building trade, that it was not worth while seriously contesting it.  Senator Greene,  on the other hand, invited the attention of honorable senators to the huge volume of timber imports and urged that increased duties should be imposed to check them. We have also been told about the danger of introducing timber parasites in imports from Borneo, and we have heard  Senator Needham  argue that all posible  means should be taken to check timber imports from cheaplabour countries. I remind the Leader of. the Opposition that the bulk of our imports comes from the United States of America and Canada, where the conditions of labour and wages are as good as, if not better than, those in Australia. 
I should like evidence of the correctness of that statement. I know that the wages of employees engaged in the manufacture of farming machinery in Canada and the United States of America are higher than are the wages of similar employees in Australia, and I apprehend that the same conditions obtain in the timber industry. 
Then I must content myself with the general statement that competition in the Australian timber market comes not so much from the Baltic countries as from Canada and the United States of America. These increased duties are an admission that the Australian workmen and those controlling the timber industry in Australia are only 50 per cent, efficient, as compared with American or Canadian competitors. 
I give all that in. Let us consider the historical aspect of this demand for higher timber duties. I well remember what happened several years ago in Melbourne, when first a request was made for the protection of this industry. The sponsors of the appeal went away rejoicing. They had obtained much more than they had expected. 
Notwithstanding that at the outset they had obtained more than they had expected, they came back to Parliament in 1921 for a further measure of protection. Once again they were sent away rejoicing. Four or five years later we were informed .' that the position of the industry was as bad as ever, and that further assistance was required. The Government is now asking Parliament to sanction the imposition of these additional duties. In the name of all that is rational, when will this industry be on a proper footing? 
I believe that is so. Many of those who are engaged in industry are like cormorants - they are never satisfied. Notwithstanding the alleged unprofitableness of the industry, many men connected with it have been able to amass considerable wealth. The same thing has happened in other industries. When this Parliament was sitting in Melbourne a gentleman closely identified with the iron and steel industry was a frequent visitor to thu House. He also appeared before the Interstate Commission on every available opportunity to ask for increased duties on iron and steel. That man died a millionaire.  His  property in the heart of Sydney looms up from among the adjoining buildings like a huge colossus. If his business had been unprofitable, would he have been able to acquire such a magnificent property as that ? I do not blame men engaged in industry for coming to this Parliament to ask for assistance; but I do blame members of this Parliament if they allow themselves to be misled as they have been in the past, and if they sanction excessive duties on certain lines of production which bear so heavily on the bulk of the bread-winners in this country. In a modified sense, perhaps, these new duties will have that effect, and that is one reason why I intend to oppose them. According to the Commonwealth  YearBoole  the wages and conditions of labour in this industry have not been materially enhanced during the last four or five years. Between 1921 and 1926, wages increased by only 4s. lOd. a week, or  a little over 4 per cent. The State Governments also have not imposed conditions that would warrant any change being made in the tariff. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
.  -  I wish to indicate where I stand on this matter. In all my political life I have not been in such a state of mental confusion as that in which I find myself in approaching the determination of my attitude towards the tariff. The discussion yesterday and to-day has led me to the conclusion that this is a geographical - -tariff, every man advocating the claims of his own State, and caring not whether the devil takes the others. 
Just so far as they can afford to be. The idea is for one to give another more than he now possesses. It cannot be denied that the result of these higher duties will be an increase in the cost of living. I am not a rabid protectionist, and I cannot see any justification for these proposals. I can, of course, readily appreciate the desire of a new ministerial head to bring down a fresh tariff. "Honorable senators have been supplied with documentary matter of exceptional volume, but it really tells us nothing. I have not had a very liberal education, but I know the difference between eighteenpence and a hen and chickens. A man who can juggle with figures can prove almost anything. I had an experience recently with one whose ability in that direction is amazing. He belongs to a firm that is endeavouring to obtain a higher tariff. I recognized from  Senator Lynch's  description the gentleman to whom he referred. He was born a. man, but unfortunately died a millionaire. It is an awful thing to build up a country in such a way that a few men become very wealthy at the expense of the majority of the people. Undoubtedly the proposed duties on timber will increase the cost of house-building. 
That has to be proved. I am able to see daylight through a small hole. The housing aspect is to me a very important one. It has been said that Australian hardwoods should be used. What hardwoods have we? All our forests are being rapidly depleted. Will any honorable senator say that we have a sufficient quantity of timber in Australia to meet our requirements? Certainly we have not. In his early days  Senator Kingsmill  travelled through the principal parts of the northwest, and he knows very well that the planting of forests has been undertaken only in the last few years. A period of from 30 to 35 years is necessary to bring a tree to maturity. It is" merely a " gag " to say that these duties will set the mills at work. If they should cease their operations at any time, will the tariff be taken off? 
As a Cornish woman once said, " That is all my eye and Betty Martin." Let us have the proof. 
 Senator Reid  ha3 referred to the Navigation Act. That act has been nothing but a nuisance. It has created a number of difficulties and interfered considerably with the progress of our industries. If we decline to alter it, we shall be moral cowards. No matter how difficult the problem may be, if any legislation is detrimental to the welfare of Australia, it must be removed from the statute-book. I put it to honorable senators that this tariff will not help us in any way, but, on the contrary, will increase the cost of living. Hardwood boards are not suitable for concrete work; they buckle and cannot be made true. That is not the case with oregon. One-half of the hardwood in Australia can be used for only one or two purposes : when it is required to sustain a weight, it gives. There .is no necessity to bringdown a new tariff merely because a few squeakers want it. When I was a Minister, I was constantly sought after by' that class of person. Will this tariff better Australia? 
In what way? 
I have heard that catch-cry until I am tired of it. The poor working-man is not a milksop, and will not swallow these things unquestioningly. Some time ago a firm was established in New South Wales to make artificial flowers. Report has it that the management was bad, and failure was the result. But the tariff was not removed. We shall have a similar experiencewith these timber duties if the millers fail to act up to their promises. At one time I wasa rabid protectionist, but with advancing years I have become moderate in my views. If I live a few years longer I shall probably not be a protectionist at all. ACornishman once said that he was nothing in particular, and less in general. If I am obliged to listen very much longer to a debate on the tariff. I shall probably reach the stage when I, too, shall be nothing in particular and less in general. 
Having listened attentively to the arguments advanced both for and against this item, I have come to the conclusion that the interests of only two sections of the community-: - the importers and the mill-owners - have been voiced. Little or nothing has been said regarding the interests of the section most concerned - the general public. The increased duties, if agreed to, will have to be borno by the consuming public whose interests we, as a Parliament, must consider. I do not hold that the importers are necessarily paragons or that the mill-owners are vampires, sucking the life blood of their fellows ; in my opinion each section is trying to make out the best case possible from its own point of view. I was glad to hear the Minister's honest admission that increased duties on timber will mean a slight increase in building costs. There is, however, a considerable difference of opinion as to the degree to which costs will be increased. 
If protection does not mean added costs, it is valueless. The chief argument of protectionists is that further duties are necessary because the existing duties will not' enable local products to compete with those from other countries. That is an admission that increased duties mean higher costs. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Minister for Defence.  upon notice - 
Why is it that little or no encouragement to aviation has been given at the seat of the Federal Governmentof Australia? 
How long will it before a properlyequipped aerodrome is ' established in the Federal Capital Territory with the necessary hangars, &amp;c? 
What is the annual expenditure by the Commonwealth Government on civil aviation in Australia? 
What is the total personnel attached to the Civil Aviation Department? 
What are their duties? 
Would the Minister be in favour of civil aviation being dissociated from the Defence Department? . 
Although Canberrais situated on one of the approved aerial highways that are to be organized in due course, it has not been practicable so far to commence preparation of it as such. 
It is hoped that the negotiations between the Defence Department and the Federal Capital Commission in regard to the terms and conditions of tenure of an aerodrome site near Canberra will be finalized shortly. 
The expenditure during 1924-25 was £104,734; 1925-26, £113,588; 1926-27, £111,669; estimated expenditure for 1927-28, £134,000. 
Professional and administrative staff (central), 5; technical inspectional staff, 4; clerical staff,6; typistcs. 4; total, 19 (exclusive of caretakers at government terminal aerodromes ) . 
The Civil Aviation Branch, under the Minister for Defence, is responsible for (a) the administration of the . Air Navigation Regulations which were framed to enable an adequate measure of control over the operations of civil aircraft within the Commonwealth and Territories; (6) the expenditure of the funds voted annually for the maintenance of regular air services, aerial routes, flying training organizations and other activities, and the investigation of proposals for further development (within the limits of the annual Civil Aviation appropriation). 
To facilitate the discharge of these functions, the Civil Aviation Branch is divided into three sections, viz. :  - s 

 Flying Operations. - (Aerial navigation, licensing of pilots, supervision of the activities of air service contractors and, the . various flying training organizations ) ; 

 Aircraft. - (Registration and periodical inspection of aircraft to ensure theirmaintenance in airworthy condition; the examination and licensing of aircraft ground engineers, and generally to advise on all technical matters affecting aircraft and aero engines) ; 

 Aerodromes. - (The maintenance of existing)!, aerodromes, emergency landing grounds and buildings; preliminary surveys of proposed new routes and the submission of recommendations for their preparation: issue of aerial strip maps and plans of landings grounds ; leases and/or acquisitions of sites for new aerodromes and emergency landing grounds). 
It is not customary to deal with matters of policy in answers to Questions in Parliament. 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
It cannot be said when the ten cars and eight trucks of foreign manufacture will be replaced by those of British manufacture. The department's policy is to give preference to British motor vehicles over those of foreign make. Some of the foreign vehicles were purchased several years ago. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the loss or profit on the working of the " Beam " section of the Amalgamated Wireless Co.? 
What would be the financial result of the " Beam " with a traffic of 25,000,000 words at a flat rate of1d. a word? 
What is the amount received by the department for terminal charges from the wireless and cable companies? 
What is the average charge per word? 
What would bethe amount received on a flat rate of1d. a word on present traffic? 
The PostmasterGeneral has . supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The information ' is not available in the Postmaster-General'sDepartment. 
See answer to No. 1. 
£184,672 (approximate annual rate). 
1.54d. 
£119,934 per annum. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the whole of last year's Queensland cotton crop was purchased by Australian mills, and that up to the present the mills have used but little of that crop? 
Is it a fact that the cotton crop to be shortly harvested, in Queensland is almost double that of last year, and that at present there is no demand for the crop in Australia? ' 
If so, what are the reasons? 
The answers to the honorable senator's- questions are as follow: - 
Almost all the lint produced from last year's Queensland seed-cotton crop was purchased by Australian manufacturers. Approximately one-third of this lint has been used to date. 
This year's crop is expected to produce about 13,000,000 lb. of seed cotton, as against 7,059,000 lb. last year. It is understood that Australian manufacturers have not yet arranged to buy any of this season's lint. 
Last year apparently, manufacturers purchased lint on the expectation of a larger trade than has since ' occurred, and now have sufficient of last year's lint to cover their requirements for some time to come. 
What I have to say to-day will be in justification of a statement which I made when last speaking on this item to the effect that some honorable senators appeared to have been influenced by the large number of telegrams and letters they had received, and that I had good reason to believe that those telegrams and letters were not spontaneous, but had been sent at the request of some one, and were, therefore, inspired. If I received a large number of spontaneous letters and telegrams stating that certain proposals before this branch of the legislature were going to injure business, I should take a good deal of notice of them; otherwise I would not be influenced by them, and would throw them in the wastepaper basket. As I had good reason to believe that these letters and telegrams were inspired, I thought it my duty to give expression to that belief. I received a somewhat severe catigation for doing so, but I have since been able to obtain copies of circulars which should convince honorable senators that these communications were not spontaneous. For the information of the committee, I wish to quote the following from the circular issued by the Hardwood Millers' Association of Victoria, dated 27th February, 1928- 
I should rather not introduce any names. I know that any one has a perfect right to send such communications. I am not questioning that right ; but I maintain that honorable senators are being influenced by telegrams and letters which are being sent in response to such communications. I therefore feel it my duty to bring thematter before the committee. 
They have a very great influence; that has been admitted by some honorable senators. 
SenatorKingsmill. - A good deal. 
It is relevant to the item. The Associated Country Sawinillers of New South Wales issued a circular letter dated 27th February, 1928, in which the ' following appears - 
Therefore each saw-miller in the State should at once either send an urgent telegram or write to his Federal member, asking him to take such action as may be necessary to support the Australian country saw-miller at the present juncture. . . . We want to all be up and doing, and not only communicate with the senators at Canberra whose names are at the bottom of this circular, but also write letters and/or send telegrams to the federal members for your- districts. Hoping that steps will be taken to prevent this misleading propaganda from doing an injury to an industry which is languishing..... Do not fail to do something, and do it immediately. 
Senators Abbott, Cox, Duncan, Grant, Massy Greene, and Thomas. ».Some honorable senators admitted that their opinions had been influenced by these communications. For instance, SenatorReid, in his second-reading speech said, " I cannot conscientiously vote for higher duties on Oregon." But when the timber duties were under consideration, he quoted these telegrams and said that they had had a considerable influence upon him. I think another honorable senator also said the same. 
Yes, but honorable senators should know how these messages originated. In his secondreading speech, SenatorReid condemned these higher duties on timber. 
Very well. When  Senator Reid  was speaking in committee he condemned imported tim ber on account of the borer, which he said was a menace to Australia. Some six or seven years ago, when a shipment of timber infested with borer was imported to Australia, the Customs Department took certain action, and has since framed regulations which prevent timber so infested frombeing imported. 
-I have the regulations which I shall quote in a minute. 
I understand in the first place all Philippine Island timber must carry a certificate that it is 90 days seasoned, or failing that, that it has been  at least  twelve days Id hotair drying kilns, 'both of which processes destroy the borer. It must also be accompanied by a certificate from the American Forestry Department that it was free from borer "when shipped. On arrival here  no furniture  timber is allowed to  enter the  country until the Quarantine Department gives it clearance. I understand that the regulations were afterwards relaxed in regard to certain building timbers because they are immune from the  borer,  but that they still apply to timber used in the manufacture of furniture. In the Statutory Rules for 1927 we find the following: - 
No person shall, import any timber (whether logs or  sawn  timber) unless he has given notice to the Quarantine Officer at the port of landing in accordance with the following form, which shall be printed on blue paper. 
These are the only points which I wish to bring before the committee. 
When I was speaking during my second period of fifteen minutes, allowed me under the Standing Orders, I mentioned that I intended, first of all, to deal with the forestry aspect of the matter. This I did, and I think conclusively proved that responsible foresters in Australia view with alarm the increased cutting of hardwood timbers which will bo necessary if these duties are imposed. I said at the time that I would deal with an important portion of the Tariff Board's report, and I asked in what way circumstances had changed since that exhaustive inquiry was made to justify the failure of the Government to be guided by it. Another portion of that document is extremely interesting. In the first place, so as to indicate the attitude taken up by certain witnesses before the Tariff Board, I should like to quote the following evidence given by the representative not of the South Australian Timber Workers' Union but of the Australian Timber Workers' Union :  jo, 
I am instructed  to request  that the Tariff Board will take into consideration the reduction in duty  on 12 x  G Oregon from 4s. to 3s. We contend that as long as timber comes in bulk, we will have the work of cutting it up. 
We do not want the duty on the smaller  sizes  reduced or increased. We also consider that should the duties be increased on bulk timber, and we were forced to supply our requirements from Australian timber, we know that it is a matter of impossibility for them to do so, because they have not enough to cope  with  the orders at present. Queensland cannot supply Australia with softwoods; so far as Tasmania is concerned, we use a quantity of their timber for fencing purposes, but it is not suitable in this climate for roofing construction (because it twists. We are of opinion that Australia would soon become depleted if only Australian timber were used. 
Before the Tariff Board in 1925. It is to be found in the report of that body preserved to Parliament on 18th September of that year. 
That, I understand, is the latest report of the Tariff Board on the timber industry. 
I understand that some of the representatives from South Australia are singing a different tune now; but not, so far as I can ascertain, on information contained in a later report of the Tariff Board. In order that my position may not.be misunderstood, I should like also to quote the report of the Tariff Board with regard to the conditions existing in Western Australia. I ask honorable senators to way particular attention to the wording of the paragraph which I am about to read. It is as follows : - 
The principal witness for increased duties,  Mr. Moore,  who claimed to be representing Western, Australia before the Tariff Board, as well as most of the other States, failed, in the board's opinion, to place the whole of the facts regarding that State adequately, and, apparently, was unaware of that State's true position. This is not to be wondered at, since  Mr. Moore  confines most of his activities to the timber industry in the State of Tasmania. The Tariff Board is in possession of the production figures of the State of Western Australia from 1914 to 1924, furnished by the Conservator of Forests of that State. On examination it will be found that these figures reveal, instead of a depression a condition of advancing prosperity. The actual position at the present moment is that the total timber production is greater than in any other year since 1914, which proved to be a phenomenally good year. The Tariff Board was not approached either by the Department of Forestry in Western Australia or any of the representatives of those actually engaged in the timber-getting industry in that State, with any complaints regarding the inadequacy of any of the duties affecting timber. 
When we have the Conservator of Forests declaring that the. hardwood forests must be depleted as a result of the increased demand which it is hoped will result from the passing of these increased duties, and when also the opinion of labour in Australia is against this course - it is in my State at all events and Western Australia is the largest timber producing State in Australia- 
It is "sold in the eastern States.  
It is sold, also, all over the world. 
The quality of the timber justifies the demand for it in other countries. 
We had an example of that matter in the Senate the other day. The answer of the PostmasterGeneral as to the reason why Western Australian timber was used by his department in preference to timber from other States was quite unambiguous. Honorable senators cannot therefore be surprised if, with the knowledge which I have of the timber industry of ray State - and that knowledge I submit, is not inconsiderable - and knowing how these duties are likely to affect the industry, I om not disposed to support them. It is difficult to understand why they have been imposed. The forestry authorities in Australia did not ask for them and certainly it is not in the interests of the consumer that they should be agreed to. Whilst we are considering the interests of -those engaged in the industry it is desirable that we should also give some thought to the needs of the consumer - in this case the people who may wish to build houses. Cannot honorable senators see that these -duties will affect the cost of building? I do not suppose that I shall have occasion to speak again on this item. I hope not, at all events. I cannot possibly see my way to vote for any increase in the duties on Oregon. Obviously they will not be in the interests of labour. If large-sized Oregon is included in the schedule the saw-milling industry will be affected because Oregon, in large sizes, represent its raw material. Personally, I can see nothing but evil for the timber ^industry if these duties are passed, and furthermore I venture to say that  the  course which I have already suggested - the abolition of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act - would achieve the object in view without increasing the cost of building. 
I rise to point to an aspect which appears to have been overlooked  in  this debate, and that is that those of us who are objecting to -the item are not advocating a reduction"1 in the duties in the old tariff, but what is actually an increase, since the increased duties set out in the schedule now before the committee cannot be assumed to be law until they have been agreed to by the Senate. The attitude which a number of honorable senators, myself included, take up, is that we are advocating an increase of practically 50 per cent, in duties which the Tariff Board considered adequate for the protection of the industry. In my remarks during the general discussion I made a slight mistake. I assumed that the old rate of duty was 3s. British, intermediate and general. I find that it was 3s. British and intermediate, and 4s. in the general tariff. Therefore, the amendment which I am about to submit will represent an increase of 50 per cent, under the general tariff. That should be sufficient to enable the saw-millers to carry on, without penalizing the consumers. I happened to be in telephonic communication with an architect friend of mine -in Sydney yesterday on the subject of these duties. He assured me that every architect in Sydney believed that they would very considerably increase the cost of every building erected in New South Wales, and that the position would be the . same in Queensland. That ought to correct  Senator  Hoare's  ideas regarding my consistency, and  Senator Reid's  assumption' that my proposal is a shandy-gaff one.'1. 'T~ should like to follow up what  Senator Chapman  has said respecting the influences that have been at work in this matter. In the Brisbane  Daily Mail  of the 17th inst., a long telegram was published from Cairns indicating that  Mr. James  L. Moore had wired to the sawmillers in North Queensland informing them that Senators Reid, Foll, and Thompson were opposed to the proposed timber duties,  and asking them to use every effort to induce those honorable senators, to vote for them. There may be nothing' wrong with that, but it is an evidence of energy rather than of discretion. Honorable senators are nor likely to submit to that sort of thing. I have only a superficial knowledge of the subject, but I cannot see in what way North Queensland is likely to be injured. _ It is well known that that portion of Australia grows principally decorative timbers, that are unsurpassed by similar timbers grown in any other part of the world. A celebrated Swedish professor said recently that the decorative timbers of North Queensland had no superior within his knowledge. How, then, are they likely to be injured? It is only ridiculous propaganda to say that they are. 
I have already informed honorable senators that my desire to effect a compromise was dictated largely by a letter which I had received from a very fine firm of sawmillers in Brisbane, James Campbell &amp; Sons Ltd. The Minister  (Senator Crawford)  has referred to propaganda on the other side. Since the adjournment of the Senate on Friday last I have received a letter from Brown &amp; Broad, Newstead Homes Ltd., Brisbane, a firm which carries extensive stocks and whose operations in connexion with the building of homes for the workers are probably not equalled by any other firm in Australia. It will place before honorable senators the point of view of the consumers. 
They build for the consumer. Why does the Minister try to sidestep such an obvious fact ? 
The Minister has asked me to give him the viewpoint of the other side, and I have very much pleasure in doing so. The letter reads - 
Timber Duties. - I read with some amazement a statement in the press to the effect that hardwood millers had convinced senators that, if the proposed increased duties were not confirmed, the hardwood industry would be very seriously injured. Such a contention is utterly ridiculous, and an insult to the intelligence of senators - doubtless the statement was blatant propaganda. As an evidence of the difficulty in obtaining hardwood supplies, I may say that my company has a contract with the] Postmaster-General, for the supply of hardwood  crossarms.  The size of the timber is 3 inches by 3 inches and lengths vary from fi' ft. 6 in. long to 9 feet. This is one of the easiest specifications any  sawmiller  could ask for, yet what do we find? Out of five hardwood millers with whom orders were placed, only two can supply small quantities. I send you herewith copies of letters received from these millers, which speak volumes, more especially when one hears so much piffle about the great hardwood industry being ruined by importations of foreign timber. 
I shall not inflict those upon honorable senators. 
The letter says - 
My company find it most difficult to obtain ordinary general stocks, for which it has to pay 30s. per 100 feet, and it is offering  considerably  more for  crossarms,  without results. The Government appointed a tariff ' commission, who thoroughly and exhaustively investigated the timber tariff and brought down certain well-considered proposals. The Minister for Customs apparently did not see fit to accept those recommendations, and by a stroke of the pen just doubled the existing duties and ignored the report altogether. Surely the Minister's duty was to place the Tariff Commission's recommendations before the House, and let it decide; otherwise where is the justification for the appointment of a very expensive commission. You will have to deal with this important question in a few days, and I say deliberately that the trade as a whole had confidence in the Tariff Commission, and would have accepted their decision without demur; but, if the Minister's high-handed action is confirmed, then we lose our respect and confidence in those who support such a person. 
It goes on to say - 
Increased Duties won't help. - My company is now, I believe, the largest home-building concern in tlie Commonwealth. It supplies and erects homes all over Queensland, from the Gulf. to the Tweed, and, if I could obtain its timber requirements locally, I would do so. I have two large sawmills in the country capable of cutting over 30,000 feet daily. They are both closed down permanently and the machinery is for sale. The sole reason for closure was because the timber supplies have been exhausted. An endeavour was made to secure supplies in other districts, and I was prepared to move the mills; but the Government would give no assurance of supplies. My company was forced to import through no fault of its own. The dreadful neglect of the present and past governments of this unfortunate State has placed timber merchants in this unhappy position. 
I shall not flog a dead horse any longer. I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duties, sub-item  f  (3), British, 5s.; intermediate, 5s.; general, Gs. 

 Senator FINDLEY (Victoria) [3.381. - I rise to answer certain statements made by  Senator Kingsmill,  that are not in accordance with the facts. That honorable senator quoted extensively from a report of the Director-General of Forests,  Mr. Lane-Poole,  and endeavoured to lead honorable senators to believe that Australia has not a sufficient supply of hardwood to cope with her requirements. I cannot speak for the timber industry of Australia as a whole, but I can. speak with some authority regarding Victoria. When the statement was published that we had an insufficient supply of hardwood, the people who are engaged in the timber industry in Victoria were naturally more or less incensed. Whatever justification  Senator Kingsmill  might have had for making his statement applicable to the other States, he certainly was not justified in applying it to Victoria. 
In that case the statement of the Director-General of Forests is clearly incorrect. In view of the belief held by some honorable senators that there is a very meagre supply of matured milling timber in Australia I desire to read the following report by  Mr. D.  Ingle, the Commissioner of Forests for Victoria. 
Statements having been made publicly that this State has very meagre supplies left in the forests of matured milling timbers, and that, therefore, importations of softwoods should be encouraged in order to eke out as long as possible what are remaining, it has occurred to me that the present position should be reviewed in order to relieve any anxiety which may have arisen regarding this important matter. 
It is unfortunate that visiting foresters, in almost every instance, have based their calculations and conclusions on hearsay evidence, instead of gaining the knowledge required on the subject by actual personal inspections. . . 
When it is considered that most, if not all, of the forestry experts, who have visited this State from overseas, and who in books, pamphlets, reports to governments and newspapers, stated their erroneous conclusions, have only spent, at the most, a few weeks in the State and it is not possible for any one to obtain an authentic knowledge of the timber resources of this country in less than as many years as have been numbered in weeks by the visitors who have had the temerity to publicly sum up the forestry position here. 
In 1923-24 the total output of hardwood ('milled timber) was 108,000,000 super feet; but, owing to the low price of inferior softwoods, only 87,257,456 super feet were cut in 1920-27 and 82,000,000 in 1925-20. 
It is quite safe, however, to say that in this State there are supplies of mature hardwood which would produce the peak requirements of 1923-24, viz., .108,000,000 (annually) for at least 45 years. These supplies would comprise the best of furniture, flooring, weatherboards, scantlings, bridge, sleeper, pile and pole timber; at their worst, these trees would give better service than tlie imported softwoods. 
It may be pointed out, also, that in all parts of the State where milling operations have been carried on years ago, the regenerated forests, which have been highly improved, large areas of pines have been planted and within 45 years - the estimated life of the existing mature hardwood reserves - these plantations will be ready for use. 
The suggestion that the matured forests of Victoria are almost depleted is without foundation, and. utterly absurd, because in addition to the areas in the Yea, Alexandra, Warburton, Upper Yarra, Noojee, Tangil .and Baw Baw districts, which are now being exploited and will produce the hardwood requirements of tb is State, estimated at about 100,000,000 super feet per annum for a period of 20 years, there are the virgin matured forests in the watersheds of the Mitchell, Tambo, Timbarra and Buchan rivers^ containing 178,000 acres, which will supply our requirements for at least a further 20 to 25 years, and further east is the remainder of the county of Croajingolong, comprising approximately 1,000,000 acres and carrying matured eucalypts throughout, so it 'is plain that, for the period stated- 45 year/sl.at least - there will be no dearth of mature hardwood in Victoria, and the probabilities are that, as the old cutout forests are being regenerated, that period may be greatly extended. 
This statement is compiled from facts gained by 30 years of personal inspection, not from hearsay statements made by irresponsible persons. 
The statement may not be acceptable to  Senator Duncan,  who, though evidently not interested in thedevelopment of the timber industry in Australia may yet be interested in thetimber industry abroad. Opponents of these duties say that they will increase the cost of houses, thus placing an additional burden upon the workers. That statement is not in accordance with fact. 
Eventhough there may be a slight increase in the cost of houses because of the duties, a house erected of hardwood lasts longer than one constructed of Baltic pine, while the upkeep is infinitesimal compared with that of a softwood dwelling. Another objection raised to the higher duties is that no matter what duty is placed upon softwoods, they will still enter this country. I believe that no duties that we may impose will entirely prevent the importation of softwoods; but the imposition of high duties on softwoods will cause Australian hardwood to be used for many purposes for which imported timber is now employed. Throughout the world forestry experts are advocating a greater use of hardwood. The  United Empire,  the official journal of the Royal Colonial Institute, in its issue of 28th February last, publishes a paper on Imperial Forestry written by the right honorable Lord Clinton,  Chairman  of the Forestry Commission, in which it is urged that every endeavour should be made to keep out the existing supplies of timber by economizing in the consumption of softwoods and by persuading consumers to utilize hardwood instead of softwood wherever possible. The meeting was under the chairmanship of Lord Novar whose name is well ; known in forestry matters. 
I am satisfied thata majority of the members of this committee desire to do the fair thing by the Australian timber industry. I should not have risen had it not been that  Senator Kingsmill  and others - perhaps not intentionally - would lead the public to believe that our timber requirements cannot be supplied by Australian sawmillers. The facts and figures regarding the industries which I have quoted absolutely disprove their statements.  Senator Chapman  complained that those interested in the timber industry in this country had communicated with honorable senators, urging them to support higher duties on timber. There is nothing unusual about that action ; similar action has been taken in connexion . with every other tariff schedule which has been introducedinto this Parliament. It is their duty- to mind their own business.What is everybody's business is nobody's affair. The gentleman who is commissioned to look after the work on behalf of the timber producers has done his work well. Honorable senators prefer to meet representatives of various interests, producers or importers, in person, and secure information which assist us in the discussion of tariff matters. We receive a great deal of information from those who favour importations and we get it likewise from those who are deeply interested in Australian industries. But we are not influenced by that information in coming to our conclusions. 

 - Senator Thompson claims that he studies both sides of a question and draws his own conclusions. I do the same, but I draw one conclusion only, and that is that we should afford the highest measure of protection to Australian industries. One would imagine from the remarks of  Senator Chapman  that the people engaged in the timber industry in Australia are the only persons moving in the direction he has indicated. Have not the importers sent out circulars and telegrams to honorable senators? Have they never interviewed honorable senators? 
Perhaps they are not as active in that regard as the producers. 
I have not placed any obstacle in the way of taking a vote. I think I was justified in replying to an inaccurate statement. I hope that when the vote is taken it will - show conclusively that the majority of honorable senators are strongly in favour of the proposed duties. 
When we are considering a proposal which means, roughly, doubling the rates of duty on timber and a substantial increase in the cost of a universally required article, we can well say, notwithstanding what the Minister has said, that an hour spent in discussing the matter is an hour usefully employed. ,.The Government's proposal means more than doubling the rate of duty on the great bulk of the timber imported into Australia. It means an increased levy of something like £835,000, or, deducting the duty on New Zealand timber, £770,000, on the users of timber in Australia. I feel it is like throwing chaff against the wind to. try to moderate these duties. I recognize that public opinion is still strongly in favour of the political superstition that all a country has to do to bring prosperity upon itself is to increase its customs duties and raise prices. Must not an end come to all this ? A few years ago the duty on imported timber was 2s. per 100 super, feet. The present proposal is to make it 8s., an increase of 400 per cent. Eight years ago the timber producers were clamouring for and were given rates of ls. 6d. and 2s., but the sole effect of giving those rates was to whet the desire of others to take advantage of the increase. The vicious circle came into play at once. Prices all round have been raised again and again, and the result has been that people making use of timber have had to pay more for it without any corresponding return for the extra price paid.. I suppose we shall continue this mad policy until we are brought to a dead stop. This country will have a rude awakening when it is found that the prices we get overseas for our surplus produce will no longer sustain our habits of high living and high prices. Already we as a people are living beyond our means and. the effect of this tariff will b.e to encourage us to indulge still further in that vicious practice. Let us call a halt before it is too late to avert the crisis that must come when the return we get overseas for our surplus produce will no longer sustain us in our course of high living-.^ Even now the price of wheat has fallen to little more than 50 per cent, above its pre war value. Yet we are being asked in this case to impose a duty which is 400 per cent, higher than that which operated eight years ago on this ""necessary commodity.  Senator Findley  has asked us to believe that 'Victoria is a timber State, but the Customs returns indicate that it is the second largest timber importer in the Commonwealth. During 1926-27 New South Wales imported 150,000,000, super, feet of undressed timber and 18,000,000 super feet of dressed timber. In the same period Victoria imported 92,000,000 super, feet of undressed timber 2and 54,000,000 of dressed timber. Of the total importations of dressed timber, New South Wales imported 23 per cent, and Victoria fi« per cent. 
If Victoria is a State overflowing with timber which is ready to be put on the market, why is it that it is the second largest importer of timber? I could understand South Australia being a large importer of timber, but not Victoria. No reliance can be placed on the authority quoted by  Senator Findley.  The figures I have given blow the honorable senator's statement kite high. Victoria is not a timber State. It is not even in a position to supply its own timber requirements.  Senator Kingsmill  has quoted the statement made last year by the Forestry Commission of Queensland that within the next 25 years that State, which is admittedly one of the timber States of the Commonwealth, will not be able to pro-  duce supplies of softwoods to meet its own requirements''1 and must import £30,000,000 worth. The timber pro: duc.ers of Australia' who have been enjoying an average duty of 4s. per 100 super, feet, double the rate prevailing about eight years ago, are now anxious to double the rate again and make it 8s. per 100 super, feet. A complacent Government  is allowing them to do so. I call it a complacent Government because apparently it is ever willing to listen to the tales of those who want high duties and is never ready to  supply information to those who will Have to bear the burden of the higher duties imposed. When a Tariff Bill was under discussion in this Senate some years ago honorable senators were supplied by the then Government with the fullest details. That Government had some regard for Parliament and a proper idea of how a tariff should be discussed and settled. Against every item it showed the proposed duty, the British preferential rate, the former rate, the duty recommended by the Tariff Board, the amount of imports for the year, the revenue collected and the ad valorem duty paid. All this information could be seen at a glance. 
-When we were last dealing with the tariff, I protested against the frivolous way in which the Government was treating the Senate by  not supplying honorable senators with information. As a result of my protest we had placed in our hands not a Government publication but a statement by  Mr. Ambrose  Pratt, issued and published in the manufacturing interests of Australia. It is a partisan publication. It is a pity that the method which, as I have indicated, was adopted by a previous government, has not been copied by the present administration. This tariff has simply been heaved at us, and we have been asked to swallow it. There is an old saying that one man can take a horse to water but .ten men cannot make it drink. This country will not become prosperous by piling up rates of duty. The diminishing acreage under wheat tells its. own story. Paper is cheap, ink is cheap, cleri-  eai labour is cheap, and ministerial arguments are the cheapest of all. There is no reason why we should not get more information than that which has been heaved at us on this occasion. What has the Senate done  that it  has not been supplied with the  detailst o  which it is entitled ? When we  are  asked to double the duties on timber, and" call upon the users of timber to pay an additional £750,000 for their requirements,  Senator Findley,  of course, says " Hear, hear " ; but surely there is in the community an overwhelming number of silent patient citizens who will not applaud. Will the imposition of extra duties on timber have any different result from that which was achieved by doubling the duties some years ago. It is time we faced the matter squarely; it is time we made people live within their means and compete without the shelter afforded by a tariff 100 per cent, and not 400 per cent, higher than that which previously operated. I feel that my voice is like that of one crying in the wilderness, and that this insanity will continue until a rude awakening comes. Even now, however, we can see gleams of sunlight on the murky horizon. There are in this country some who are awakening to the fact that this drift must not continue. We know that the cost of building houses for the Victorian State Savings Bank is about double what it was in the early nineties just before the- financial crash came. According to  Senator Findley  rents have- not risen, or if they have the increase has been trifling. As a matter of fact rents in Australia have risen by 15 per cent, since 1921, while in the same period the average wage paid in Australia has only risen from 94s. lid. to 99s., an. increase of 4 per cent. We are asked to agree to an increase of duty amounting to 100 per cent. The Government should supply the committee with all information at its disposal instead of compelling honorable senators to fish around to obtain it. I have given the other side of the picture in connexion with this industry, and have shown that although wages have increased by only 4 per cent., the Government wishes us to support timber duties equivalent to, 100 per cent. Where is the warrant for this? When is consideration to be given to the man on the land who rises early in the morning and works until late at night and who does not receive any benefit from tariff duties ? How is he to get on ? In various ways he will have to pay these increased duties. It will not. be long before the burden becomes so heavy that these men will devote their energies to other activities where the conditions of life are much easier. If they do I shall not blame them; but when they do, production will diminish and the prosperity of the country will be seriously impaired. Why should they be compelled to work long hours whilst other sections of the community are sailing along smoothly and receiving protection and assistance which is denied to them? Notwithstanding the arduous nature of their work, Governments, of which this is a sample, have the audacity to impose high duties which these sturdy workers on the land will have to pay. The Government increased these duties without a scintilla of evidence in support of its action. Where are these ' industries which we are being..,asked to support ? The only trace we can find of many of them is in a back room in some city building. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his ' time. 
 Senator Lynch  has asked what justification there is for the duty under the general tariff being increased from 4s. to 8s. Those engaged in the industry were quite satisfied with a duty of 4s. when it was imposed; but conditions have altered considerably since then. I think it was in 1920 that  Oregon  was sold at 70s. per 100 super, feet; it was later reduced to 40s.; and to-day, owing to the cheap labour available in the country of production and to other factors, softwood timber is now being sold in Australia at 29s. per 100 feet super. 
According to the latest figures available, that is the price being charged this year. The costs of the sawmiller have, in consequence of awards made by the Arbitration Court and the conditions imposed under the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act increased to a remarkable extent. On the one hand the costs of the sawmillers have increased and on the other, timber is being imported at a much cheaper rate. In these circumstances the Australian sawmillers have, to seek increased duties to enable the industry, which is not getting consideration com mensurate with that received by other industries, to continue. 
That may be so. The Navigation Act and the awards of the Arbitration Court are affecting industries t04 such an extent that we cannot continue the present system much longer. The duties which are now sought are only sufficient to enable the saw mills to keep in operation; but if many of the obstacles with which the sawmillers now have to contend were removed, they would not be necessary. It has been stated during the debate that certain forestry officers view with alarm the depletion of our Australian forests. I have ^before me extracts from statements made by certain forestry officers in Australia.  Senator Findley  referred to what has happened in Victoria, and I now wish to quote what was stated in evidence by the Conservator of Forests in Tasmania in relation to the Tasmanian forests being cut out. He said - 
There are at present under leases and permits some 300,000 acres of forest land, of which it is assumed some 100,000 acres are cut out. By assessing the balance of 200,000 acres to a yield of 20,000 feet to the acre, one thousand million super, feet in the round is reached. Suppose 50 per cent, of this is lost in conversion, a net balance of two thousand million super, feet of sawn timber would be produced. Of the balance of timber land in Tasmania 700,000 acres should be a conservative, estimate. As the bulk of- this is unexplored, let us consider 10,000 feet to tlie acre as the yield. This gives seven thousand million super, feet in the round which, with a 50 per cent, reduction, conversion works out at 3,500,000,000 feet of timber. Therefore on these figures the total yield of. sawn timber on leased and unleased areas would be 5,500,000,000 super, feet. As Tasmania produces approximately 60,000,000 feet of sawn timber per annum, the forests would last at the present rate of cutting, about 90 years. ...... Sufficient data has been collected to show that the rate of growth is rapid and the annual increment in the Tasmanian eucalypt is very high. Be-growth 25 years old is at present being cut for board and case material, and in such localities 40 years should prove ample to produce sawmilling timber.  
From this it will be seen  that even if cutting  is undertaken at three or four times the present rate, it can proceed indefinitely. I am- not conversant with the conditions in Queensland; but in regard to that State it is stated on page 33 of the Forestry Report of 1926, that - 
There are 60,000,000 idle feet of red  satinay  on Fraser Island and 60,000,000 idle feet of grey and red satin ash on the  Bungalla  Range near Mackay. There are untold millions of feet of tulip oak in the forests on the west coast line. , 
The other day I quoted a report issued by  Mr. Lane-Poole  when he was in Western Australia. 
All the for- 'estry officers recommend that we should conserve our supplies, but although it may seem paradoxical, the only way to save our timber is by cutting and using it. When  Mr. Lane-Poole  was Conservator of Forests in Western Australia, he said - 
Between 500,000 and 7/50,000 tons of utilizable woods are being burned by sawmillers every year. 
He recommended the imposition of a duty, and went on to say - 
I should welcome a revision of the tariff and would like to see so heavy a duty placed on imported woods as to force the community throughout Australia to use its own wood. 
From these opinions it would appear that Australians need not be afraid of their supplies of timber becoming exhausted. Some have said that Tasmanian timber is not fit for roofing purposes; but in Tasmania and also in other parts of Australia, some of the best houses are roofed with properly seasoned timber. 
It is in connexion with any timber. No sane person would use green wood in any structure. 
Durable woods cannot of course be worked as readily as pine woods. Honorable' senators have noticed that some of the lamp posts in Canberra are of pine, and anyone who knows anything  about  timber will realize that pine is not likely to last long under the ground. Hardwood would be preferable, and I believe that peppermint would be four times and ordinary stringybark three times as durable for that purpose. Although I do not wish to criticize the action of the authorities here, 1 think it is surprising to see soft wood being used for lamp posts when plenty of our own serviceable hardwood timber is available. Tasmanian hardwoods can be used for all classes of work from rough fencing posts to the highest quality of furniture; these should be given preference over imported woods. The sawmillers have undertaken not to increase the price if these duties are imposed. They are. only anxious that Australians .shall use Australian woods to a much greater extent than they do, and this, I think, is only a fair request. 
 A disinterested person following the debates in this Chamber would wonder why the committee  was  taking so long to discuss this item since all the argument seems to be on the one side. That, of course, will not be admitted by honorable senators who are supporting these duties; but I believe that a good many honorable senators on this side of the  Chamber  are, in this instance, out of step with the Government. I listened to the excellent speeches by  Senator Kingsmill, Senator Chapman  and others, and to the very weak replies of  Senator Findley  and those associated with him who have not made out a very strong case in favour of higher duties. The revelations made by  Senator Chapman  concerning the representations of certain people are important. To me they are amazing. 
I do not think the honorable senator is correct in saying that. 
That shows how important they are. There is a great difference between legitimate representations, made to honorable senators, by reputable organizations, for or against certain duties in the usual way, and messages such as we have  received. Legitimate communications receive my careful attention. When, however, letters and telegrams began to pour in upon me directing attention to the deplorable conditions in the sawmilling industry, stating that men were unemployed and how essential it was that the mills should be re-opened, I began to feel that something was wrong. I thought it strange that I had not heard of these conditions from any other source. I now know why these  telegerams  and letters were sent. Who is responsible for them? I want to say now that I do not believe that the statements made in some of them are true. If they are then the whole of the arguments in favour of additional duties are valueless because these duties have been in operation for some months. We have been .told that two mills ..have been re-opened in Tasmania. 
We have been informed by telegrams and letters from representatives of timber-getting firms that the industry is at its last gasp, and that unless the Senate ratifies the duties, it will go out of existence. Why has not disaster already overtaken the industry? The duties have been operating for several months and therefore their ratification apparently will not give the industry greater protection. Why has not more employment been given to Australian workers? 
But they have been operative, as I have stated, for many months, and there has been ample time for their influence to be felt. 

 Senator- DUNCAN.- But the new duties have not checked foreign importations to any extent, and therefore we may presume that their ratification now will not, as has been stated, mean prosperity for the industry. All that they will do will be to increase the cost to users of timber in Australia. 
New South Wales produces a great deal of timber, so the duties will have the same effect on the industry in that State as in Tasmania. 
I believe that the output of sawmills in New South Wales is almost equal to that of Tasmanian mills; but in that State, as elsewhere in the Commonwealth the trouble is to market the timber. There are enormous areas of suitable timber, but much of it is not merchantable because transport difficulties are insuperable. 
New roads and new railways are required, and must be constructed to open up additional timber areas; there is a magnificent supply of the finest timber in Australia in the Bulga and Comboyne districts of New South Wales, but unfortunately, owing to transport difficulties, it is impossible to profitably market it. If we increased the duties by 5,000 per cent., we should still be unable to place much of our timber on the market. 
Unfortunately for Australia, they have not. Many timber-producing countries have magnificent waterways down which lumber companies float timber supplies to seaports for export to other countries. In that respect, Australia as a timber-producing country, is under a severe handicap, so severe indeed that largely increased duties would not assist the industry to any material extent. What is lacking in Australia is a more efficient and cheaper system of transportation. 
Certain other industries are suffering in the same way. as regards the inter-state trade. In the Sydney press last week I noticed a statement to the effect that owing to the extremely high freights prevailing, it was impossible to market supplies  of timber in Sydney from north coast districts. Increased duties will mean increased prices. Can the people afford to pay these higher prices? I doubt if they can. It has already been shown that the higher duties will not benefit many sawmills in New South Wales, though they may assist a number of mills in Tasmania; but, as I have stated, the users of timber will be called upon to pay increased prices for it. This will mean dearer homes for the people. At the last election one of the cries was - "Put people in their own homes, and they will never become bolsheviks, because they will have a stake in the country." Those honorable senators who are supporting these higher duties appear to favour putting people in their own homes but only at an additional cost of from £30 to £40 each. 
On that point I should like to state that in Sydney on Sunday last I met a friend of mine who, out of his hard-earned savings, had built a couple of cottages. Being a patriotic Australian, he used Australian hardwood for the roofing timbers, and is now faced with an unavoidable expenditure to reroof both cottages. He told me that the rafters had warped so badly that the roof was leaking and the cottages were in a serious condition. I am informed that it is almost impossible to obtain Australian hardwood that is thoroughly seasoned and suitable for roofing timber. Builders and contractors cannot depend on it. For these reasons I am opposed to the increased duties. I do not believe that they will relieve the depression in the timber industry,. They have been operative for some time now, and apparently have not had the effect which certain people claim they will have if ratified by the Senate. 

 Senator GRAHAM (Western Australia [4.30].  -  I was not surprised to hear  Senator Duncan  speak in support of foreign timber importers. He appears to be an advocate of everything foreign, including foreign socks. 
 I rise to a point of order.  Senator Graham  is not in order in saying that I favour the importation of foreign socks. During the debate on that item I spoke in favour of encouraging the Australian industry, and voted for the imposition of a duty to protect it. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).I  did not hear the statement which the honorable senator attributed to  Senator Graham. 
I am sorry if I have misrepresented  Senator Duncan  in regard to the duty on imported socks; but, judging by his remarks just now, the honorable senator favours the use of inferior foreign timbers to the detriment of the timber industry in Australia. If, as he has stated, the election cry of Government supporters during the last campaign was to build homes for the workers so as to prevent them from becoming bolsheviks, why does not he now stand up for the Australian timber industry, so that Australians may have homes built of Australian timber ? Unfortunately, the volume of importations is undiminished, notwithstanding the higher duties that have been imposed. 
I presume it is because production in other countries is cheaper than in Australia. Borneo timber is cut by coolies, who are paid only a few shillings a day, whereas timber workers in Australia receive what is regarded as a living wage, and they work under superior conditions. I totally disagree with those honorable senators who say that Australian hardwood is not suitable for building purposes. In Victoria it is largely used, and is entirely satisfactory. 
No .doubt  Oregon  was used in that building. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited uses 16 by 16 oregon sets; but as that class of timber comes in duty free, it is not affected by this item. 
I presume it is preferred because it is lighter. 
I am not so sure that that is the principal reason for its use in mines in the eastern States. In 
Western Australia, jarrah, jam, and salmon gum are used in the mines. I could take honorable senators to many public buildings in Kalgoorlie that were erected 25 or 30 years ago, with Western Australian hardwood. That timber is as perfect to-day as it was on the day when it was put into the buildings. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  who is an authority on timbers, will bear me out when I say that our hardwoods in Western Australia will stand up to any tests required of them. 
Not at all. We have millions of feet of ...good timber available. If the imposition of a still higher duty on imported timber would lead to the cutting of a greater quantity of our own timber, and keep our mills working full time, I would agree to it. The imported softwoods are not all that they are claimed to be. It is argued that the price of building will be increased. The extra cost of a fiveroomed house will amount to not more than £6 12s. 6d. The additional rental, therefore, will be not greater than approximately 3d. a week.  Senator Chapman  claims to have been inundated with telegrams ostensibly from millers, and has used that as an argument to induce honorable senators who favour the higher duties to revise their views. I have not received a telegram from either a sawmiller or any other source.  Senator Kingsmill  has argued that if we do not allow the importation' of softwood a substitute will be found. I point out that the substitute in the case of dado linings would be fibro plaster sheets, which are manufactured by Australian workmen under Australian conditions of labour; whereas -the imported softwoods are obtained in many cases from countries in which cheap colored labour is employed. 
It would not do it any harm.  I wish to quote from the report of the Forestry Department of Western Australia for the year ended 30th June,' 1924. We. have been told * that borers are not brought to Australia in imported softwoods. That is incorrect. Three months ago an expert who travelled from the eastern States to Western Australia outlined to me the steps which have to be taken to cope with the borer, and said that not only the cargo  but also the ships which bring it to Australia are affected. Fumigation of the vessels does not succeed in driving out the pest. Once it gets a hold every subsequent cargo of timber becomes infected before its arrival in Australia. The report to which I have referred reads as follows : - 
The inspection of timber ' imported from Borneo and Java in conformance with the Commonwealth Quarantine Regulations has shown the necessity for close supervision. A number of living specimens of particularly destructive varieties of timber' borers have been discovered, and arrangements have been made for the infected timber to be destroyed. 
The Government should take every step possible to prevent the borer from obtaining a hold in Australia. Some honorable senators- claim that it has been here for years. If that is so, it is only now manifesting its presence, I have seen in Melbourne imported furniture that has been in use for ten years, yet the borer is only now  working  its way out through the tops of the tables. We must take a firm stand to prevent its ravages. In Western Australia the life of Oregon used in flooring joists and floorings is only three years, on account of the destruction that is caused by white ants. Even when the piles are sheathed with tin the ants cannot be kept out of the building. The effects of the borer are not immediately apparent. It is time we prevented the importation of foreign timber and encouraged our people to use our own woods. If the softwood forests of the rest of the world should be burnt out a substitute could easily be found in Australia'. When hardwood from Victoria or jarrah from Western Australia has been placed in position it lasts for all time. I saw on exhibition in Perth a piece of jarrah that had been taken from one of the piles of a jetty at Fremantle. It had been under water for 35 years. It was sawn through the centre, and polished until it looked like a piece of glass. There was. not a blemish  on it. Sea water would cause a softwood to deteriorate within 24 hours. I shall support the proposed duties. 
I wish to refer to the report of the Tariff Board which recommended a moderate increase in the timber duties. At page 27 the following appears: - 
Such increases as have been recommended are intended only to save the industry by enabling a small profit to be earned, and prevent many more mills from closing down. Any further burden in tlie shape of increased wages or more improved conditions will mean that the trade which  the  increased duties are designed to bring to the hardwood saw-milling industry will be diverted to imported softwoods and substitutes. 
There is an admission that even with that small increase the timber milling industry is really on the bread line. The 44-hour week is now in operation, and it, together with other conditions that have been brought about by the Arbitration Court, Workmen's Compensation and Child Endowment have placed the industry in a parlous condition. If there should be a further rise in wages, or if the conditions should be made harder for the mill-owner, one of our big primary industries will go out of action. On different occasions I have heard honorable senators quote figures illustrating the drift of population to the cities, and deploring the growth of Melbourne, Sydney, and other capital cities at the expense of the country districts. Here is a primary industry, which, directly and indirectly, is responsible for the employment of thousands of country people ; yet we are asked not to consent to the proposed higher duties! If those duties are not passed the mills will cease to operate, and thousands of persons will lose their employment. Thus the curse of centralization will be accentuated.' Unemployment in our rural districts is sufficiently grave at the present time. Recently I travelled through a number of timber milling areas, and learned that since December last, when these duties become operative a number of mills had reopened, and tremendous sales of Australian hardwoods had been effected. Are we not, therefore, doing something to support a most important primary industry, and, by providing employment in the country for thousands of men, keeping in circulation a tremendous amount of money? It must be realized that wages account for from 75 per cent, to SO per cent, of the expenditure of the mill-owner. What is to be done if those mills close down? 
I am in favour of the increases for which the schedule provides, so that this primary industry may be maintained. It has been argued that the increased duties will hit new settlers and wage earners. I point out that those settlers are generally supplied by a mill in their own locality. Therefore, that argument is futile. If the higher duties are likely to hit the wage earners, why are they being supported by our illustrious friends who sit on the Opposition benches ? 
I assume that they are sent to this chamber to safeguard the interests of the wage earners. We must take it that they know more about the matter than we do. 
In many directions the dwellers in the country have been adversely affected by duties imposed to protect secondary industries. Surely when an opportunity presents itself we should give them the same measure of protection that we give to others. We must not lose sight of the fact that since the amended duties have been in operation mills which had closed down have re-opened. Should the higher duties be agreed to, a large co-operative timber company will immediately commence operations in New South Wales. There will also be a determined effort on the part of Australian saw-millers to overcome the objection that Australian hardwoods have not been sufficiently well seasoned. That effort, together with the standardization of timber measurements, should assist the industry greatly so that it should not be long before the number of its. employees is increased considerably. 
That may be so; but there will be greater efficiency. The timber industry has been in a languishing condition .for some time. We now have a chance to rehabilitate it. . 
The Tariff Board's report shows clearly that because of the unsatisfactory condition of the timber industry, mills were forced to close down. But during the past three months many of them have re-opened and are now the centres of thriving communities. It is not too much to ask the dwellers in the cities, for whom we have done so much, to pay a little more for their timber requirements if by so doing we can retain this important industry and keep people in the country instead of forcing them to drift to the cities, and swell the ranks of the unemployed. 
 Senator Duncan  must be aware that during the war period, Australia supplied practically the whole of her timber requirements with the exception of 
Oregon used for special purposes. 
We are still in a position to supply almost entirely our timber requirements, but, unfortunately, during recent years, the importations of softwoods have increased, while .there has been a corresponding decline in the use of Australian hardwoods.  Senator Duncan  has voted for increased duties in order to assist other Australian industries. 
I do not know why the honorable senator has singled out the timber industry for differential treatment. He must be aware that in it thousands of pounds of Australian capital are invested, and that it provides employment for large numbers of Australian workmen. All that we now ask is that this industry shall be treated as generously as other industries have been treated.  Senator Duncan  also attempted to discredit the representations made by those engaged in the timber industry. 
The honorable senator would have us believe that only those engaged in the milling industry have communicated with their representatives in this Parliament; but that is not so. I have here a copy of a circular issued by the Timber Merchants' Association of Melbourne and suburbs - 
Members of my association view with alarm the increases which have been suggested, and we are taking steps to endeavour to get the Senate to review the matter or send it back to the House of Representatives for further consideration. The New South Wales timber merchants are also acting on similar lines. . . I suggest that every timber merchant should do his utmost to assist in opposing the suggested duties, and to attain this end approach the members for their respective districts in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. More notice will be taken by the representatives if direct representations are made to them from their own districts than would happen if the representations were made from an outside source. 
In the face of that circular it is useless for  Senator Duncan  to suggest that only one of the parties interested has made representation to members of this Parliament. 
The saw-milling industry until a few weeks ago, when, because of the higher duties agreed to by another place, it revived, was in a most unsatisfactory condition. 
It is only a matter of weeks since the amended schedule passed another place. Even now the full effects of the increased duties have not been felt because, until the schedule is finally passed by both Houses, uncertainty will exist as to the duties which will become operative. 
 Senator Herbert  Hays asked why I had supported increased duties in connexion with other industries, but was not willing to assist the timber industry. 

 Senator Findley in accusing me of opposing duties which he said would assist other industries, described me as an antiAustralian. It is true that I have supported increased duties on some items; but in considering whether or not a duty should be given to any particular industry, I have always looked at the effect it was likely to have on other industries. For instance, in regard to the iron and steel duties, honorable senators may recollect that I said that I recognized they were likely to affect the initial and,  very often, the working costs of other industries, a matter which was well worthy of consideration,but that the iron and steel industry was necesary for defence, and whatever the price was, we had to pay it. Here, however, we have an imposition that willincrease the costs of all other industries, and for no effective purpose. Many concerns are to-day carrying on at a very low profit. If in the inaugural stage of an industry the cost of a factory is likely to be increased considerably, or if the cost of extensions to an existing factory are to be added to enormously by the high cost of timber, the result will be that the industry affected will have to make a further application to the Tariff Board and to this Parliament for another increase in its protective duties. 
A great many 
Australian factories use considerable quantities of timber, principally softwood, and even if they used hardwood timber these duties would increase the cost.- While I am prepared to give the fullest measure of protection to certain other industries, I am not willing to give more than a sufficient amount of protection to the timber industry. I am, therefore, supporting  Senator Thompson's  request to confine the increased protection to this industry to 50 per cent, over the recommendation of the Tariff Board. If by supporting a duty which is 50 per cent, above the recommendation of the Tariff Board, I am not standing up to protectionist principles, I cannot imagine what  Senator Findley  and others want. I shall not support the extreme measure of protection proposed - by the Government because I have found that extreme measures of protection cease to afford  protection. Instead of giving protection they give privilege, which I donot favour in any circumstances. 
 Honorable senators who share my view regard the division just taken as a test on the timber duties, and are not prepared to offer further opposition to them, although at the same time they maintain that, the rates of duties should be reduced. 
Item agreed to. 
Item 293 agreed to. 
Division XI.  -  Jewellery and Fancy Goods. 
Items 308, 319 and 321 agreed to. 
Division XIII.  -  Paper and Stationery. 
Items 334 and 348 agreed to. 
Division XIV.  -  Vehicles. 
Items 352 and 354 agreed to. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make sub-item (d). (4) read as follows : - 
Chassis, but not including rubber   tyres,  storage batteries, shock absorbers,  bumper bars, or sparking plugs (a) Unassembled, ad valorem - British, free; intermediate, 12$ per cent.; general, 17 j per cent.; (6) Assembled, ad valorem - British, 5 per cent.; intermediate, 20 per cent.; general, 25 per cent. 
The proposal is to amend the item by the addition of sparking plugs. These are now commercially made in Australia, and there is no reason why imported cars should not be equipped with the  Australian  product.  It  is well known that 'a considerable number of cars are imported into this country with sparking plugs packed separately, although they form part of the original equipment of the chassis. 
This item is plainly an attempt to increase the British preferential tariff by 5 per cent, in the case of assembled chassis, and although it does not seem hopeful to ask for a vote on the item, I propose to do so, my idea being to wipe out the duty on both classes of chassis, assembled and unassembled, and make them all free. There is no protective character about duties of 12£ and 17 per cent. ; they are purely revenue duties. Hot even the most rabid protectionist would claim that 5 per cent, duty against Great Britain on assembled chassis would support any local industry. It is time we gave a certain amount of preference to the Australian users of motor cars. We should allow people to carry on their work here without being saddled with an impost of, say, 20 per cent, or 25 per cent, which it is proposed to impose on assembled chassis. When the last tariff was going through this chamber quite an array of reasons was advanced by me in support of the principle of giving the people of Australia who want this imported type of conveyance a chance to get it at bedrock prices. 
Then the honorable senator is anxious to saddle a higher rate of duty on the man who sells his old bullock dray and buys a motor car. 
And go back to the wheelbarrow, perhaps. We cannot stop the march of progress. It is quite plain that these duties are not an attempt to found an- industry in Australia, and consequently their, only effect will be to saddle industries of Australia with an additional burden. Those who are engaged in the production of commodities which have to find a market overseas, are handicapped by their distance from markets, by the fact that they have to pay next to the highest customs tariff in the world, and because they have the highest standard of living in the world. I therefore intend to move that the House of Representatives be requested to remove the duties on chassis. I shall regard my request as a test for the purpose of giving the people of this country an opportunity to keep pace with the rate of progress of the rest of the world, without being penalized because they happen to use implements which are not made in Australia. 
Not at all. The person who uses a motor car in preference to a buggy or any other such vehicle has not luxurious tastes. Such vehicles are used in order to expedite business. These duties are imposed for revenue purposes and will affect those who, though not on the bread line, are engaged in arduous pursuits in which the use of motor vehicles is essential. The users of a Rolls Royce or a Vauxhall car can, if necessary, be taxed in other ways, but cars of that type are not at present under consideration. Some time ago the Canadian tariff was framed to tax men and women who were living luxuriously, but in Australia we have been too tired, too ignorant, or too indifferent to realize the benefits that would accrue from a luxuries tax. I wish to free those using this particular means of transport from a tax that is bearing heavily upon them. They are already sufficiently handicapped. I am anxious to remove this handicap, particularly as the Treasury is not short of money. 
The Government is really at its wits end to know what to do with the revenue it is receiving. I am not anxious to provide it with a means of obtaining more so that it will have to tax its ingenuity in an endeavour to find a means of disposing of it. It is, of course, necessary to have improved roads, but in comparison with State Treasuries, the coffers of the Commonwealth are overflowing, largely as a result of the imposition of duties such as those which we are now considering. I am not opposed to preference to the Mother Country, but I believe that charity begins at home, and I have given ample evidence that those using motor vehicles should be given greater consideration. 
The request moved by the Minister is merely to insert the words " or sparking plugs " and does not affect the duties in any way. When that request has been disposed of  Senator Lynch  will be in order in moving his request. 
The main object of the proposed increase in duty is to provide an additional £500,000, to be used in connexion with the Commonwealth Government's policy of assisting roads development. No increase is proposed on importations of chassis from Great Britain. On importations from other countries the duties on unassembled chassis will he increased by 5 per cent, under the intermediate and general tariffs, and on assembled chassis by  1  per cent, under the intermediate and general tariffs. 
No. In many cases they have substantially decreased. When the roads are improved the life of motor vehicles will be considerably extended and greater comfort afforded to motorists. I trust that  Senator Lynch  will not press his request, because I am sure that honorable senators who are in favour of more money being spent on our roads, will support the Government's proposal to raise revenue in this way, particularly as increased preference is being given to Great Britain. 
Request agreed to. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duty, sub-item  (d) (4) 
intermediate, free. 
If the request is agreed to I intend to submit a similar motion in connexion with the general tariff. 
Request negatived. 
Item agreed to subject to a request. 
Division XV. - Musical Instruments. 
Item 365 (Pianos and parts thereof). 
Under this item I notice that some of the fiat rates to which I have previously referred are to be increased. I mention more particularly the ordinary piano, which is used very extensively in the country and also by a large number of working and lower salaried people in the cities. The old rates for upright pianos were £7 British, £8 intermediate, and £9 10s. general, or ad valorem 30 per cent. British, 40 per cent, intermediate, and 45s. general tariff, whichever rate returns the higher duty. The rate how proposed is £7 British, £21 10s. intermediate, £25 general, with the previous ad valorem rates. As honorable senators will see, the flate rates have been considerably increased on the type of piano with which the poorer people have to be satisfied. . It has been said that flat rates are imposed to keep out cheap foreign goods; but the Tariff Board which held an exhaustive inquiry into the importations of pianos, particularly from Germany, stated, that - 
Subsequent events have proved that the United States is  chiefly  responsible for the increased importations. So much is this the case that the main burden of the evidence tendered by the parties to the latest request for increased duties was directed to the competition now being experienced from importations from the United States of America, more particularly in what were described as cheap standardized instruments. 
I refute the statement that the instruments in question are cheap and unfit for ordinary use. The Tariff Board says they are not. This is its finding - 
Considerable evidence on the quality of the cheaper imported instrument was tendered by both sides. The witnesses appearing in support of the request for increased duties described these cheaper imported instruments variously by such terms as " rubbish," " inferior rubbish," " a menace to the purchasers." and " inferior low grade instruments." This general condemnation was, however, not supported by the presentation of any exhibits that would justify such a general condemnation. The only instrument which it could be said would in any way lend support to any of the general charges was exhibited some time after the inquiry had closed. 
I think that it will  be seen that these duties are not being imposed to protect purchasers from inferior pianos. They will be paid on serviceable instruments which the general community wish to use. The trade with America has increased tremendously, and the exports from that country to  Australia  supply food for thought. In 1921-22 our imports from the United States of America, were valued at £18,000,000, and they increased in 1925-26 to £37,000,000. The export from Australia to the United States of America, which in 1921-22  were  valued at £8,000,000, increased in 1925-26 to only £12,000,000 I admit these figures are alarming, but the importations of cheap pianos are not responsible for the large increase in our imports from the United States. Between the years' 1923 and 1926, the value of imports of player-pianos increased from £1,395,485 to £2,680,338, while imports of ordinary pianos declined in value from £1,036,419 to £338,477. 
No doubt the honorable senator is right to a certain extent. As I have shown, the importations of player-pianos  from  America have doubled in three years. The figures relating to the imports of upright pianos for the three years ending 30th June, 1927, are as follows :- 1924-25, 10,225; 1925- 26, 6,254; 1926-27, 4,239. The poorer classes in the community are, in the main, the purchasers of these pianos, and the figures show that since imports of this class of instrument are declining, the Australian industry is not in any danger. There is only a limited number of manufacturers of pianos and player-pianos in Australia. If these duties are ratified, the people will have a more limited range of selection and of course they will have to pay a higher price for their instruments. Having had an opportunity  to  examine certain invoices, I find that a piano invoiced at £35 in Germany was, under the old rates, dutiable at £17 6s. lid., but under this item the duty is £25. 
I think the effect will be to increase the price of the cheaper instruments to the people. One has only to go into our outback areas to realize what a difference a piano makes to the happiness of a home. Why, therefore, should we do anything to increase the price of this class of instrument to people who cannot afford to purchase player-pianos? Some time ago I asked a series of questions in the Senate with regard to the duty on pianos and was informed that for the year eliding 30th June, 1925-26, the total amount of duty paid on pianos was £149,128, and on player-pianos £278,429, or a total of £427,557. The total of wages paid in the manufacturing industry in Australia during that year was only £335,502 in respect of the whole of the items included under the heading " Musical Instruments " - nearly £100,000 less than the revenue derived from importations. I protest strongly against the imposition . of the duties on these upright pianos, which will have the effect of increasing the cost to the people of this country. 
Honorable senators will observe that no increase is proposed in the duties on pianos imported from Great Britain. As  Senator Chapman  has pointed out, there has been a # considerable decrease in the number of ordinary pianos imported, and a corresponding increase in the importation of player-pianos. The old rates of duty - were applicable only when instruments were invoiced at less than £19 each. Australian manufacturers are suffering severe competition from the manufacturers of the cheaper American playerpianos. These imported instruments are being invoiced as low as £36 each, and during the last few years there must have been instances where they have been invoiced at even a much lower price, as duty has been paid on certain upright player-pianos at specific ra'tes of duty of £9 10s. each. The invoice value of these goods therefore could not have exceeded £1S or £19. Pianos invoiced at £36 are landed, duty paid, at from £66 to £68 and are being sold in retail shops at from £120 to £126 each. These profits are exorbitant. The cheapest player-piano made in Australia is somewhere in the region of £85. This instrument has to compete against the cheap American pianos. Certain departmental stores stock only those goods upon which they can make the greatest profit. In this way the sale of Australian-made goods is being seriously affected. In many cases the Australian instrument is not stocked because the retailer can make larger profits on the sale of imported pianos. I hope that the committee will pass the item in the interests of not only the Australian manufacturer, but also the British" manufacturer and "the dear old mother country " to which  Senator Chapman  referred so feelingly in the general debate on the tariff. 
 I hope that the duties will not be disturbed.  Senator Chapman  quoted certain figures with the object of inducing honorable senators to vote against the item. 
These duties have been imposed for the purpose of protecting the Australian industry. I also intend to quote figures which throw a somewhat different light on the position. 
I also get my information from the same source. The figures show that in 1922-23 the number of upright player-pianos imported from Great Britain was 148; in 1925-26, it was 214; and in 1926-27, it was 291. From Germany we imported 58 of these instruments in 1922-23, and no less than 1,993 during 1926-27. "What has become of the cry which we heard 'a few years ago, that never again should we trade with Germany? Our imports from that country show a substantial increase. America is, of course, our greatest competitor. In 1922-23 we imported from the linked States of America 2,746 player-pianos, and last year, 11,329. 
Our total imports of player-pianos from all countries for the three years were: - 1922-23, 2,970; 1925-26, 8,755; 1926-27, 13,679. The bulk of the player-pianos imported from America are inferior in quality, and are sold to the public at prices far above their real value. The Tariff Board states - 
The local factories are numerous and efficient..... The Tariff Board is satisfied that the locally-made instrument cannot be sold with a reasonable profit in competition with the imported instrument. 
Already there are many factories engaged in the manufacture of pianos and player-pianos in Australia, and they are turning out splendid instruments. The bulk of the material used is obtained in Australia. The Beale factory uses all Australian metal for its frames. It obtains iron from Hoskins Brothers and the Broken Hill Proprietary Company's Steel "Works at Newcastle; the copper wire comes from Metal Manufacturers Limited, Port Kembla; bronze pressure bars from the Austral Bronze Company, Alexandria; glue from the Davis Gelatine Company, Botany; lacquer from the "Woolwich Chemical Company, Sydney; and timber from various Australian timber merchants. "We are encouraging not only the manufacture of pianos, but also the production of practically all the raw material that is used in their construction. The efficiency of Beale's factory cannot be questioned. The capital investments of that company total £650,000, and the wages distribution amounts annually to £160,000. The last report of the Tariff Board discloses the fact that the doubt which at one time existed as to whether player-pianos could be manufactured commercially in Australia, has been dissipated. It says - 
The ordinary piano has gradually been displaced by the introduction of the player-piano. An examination of the figures showing' importation into the Commonwealth of even' the last three years reveals the sudden change that is taking place in this industry, and is compelling in a great measure a change-over to another type of instrument than that hitherto universally made. Local manufacturers' of pianos have been responding to the change, and have entered into the manufacture of the new type of instrument in a commercial way. 
Some persons at one time believed that the player-piano was not being made in Australia. It is probably the most popular instrument in the homes of our people. 
Our factories would not be able to compete with overseas manufacturers, particularly with those of the United States of America, without adequate protection. The proposal we are now considering is that they shall be given that meed of protection, so that they will be able to compete with not only Germany, but also America, which offers the most formidable opposition. Because of the love of our people for music, we should encourage the industry in every way, particularly when it has been proved beyond the shadow of  a  doubt that exorbitant prices are not being charged, and that a good instrument is being made. 
My interest in this debate is practically confined to the deplorably decadent influence of the player-piano upon the art of piano playing. Concurrently with the ever-increasing importations of player-pianos there is a rapid decrease in the number of pianos, and a thinning of the ranks- of pianists. Had the Minister for Trade and Customs been imbued with the true musical instinct he would have brought down an almost prohibitive tariff on player-pianos and pianos, and one that would have placed within the reach of every person the ordinary piano. In my young days every cottage had its piano, with the result that Australia produced many very fine artists. The number of boys and girls of the present generation who can play the piano artistically is considerably fewer than was the case at the period to which I refer. If in the future we have at the head of the department a Minister who is thoroughly imbued with the musical instinct relief in. the direction I have indicated may be given. 

 Senator LYNCH (Western Australia) f5.55]. - 3? or the last five minutes I have been endeavouring to escape from something ' resembling a mental fog. We have been asked by the Minister to support this proposal of the Government on the ground that the imported article is sold at a high price. The stereotyped argument  that has done duty  down the ages, namely, that it is necessary to protect our manufactures against the low-priced foreign article, is' exactly the opposite of that which we have heard this afternoon. 'r  

 Senator Chapman's objection, but I warn him against viewing tariff matters solely from a geographical stand-point. It is contended that by imposing increased duties on pianos under the general tariff we are assisting the dear old Mother Country. But is that so? We import from Britain, as it were, only a van load of pianos each year, so that any increased duties on pianos will not benefit the Old Country a great deal. However, I propose to vote for the item. 
Item agreed to. ' 
Division XVI.  -  Miscellaneous. 
Items 373, 376, 380, 381, 417, 418, 427, 430 and 431 agreed to. 
Division V.  -  Textiles, Pelts and Tubs, and Manufactures Thereof, and Attire. 
Postponed item 112. (Apparel or attire, including furs) - Upon which  Senator Payne  had moved - 
That the House of Representatives bo requested to add at the end of the item: - " By omitting the whole of the subitem b, and inserting in its stead the following sub-item: - 
1. Fur and other skins n.e.i. (except rabbit skins) dressed or prepared for making up, ad valorem, British, 15 per cent.; intermediate, 15 per cent.; general, 20 per cent. 
Rabbit skins dressed or prepared for making up, ad valorem, British, 30 per cent.; intermediate, 35 per cent.; general, 45 per cent." 
.- I propose now to move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to add after sub-item (a) the following: - "By omitting the whole of sub-item (b), and inserting in its stead the following subitem :  - 
1. Fur and other skins, n.e.i. (except rabbit skins) dressed or prepared for making up, ad valorem, British, 15 per cent.; intermediate, 15 per cent.; general, 20 per cent. 
Rabbit skins dressed or prepared for making up, ad valorem, British, 25 per cent.; intermediate, 35 per cent.; general, 40 per cent." 
The existing tariff does not' -protect any industry established to prepare rabbit skins, for manufacture into articles of apparel or attire. During the past two years the fur industry has been established in Tasmania and New South Wales. At first the companies experienced difficulties in obtaining the proper dyes, but last year permission was given by the Commonwealth Government for their importation, with the result that within a few months coney sealskin furs to the value of £22,000 were manufactured and sold. I have here some samples of furs treated in Hobart. The demand for furs is so great that the granting of a moderate measure of protection will provide employment for a large number of people in a very short time. Hitherto large quantities of furs and other skins have been imported from France and Germany. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8. p.m. 

 If my request is agreed to all that the honorable senator will have to do is to move -for the recommital of item 112 for the purpose of re-considering sub-item a. , 

I suggest that  Senator Payne  should be allowed to proceed with his request, and - that if it is found that it is likely to interfere with sub-item a, the honorable senator can be asked to withdraw his request to permit the committee to deal first of all with sub-item a. 
Apparel or attire or other article in part or wholly made up, including furs or other skins sewn together, ad valorem, British 40 per cent., intermediate 50 per cent., general 55 per cent. 
Then follows sub-item b which  Senator Payne  is desirous of having amended. It reads as follows :  - 
Fur and other skins, n.e.i. dressed or prepared for making up, ad valorem, British 15 per cent., intermediate 15 per cent., general 20 per cent. 
No confusion can arise nor can the position of the committee be prejudiced if furs and other skins are now considered. Sub-item a merely amends the wording of the tariff, and proposes no alteration of rates. 
That cannot be done. 
SenatorDuncan. - In view of the complications that have arisen would I be in order in moving " That in the opinion of this committee, item 112 should be re-submitted to the Tariff Board for further report." 
--The honorable senator would not be in order in doing so. 
Not unless  Senator Payne  temporarily withdraws the request which he has moved, and which is now before the Chair. 

 - Senator Duncan rose to a point of order. I was prepared to give the honorable senator time in which to elaborate his point, but he was rather long in doing so. 
Which I gave. I ask SenatorPayne to proceed. 
British, 35 per cent, intermediate, and 40 per cent, general- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).I  direct the honorable senator's attention to the fact that when the item was before the committee last week he moved for the imposition of duties of 30 per cent. British, 35 per cent, intermediate, and 45 per cent, general tariff. Is it the wish of the.honorable senator to amend his request so that the rates shall read - 25 per cent. British, 35 per cent, intermediate, and 40 per cent, general? 
Request, by leave, amended accordingly. 
The honorable senator did not advocate the use of Australian goods the other day. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator PlainsSenator Payne is in order in moving that the House of Representatives be requested to amend the item. 
The Senate may not amend any proposed law so as to increase any proposed charge or burden on the people. 
I understand that it is not competent for any private member to move for an increase of the tariff duties. 
I remind the honorable senator that it is a request, not an amendment, that is before the committee.  Senator. Payne  is in order in submitting a request to the House of Representatives to increase the tariff. 
One would imagine while listening to  Senator Payne  that this was an entirely new industry to Australia. At present there are within the precincts of this building at least three representatives of firms that have been engaged in the business for some years, without asking the Government or the Tariff Board for any assistance by way of protection. Let us examine the position and see where  Senator Payne's  proposal would lead us. The honorable senator is asking for an ad valorem duty of 40 per cent, on some classes of imported skins. Since the bulk of "our imports are from foreign countries, the effective duty under  Senator Payne's  proposal would be 40 per cent. It must be manifest to all honorable senators that owing to the high cost of production, there will be no' market in other countries for fur goods manufactured in Australia. I presume, therefore, that what the honorable senator has in mind is that we should build up the industry for the Australian' market. There is, approximately, £500,000 invested in the fur garment industry in Australia, which gives employment to between 4,000 and 5,000 people. For the higher class of goods, these Australian manufacturers are obliged to import skins from Belgium and France, the Australianskins not being large or heavy enough; but they use a certain percentage of Australian furs. If we impose this ad valorem duty of 40 per cent., the margin of protection for the Australian manufacturer of apparel coming under sub-item a will be only 15 per cent. Will  Senator Payne  seriously contend that that is sufficient to safeguard an Australian industry in which so much capital is invested, and which, as I have stated, gives employment to such a large number of men and women? I have been informed that if this ad valorem duty is imposed without a corresponding increase in the existing tariff on the manufactured garments, the Australian concerns already engaged in the business will cease manufacturing and become importers. As a result an Australian industry of some magnitude will be destroyed. This is a position which we cannot regard with equanimity. I may add that I have visited the Hobart factory, to which  Senator Payne  has referred, and that it is my desire to do all in my power to assist the enterprise in that State. I think, however, that it would be much better if the position of the industry were submitted to the Tariff. Board for investigation and report as to the proper ratio of duty to be imposed on the manufactured goods, and on imported furs which are the raw materials for the local manufacturers. The proposal submitted by  Senator Payne  has never been before the Tariff Board, and as it involves the fate of an Australian industry, it should be considered in all its aspects. . It is a serious matter. 
Does not the honorable senator care about the welfare of 4,000 employees in the industry? And does he suggest that a margin of 15 per cent, protection will be sufficient? I leave it to the good sense of the Senate to judge whether I am talking nonsense or common sense. 
They cannot obtain the whole of it in Australia. We have been assured that the proposed duty is necessary to enable this firm to live. 
They do not. 
At least 90 per cent, of the rabbit skins that are exported from Australia do not return as skins. Some of them are returned in the shape of manufacture of furs. Most of them do not return in any form: They are not used to any extent in garment manufacture because they are not sufficiently large. 

 Senator - DUNCAN. - It is not the Australian rabbit skin that is made up into coney. What is being imported today is an altogetherdifferent skin. The coney is made from rabbit skins that are grown in France, Belgium and other countries. 
Ninety per cent, of those which are sent to Australia are not made from Australian rabbit skins; they are altogether different from our skins. It is upon that section, that this duty of 40 per cent, will fall. I point out that if there is not a corresponding increase in the duty imposed on manufactured apparel, that industry will be ruined. Assistance may be given to one or two factories which are treating the type of skin exhibited by  Senator Payne,  but the number of persons which they employ is comparatively few. 
About four. 
Fully ninety per cent, of the Australian rabbit skins that are exported do not return to Australia in the shape of skins that can be manufactured into garments; they are imported principally in the shape of felt hats. 
It will be imposed upon the other skins that are in competition with the Australian rabbit skins. In effect, Ave shall say to those in Australia who make up articles of apparel from Belgium rabbit skins that they must pay a duty of 40 per cent, . on their raw material, and be given a duty of only 55 per cent, on the manufactured article. 
The only wayin which that can be done is to keep out also the manufactured apparel. If the  duty on the raw material is 40 per cent, it may be necessary to have a duty of 100 per cent, on the manufactured apparel. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 

 .- Senator Duncan has argued that I have proposed a duty of 40 per cent, on skins imported from the , ' continent ; that the duty on fur clothing is only 55 per cent. ; that therefore the Australian manufacturer will benefit to the extent of only 15 per cent.; and that that will mean the ruination of the fur clothing industry in Australia. Last year we imposed  a  duty of 45 per cent, on tweeds and one of 12s. 6d. on the finished garment that had been made from imported tweed. How does that work out ? The flat rate of 12s. 6d. on an overcoat invoiced in England at 30s., is equal to 40 per cent., which is 5 per cent, less than the duty on the tweed itself. On an overcoat invoiced in England at 25s. the duty of 12s. 6d. is equal to 50 per cent. Thousands of operatives depend upon that industry for their livelihood, and the clothing manufacturing trade in Australia has been put in a more flourishing condition. That is my reply to  Senator Duncan. 
Honorable senators should ask themselves seriously whether this industry deserves to be encouraged; whether it can be well established in Australia; and whether it could be expanded after' it had been established. To each of those questions I reply emphatically, "Yes." 
No way is the right way if it does not meet with the approval of  Senator Duncan.-  On the tariff he is the " lone fisherman." I defy any member of the committee to forecast the way in which he will vote or act. He is a creature of impulse. He blows hot and cold. He makes it known to those who, like myself, are strong protectionists, that they can rely upon his vote. Accepting his word, they go away in the fond belief that they will have his support. But to their amazement they find subsequently that, like the weather, he has changed. He is never reliable. He ad vances foolish arguments - if by any stretch of imagination they can be called arguments - to bolster up his case.  His  final statement in regard to  Senator Payne's  request was that those who are engaged in making up fur skins will be forced out of business if the proposed duties are imposed. If that should be the case they might become what  Senator Duncan  probably desires that they should become - wholesale importers of goods that have been produced cheaply and under conditions which differ from those that obtain in the industrial world of Australia. 
Of course, it does. We export annually £2,880,000 worth of rabbit and hare skins, of which 98 per cent, are rabbit skins. Our imports of fur skins total £285,000, and of fur apparel, £40,000 per annum. The fur of the rabbit is made into hats in many countries. Did  Senator Duncan  hesitate about imposing the highest possible duty on fur hats? 
I desire that the hat industry shall flourish in Australia. The duty on fur felt hats, the majority of which are made from the fur of the Australian rabbit, is 24s. per dozen, or 35 per cent. British ; 30s. per dozen, or 40 per cent, intermediate; and 36s. per dozen, or 45 per cent, general. Because of the duties imposed the hat industry is well established, and employment is provided for many Australians. It is argued that we should not -send our wool out of Australia. We have magnificent sheep, and our wool is probably the finest that is grown in the world; yet we send it overseas.  Senator Duncan  favours the policy of ' encouraging the establishment of woollen mills in Australia, thus providing employment for an increasing number of our own people. The duty on worsteds is 1s. a square yard, and 30 per cent., and 2s. a square yard and 45 per cent. If it is a good thing to protect that industry, what is wrong with protecting . the industry to which  Senator Payne  has drawn attention? We have been informed that only one or two firms are engaged in it at the present time. I cannot say whether that statement is correct or not. It is sufficient for me to know that it has been struggling and striving to establish, itself during the last two years ; that it has been faced with serious competition; and that oversea prices are lower than those which permit its business to be profitable. Those who are engaged in the industry are probably in a better position to-day thar. that which they occupied a little while ago, when they were handicapped because they were unable to secure the necessary dyes. They have now passed the experimental stage, and have demonstrated the high quality anil the excellent finish of their goods. The industry is susceptible of improvement, and is capable of becoming firmly established. After all, who is a judge of fur; who can define exactly its quality and its value? It has been stated that fortunes are being made in J;he fur trade, and that furs made from the Australian rabbit skin have been sold at fancy prices as the finest that are grown in other parts of the world. If  Senator Payne's  request is agreed to, the people of Australia will have the guarantee that these furs will be sold under their proper name. 
The rabbit skins which we export return to us as coney seal furs. I have not yet seen furs exhibited for sale marked " Made from Australian rabbit skin." 
I understand that in Australia there are sufficient machines to manufacture the whole of our fur requirements. Those who are in a position to know say that labour costs represent about 33$ per cent, of the total cost of the fur, and that in the case of articles manufactured from fur labour costs .represent about 15 per cent, of the total. Unlike some honorable senators, I am not a geographical protectionist, I atn not concerned whether an industry is established in Tasmania, or in another State. 
"We have not hesitated to grant protection to other industries, and there is no reason why we should treat this industry differently. By agreeing to  Senator Payne's  request we shall be assisting an industry which, I hope, will soon grow to such dimensions as to make it unnecessary to import very little fur. 
.- One of the reasons for the appointment of the Tariff Board was that matters of this kind should be thoroughly investigated by an independent body before Parliament was asked to deal with them. 
I understand that the fur industry is already well established in Australia; but that it finds it necessary to import skins because sufficient skins of the right kind are not obtainable in Australia. Until such time as the Tariff Board has investigated this industry and presented its report, I , shall not support the additional duties proposed by  Senator Payne. 
.- A few .days ago, when we were dealing with another item,  Senator Payne  opposed the imposition of higher, duties on the ground that they would interfere with industries in the Old Country. I have here some figures showing our importations of furs and skins. During the years 1924-25 and 1925-26 we imported from the United Kingdom furs and skins to the value of £82,805 and £119,914 respectively. 
My figures refer to furs and skins.  Senator Payne's  request would injure trade with, the Mother Country. 
The skins of English rabbits are more suitable for the making of fur than are the skins of Tasmanian rabbits. From Canada we imported skins and furs valued at £2,226 in 1924-25, and £2,112 in 1925-26. From other countries our importations in those years were, respectively: Belgium, £10,238, £8,442; China, £6,727, £14,613;- France, £84,735, £76,334; Germany, £11,171, £10,406; Russia, £8,508, £7.488; and the United States of America, £88,420 and £41,865. Honorable senators will see that the United Kingdom heads that list. Of the skins imported, rabbit skins represent a large proportion. I am astonished. at  Senator Payne  moving a request which would injure the Old Country, concerning which he had so much to say onanother item. 
SenatorREID. - The honorable senator has struck the flag of which he was so proud the other day. 
SenatorREID. - I am a believer in Australian industries'; but  Senator Payne  has moved his request because the making of furs is a Tasmanian industry. When we were discussing the duties on hosiery  Senator Payne  appeared greatly concerned about their effect on the poor working man who,he said, would be victimized. 
SenatorREID. - The honorable senator is interested only in Tasmanian industries.  Senator Duncan  made it clear that these duties would affect the price of articles manufactured from fur; they will come in cheaper than the skins. 
SenatorREID. - If the proposed request is agreed to, I shall feel disposed to vote for an increased duty on the manufactured articles. 
Listening to the debate one would be justified in concluding that we were all recently converted to freetrade. 
I am rather tired of the frequent references to the Tariff Board. Parliament is the supreme body in this country. We should- decide these matters for ourselves and not leave them entirely to the Tariff Board. That board recommendedcertain duties on timber, but the Government did not accept its recommendation. - 
Yes; and Parliament is superior to theGovernment. It has been said that certain industries will be ruined if the duties proposed by  Senator Payne  are imposed. Let me draw an analogy. If a duty is imposed on any article imported, the importer who has probably put a considerable amount of capital into his business for the disposal of such an article will be seriously affected. But we must impose duties on articles that can be made in Australia, otherwise we can protect nothing: 
I should like. to know if there is any firm in Australia, outside the firm about which  Senator Payne  has spoken, that is seriously engaged in the business of manufacturing Australian rabbit skins into coney seal. 
That is the position. Firms are importing skins and manufacturing them into coats, just as other firms, are importing timber and manufacturing it into doors'. If the committee says it will not protect the local rabbit skin industry, but believes in protecting every other industry, its logic is seriously at fault. I have listened to arguments about "the necessity for assisting the timber industry, and find many of them applicable to the subject under discussion. We have now an opportunity to turn into a blessing something, which has been a curse to Australia, and at the same time to assist an industry that may largely expand. I am informed that we are exporting each year nearly £3,000,000 worth of rabbit skins. Ever since I can remember I have heard it said in season and out of season that Australia should not export its wool, hut should manufacture it here into textiles. Surely we can draw another analogy here. Why should we export rabbit skins? Why should we not manufacture them into furs and other articles of apparel in Australia. We have heard it said that the 
Australian rabbit skin is not as good as the imported skin. I undertake to say that it is almost impossible to get the same quality o£ rabbit skins from every district in Australia. For instance, rabbits in mountainous country have dense fur, while those that are found in dry or swampy country have correspondingly thin fur. Surely we can turn the one into hats and the other into articles such as have been displayed here to-night. If the policy of Australia is to protect its industries, it would be a tragedy for the Senate, having an opportunity to assist one industry that may grow to large dimensions, to refuse it the measure of protection it needs. The rate of duty for which  Senator Payne  has asked is not prohibitive; nor is it excessive. It is only reasonable, and I claim that it is the bounden duty of this committee to agree to it. 

 .- Senator Millen seems to cast some doubt on my statement that there are firms in Australia manufacturing garments out of rabbit skins. In Sydney, Metcalf's have over  100  employees, and S.  J.  Guss and Company,  50  or  60  engaged in manufacturing coney seal out of rabbit skins, and both firms have been doing this work for many years. Neither firm has asked for a protective duty on its treated' rabbit skins. 
They manufacture garments. They make their own coney seal as far as- possible out of Australian skins, but they point out that the demand for garments made out of Australian skins is fairly limited, and that the demand which really pays them is for garments made from imported skins with which, I am sorry to say, the Australian skins cannot compare. 
I have mentioned the number of employees who are working on the rabbit skins, but there are  4,000  or  5,000  employees engaged ins making the skins into garments. 
In one firm between  50  and  60  employees, and in the other firm about  100  are engaged in turning rabbit skins into coney seal. I was perfectly right when I said that the industry started in Tasmania was not a new one. 
Not a scrap, but the honorable senator will see that what I am proposing is the only course of action that will assist the Hobart industry. The firms I have mentioned have not asked for protection because they absorb all their own output and place  it  on the market as the manufactured article. 
Yes; they are mainly importers of skins from which they manufacture apparel, and that is a section of their trade with which they do not want any interference.  Senator Payne  has claimed that the skins he has shown in the Chamber are the equal of the imported skins. If honorable sena-' tors will glance at the skins I am displaying they will note their size and quality and will readily understand  why  their price is so much higher than  that  of local skins. As a matter of fact  the  two classes of skins do not come into competition with one another in the articles into which they are made. If the duty proposed by  Senator Payne  is imposed these Sydney firms will have to pay so much more for their skins that their business will be seriously affected.  Senator Findley  in his attempt to reply to my arguments tried to look intelligent and asked himself foolish questions  to  which he gave foolish answers.  He  turned himself into an animated interrogation mark. He charged me with being anti-Australian. Yet in this case I stand for 'the welfare of an Australian industry with a capital of  £500,000,  employing between  4,000  and  5,000  workers. To my mind, a large industry like this should have prior consideration to' a small industry with comparatively few workers, and with not nearly the same amount of capital invested in it. It would be wrong  to sacrifice a big industry to help a little one, but if we can assist both we ought to do so. I want .to give the highest protection possible to the industry which is making coney seal out of Australian rabbit skins; and if, as a. result of inquiry by the Tariff Board or any other authority it is found that a 40 per cent, duty is necessary, I shall give it my wholehearted support. The industry referred to by  Senator Payne  is well worthy of support. When' I was in .Hobart I inspected the factory and I promised the proprietor to afford him all the support I could give, but I cannot give him that support on the proposal made by  Senator Payne  unless something is done for the other and bigger industry already in existence which might suffer even to the extent of having to go out of business. Let us do -something for both industries in a just and equitable way. It is grossly unfair to accuse me of trying to do something to injure the smaller industry, but so far we have not had from those who are supporting this request any suggestion that they will support a corresponding increase of duties on manufactured apparel coming under this item. On the contrary any one who puts in a word for the manufacturer of apparel is attacked.  Senator Findley  has attacked me, saying that I am an opponent of Australian industry. One could not imagine a more foolish statement. All I hope is that -the interests of the larger industry I have mentioned will not be lost sight of in seeking to give help to the smaller industry. I believe that we should give help to both, but it would be wrong to give help to the one at the expense of the other. 
We have a proposal to increase a duty, yet the Minister who is in charge of the bill says nothing to guide the committee. I think he should give some reason for the attitude he is assuming towards this request. 
-AS. - I have no hesitation in telling the honorable senator what I propose to do. I do not see why this industry should not be protected as other industries have been protected, but, like  Senator Duncan,  first of all I want to know what effect the proposed duty will have on the larger and bigger industry of making apparel. When I entered Parliament many years ago we used to. hear from the protectionists of those days that all we had to do was to put a duty, on an article and that article" became cheaper. I had heard that said so often that I almost began to believe it, but people are now beginning to realize that when a duty is placed on an article it becomes dearer.  Senator Herbert  Hays put up a rattling good case the other day for duties on timber when he pointed out that owing to the imposition of duties everything used in the saw-mills had become more costly to purchase. He quite upset the theory that duties make articles cheaper. I agree that if we impose duties on rabbit' skins we shall certainly make the raw material for the manufacture of certain apparel much more costly. 
That is granted, and, of course, the difficulty can be overcome by increasing the duty on the manufactured article. If the cost of the raw material is increased the manufactured article will become so expensive that imported goods will be purchased. We can get over some of our difficulties by imposing higher duties, but the locally manufactured article will become more expensive. Fur coats cannot be purchased by every one, and if they become more costly the demand will decrease. If we wish to ensure that rabbit skins only shall be used we should impose an embargo on imported skins, just as we have imposed an embargo on- the importation of sugar, and thus ensure the whole of the local market to Australian manufacturers. That would enable the industry to be successfully carried on ; but I do not suggest it is the right way. I am not in favour of higher duties, because I know that the cost of the locally produced article will be higher. I think additional information is needed, and that, therefore, the Government should refer the matter tothe Tariff Board, the appointment - of which, by the way, I opposed. If that body, after hearing both sides of the case, advocates the imposition of  higher duties I shall support them. In the present circumstances I feel compelled to vote against the request. 
Had I thought for a moment that a knowledge of the Government's attitude towards  Senator Payne's  proposal would have any effect upon  Senator Thomas,  I should have spoken earlier in the discussion on this item. This freetrade Ephraim, however, ".is joined to idols," and so I propose to "let him alone." The Government is supporting the request moved by .  Senator Payne,  because . it considers this new industry deserves a larger measure of pro- tection than it has hitherto received. It is true that the request if agreed to, will have the effect of reducing the margin of protection at present enjoyed by manufacturers of garments consisting of the particular kinds of fur which it covers. But it is quite . erroneous to argue that the only protection the manufacturers will have will be the 15 per cent, difference between the proposed duty upon rabbit skins and the present duty on the made-up garments. They will have the full 5.5 per cent, duty on the cost of manufacture abroad. They will have the 55 per cent, duty imposed upon the foreign manufacturers' product, and also a margin of 15 per cent, on the fur, to all of which amounts must be added the 10 per cent, added to cost before the duty is assessed. There will therefore still be a considerable margin of protection. It must be admitted that . 55 per cent, is a very substantial protection. Those who have spoken in support of  Senator Payne's  request, have made out a very good case. It commends itself to the Government, and without desiring to injure any industry I shall have no hesitation in supporting it. 
The Tariff 
 Board is a useful institution, and, in accordance with its report, we have, at the instance of the furriers of Australia, substantially increased the duties on fur trimmings under item 112. It is wrong, however, to suggest that the Tariff Board is superior to Parliament, and trial when a proposition commends itself to a majority of members, Parliament should not. declare its inability to reach a proper decision. 
.- I wish to remove a wrong impression from the minds of  Senator Duncan  and  Senator Thomas,  who have inferred that I introduced this matter solely in the interests of a Tasmanian industry. Only to-day I received a letter from a firm established in New South Wales, engaged, not only in the manufacture of coney from rabbit skins, but in the manufacture of fur garments. That is the kind of firm which  Senator Duncan  has in mind. The communication is from Furs Limited, Sydney, whose showrooms are in Pomeroy House, York-street. This is what the manager writes - 
We note the contents of the letter received from you to-day, in which you state that you have indicated your intention to move for an item providing for duties of 25 per cent., 35 per cent., and 40 per cent, respectively, on rabbit skins finished for articles of attire. In our opinion these will be likely to meet the requirements of the case, and, as far as we are concerned, we think will be sufficient to put us on a competitive basis. We are in an entirely different position to Tasmanian Fur Traders Limited, and other manufacturers, inasmuch as we make up in our factories all the coney seals we are producing. 
That is the type of firm whose interests  Senator Duncan  has been advocating. 
In the first place I had a letter from Tasmanian Fur Traders Limited asking me to move to get moderate protection for the industry up to 50 per cent, under the general tariff. I wrote to the firm in Sydney, sending them a copy of the request I intended to submit. That, I think, was a reasonable course to adopt.  Senator Foll  now asks me to produce the letter I wrote to the firm. I communicated with the company, which is a reputable one, stating my intentions. My letter to the firm in question simply stated that I proposed to move a certain amendment to the item when the Senate resumed consideration of the tariff this week. 
Apparently it is impossible to please every one. Because I take an interest in an Australian industry and thus make it difficult for honorable senators to charge me with parochialism, I offend certain of my colleagues in this chamber. .,; 
In this Senate 1 am a representative of the whole of the people of Australia, and in particular I am a representative of Tasmania if an attempt is made to interfere with its privileges. I trust that honorable senators will not be afraid of the bogy that has been raised to-night. There is nothing in it. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford)  has explained that the ad valorem duties which I am asking shall be imposed will not have the effect on the industry which  Senator Duncan  fears they will. I remind honorable senators also that we dealt with much the same problem last year, when we were asked to impose a heavy rate of duty on imported tweeds at the request of clothing manufacturers. On that occasion we imposed a flat rate of 12s. 6d. on every imported overcoat. The ad valorem duty on overcoats is now equal only to the fixed duty on the tweed, the raw material. That industry does not enjoy a margin of 15 per cent, protection, which will be given to our fur manufacturers, even if the arguments of  Senator Duncan  are sound ; nevertheless, the clothing manufacturers of Australia are able to carry on successfully. It has been urged, also, that the proposal now before the committee has not been fully considered. I raised no objection to a postponementlast week, when the Minister suggested that the Government would like time to consider it. Now the Minister tells us that, after having given the proposal careful consideration, the Government intends to support it. It has been said, also, that the Tasmanian company has attempted to avoid an inquiry by the Tariff Board.' As a matter of fact, it was not competent for the company to approach the Tariff Board with a request for tariff protection until it had received permission to import certain dyes so as to establish its claim to be a manufacturing concern. Therefore, there was no possibility of getting this proposal before the Tariff Board in time for consideration by Parliament this session. In the circumstances, it is not unreasonable to ask Parliament to deal with this item as an emergency case since those who are interested in the industry have furnished the information asked for by the Tariff Board, and have complied with the  Usual  procedure. Only the other day we dealt with another item which might be regarded as analogous to this. When it was pointed out that, owing to the effect of competition from overseas, the Australian'1 woollen tweed industry was in a. parlous position, an item to give protection to it was agreed to unanimously. 
I am sure that my friend,  Senator Carroll,  does not. wish to misrepresent me, and therefore, I must assume that his memory is at fault. All I said was that the industry in question had been the subject of a careful inquiry by the Tariff Board last year, and that as the Tariff Board had fixed the weight of tweed per square yard at 6£ oz., it seemed strange that another application should be made to depart from the recommendation of the board, after both sides had been heard. I urged that in the circumstances some explanation was necessary, and having obtained it from the Minister I had nothing further to say in opposition to the item. In all probability it was absolutely essential that the woollen industry in the southern portion of the continent should have that protection. The fur industry is now in the same position. It requires our help. I hope, therefore," that the Senate will agree to my requested amendment. 

 . -Senator Thomas said that it was easy to ask a question, but sometimes difficult to get a reply. The honorable senator was quite right, but in this case certain pertinent questions must be asked. I understand that the two firms in Sydney are importers and manufacturers, but which side of their business is the more important?  Senator Duncan  in making his statement should have given the ratio between these two sides. 
In the absence of an answer we are entitled to put what construction we like on the matter. It is obvious that the Sydney firms have built up their business on the importing rather than on the manufacturing side. I would point out, however, that this is not the final court to decide this matter. The Senate can only make a request to the House of Representatives. If I understand the function of the Tariff Board aright, its duty is to advise and assist the Minister. If the Minister for Trade and Customs does not feel inclined to accept this proposal then Parliament must take the responsibility. 
.- I am anxious to assist what appears to be a promising Australian industry, but I must confess my ignorance as to its many details.  Senator Payne  to-night admitted that exhibits of imported furs produced by  Senator Duncan  were superior in quality to the furs manufactured by the Tasmanian company. I understand thatSenator Duncan's exhibit was manufactured from the skins of domesticated rabbits. In the circumstances I am prepared to support  Senator Payne's  requested amendment if he will add a proviso excepting furs manufactured from the domesticated rabbit, because manifestly it would be unfair to impose a high duty on expensive skins, manufactured from the domesticated rabbit, for the purpose of encouraging the manufacture of furs from inferior skins. 
There is no sug-. gestion that such skins can be produced in Australia. Therefore I can see no reason why we should impose a heavy  duty  on their importation. 
That might be done. It is toomuch to. ask us to support the imposition of high duties on articles which cannot be produced in Australia. 
I am afraid I cannot follow the honorable senator's line of argument. Unless some such provision as I have indicated is inserted in the suggested amendment I shall not be able to support it... 
 It is to be regretted that we have not more knowledge of an industry which,  Senator Duncan  has informed us, has been in existence in Australia for some years. I wish to assist that industry and. also the one referred to by  Senator Payne.  Unfortunately, until to-night we knew nothing of the fur manufacturers in New South Wales,, and do not know whether they are struggling for existence or are on - a satisfactory footing. I feel sure that if honorable senators had the whole of the facts before them they would be just as anxious to safeguard the New South Wales industry as they are to encourage the industry in which  Senator Payne  is interested. I doubt, however, if the duties asked for are high enough.  I  believe the overseas firms will make  a  determined attempt to crush the industry by cutting the price of the imported furs. In all probability we shall discover later that the duty which is now proposed by  Senator Payne  is not sufficiently high. It is well known that Australian industries can manufacture only enough to provide for local consumption. Those who are engaged in this industry will doubtless make every endeavour to capture the Australian market. I wish them every success, and hope that their industry will grow. It is astonishing that they have not asked sooner for a duty. 
The Government has not shown a way out of the difficulty. I should like  Senator Duncan  to state how both of these industries can be assisted. I am prepared to vote for  Senator Payne's  request, and if the proposed duty is not sufficiently high, I shall support an increase. 
I have listened with a considerable degree of interest to the discussion that has taken place, and have decided to support  Senator Payne's  request for the moderate duties of 25 per cent. British and intermediate and 40 per cent, under the general tariff to enable an Australian industry to be established. I believe that this may develop- ; into a valuable asset, which has hitherto been regarded as a pest. Both of these industries will be adequately protected, and they ought to assume large dimensions. 
If our economic conditions are to be maintained at their present level, the taxpayer must pay the cost. Another aspect of the matter is that if this becomes a big industry the rabbit may be protected in certain areas in Australia suitable for the purpose where it will not be a menace to landowners, and instead of being a pest it will be a valuable asset. If anything is done on these lines it must be carried out under proper supervision. We send overseas for high-class stud sheep and cattle to improve our flocks and herds. If this industry proves of value to Australia a. similar method can be employed to improve the quality of the rabbit. 
Other parts of Australia may stand for it, even though New South Wales will not. In the past, the rabbit has been regarded as a pest, hut it is gradually becoming a valuable asset. The exports last year were valued at between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000. 
That was new wealth. 
The damage is being compensated for, to some extent, by the exportation of the skins. Both of these industries will provide employment -for our people. The Australian article, will be sold at a moderate price tosuit the masses, and the imported fur willbe a luxury that only the rich will enjoy. Both, however, will be of advantage to Australia. 
 I shall not support  Senator Payne's  request. A number of Australian industries can be regarded only as babies, for the rearing of which the general taxpayer is asked to pay. In what way will we be helping Australia if we agree to this proposed duty ? 
The number of rabbits will not decrease. In what direction will work be provided? Our economic conditions to-day resolve themselves into a question of man power.Can a working man's wife pay £20, £25, or £40 for a fur coat? 
No ordinary man can purchase for his wife a high-priced fur coat or stole. Can  Senator Payne  explain how employment will be provided for a large number of men, or prove that the industry will be a success? I am not here to legislate only for the State that I represent. The honorable senator cannot delude me into the belief that he is not out to benefit Tasmania, 
Only in proportion to the rest of Australia. For that reason I do not intend to vote for the honorable senator's request. During the past week I have been shocked by the number and variety of the wares that have been brought into this chamber. Such a thing would not be allowed in any other Parliament in . the Commonwealth. The plea that protection is necessary for the working man is bunkum. The salvation of the workers of the Commonwealth does not lie in the direction of a protective tariff. The problems that confront Australia are infinitely greater than those which face this fur industry. One can always tell when an industry is in a serious position by the number of occasions upon which its representatives are present at the sittings of this chamber. Like those who go to prayer meetings, they are regular attendants. I do not blame them for looking after their interests. They are. justified, so long  as  we allow that practice to continue. But we must speak and act independently of any  outside influence. No man is greater than his environment.  Senator Payne's  environment to-night will not prove of any assistance to him. 
Question - That the request  (Senator Payne's)  be agreed to- put. The Committee divided - 
Ayes . .  . . 17 
Noes .. ..9 
Majority . .  . . 8 

<graphic href="118332192803215_39_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192803215_39_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Bequest agreed to. 
Item agreed to subject to a request. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with requests. 
.- This afternoon I asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral, " What is the loss or profit on the working of the Beam section of the Amalgamated Wireless Company?" and I was informed that the information is not available in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Half the shares in that company are held by the Government on behalf of - the people of Australia, and I desire to know whether honorable senators are entitled to get information about the company; if so, to what Minister should my question he addressed. I did not expect that the information would be in the files of the PostmasterGeneral's Department; hut I assumed that it would be obtained, and, if we are entitled to it, I hope that the Minister representing the Postmaster-General will get it for me. 
According to a statement published in the press tenders have been received in London for the purchase of the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers. The Prime Minister has stated that the details of the tenders are being sent to Australia by mail, because it would cost a small fortune to transmit the information by wireless or cablegram. I understand that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited has not sufficient overseas traffic to keep it operating half-time; if that is so, would it not be an act of statesmanship to utilize this modern service in order to get the information promptly? Must governments still adhere to oldfushioned methods of communication? 
 The annual report of the PostmasterGeneral's Department was tabled in the House on the 9th March ; so far I have not received a copy, and I assume that other honorable senators have not been supplied. . ' 
It is time that the Printing Committee got busy, for people who are not senators have copies of the report, and I perused one in Sydney. 
I understand that the report of the PostmasterGeneral's Department has been printed, and I shall inquire the reason for the delay in the distribution of copies to honorable senators. . In regard to the Amalgamated Wireless Company, the honorable senator has raised an important question of policy, namely, whether the business details of every commercial concern in which the Commonwealth is financially interested are to he disclosed, not only to honorable senators, hut through the medium of  Hansard  and the press to its trade competitors. Amalgamated Wireless. (Australasia) Limited is in competition with two cable companies. The Government is also a shareholder  in the Common wealth Oil Refineries, and I, personally, would take strong exception to the publication of details of its business which might be of advantage to its trade rivals. 
Yes ;but only in the -same  way as Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and the Commonwealth Oil Refineries are bound to publish their reports and balance- sheets. These are public companies, and the reports and balance-sheets will he made available in due course. But to disclose business details at any period of the year in regard to concerns in which the taxpayers' money  is  invested would be extremely unwise. The information is not at the disposal of the PostmasterGeneral. The Government must rely on its representatives on the board of directors of Amalgamated Wireles (Australasia) Limited to safeguard the interests of the taxpayers of Australia. 
[10.35]. - Reports  which  are laid on the table of the Senate become the property of the chamber and it is for the Printing Committee . to decide what is to be done with them. That committee is expected to . go through all reports laid on the table and decide which shall be printed, because obviously, it is not necessary to print them all. If a document is laid on the table and not printed the fault lies, not with the Government, hut with the Printing Committee of the Senate. It is rather interesting to learn that  Senator Andrew,  who has just interjected that the Printing Committee meets about once in every five years, is a member of that committee. If  it  does not meet the fault  is Mb.  The Senate doesnot tell the committee when it ought to meet; the members of the committee themselves decide when they shall meet. I have learnt, however, that the report of the Postmaster-General was laid on the table of the House of Representatives to-day and ordered to be . printed. It  is  now at the Printing Office,and will be circulated in a few days. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that long delays take place 011. the Brisbane-Sydney telephone line on account of heavy traffic? 
If so, and in view of the splendid business proposition this line has proved, will the 
Government consider the early duplication of same ? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
The volume of business transmitted on the line is occasionally responsible for delays to traffic. 
Steps have already been taken to provide additional telephone facilities between Sydney and Brisbane, and it is- hoped to have three up-to-date channels available early in August  of this year.  
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is the Government aware whether a number of the leases, both in the civic and  residential centres of Canberra, are being forfeited and handed ' back tq the Federal Capital Commission? 
Will the Government have a public inquiry made into the matter, with a view to putting land-leasing of the Federal Capital Territory on a more satisfactory basis? 
Five commercial' leases in the main shopping area have been surrendered by the Canberra Shops Ltd. Beyond reports in the press, the Commission has no official advice concerning any other surrenders. 2, It is not considered that any public inquiry is necessary. The company did not give any reason for surrendering the leases, but the reason is understood to have been a belief that if buildings were to be erected thereon, as prescribed, there would be a difficulty under present conditions in obtaining tenants for the accommodation. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - ' 
In view of the isolation of Tasmania from the mainland, does the Postmaster-General propose instituting a telephone service either by wireless or cable between Australia and Tasmania; and if so, when? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
No definite decision has yet been reached. Investigations into alternative methods of communication are at present being  maae 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- 
Will the Government consider a policy of purchasing Public Service uniforms and other necessary Government stores in the various States where they are required for use instead of, as at present, purchasing all requirements in the larger centres. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime. Minister supplies the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
At present all Public Service uniforms are manufactured in the Defence Clothing Factory in Melbourne and the arrangement is found to be quite satisfactory. All other general Government stores are purchased under tenders freely invited in all States. Contracts are then placed in accordance with the lowest satisfactory tenders after allowance for freight, cartage,  ,&amp;c.,  to the place where the stores are required. These arrangements appear to be the best possible in the public interest and a variation of them does not seem to be desirable. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has the Government or any of the departments made any arrangements for Geophysical Research in the Commonwealth. 
What is the present position regarding patents governing Geophysical Research. 
Yes. The work is being undertaken by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the Development and Migration Commission acting in co-operation through an Executive Committee composed of one representative from each of these bodies, one from the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, two representatives of the States, and ft physicist. 
The whole position regarding patents is now under consideration. 
[3.10]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill is to approve a financial agreement entered into on the 12th December, 1927, between the Commonwealth Government and the Governments of the six States. It makes practicable a permanent solution of the longstanding difficulty that has vexed the Commonwealth and the States in their financial relations with each other. The agreement is subject to the ratification of the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and the States, and its permanency is dependent upon an amendment of the Constitution being agreed to by the people, and a validating act being passed by the next Commonwealth Parliament. 
Many attempts were made by previous Commonwealth Governments to bring about a permanent settlement of this question; but they were unable to arrive at an agreement with the States. The execution of this agreement with the States which now makes the way clear for a lasting settlement of' this difficult problem is no mean achievement. I remind honorable senators that this is the first occasion on which the Commonwealth and the States have been in agreement. 
-I shall show shortly that that is not the case. The subject of Commonwealth and State finances has been considered and dealt with' at length by honorable senators on previous occasions, and I do not propose therefore to do more than refer to one or two incidents in connexion with the history of this agreement. In 1919 the right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt),  then Acting Prime Minister, submitted the first proposal for an alteration of the capitation payment.  His  scheme provided for a gradual reduction of the payment of 25s. per head to 10s. per head, but it was not accepted. In 1923 and again in 1926 further proposals which provided for the Commonwealth giving up to the States some portion of the income tax field as compensation for the abolition of the capitation payments were placed before the States, but were not acceptable to them. After the 1926 conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers the Government came to the conclusion that the capitation system, which could be suspended by the will of Parliament at anytime, should be superseded by some scheme that would provide for a permanent settlement of this vexed problem. As a preliminary it brought forward a measure to discontinue the payments under the Surplus Revenue Act as from 30th June, 1927. That measure also provided for special grants on the capitation basis, for the year 1927-28, subject to any agreement that might be entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. When that measure was brought down the 
Government indicated that it would hold an open conference with the States to consider the question from all possible angles, including any proposals that the States themselves might put forward. Parliament approved of the bill in March, 1927, and thus made the way clear for an open conference. Shortly afterwards a conference was held at which the Commonwealth placed before .the States further proposals which aimed at a settlement through the transfer of State debts. The proposals, briefly stated, were - 
The whole of the public debts of the States to be taken over by the Commonwealth. 
Properly safeguarded sinking funds to be established in respect of existing State debts and new borrowings. 
The management of debts and future borrowings to be vested in an Australian Loan Council. 
The Commonwealth to make substantial contributions towards interest and sinking funds on State debts ; and 
A final settlement to be made in respect of transferred properties. 
These proposals were carefully examined by the States, and resulted in the agreement which is now the subject of this bill. The main features of the agreement are as follows: - 
The Commonwealth to take over all debts of States existing on 1st July, 1929. 
Prom 1st July, 1927, the Commonwealth to apply £7,584,912 annually, for 58 years, from its revenues towards the payment of the interest charges on State debts ; the States to contribute the balance of the interest payable. 
A sinking fund of 7s. 6d. per cent, to be established on the net debts of the States as existing at 30th June, 1927. To this sinking fund the Commonwealth to contribute 2s. 6d. per cent., and the States 5s. per cent, for 58 years. 
A sinking fund of 10s. per cent, to be established on all new borrowings after 1st July, 1927 ; the Commonwealth to contribute 5s. per cent., and the States to contribute 5s. per cent, for 53 years. 
The management of Commonwealth and States debts and the conduct of future borrowings for both Commonwealth and 
States to be in the hands of a newlyconstituted Australian Loan Council, consisting of a representative of the Commonwealth and a representative of  each  State. 
A full settlement to be made in respect of " transferred properties," whereby the Commonwealth will relieve the States of all liability in respect of, approximately, £11,000,000 of debt, bearing interest at 5 per cent. This will mean an annual gain to the States of approximately £164,000, as the Commonwealth Government at present only pays interest at 3£ per cent, on the value of the properties. 
An amendment of the Constitution to be submitted for the approval of the people so as to obtain the necessary power to carry out the agreement. 
It is essential that an arrangement of such a far-reaching character should be supported by constitutional authority. The Constitution as it stands at present is inadequate for this purpose, and it is necessary that an amendment shall be secured. This is the only way in which the Commonwealth can give the States a guarantee of the permanency of the arrangement. Until the Constitution is amended, the agreement cannot come into full operation. It was considered desirable, however, that its benefits should at once, as far as practicable, become operative pending submission to the people of the necessary amendment of the Constitution.  

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No; a section authorizing such 7an agreement will be embodied in the Constitution if the people so approve. ' The agreement contains certain provisions which will apply during the temporary period of two years from 1st July, 1927 to 30th June, 1929. These provisions which are set out in Part II., briefly stated, provide that the Commonwealth shall pay to the States, towards interest on debts, £7,584,912 and 5 per cent, interest on the value of the transferred properties instead of 3^ per cent. They also provide for sinking fund contributions to be payable as from 1st July, 1927, except in the case qf New South Wales which State will commence its contributions on 1st July, 1928. 
The agreement will involve a substantially increased burden on the Commonwealth revenue as compared with the payments provided for under the States Grants Act, 1927. This additional charge mainly arises from the sinking fund contributions which the Commonwealth will make for the redemption of existing States debts. As the people of Australia generally will reap the advantages of co-ordinated borrowing and the establishment of sinking funds, it is felt that, the Commonwealth is justified in making an immediate and substantial contribution from its revenues to secure those advantages. In the year 1927-28 the financial position will be as follows : - 

<graphic href="118332192803226_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following table sets out in detail the amounts that will be received by each State'. 
It will be noted that under the agreement every State will gain a substantial benefit. 
I invite honorable senators to turn to the agreement while I explain briefly some of its chief features. It is divided into four parts, namely : - Part I., general provisions; Part II., temporary provisions; Part III., permanent provisions; and Part IV., miscellaneous provisions. The most important provision of Part I. relates to the constitution and powers of the Loan Council. A voluntary Loan Council has been in operation since 1924. Up till then there was cut-throat competition between the States, and during the financial stringency in 1923 interest rates reached 6 per cent, in respect of loans free of Commonwealth and State income tax. The Loan Council has since secured co-ordination in both the Australian market and the overseas market. Each State was free to withdraw from the Council at any time, and unfortunately New South Wales did so. That action to some extent minimized the benefits of the Council; nevertheless the results exceeded anticipation and made the States realize that they had nothing to fear from a permanently constituted Loan Council. The agreement provides that there shall be on the Loan Council one representative of the Commonwealth and one representative of each State. Where a vote is necessary each State representative will have one vote and the Commonwealth representative two votes and a. casting vote. One of the most important questions to be decided by the 
Loan Council will be the amount of money that can be borrowed at reasonable rates and under reasonable conditions. The decision of this question will really not be difficult, since it will be governed by the state of the money market. In times of stringency, if it is found that the total programmes of the Commonwealth and the States exceed the amount which, in the opinion of the Loan Council, is available in the market at reasonable rates and conditions, the agreement prescribes the method of apportionment of the reduced amount amongst the various governments. If the decision of the Loan Council is unanimous, the allocation of the money available will be in accord with that decision. If, on the other hand, the Loan Council fails to reach a unanimous decision the Commonwealth will be entitled to have allocated to it not more than one-fifth of the reduced amount, and the States will be entitled to share the balance in proportion to their net loan expenditure during the preceding five years. Each Government will thus receive an equitable share of any reduced sum which may be borrowed, and competition will be avoided. This arrangement will also prevent an undue inflation of the "loan estimates of any particular State in the hope that even if a reduction is made in the amount asked for the State concerned will obtain sufficient for its actual requirements. Broadly speaking, the Commonwealth is to arrange all borrowing subject to the Loan Council. There is, however,' power in the agreement for a State  to borrow money outside Australia in its own name, subject ' to the unanimous consent of the Loan Council. This amendment of the original agreement was made at the suggestion of the States themselves, because it was pointed out that some of them had established a certain goodwill in the London money market or elsewhere, and that by the withdrawal of the right to issue a loan in the name of a particular State the benefit of that goodwill would be lost. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. Any moneys so raised by a State will, be regarded as a portion of its allocation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. The provisions of Part IL, to which I have already referred, will only operate during the temporary period of twoyears. ' In the event of the Constitution amendment not becoming law, and of the agreement not being validated on or before the 30th June, 1929, provision is made for the States to reap the benefit of all sinking fund contributions made by the Commonwealth during the temporary period of two years. 
The provisions of Part III. of the agreement will not come into force unless, before the 1st July, 1929, the Constitution has been altered and the Commonwealth Parliament has passed a law validating the agreement. Subject to this procedure, the Commonwealth will take over the debts of the States as at the 1st July, 1929, and will assume the liabilities of the States to the bond-holders. Further provisions under this part include a payment by the Commonwealth of a fixed contribution towards interest charges for 58 years, amounting to £7,584,912; the establishment of sinking funds with joint contributions by the Commonwealth and the States ; the settlement of the transferred properties question by the Commonwealth relieving 'the States of all liability in respect of debts bearing interest at 5 per cent., equivalent to the agreed value of the properties, totalling £10,924,323. The sinking funds to be provided will be controlled by the National Debt Commission, which will regularly apply all money paid into the fund to the re-purchase or redemption of the debts of each State. In the same way the National Debt Commission will immediately cancel all securities as they come into its hands, and thereafter during the prescribed sinking fund period, the States concerned will pay to the Sinking Fund Commission an amount equal to 4£ per cent, per annum on the cancelled debt. The sinking fund will thus receive the ' benefit of compound interest at the rate of 4-J per cent, on the prescribed contributions. The annual contribution by the Commonwealth to the sinking fund on debts at the 30th June, 1927, will be £801,680. The annual payment in respect of new debts will be determined by the amount of new borrowing. 
Part IV. of the agreement contains miscellaneous provisions, the most important of which deals with the proposed alteration of the Constitution. It is proposed that a new section shall be inserted in the Constitution in the following form :  - 105a. (1) The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States, including - 
the taking over of such debts by the Commonwealth ; 
the management of such debts; 
the payment of interest and the provision and management of sinking funds in respect of such debts; 
the consolidation, renewal, conversion, and redemption of such debts; 
the indemnification of the Commonwealth by the States in respect of debts taken over by the Commonwealth ; and 
the borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth for the States. 
2 ) The Parliament may make laws for validating any such agreement made before the commencement of this section. 
The Parliament may make laws for the carrying out by the parties thereto of any such agreement. 
Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto. 
Every such agreement and any such variation thereof shall be binding upon the Commonwealthand the States parties thereto, notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution or the Constitution of the several States or in any law of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of any State. 
The powers conferred by this section shall not be construed as being limited in any way by the provisions of section 105 of this Constitution. 
The precise wording of this clause has been determined after submission to the Crown Law authorities of not only each State, but also the Commonwealth, in addition to outside counsel. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They have. "When the clause is approved by the people there will be an absolute guarantee to the States that this or any agreement made in the future under the powers to be conferred by the constitu tional amendment, will have constitutional force and effect, notwithstanding any legislation passed by any parliament of Australia. 
The benefiits of this agreement cannot be over-stated. It makes the way clear for a permanent and satisfactory settlement of a problem that has hitherto proved impossible of achievement. It safeguards the position of State finances, as it ensures definite Commonwealth assistance on a satisfactory basis, and the States will no longer be dependent on the will of the Commonwealth Parliament. It provides for the giving of immediate relief to the finances of the States. It provides also for the economic management of debt and borrowing operations, and entirely eliminates any danger of cut-throat competition in the future. Above all, it will result in the enhancement of Australia's credit, and thus substantial savings of interest will ultimately be secured to the peoplp through the issue of new conversion loans on better terms than would be possible in the absence of co-ordinated debt management and adequate sinking fund provisions. To those who may cavil at that statement, I commend the position which is enjoyed by New Zealand and Canada, two sister dominions, whose assets and potentialities cannot be said to be better than ours, but whose securities are regarded more favorably than ours on the English and American money markets, because they have constituted one financial authority which speaks for the whole of the dominion. 
In conclusion, I desire to say that the agreement has been the subject of most favorable press comment both in Australia and overseas.It has been signed by the representatives of the governments of the six States and the Commonwealth. Those governments represent not one party, but all parties. It has been ratified by four parliaments, namely, those of Victoria, Queensland. South Australia, and Tasmania. The Parliaments of New South Wales and Western Australia will deal with it very shortly. In view of the fact that it has received the endorsement of the governments of all of the States and the parliaments of four of the States, and that it has passed the House of Representatives, I commend the bill to the 
Senate as a fair and substantial fulfilment of the promise which was made by the Government when it brought forward its proposals for the abolition of the  per capita  payments. We have dealt with the States both justly and generously. I ask the Senate to endorse our action by agreeing to the passage of the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
 I move - 
That the bill be recommitted for the reconsideration of Item 152. 
At the conclusion of the vote which was taken on another item, honorable senators had not properly settled in their places when item 152, relating to iron and steel tubes or pipes was declared by the  chairman  to be carried.  His  voice, generally, carries fairly well; but, as ' honorable senators are aware, the acoustics of this chamber are defective, and it is difficult to hear what is being said. At least two honorable senators, of whom I am one, did not hear the  Chairman  put this item ; but as soon as we realized what had been done, we endeavoured to have the matter reopened. The  Chairman,  however, ruled against us. I have received protests from the Stock-owners' Association of South Australia, whose members are affected materially by this duty, and I wish to obtain information from the Government in relation to it. If the explanation is not satisfactory, I shall endeavour to secure a reduction of the proposed duty. 
 Senator Chapman's  recollection of what took place in committee is different from mine. After a vote had been taken on one item a number of other items were passed without debate before that which deals with steel pipes was put from the Chair. If  Senator Chapman  missed his opportunity to discuss it, that was his own fault. If we agree to the schedule being committed for the consideration of this item, we cannot reasonably decline to recommit it for the further consideration of any other item. I do not consider that the honorable senator has made out a good case. The discussion, if allowed, may develop into one embracing the whole of the iron and steel duties. I trust that  Senator Chapman  will not persist with his amendment; but, if he does, I hope that he will not receive the support of other honorable senators.  Senator Chapman  should have informed me of his intention to move for the recommittal of this item, but he did not do so. He said that he wished to have an opportunity of referring to it again, but he did not intimate that he desired to go beyond that. 
 The Minister has made out a very weak case. The recommittal of an item or a clause is nothing new in parliamentary procedure. During the discussion of the various items in the schedule the Minister gained a number of victories. He did so in connexion with this item. If the reasons for the higher duties were sound when they were agreed to they should be sound still. I support  Senator Chapman's  motion because I believe that it is our duty to give everyopportunity for a full discussion of each item; We should never close the door to a further review of a subject so long as the subject warrants it. It is true that some of the items were passed - shall I say expeditiously - but that is all the stronger reason why a further discussion should now take place if the circumstances warrant it. The Minister's opposition to the motion can only be actuated by a desire to stifle discussion. The Senate should not stand for such a policy. If  Senator Chapman  fails to make out a good case he, no doubt, will also fail in his desire to lower the duties ; but I think he is entitled to express his views. 
.- I was waiting for  Senator Chapman  to advance reasons why the bill should be recommitted. He did not do so. He merely asked the Minister for an explanation, and said that if it was not satisfactory to him he would move that  the duties be reduced^ Until we hear the ground for his motion we are -not in a position to judge whether it should be agreed to. If the honorable senator had given his reasons I might have been prepared to support him. Unfortunately,  Senator Chapman  having spoken, cannot speak again other 'than to close the debate. I shall therefore have to wait until he speaks again before I can decide, what attitude I shall adopt towards his motion. 
We cannot decide the merits of the motion until we know the reason for it. If the honorablesenator can make out a good case I have no doubt that the Senate will agree to his motion. All that we know now is that  Senator Chapman  has received a letter from the Stockowners' Association of South Australia protesting against certain duties ;  but we do  not know the reason underlying the protest. 
 Senator Chapman  has acted within his rights in moving for the recommittal of this item. There is nothing new in moving that an item be recommitted. 
Unfortunately for the Minister, the decision does not- rest with him, but with the Senate. It is well  known that stock-owners and farmers use large quantities of steel pipes.  Senator Chapman's  object in moving his motion is to put their case before the Senate, so that it will be in a position to decide whether the higher duties are warranted. I see no reason why the motion should not be agreed to. 
Last night  Senator Chapman  intimated to the Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford)  and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that he intended to take the action he has taken to-day. 
When  Senator Chapman  made his request last night the Honorary Minister said that if an opportunity to deal with the item did not present itself last night an opportunity would be given to-day. In the circumstances I cannot understand the Minister's present attitude.  Senator Chapman's  object is to obtain some relief for the primary producers, who use large quantities of steel pipes. After he has expressed his views it will  be for  the Senate to decide -whether, the duties shall remain or be lowered. I rose particularly to mention the arrangement which was entered into last night between  Senator Chapman,  the Honorary Minister, and the Leader of the Government. 
 I support  Senator Chapman's  motion. This item was dealt with so quickly that some honorable senators who desired to speak  missed their opportunity. Later, when they protested, the  Chairman  said that the item had been agreed to and that he could not allow a discussion upon it. We thought he was hasty but he  was  quite within his rights to declare the item passed because we were too slow. Several of us rose to protest but we accepted the Chairman's ruling that he had declared the item agreed to because we were aware that there would be an opportunity to deal with the item on recommittal. We desire that opportunity now and I think it is only fair that we should get it. 
 I would .be the last to help in burking discussion, because I believe in affording every opportunity for discussion on every subject that comes before the Senate; but it is usual to give very substantial reasons for submitting a motion for the recommittal of a tariff item or a clause of a bill. The honorable senator moving the motion generally intimates that he has fresh evidence to put forward, but I have heard nothing from  Senator Chapman  about fresh evidence. I understand that the evidence he has to-day is what he had when the item was 'before the committee, and the only reason he has advanced for the recommittal  of  the item is that it was put through the committee too hastily. To my mind that is a reflection on the  Chairman  of 
Committees and a confession of slowness on the part of honorable senators. 
If the Customs Tariff Bill is recommitted for the purpose of reconsidering item 152 on the flimsy ground put forward by  Senator Chapman,  we might just as well re-open the discussion on many other items that were put through the committee just as rapidly. If any valid reason had been offered for the recommittal of this item I should support the honorable senator's motion, but so far I have not heard any. 
 This is the first time I have heard such heated objection to the recommittal of a bill or any part of a bill for a special purpose. If  Senator Chapman  had sought to have the whole schedule recommitted, there might have been some reason for objection. I notice that most of the opposition comes from honorable senators whose States have benefited by the tariff. This is not an effort on the part of  Senator Chapman  to reverse a decision already arrived at, because, in committee there was no discussion of item 152.  Senator Chapman  was anxious to move a request but was not given the opportunity to do so - my recollection of what happened is the same as his - and in the circumstances it is only a matter of courtesy to an honorable senator in the predicament of  Senator Chapman  to extend to him the privilege of saying what he wished to say, but missed the opportunity of saying, when the schedule was originally under discussion. If the Senate agrees to recommit the bill in the terms of this motion it will be for the purpose of discussing item 152 alone. I do not think it would be very long under discussion, and of course the result would be fairly well assured. 
Exactly. Between the permanent and temporary protectionists - 
Having regard to all these, the temporary protectionists and those who have received benefits from the schedule, which in some cases have been ill bestowed, the end of the discussion  is  fairly well assured. ..Why, therefore, the Minister should object ,to the recommittal of the schedule for the purpose of further considering item 152 surprises me. He should be the last to deprive any honorable senator of the right to offer criticism of an item unless, possibly, that criticism is feared. 
I simply wish to know whether the Government offers any objection to the recommittal of the item. If it does not offer any objection, then we can come speedily to a decision. On the attitude of the Government depends the decision of the Senate. 
 Mr. President 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The Honorary Minister has already spoken. 
I rose merely to state my agreement to the recommittal. 
[3.58].  -  As the Minister in charge of the bill. has no further opportunity to speak, I wish to say on his behalf that he will agree to the recommittal on the distinct understanding, of course, that the Government will not .accept the request that  Senator Chapman  will probably submit. I wish also to make it quite clear that no promise waa given last night that the Government would agree to a recommittal. This is what happened: Ministers were desirous of having the Financial Agreement Bill brought in before 10.30 p.m., and  Senator Chapman  was equally anxious to move for the recommittal of the Customs Tariff Bill. I turned to him and said, " You can move the recommittal tomorrow", but I did not promise that the Government would agree to hia motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 In Committee (Recommittal) 
The schedule - 
Division VI. - Metals and Machinery. Item 152- 
By omitting the whole of sub-item (a) and inserting in its stead the following sub-item: - 
And on and after1st January. 1 929 - 
Iron and steel tubes or pipes (except riveted, cast, close jointed or cycle tubes orpipes) not more than 3 inches internal diameter; iron anl steel boiler tubes, ad val., British 40 per cent., intermediate 55 per cent., general . 60 per cent. 
.  - I draw the attention of honorable senators to the deferred duties on iron and steel tubes or pipes, which show increases of from27½ per cent, to 40 per cent. British, 35per cent, to 55 per cent, intermediate, and 40 per cent, to 60 per cent, general. Very little information has been given to us in regard to these increases which will have a vital effect on many industries. The Tariff Board, in its report on the iron and steel industry, devotes only one page to pipes and tubes. I understand that the board met in conference the managing director of the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited, and two accredited representatives of Stewart and Lloyd, of the United Kingdom, who, in conjunction with the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited, are prepared to commence at Newcastle the industry of making iron and steel tubes and pipes. The Tariff Board simply compares the high wages paid in Australia with those paid in Great Britain, and points out that the new industry, when established, will employ about 1,000 workers. The information supplied is, in my opinion, altogether too meagre when we realize how the proposed duties are likely to affect other industries. 
I believe that the Tariff Board recommended duties a little higher than those proposed by the Government. I shall not dwell upon the effect the new duties will have on home building and municipal undertakings, we have had sufficient talk about the effect the increased timber duties will have in those directions-but shall speak more particularly of the effect they are likely to have on the agricultural and pastoral industries and, incidentally, upon workers in the cities. There are small farmers in the new Mallee areas who are on the bread line. They could not exist by working only eight hours a day. These duties will place a further burden on them, and if they are driven out of the business ofwheat-growing, the harm done to city and country businesses and the employees will be far greater than the good that will be brought about by the establishment of this new industry of making iron or steel tubes or pipes. If men on the better class agricultural land have these added burdens placed on them they will simply turn their attention to raising sheep, in which very little labour is required; whereas if the better class land is utilized for farming considerable employment is given in the cities. "Workers get lucrative employment in making superphosphates and machinery, and considerable employment is given on the railways, which are required to convey fertilizers and produce. Many other industries indirectly benefit very materially from farming operations. If the farmers are driven to take up pastoral pursuits, they will not feel the effect of it; they will probably do as well out of sheep as at farming; but the city industries will suffer. Let me now examine the effect the duties are likely to have on those engaged in pastoral pursuits. Sheep cannot walk more than a few miles to water in hot weather. The pastoralists have overcome this difficulty by conveying water in pipes long distances across their holdings. The gentleman who represented Flinders in the South Australian Legislative Assembly, has sunk wells and run water out by pipes for 10 and 20 miles in either direction. In that way he has increased the carrying capacity of his country many times over, and he has thus provided a great deal of employment for workers in the city. "We should think twice before we put on the extra duties. I know I shall be told that this increase is " only a little one " which will not hurt anybody. The position reminds me of what happens very often when a couple of heavy drinkers go into an hotel for a "spot." It is "only  a little one;" but they have one and then another, and another. Eventually they get to the stage of intoxication, at which they join in singing "Another little drink won't do us any harm." And so they go on. We, in our tariff debates, have now reached the stage in this economic debauch when the Minister tries to justify increases of duties by saying "Another little one will not do us any harm," but we must look at the total effect. In  1925-26,  the pastoral and dairying industry of Australia exported  £89,000,000  worth of produce and the agricultural industry  £33,000,000  worth. Surely those are industries that should be carefully guarded. I am quite aware that tlie industry of making iron and steelpipes and tubes is a new one, but already we have had to give increased protection to established industries because of the increases of wages that have been brought about by increasing duties in other directions. First we increase duties on the recommendation of the Tariff Board, then we have the Arbitration Court awarding higher wages, and next we have further increases of duties. And so a vicious circle is set up. The Tariff Board has warned us that unless we are careful, this country will meet with economic disaster. Not satisfied with protecting established industries, they are asking for additional protection in order to start a new industry. What will be the position? We should watch the ultimate effect of these and other duties upon industry generally. I trust the Minister will give the committee further information. If he does not satisfy me that the higher duties are justified, I intend to submit a request that the. . original deferred duties of  27½  per cent. British,  35  per cent, intermediate, and  40  per cent, general, be restored. 
 I trust honorable senators will not support  Senator Chapman  in the reduction which he has suggested. If the honorable senator had moved the request, which he will doubtless move before concluding his speech it would have saved time. The Government approved these increased duties on iron pipes because it was considered that the old rates of  27½  per cent. 
British,  35  per cent, intermediate, and  40  per cent, genera] were insufficient to encourage the iron and steel pipe-making industry in Australia. 
No. This matter was very exhaustively inquired into by the Tariff Board, and by the Minister for Tradeand Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  and, as a 'result of investigations, it was ascertained that a British company was prepared to establish large works in Australia. They have already proved their bona fides by announcing within the last few days that they intend to establish works at Newcastle. It has been stated during the tariff debate that another very strong combination has been formed to erect works at Port Kembla, and included in theiractivities willbe the manufacture of iron and steel pipes. The latest figures available in regard  to  importations show that  47,000  tons  of  pipes were imported during  1926-27, of  which quantity  41,000  tons came from Great Britain. 
Yes, and  the  demand for an additional  100,000  tons  of  pig iron annually will substantially  assist  the iron smelting industry. The increase in output should enable the manufacturers to reduce the prices of other articles they are producing. Now that Hoskins  Limited  have announced their intention to manufacture this class of pipe, there should be wholesome competition between Stewart and Lloyds and Hoskins Limited, and there should be no danger of pipe users being charged more than a reasonable price. Honorable senators have  observed  that these are deferred duties which will not come into operation until the Tariff Board has reported that the Australian manufacturers are in a position to produce iron and steel pipes  of  good quality in reasonable quantities. The Minister for Trade and Customs will see that the manufacturers do not charge exorbitant prices. The increase in prices which may follow cannot be so great  as  to substantially affect the man on  the  land. Although we are dealing only  with  this item,  Senator Chapman  discussed the effect of the tariff generally upon settlers on the land. I do not know what would be the position of the man .on the land if it were not for the home market which our secondary industries provide. 
The relationship between our secondary and primary industries is so close that they cannot be separated. 
In such clr " cumstances the man on the land would not have a market for a considerable portion of his produce. The discussion should, I think, be confined to the item which has been re-committed. I submit that  Senator Chapman  has not made out a good case for a reduction in these duties, already agreed to by the Senate. 
 I believe that  Senator Chapman  was right when he said that this item was agreed to in a somewhat hurried fashion, because there are a number of points in connexion with these proposed duties which have not been ventilated. For instance, the Tariff Board in effect informed the applicants for increased duties that they did not know their own business. The applicants said that they were asking for a duty equal to 50 per cent., but the Tariff Board in its report said that they had understated their case, and proceeded to recommend duties of 50 per cent. British, 60 per cent, intermediate, and 75 per cent, general. It is quite clear that the board would have awarded even higher duties. I emphasize the point that I do not think it is within the functions of the Tariff Board to tell any applicant for increased duties that he is understating his case. According to the reports of the inquiry, no representative of the users of iron pipes was examined. The only witnesses were those who wanted increased duties. They were interested parties, and the Tariff Board came to a decision on  ex parte  evidence. To appreciate the absurdity of these increased rates one has only to refer to page 40 of the report, where it will be seen that -the board- stated that without a subsidy from another industry or very exceptional preferences over and above the tariff Hoskins Limited could not carry on the manufacture of iron and steel pipes in Australia except at a .loss. I characterize that statement as the height of absurdity. That portion of the board's report is not in accordance with facts. What is the history of the company? I recall what was said years ago by a representative of that firm, who stayed in the galleries until the last item of the tariff affecting iron and steel duties was passed by Parliament. That gentleman and his representatives led us to believe that the industry was an unpayable one, but  Mr. Hoskins  died a multi-millionaire. Now the Tariff Board tells us that without a subsidy iron cannot be profitably manufactured in Australia by that firm.. Honorable senators will remember the progress the late  Mr. Hoskins  made in his business, how he eventually became a mighty iron master, and made millions of money in this country. Any one standing on the top of the Commonwealth Bank in Sydney can see a twelvestorey building owned by Hoskins Limited which was constructed out of the profits of an industry which the Tariff Board says could not be profitably conducted without a subsidy. These are facts which cannot be successfully challenged.. The Tariff Board was not justified in making that statement. The business record of the late  Mr. Hoskins  proved conclusively that he had made an immense fortune out of the iron and steel industry in this country. Why should we, by means of tariff protection, assist others to become millionaires? Let us reach finality in this matter. I hope that  Senator Chapman  will submit his request to another place to reduce the duty, so as to make it possible for  the farmers and pioneers in our out-back country, where the rainfall is scanty, to obtain iron water pipes at a reasonable price, thus making those  areas habitable and, perhaps, profitable. To farmers in such locations water is the first essential. 
I agree with the honorable senator, and having had experience of our arid areas, I can speak with, authority. We all know what the Kalgoorlie water scheme, promoted by the late Lord Forrest, meant to the people in the gold-field areas of Western Australia during the early period, and what it means to them to-day. It brought happiness and civilization to thousands of people who, till then, were suffering great privations. Under this item the Government proposes to give an additional protection of 50 per cent. British preferential to the manufacturers of iron pipes. It is about time we took stock of our position. I feel sure that no honorable senator would willingly load the scales in favour of a small section in this community, at the expense of the majority of the people who already are groaning under a heavy load of taxation. We have had a similar experience in connexion with the manufacture of harvesters in Australia. Unfortunately, the firm engaged in that business succeeded in convincing successive governments that, without high protective duties, it could not carry on. Again, the high duties sanctioned by Parliament help manufacturers to become millionaires in far less than the span of an ordinary lifetime. Why should not the unfortunate consumer - the primary producer - get a hearing? It is important to bear in mind also that the applicants made a request for duties of 30s. British, 40s. intermediate, and 50s. a ton in the general tariff on the importations of pig iron, and the board recommended duties of 30s. British, 40s. intermediate and 65s. in the general tariff - actually more in the general tariff than had been asked for. How foolish a person would be if- he insisted upon paying a shopkeeper 15s. for an article which was priced for retail at 10s., or if he insisted upon giving his tailor £9 for a suit of clothes priced at £8. Obviously the Tariff Board considered that the request for increased duties on pig iron was altogether too moderate, and, in effect, said to the applicants': - "You are asking too little. We intend to give you more than you are asking for, because we believe that you do not know your own business." Surely honorable senators will do something to put this matter right. Why do not we tell the board that it is not discharging its duties efficiently? 

Order ! The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I am sorry that  Senator Chapman  did not submit a request for  a  reduction in the duties on this item.  If  the honorable senator does move in that direction, he will have my support. I agree with  Senator Lynch  that in the framing of these duties the interests  of  the consumer have been entirely overlooked. People settled in. the agricultural areas of Western Australia are obliged to make provision for the conservation of water, otherwise they run the' risk of failure. The Government of that State is committed to an extensive scheme of water conservation, and accordingly it must purchase large supplies of iron pipes for the delivery of water to the various outlying areas. If these higher duties are agreed to the primary producer will again be penalized in the interests of the local manufacturers, because the State Government will be obliged to pay higher prices for the pipes and the farmers who purchase from the Government on long terms, will be called upon to meet additional capital expenditure, together with interest. The Minister  (Senator Crawford)  has assured us that these increased duties will not mean an increase in the price of iron pipes. I have never yet known manufacturers to reduce the price of their output following the imposition of protective duties. If, as the Minister has suggested, the iron and steel manufacturers wish to sell pipes more cheaply than at present, why did they make a request for higher protective duties? I feel certain that they know their own business well and, unfortunately, they know what this Senate will do in the matter of increased duties. They know that these added duties will be agreed to so as to make it possible. for them to enjoy higher profits. If an industry cannot carry on with a protection of 40 per cent.,- it should not be encouraged. 
Over and over again in the past representatives  of  various Labour organizations  have declared  that if an industry is not able  to  provide fair wages and employment under reasonable conditions, it should not be encouraged. As a matter of fact, with the exception of the wheat and wool production, no industry in Australia is in that favorable position. All have, at times, appealed to Parliament for protection, and in doing so have admitted that without assistance they would go to the wall. Those connected with secondary industries know that if they approach Parliament for protection, they will get a sympathetic hearing and be given all the assistance they ask for. In many instances the assistance is given without consideration of the effect which the duties will have on the people generally. It is the business of every Government, and I think this Government recognizes it, to hold the scales as evenly as possible between, the different sections in the community. I regret, however, that by its action in connexion with these duties, the Government is not observing its obligations. Every vessel that leaves Fremantle for the north-west coast ports of Western Australia is heavily laden with, iron pipes for water conservation purposes, because without such facilities it is impossible to occupy the pastoral areas profitably. If the owner of a run is lucky enough on putting down a well on his property to discover a good supply of water he considers it a better proposition to lay pipes to distant parts of his run for the watering of his stock than to incur the expense of searching for other supplies which, when located, might prove to be indifferent. It is important, therefore, that these water pipes should be available at a reasonable price, in order that the stockcarrying capacity of our pastoral areas may be increased. We heard a good  deal during the debate yesterday about the value of the rabbit industry to Australia. I venture to say that all the revenue that might be received from rabbits and rabbit skins for countless years would never-:recoup the people of Australia the loss' which they have incurred owing to the pest. The pastoral industry is much more valuable to Australia, and I appeal to honorable sena-  tors not to impose further taxation upon it in the form of these increased duties. I sincerely hope that  Senator 
Chapman will move the request for au amendment that he has foreshadowed. 
 I was under the impression that  Senator Chapman  proposed to move a request for an amendment of this item. 
 Senator Lynch  has just told us that certain manufacturers in this country have become millionaires as a result of the protection given to their industry. 
In my State there are some who have done pretty well. I have in mind, however, the position of the unfortunate, struggling farmers in areas remote from centres of civilization. The Government of South Australia has laid hundreds of miles of iron piping for the reticulation of country farming districts. The water in some cases has to be carried 70 or 80 miles. We are only asking that the farmer and the pastoralist shall not be burdened with the extra cost of the proposed duties. The pastoralist may be wealthy in one year, but a drought in the following year will knock him flat. We never hear of iron foundries being in that unenviable position. The Broken Hill Proprietary Limited is not a benevolent or a charitable institution; it is out for every penny it can get. How much more protection do we want than that which is afforded by 12,000 miles of sea? I hope that the Committee will support a reduction of the proposed duties. 
.- I move- 
That the House  of  Representatives be requested  to  make the deferred duty, sub-item  a,  British 27+ per cent. 
That will restore the duty to what it was before the schedule was tabled. I do not desire to interfere with the intermediate or the general tariff. 
 I had not concluded my remarks when my time expired, but the only observation I now wish to make is that on more than one occasion the Tariff Board has gone out of its way to recommend higher rates of duty than those which have been sought. Rolled iron or steel teams are a case in point. The applicants asked for 88s., 115s., and 130s., but the board recommended 88s., 115s., and  200s. The makers of iron and steel tubes or pipes asked for 35 per cent., 45 per cent., and 55 per cent. The Tariff Board in effect told them that they had asked for too little, and recommended that they be granted duties of 50 per cent., 60 per cent., and 75 per cent. The board may be likened to a mock court; it hears what the applicants have to say, and then tells them that they do not know their own business, and are too modest in their requests. It even puts words into their mouths. If the proposed duties in this case needed anything to damn 'them in the minds of reasonable beings, it would be furnished by the action of the board. It is supposed to be the eyes and the ears of Parliament, but has failed to fulfil that requirement. Do honorable senators intend to endorse such behaviour as that to which I have referred? We would be recreant to our trust, faithless to the people who sent us here, and oblivious to the welfare of this country, if we allowed that conduct to continue. It is part and parcel of the insane policy of raising duties sky high. Has any honorable senator heard of a case where a seeker for a reduction of duty got less than he asked for? I have not. This makes one think that the Tariff Board is failing in its duty. The inevitable result is that primary pursuits will be brought to a state of stagnation. Our primary producers are fortified at present by a combination of fair seasons and good prices ; but, when prices revert to the pre-war level and adverse seasons are experienced, they will not be able to meet the demands made upon them by reason of the high duties which are imposed upon their requirements. The Tariff Board has entirely misconceived its functions. . It has no warrant to tell any applicant that the rate of duty asked for is too low: and this Parliament has no right to endorse such behaviour. We should deal with this question along rational lines. If applicants ask for duties of 35 per cent., 40 per cent., and 50 per cent., we should take them at their word and give them no more. The duties proposed by the schedule are nothing less than outrageous. 
On behalf of a disorganized but deserving element in the community, I lodge my protest at such a monstrous proposal, and I shall support  Senator Chapman's  request. 
I have listened with interest to this debate, and in the light of it have begun to wonderwhy certain honorable senators were so insistent last night that we should send another item to the Tariff Board. I support  Senator Chapman,  from the stand-point of the mining industry, which uses a very considerable quantity of piping. Any duty that is over and above a fair thing is a material handicap to this industry, which is of great importance to Australia. 
I find myself in a unique position, in that on this occasion I purpose supporting a motion which has been introduced by a supporter of the Government. As a rule, motions submitted by the Government or its followers are antagonistic to the ideals held by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. The motion of  Senator Thomas  is not, however, in that category. On the contrary it is in accordance with the ideals of the Labour party, and for that reason it has their support. It reads - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the rate paid to the Amalgamated Wireless Company for messages from Australia to England, in plain language and not marked" urgent," should not exceed a penny a word. 
When examined thoroughly, the motion is not so impracticable or revolutionary as some honorable senators probably think it is. If it is carried it will mean the nationalization of wireless. I compliment  Senator Thomas  on the able manner in which he presented his case, but in my opinion it contained one weakness. I understood the honorable gentleman to say that even' if agreement with his motion necessitated a subsidy from the Government to the Amalgamated Wireless Company, that would be worth while in order to obtain  the privilege of sending messages by wireless for a penny a word. 
I should not favour the payment of a subsidy to the company, even to get messages sent at a cheap rate. It would be better for the Government to undertake the work. Government control of wireless would mean that wireless communications would be governed in the interests of every section of the community. I understand that the motion relates only to the transmission of wireless messages from Australia overseas. I agree with  Senator Thomas  that the more popular we can make these messages the more closely shall we be in touch with our kinsmen in other lands. To my mind it would hasten the bringing about of what I might call an ideal Empire wireless chain, annihilating the vast distances that separate the nations of the British Commonwealth of Nations. If, therefore, for no other purpose than the sentimental one of uniting the Empire, the Senate would be justified, not only in agreeing to the motion submitted by  Senator Thomas,  but also  in going further and seeing that it is put into practical effect. Quite recently we had a very keen debate on the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government and Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. On that occasion every honorable senator who spoke admitted the great and important part that wireless was playing, not only i'i Empire, but also in international matters, and several attempted to visualize the still more wondrous results that would flow from its further development. Looking at the matter from every stand-point, not forgetting that of defence, I am under the impression that it would be better in every way to have Id. a word wireless messages instead of the charges now imposed. I am pleased that  Senator Thomas  has kept aloft the beacon he carried many years ago in regard to the control of public utilities and that he has not forgotten his association with the Labour party. He has already said that every Thursday his then colleague,  Senator Pearce,  was accustomed to- move for the nationalization of something. I hope that honorable senators -sitting alongside  Senator Thomas  will see the reasonableness of his request and the advantage to be derived from giving effect to it. There is something in' the old saying that there are none so blind as those who will not see. I believe that there are honorable senators supporting the Government who, while agreeing to the principle set out in the motion submitted by  Senator Thomas,  may not be willing to put it into effect. I. am not a Biblical scholar, but on this occasion I ma'y be pardoned for quoting the words of the Saviour, in his parable of the sowers - 
And their ears are dull of hearing and their eyes they have closed; lost at any time they should see with 'their eyes and hear with their ears and should understand with their heart and should be converted. 
After listening to the excellent address delivered by  Senator McLachlan  in reply to  Senator Thomas,  ]t" am. with all due reverence, compelled to class him among those whose ears are dull of hearing, and who shut their eyes, lest at any time they may hear or see something that their hearts will understand and that may convert them.  Senator Thomas  pointed out the vast difference in the cost of establishing and maintaining wireless stations as against that of establishing and maintaining telegraph stations. The. disparity is considerable. I agree with the honorable senator that just as the Government of the day in Australia controls telephonic and telegraphic communications so it should control wireless telegraphy and wireless telephony. The Government of Great Britain, which is in no sense a Liberal administration, is in full control of wireless telegraphy through its Postmaster-General. In Australia we have a very cheap telegraphic system, because of Government control, and for that reason if for no other we should seriously consider any proposal to establish government control over wireless charges. In his reply to  Senator Thomas  the Honorary Munster apologized for the charges i made by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. One would imagine "from the figures he quoted that the company had suddenly developed a philanthropic conscience and was conferring the benefit of cheap rates on the people of Australia. It has certainly done good work in Australia by pioneering wireless; but it has been well paid for what it has done. It has not been altogether free from blame in certain respects. When the royal commission was inquiring into wireless telegraphy, it was shown in evidence that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited was not all that it -was supposed to be. The commission in one part of its report said - . ,  
The evidence disclosed that the operations of this company extended over every field of radio, and in almost . every instance have created friction and dissatisfaction. 
Despite the report of that royal commission, the Commonwealth Government has entered into another agreement with this company. The Honorary Minister told us the other night that Australia should be proud of the company. I am not here to pay any homage to it, or to bestow fulsome flattery upon it. Nor am I here to attack it, and I do not propose to do so.  Senator McLachlan  asked us not to bring within the ambit of our discussion the reasonableness or otherwise of the company's charges. But if the charges imposed are not excessive, what has the Government and the company to fear? The company is no philanthropic institution.  It  is run in the interests of its shareholders. It is out for big business. Like all companies, it wants to make profits and pay dividends. I do not blame it for doing so. But that is just the. difference between a public utility controlled by a company and one that is controlled by the Government in the interests of the community. Wireless is a matter that in time of  Avar  should be controlled by the duly elected representatives of the people. And even in times of peace it should be controlled by the Government, so that the charges made for the service rendered may place it within the reach of all. Dealing with this aspect of the question, the royal commission said - 
The interests of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited are primarily commercial. The policy of the PostmasterGeneral is public service . at the lowest cost. 
That is another difference between a public utility, Government-controlled, and one which is managed by a private concern. What would have happened if a private company had been in charge of Australia's telegraphic service? At present, we have the most up to date and cheapest telegraphic system in the world. A private company could not have done what the Government has done in extending telegraphic and telephonic facilities in every direction, nor have taken the risks that the Government has taken ; and I venture to say that the rates charged by it would have been infinitely higher than they are under Government control. Despite our heavy cost of construction and maintenance in Australia, we have a telegraphic system second to none in the world, and the cost of sending messages to any part of Australia does not exceed Id. a word. A private company would not have given us that service. As the distance extended from 50 miles to 100 miles, so would the cost of messages have been increased. If our telegraphic system were under the control of a private company, we should probably have to pay 3d. a word for telegraphic messages. 
Yes ;. and if our telegraphic system were in the hands of private enterprise the people would possibly be exploited to the same extent. Portions of the speech of the Honorary Minister suggested that he was somewhat favorable to the proposal submitted by  Senator Thomas,  as he stated that 43 per cent, of the total beam traffic was handled at 1 5/8d. and 25 per cent, at 2d. a word. As the people are taking full advantage of these rates it appears to me that, if the rate were lowered to Id. per word the volume of business would increase tremendously. The Honorary Minister further stated that over 68 per cent, of the messages transmitted by the beam ' system were paid for at less than 2d. a word, and that the present inwards and outwards traffic between the United Kingdom and Australia totalled about 13,000,000 words a year. If that number of words are despatched at the existing rates we can readily imagine the great increase In traffic which would follow a reduction to Id. a word. 
If the rate were reduced t.o1d. a word, a large number of what I may term social or domestic messages would pass between Australia and Great Britain. If persons living in Australia could send wireless messages to England, Scotland, and Ireland at the cost of1d. a word, instead of sending letters in the ordinary course and having to wait over two months for a reply, the increase in the volume of traffic would he most pronounced. The Honorary Minister said he felt sure the company would seize every opportunity to advance its interests and to secure as much business as possible. It would be foolish if it did not, particularly as it is a business concern anxious to obtain all it can for its shareholders. He also said - 
Having regard to the outside interests involved, it seems to me that it is impossible under present conditions to ask Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited to reduce its charges. 
The Government appears to be more concerned with outside interests than it  ls  with the wolfare of the people of the Commonwealth. In what way are we concerned with the interests of the company apart from the shares which the Commonwealth holds in it? We should determine if it is not practicable for the Commonwealth to successfully conduct the wireless service between Australia and Great Britain. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - Yes, it owns a majority of the shares and has representatives on the board of directors; but I am sure  Senator Lynch  would not favour dual control of our telegraphic and telephonic system. The representation of the Government on the board does not dispose of the fact that the service wouldbe more effectively conducted by the Government. The Bri tishGovernment, which controls wireless services in Great Britain, has not yet instituted a ld.-a-word service ; but that Government, conservative as it is, may yet reduce its rate to a more reasonable figure. The wireless system, under government control, even with slightly higher rates, would be preferable to private control at1d. a word. Although it has been said that the com pany is. desirous of reducing the charges to the public, I have not as yet seen any indication Of that desire. The Honorary Minister, who did not devote sufficient time to the value of a wireless service from a defence view-point, said that a conference sitting in London was dealing with that phase of the question. Even if no other arguments could be adduced in favour of governmental control, the value of such a service to the nation for defence purposes should bc sufficiently, apparent to influence the Government to bring about a change. If, unfortunately, we should again be plunged into the horrors of war, the Government would not hesitate to assume control of wireless. If we cannot depend on private enterprise in a crisis, we should not depend upon the service it renders in times of peace. We. were also informed. that the wireless and cable companies were considering amalgamation, and this was given as one reason why the motion submitted by  Senator Thomas  should be opposed. I believe that immediately amalgamation was proposed, . the shares of one of the cable companies increased in price to 70s. The suggested amalgamation was only a move on the part of certain interests to  increase the price of shares. In conclusion, I repeat that the Government should assume control of wireless at the earliest possible moment, and then reduce the charge for the transmission of messages to1d. a word. I do not think that there is much likelihood of  Senator Thomas's  ambitions being realized whilst the service is under the control of private enterprise ; but I believe that when the people of Australia have had an opportunity to express their opinions of ' the present administration they will return a government which will negotiate for the control Of this essential service. I am fully convinced of the necessity and practicability of the claim submitted by' the mover of the motion, and I trustthat we shall soon have a wireless service between the United Kingdom and Australia controlled and operated by the Government, in the interests of not only the Commonwealth, but the Empire as a whole. I support the motion. 
Debate (on motionby  Senator Lynch)  adjourned. 
Senate adjournedat 5.36 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the total expenditure on the Federal Capital City and Territory from (a) loan moneys, (b) revenue? 
What is the present income derived from the city and territory? 
Does the income derived cover the interest charges on the total expenditure? 
If not, what is . the deficiency? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact that the Federal Capital Commission is calling upon lessees to pay half the cost of making the footpaths and gutters in addition to extremely high ground rents under their leases? 
If so, under what clause in the leases is this demand made? 
If there is no such clause in the leases, how can  this  demand he supported, and in particular is it claimed that the Commission ran at will- alter or add to the terms of such leases without regard to the rights of the lessees ? 
Is it intended by the Commission, by reason of its governmental powers, to treat, in effect, such leases, as "mere scraps of paper"? 
If otherwise, to what extent is it contended that the Commission can rightfully amend, add to, or depart from the terms of the leases? 
It is a fact that owners of leases are being required to pay half the cost of the kerbing and guttering adjoining their lands. No charge will be made in respect of footpaths until they are laid in permanent construction. 
The charge in respect of kerbing and guttering is being made in pursuance of regulations under the Building and Services Ordinance. This ordinance was made prior to the first sale of leases in the Territory. 
Leases are subject to the general law of the Territory. 
See answer to No. 3. 
See answer to No. 3. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that tenders have been received in London for the purchase of the Commonwealth Line of Steamers? 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has stated that it would cost a small fortune to have the full details of the offers cabled to Australia, and that before taking action he is awaiting communication by mail? 
Is it a fact that for want of traffic the beam wireless is idle for many hours- daily ? 
Is it the opinion of the Prime Minister that it is- business to permit, for the use of the beam wireless, such charges as to make it prohibitory for even the Federal Government to use it in connexion . withbig business transactions ? 
Is it the opinion of the Prime Minister that it is business to carry on negotiations by the slow and out-of-date methods of mail communication when it could be done by wireless? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has furnished the following replies: - 
Yes. 
The receipt of the tenders by mail is being awaited. Apart from the question of cost involved, the information which has been received by cable indicates that it is not practicable to communicate full particulars of the tenders by this method. 
I am not aware that this is the case. 
The charges for messages sent by beam wireless have been fixed after full consideration of all the conditions and are  aslow  as the existing circumstances justify. 
The Government takes the . fullest advantage of the wireless service, but this method of communication cannot entirely take the place of communication by mail. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Homo and Territories,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen a statement in the press to the effect that several travellers from New Guinea had expressed concern at the increasing number of attempted offences on white women by natives in New Guinea? 
Is the Minister aware whether members of the Parliamentary party which visited New Guinea recently were informed of the seriousness of the position? . 
Will the Government have full enquiry made into the matter, and take action if necessary ? 
Yes. 
No. 
The  matter is already receiving attention with  a view  to the taking  of such  action as  may be deemed  to  be  necessary. 
.- I move - 
That the bill benow read a second time. 
This is a short measure framed to place Australian brewers in a similar position to those importing beers and stout. The Beer Excise Act of 1921-23 provides that no beer shall be removed from a brewery unless it is in vessels or in quart, pint or half-pint containers. Imported stout is done up in quarter-pint bottles known as " split nips " whereas under the Beer Excise Act Australian stout must be in bottles containing not less than one half-pint. The Australian brewers have asked that the Australian product be placed on a similar basis to imported stout. The amendment provides that stout . may be put up in quarter-pint bottles. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment. 
Report adopted. 
, -  I move - 
That the bill be now read  a second  time. 
This measure is to.' amend the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act in relation to goods which subsequent to being landed have had false trade descriptions attached to them. The existing law relates only to goods bearing a false trade de scription found in any package or covering, and the amendment is to cover all imported goods found in Australia which bear a false trade description and which, until the contrary is proved, will be deemed to have been imported in contravention of the act. By this means the department will be able to deal with persons who attach false trade descriptions to imported- goods which originally bore a proper trade description. The remaining amendments are of a machinery character and widen the scope of section15 of the principal act, which provides that sections 7 and 11 shall not apply to any goods other than articles of food, medicines, manures, apparel, jewellery, or seeds and plants - hrushware was added in 1926. We are now proposing to add to section 15 " or any other goods specified by proclamation." This will make that section more elastic and enable the department to administer the act more effectively. 
SenatorNEEDHAM (Western Australia) [11.12].  -  From a cursory glance the measure appears to be of a machinery nature to extend the provisions of the principal act and to afford greater protection in the matter of trade descriptions. TheMinister did not indicate if any offences of the kind mentioned by him have been discovered. 
 They are not offences as the law stands at present. 
As these amendments are to facilitate the adminis tration of the law, I offer no objection to the passage of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Bill read a second time. 

 In committee - 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause3 (Imported goods found in Australia with false trade descriptions). 
As this appears to be the most important clause in the bill, perhaps the Minister will give the committee more information concerning the proposed amendment 
.  - Section 8 of. the principal act deals with - 
All imported goods to which a trade description is by this Act or the regulations required to be applied and which are foundin 
Australia in any package or covering in which they were imported and- 
We have just eliminated under clause 2 the words " in any package or covering in which they were imported and " without the prescribed trade description shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been imported in contravention pf this Act or of the regulations as the case may be. 
The amendment will enable the Act to apply to any goods specified by proclamation. Let me cite a typical instance to illustrate the need for this amending mea sure. Cricket balls are imported from India without any trade description being applied to them, and immediately they are branded in such a way as to lead the public to believe that they have been made in Australia. It is to meet such contingencies that the proposed new paragraph has been inserted, so as to enable the main provisions of the act to be operative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I have no hesitation in saying that this bill is of far-reaching importance. It will, we may presume, for some considerable time determine the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. It is not my intention to traverse the history of the negotiations that led up to the agreement embodied in this measure. I dealt with that phase of the question fully when we were discussing a similar measure last year, and I am confident that honorable senators are all well aware of the detailed provisions of the agreement. Nor is it my intention to discuss the proposals in so far as they affect the States generally. I intend to confine my remarks almost entirely to the position of Western Australia under this agreement, or rather, to state my view of how it will affect the State which 
I assist to represent in this chamber. I may add that in dealing with the . bill I am stating only my own personal opinion. Whether we like it or not, Parliament has definitely decided to abolish the  per capita  payments to the States. Before I leave this phase of the proposal, I wish to quote a statement bearing on the general position made, by the late Lord Forrest on the 15th July, 1910. It is as follows :  - 1 make this statement in the full knowledge of its truth, that the reason that the States were willing to accept 25s. per head was that they were guaranteed that amount until the people should otherwise direct and that it did not depend on the chance vote of parliament. 
That was the well considered opinion of the late Lord Forrest concerning a matter that had been agitating the public for seventeen years. The opinion is as sound to-day as it was when first uttered. I believe that the people of Australia, if they had an opportunity to express their view, would desire a continuance of the  per capita  payments until such time as they gave Parliament a mandate to alter the arrangement. At the Premiers' Conference in 1926, the proposals submitted by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  were unanimously rejected, and following the publication of reports of that gathering, there was a strong wave of indignation throughout the Commonwealth. Leading public men and important sections of the press adversely criticized the scheme put forward by the right honorable the leader of this Government. In effect the arrangement then contemplated by the Government was to abolish the  per capita  payment of 25s. and in return the Commonwealth would evacuate certain fields of direct taxation. The effect of those proposals, if adopted, would have been to add considerably to the burdens of the several States. It would have been necessary for State Governments to increase taxation to make good the deficiency caused by the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments. Naturally, State Governments have no desire to adopt that course. They contend, and rightly so, that since they have" substantial commitments in the way of developmental public works within their territories, their financial resources should not be in any way impaired. Their responsibilities are daily increasing. This is particularly true of 
Queensland and Western Australia, and perhaps I may be pardoned if I say that it is especially true of Western Australia. I hope I shall not be charged with parochialism whenI say this. Itis common knowledge that Western Australia must carry through many big developmental works in the near future. The Government of that State has incurred already, and must continue to incur, heavy liabilities, to ensure the satisfactory development of vast new areas that are being opened up for settlement. The representatives of the States, realizing that, with the progress of time, their responsibilities would increase, unanimously rejected the proposals made by the Prime Minister in 1926, and as a result of pressure inside and outside Parliament the Ministry deemed it wise to submit other proposals. The agreement, which is attached as a schedule to the bill that we are now discussing, is the outcome of conferences held in June and July of last year. . It has been stated, and the statement is true, that all of the State Premiers have accepted this agreement and that certain of the State Parliaments have agreed to it. 
The State Premiers had no alternative. They put up a splendid fight but they realized that, if they could get nothing else, they would be obliged to accept the agreement. They endeavoured to get the best terms possible for the States, and I believe they succeeded. 
I do not know. They realized, as I stated, that they had to make the best of an awkward situation. The agreement, I admit, is much preferable to that which was formerly offered by the Commonwealth Government. The earlier proposals were not acceptable to either the Premiers or many members of this Parliament. But even this agreement will not ensure to the States complete financial justice in the shape of their fair share of the Commonwealth revenue. It will adversely affect Western Australia. The Commonwealth proposes to take over all the State debts existing at 30th June, 1927, and in the case of Western Australia will pay £473,432 towards the interest charges on the amount of debt taken over. That amount is equivalent to the  per capita  payment which was made to Western Australia for the financial year 1926-27. In addition, the Commonwealth proposesto create a sinking fund of 7s. 6d. per cent., to which it will contribute at the rate of 2s. 6d. per cent, and the State at the rate of 5s. per cent. A set of figures that I have analysed discloses that the net public debt of Western Australia at the 30th June, 1927, was £61,060,675. The following table shows the method by which that figure is arrived at, and includes also the figures relating to the six States of the Commonwealth :  - 

<graphic href="118332192803230_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  has stated that those contributions "will be continued for a period of 58 years, when it is expected that the debt will be extinguished ; and the bill makes provision in that direction. The next concession proposed by the Commonwealth is that on all new loans raised by the State, there shall be a sinking fund of 10s. per cent., to which the State will contribute at the rate of 5s. per cent, and the Commonwealth at, the rate of 5s. per cent. The remaining concession is that the Commonwealth will increase from 31/2 per cent, to 5 per cent, the rate of interest payable to the State on transferred property. The total additional amount which the whole of the States will receive by that means will be £163,865, of which Western Australia's share will be £11,047. I wish to show how, in the case of Western Australia, these concessions will compare with what that State would receive under the system of  per capita  payments. According to statistics that appear on page 182 of the budget for 1927-28, the population of Western Australia more than doubled itself during the period 1900 to 1926. The question of population is a vital one in a discussion of this nature. In 1900 the population of Western. Australia was 179,967, while in 1926 it was 378,746, an increase of 198,779. I may add that Western Australia is the only State which more than doubled its population during that period. The following table sets out the. estimated annual increase of population in the different States, from 1900 to 1926. 

<graphic href="118332192803230_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

The population of Western Australia increased at the rate of 2.91 per cent, per annum between 1900 and 1926, but in view of the rapid progress now being made by that State I think it may be safely assumed that the increase in the future will be at the rate of 3 per cent. That is the percentage increase on which' I propose to base my calculations. The  per capita  payment of 25s., on a population of 378,746, would amount to- £473,432, which is the flat rate that is to be contributed to the interest charge. In order to arrive at the payment which Western Australia would receive under the  per capita  system in the ensuing 58 years, it is necessary, to add 3 per cent, to the population at the end of each year. Perhaps I can. illustrate my contention more clearly by quoting the following table: - 

<graphic href="118332192803230_4_1.jpg"></graphic>

These figures have been worked out not only by me, but by others. Under the proposed agreement, Western Australia will receive only £27,459,056, and will thus suffer  a  loss of £46,553,439 in the next 58 years, as compared with the actual  per capita  payments. There is, however, a set-off against that figure; we must deduct the concessions that Western Australia will receive under the proposed agreement. In the . first place we must take into account the 2s. 6d. per cent, to be paid into sinking fund by the Commonwealth in respect of the old debt. There is also the 5s. per cent., which the Commonwealth proposes to pay on new debts. I admit that it is practically impossible to visualize what will be the State's requirements in the years that areahead. For calculation purposes I have taken from the finance bulletin the ' debt of Western Australia as at the 30th June in each year over a period. The average increase in the ten-year period, 1916-26, was £3,166,000, and in the fiveyear period, 1921-1926- which, I think isa fair period to take- £4,353,000.  I assume for the purposes of my calculation that £4,000,000 annually is approximately the amount that Western Australiawill require for at least some years to come. If the Commonwealth makes to the State a payment at the rate of 5s. per cent, on- that amount, its contribution to the sinking fund will be £10,000 per annum. Then there is the increase of 1-1/2 per cent, on transferred properties, which amounts to £11,047 per annum. In order to bring the whole of the computations together, I have prepared a statement which shows that under the old  per capita  system Western Australia would have received in the next 58 years approximately £74,000,000, estimating the increase of population at the rate of 3 per cent. The amount which it will receive in that period, under the proposed new agreement, is in respect of the fixed contribution to interest charges at the rate of £473,432 per annum, £27,459,056. There is also the amount of £76,326 per annum which will be paid by the Commonwealth to the sinking fund at the rate of 2s. 6d. per cent, to liquidate the present net debt with, and this for a period of 58 years, will total some £4,426,908. 
On the old basis, with a three per cent, increase of population Western Australia would receive £74,000,000 during a period of 58 years. I was stating the amount which that State will receive under the new agreement. In addition to the £4,426,908 to be paid to the sinking fund, Western Australia will receive an increase of11/2 per cent, on the interest paid on the value of the transferred . properties. This, which is set down at £11,047 per annum will mean, in respect of the period of 58 years, an additional £640,726. Further there is the 5s. per cent, which the Commonwealth will pay into a sinking fund in respect of all new loans 'which, assuming that Western Australia borrows £4,000,000 per annum, will amount in the first year to £10,000; in the second year, with the raising of an additional £4,000,000, it would amount to £20,000, and so on. Over the full period of 58 years the Commonwealth would thus pay into the sink ing fund in respect of new loans raised by Western Australia, approximately £17,000,000. From these figures it will be seen that at the end of the 58 years my State will be £25,000,000 worse off under this agreement than she would be if the  per capita  payments were continued. 
I am not now expressing the Labour party's policy, but am giving my own opinion of the effect of this agreement on Western Australia. 
There is no foundation for that statement. 
I desire to say a word with regard to the Loan Council. I have always been in favour of a Loan Council and am glad that now all the States are represented on it. It is better to have one borrower in the money market than seven. 
Occasions may arise when it will be necessary to have more than one borrower in the market at the same time, but generally that will not be the case. I move - 
That all the words after "That" be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " the Bill, involving as it does an alteration of the Constitution, be postponed until Parliament has had an opportunity to discuss a comprehensive scheme of constitutional reform including the evidence taken before the royal commission now sitting and its proposals when made." 
The " Constitution Royal Commission is taking voluminous evidence in each of the capital cities from representatives of every section of the community - commercial,industrial, social, legal and otherwise. Seeing that it is proposed at the next election to ask' the electors to empower this Parliament to make agreements, and to ratify this agreement, it would be wise to wait until the Commission's report has been presented to Parliament. In my opinion the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States should have been one of the  first things dealt with by the Commission. Indeed the importance of the question warrants an interim report. Honorable senators may ask what we should do in the meantime, because, obviously, with a large proportion of their financial supplies cut off, the States could not be left waiting until a determination was arrived at. It has not been suggested that any difficulty will be occasioned by waiting until the next election for the ratification of this agreement. In that case, we should wait a little longer until the Constitution Commission has presented its report. I trust that the Senate will agree to the amendment. 
I do not propose to discuss this subject at length. Nor do I intend to deal wit-h  Senator Needham's  abstruse calculations as to the ultimate effect of this agreement on Western Australia. The future is so uncertain that it is impossible to say now what difference the agreement will make to any State at the end of 5S years. 
The Government is to be complimented upon having arrived at such a satisfactory solution of the difficult question of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. My only regret is that they did not act earlier along similar lines. The trouble which arose was caused by the proposals originally put forward by the Government. So far as I was concerned, my criticism was against the method rather than the objective. I have always been willing to allow this question to be settled on the basis of an adjustment of the State debts, and before this arrangement was proposed I informed the Government accordingly. 
In considering this bill we must remember that the agreement has yet to be ratified by the new Parliament which has to be elected and also by the electors. Seeing that several of the State Parliaments have ratified the agreement, believing that it offers the best possible solution of a difficult problem, it is probable that the electors also will accept it. I am not in entire accord with the agreement - in some directions I should like to see it altered - but that is no reason why I should not vote for the bill. The State Governments have accepted the agreement and this Parliament must either accept it or reject it as a whole. 
The agreement appears to assume that in the future the Commonwealth will be the sole borrower. I am aware that it actually provides otherwise. I am also, conscious that there is a very general belief that the credit of the Commonwealth in the world's money market is greater, than that of the individual States, and that consequently for the Commonwealth to..do the borrowing for the whole of Australia's requirements would represent a saving. I think that is a misconception. One would naturally suppose that the securities of the Commonwealth would be regarded by the overseas lender of money as better than those of any individual State, but the ways of the money market of the world are very weird. I had before me the other day a set of figures which gave the value in London on a certain date of all the securities issued by various bodies in Australia - the Commonwealth, the States, and local governing bodies, including such semi-government instrumentalities as water and sewerage boards. The figures were calculated on a common basis with the whole of the interest payable eliminated and it will surprise honorable senators to learn that Tasmanian State bonds stood at par on the London market, and, if my memory serves me rightly, were 15s. per cent, above any other Australian security. The Tasmanian loan was 25s. above the highest priced Commonwealth security and 30s. above that of any security of New South Wales. The investor on the other side of the world Joes not like to have all his eggs in one brisket. The tendency is for him to spread his investments, and just as supply and demand fix the value of everything else, so does the value of any security depend upon the demand for it. On the date covered by the figures I have mentioned, there was a surplusage of Commonwealth securities on the London market - I think they stood third on the list - but there was not sufficient to meet the demand for the Tasmanian security. 
-There is not  much  of it, but it is in demand. The same conditions apply to certain State and municipal securities and to other stocks, particularly those in which trust funds can be invested. If we prevent the various States and local governing bodies and semi-government instrumentalities from going on the London Market, and borrowing in their own names, we shall find still greater difficulty in floating loans in London than w,e are experiencing at the present time because the London market will become .glutted with Commonwealth stock. "We know that at the present moment the position of Commonwealth securities on the London market is not too happy. "When we find that 75 per cent, of a 5 per cent. Commonwealth loan issued at £98 is left in the hands of the underwriters it shows that the demand for our securities is for the moment at any rate oversupplied. It is quite evident that we can feed the London market with too much of one class of stock and I think that the provision in the agreement with the States under which, with the unanimous consent of the members of the Loan Council, the States may borrow in their individual names, should be utilized to the greatest possible extent. In that way I think we shall get the best results out of the money market overseas. If the Commonwealth had not borrowed -quite so much in its own name and had allowed the States to borrow more in their own names, I am sure Commonwealth securities would be at a higher level than they are at the present time. The right course to follow is for the Commonwealth to raise its own loans and for the States to raise loans in their own names. I have not a word to say against the arrangement that is embodied in the agreement under which the Loan Council is now to be regularized in the legislation of the country. Honorable senators are aware that the Loan Council, as we know it today, had its genesis in the war period. The State Treasurers were then called together from time to time  by  the Treasurer of the Commonwealth, the moneys required by the various States were, as far- as .possible, policed by the general body, and limitations were placed upon the borrowing activities of the States. That was a necessity which arose out of the, war and the Commonwealth Treasurers, during that period, took the lead in the arrangement thus made. The Loan Council which we have to-day is  the natural outcome of that arrangement. It started during the war and has not ceased to function, because ever since the war, of course, the financing of the Commonwealth and the States has become more and more difficult. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  on having continued that arrangement, and on having brought it to the stage of having it embodied in this agreement. It is certainly to the advantage of all concerned that the demands of Australia on the money market of the world should be limited, and that each Australian Treasurer should know when a fellow Treasurer is about to float a loan. It has been necessary for Australia to go on the American money market, but I am not satisfied that we have adopted the best method of handling that market. I am aware that the Government has obtained what is considered expert advice on the matter, and we have commenced borrowing in New York on the assumption that it is quite right to follow exactly the lines we have hitherto followed with great success in London. But I do not share that view, because the conditions under which the money market is operated in New York are entirely different from those to which we have been accustomed in London. However, we can only leave it to the future to decide whether the present method should be continued in New York, or whether it will be necessary to adopt other methods to meet the entirely different conditions which operate there. 
It is a great pity that when the Government originally decided to take the step of perpetuating payments by the Commonwealth to the States, it did not definitely announce that it would probably do so. by taking over so much of the State debts under the provisions of the Constitution which ' contemplated such a step. The Constitution does not make full provision for the procedure which the Government has now chosen to adopt, and it will be necessary to alter it to give effect to the principle which is contained in this bill. But the Senate, particularly in its capacity as the guardian of the rights of the States, can have every confidence in endorsing the lines upon which this question has been settled between the Commonwealth and  the States, because they are directly in accordance with those sections of the Constitution which provide for the Commonwealth ultimately accepting some of the liability for the State debts, and because in that way the Commonwealth is making a true contribution to the growing needs of the States. 
.- A great deal of bitterness was felt in Queensland in the early stages of the negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States when it was thought that the Commonwealth intended to throw upon the States the onus of collecting through income taxation the amount of revenue that it would lose by the abolition of the  per capita  payments. But the people of Queensland were not so much disturbed because of the proposals of the Commonwealth itself. They realized that for the previous ten or twelve years they had been heavily overtaxed and they felt that if the Commonwealth Government abandoned the field of direct taxation mid handed it over to the State Government, the taxation would be imposed by the State in an inequitable way, just as it bacl been in the immediate past, and that considerably more would be extracted from the taxpayers than was actually needed to compensate the State for the loss of the  per capita  payments. That was the main objection of a large section of the people of Queensland to the original proposals brought forward by the Commonwealth Government. 
The honorable senator knows quite well that what he says is theoretically correct. 
The electors of Queensland are the victims' of one of the biggest swindles which has ever been perpetrated in the political life of Australia. Even if those opposed to State Labour rule secure a majority of the votes cast, they are prevented from securing a majority of the seats owing to the unfair redistribution. That is the reason why such a strong feeling exists in that State. They have been swindled out of their rights. 
Although those opposed to the present administration have polled a majority of the votes, they have not had an opportunity to unseat the present government. 
Yes'. That is why a majority of the people of Queensland regard the Commonwealth Government as their only arm of defence, and the only source from which they can get justice under present conditions. When the Government stated that they proposed to dispense with the  per capita  payment, and to make available to the States certain fields of taxation in which the Commonwealth was operating, the States thought that they were not getting a fair deal. That is why the Queensland Chamber of Commerce and other influential organizations waged such a bitter' campaign against the original proposals of the Government. The agreement now under consideration has been signed by the Commonwealth Government and the Governments of the six States, and has also been ratified by four of the State Parliaments. 1 believe that a majority of the people in Queensland are satisfied with the Government's proposals, and are gratified to learn that the agreement is likely to be ratified by all parties. The proposal for a readjustment of Commonwealth' and State finances is not of recent origin; the problem has been a nightmare to Commonwealth and State treasurers ever since the financial operations of the Commonwealth reached any magnitude. After nearly 28 years' experience of other systems, we can say that this agreement will have the effect of overcoming practically all the difficulties in this regard with which the Commonwealth and States have been confronted for many years. It is a tribute to the present Commonwealth Government that such an arrangement should have been reached. I do not blame the State Governments for declining to offer suggestions at the first conference. It was only natural that they should wish to retain the  per capita  system under which they received moneys 'which they did not raise. They were able to spend that money as they liked, 'and, to use a colloquialism, would have" been "mugs" if they had  given  up their claims to it without putting up a strong fight. When the 
Government decided to simplify the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States they had to definitely dispense with the  per capita  payments. The fact that this agreement has been entered into will have a very beneficial effect upon the credit of the Commonwealth arid of the States, and will assist them considerably in many of their  financial transactions overseas. When the agreement was adopted, many/ of the leading financial newspapers in Great Britain expressed pleasure at the prospect of Australia's finances being placed on a much sounder basis, and provision being made for our debts to be redeemed within a specified period. During the last twelve or thirteen years the taxpayers in Queensland have been wondering what the future has in store for them. They have been alarmed at the unrestricted borrowing which has been carried on by the Government without any attempt to establish a sinking fund to provide for the redemption of the debt within a certain period. Many loans on falling due have been converted at higher rates involving expenditure greater than the taxpayers should be asked to bear. Under the re-constituted Australian Loan Council, each State will have an interest in the borrowing policy of the Commonwealth and the other States. In the past the Commonwealth Government and two or three of the State Governments have been on the London money market at the same time. In one instance when South Australia and Queensland were anxious to obtain a fairly substantial loan, there was almost indecent competition between the two States. Tinder this agreement the Australian Loan Council will function on behalf of the - Commonwealth and the States, and their representatives on the Loan Council will, in a sense, be financial partners. Prior to New South Wales being represented on the Loan Council, that State raised a loan on which the flotation expenses and interest charges for the first year amounted to thousands of pounds more than they need have done. That was due largely to the fact that  Mr. Lang,  who was then Premier of New South Wales, declined to be associated with the Loan Council. The terms tinder which that loan 

 Senator 
 Foll. was obtained were so disadvantageous to the State that even  Mr. Lang  eventually decided that his Government should be represented on the council. This was on the eve of the New South Wales election. It must be satisfactory to the Commonwealth and State Governments and also to the people to realize that in all future borrowing, the Commonwealth and the States will be acting in unison, instead of competing against each other. Every credit is due to those responsible for the establishment of an Australian Loan Council. A few years ago almost unlimited amounts of money were available to borrowers, but that is not the position ta-day.  Mr. McCormack,  the Labour Premier of Queensland, on his " return from Great Britain a few months ago, sounded a wise note of warning when he said that Australia should call a halt in borrowing, and that in future the same amount of loan money would not be available. That is interesting, coming as it does from- one who for years has spent freely from the public purse, and who was a member of the State Government led by the honorable member for Dalley  (Mr. Theodore),  who was responsible for the most reckless financing that Queensland has ever experienced. In saying that overseas borrowing should be curtailed I do noi suggest that Australia's credit has been impaired. This agreement is a satisfactory solution of the problem that was unsolved by the original proposals. Under this arrangement the Commonwealth and State Governments are working in a partnership for the purpose of stabilizing the finances of Australia generally, instead of the States as formerly competing one against the other for any loan  moneys that might be available. I believe that this agreement will do much to create a truer spirit of federation and a better feeling between the Commonwealth and the States than has existed up to the present. 
I fail to see how it will do that. I believe that a continuance of the disagreements which previously existed between the Commonwealth and the States would have hastened unification. Harmonious relationships such as now exist and which we hope will continue, will not do that. I feel sure that  Senator Thomas,  whether or not he now believes in unification - I understand that at one time he did - is, like myself, gratified that the unfortunate tangle of Commonwealth and State finances has been reasonably straightened out by the agreement, and, therefore, that he will support the bill, believing that it will do much to place the financial relations of the Commonwealth and States on a more satisfactory footing. 
The financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States was one of the most controversial questions that was discussed by the delegates at the several federal conventions. It occupied a great deal of time and very nearly destroyed the proposal to bring about Federation. The delegates could come to no agreement, but eventually, as honorable senators know, a compromise was adopted under which the States were to receive threefourths of the customs revenue and the Commonwealth the remaining one-fourth. 
I was about to say that the compromise was agreed to at a meeting of Premiers held in Sydney. It was decided that the arrangement should stand for ten years. At the termination of that period the  per capita  payments were substituted, and from that time until this agreement was made the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States continued to be a vexed problem. The capitation payments were neverregarded as a permanent settlement of the difficulty. I supported the attitude taken up by the Government of New South Wales at that time. I held that the allocation to the States by the Commonwealth Government of a considerable portion of the customs revenue would always necessitate the imposition of high protective duties. In those days New South Wales was looked upon as a freetrade State. As one who believes in lower customs duties, I can see that if the Commonwealth Government is obliged to make capitation payments to the States, a policy of high protection is inevitable. Personally, therefore, and from that aspect alone, I am pleased that the  per capita  payments have been withdrawn. How does this proposal compare with that submitted by the Government some time ago. The Government took up the attitude that the  per capita  payments must cease. I was in complete agreement with the Ministry on that point, as also were a number of other honorable senators; but my objection then was that the Government did not indicate what it proposed to substitute for the payments. In the first place the Ministry suggested that the Commonwealth might evacuate certain fields of taxation. That proposal, I believe, was in the nature of a feeler put out by the Government to test public opinion. If it had been accepted it would have crippled the finances of my State at all events, and certainly it would have brought aboutunification, which was the objective of the Treasurer some time ago. 
-- -If the Government's earlier proposals had been adopted they would have had a serious effect upon the finances of several of the States. However, the Government abandoned them, and introduced a bill to abolish the  per capita  payments without informing members of this Parliament what financial arrangements would be substituted for them. The Government's scheme was strenuously opposed in another place as well as in this chamber and at one time the Ministry was faced with a crisis. Although  Senator .  Foll just now commended ministers for having introduced those proposals there is not the slightest doubt that this new agreement is the result of pressure that was brought to bear upon the Government by members of the Senate and another place. 
I do not agree with the Minister. Parliament indicated clearly that if the  per capita  payments were withdrawn the Government would have to substitute some other arrangement to assist the 'States. As a matter of fact.  Senator Kingsmill  submitted an amendment to provide for that. 
I asked the Minister repeatedly if the Government had in mind any other proposal and was informed that the Government would consider the question of taking over the State debts. 
At all events the Minister's reply to questions in this chamber left some doubt in the minds of honor able senators as to the Government's intention. 
That might have been considered a matter of policy. This new agreement certainly  is a vast improvement on the original proposal. The discussions at the conventions indicated that the framers of the Constitution considered that some such proposal as this should be adopted, and in section 105 of the Constitution empowers the Commonwealth Government to take over the State debts existing at the time of federation. In 1912 the people gave the Government extended powers to take over nil or any portion of the State debts. As a supporter of the Constitution 'and a believer- in federation I have always urged that the Commonwealth should take over the State debts in substitution for the  per capita  payments. I am afraid that if the opportunity came again to vote for federation my advice to  the electors  would be some what different from what it was at the first appeal to the people. ' 
Because federation has not worked out as well as was expected for some of the smaller States. In the course of the debate the other day an honorable senator asked, by-way of interjection, why the Commonwealth should assume responsibility for debts contracted by the States. One reason is that but for the developmental work undertaken by the States in the construction of roads, railways, harbour improvements, in respect of education and in the discharge of many other functions of government, federation would not have been possible. Thu Commonwealth could not exist without prosperous States. I am afraid that our present prosperity is somewhat superficial because the raising of enormous revenues through the customs leads to governmental extravagance. I believe that there is a time of trouble ahead for us unless we curtail our present lavish expenditure; unless we limit our borrowing abroad; unless we stand up to our obligations and work harder. However, that is another matter. I think I have shown why the Commonwealth Government should assume responsibility for debts contracted by the States. 
-That is true, though I do not know that we can establish the case on the moral responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. 
I do' not think that we could, if there were danger of that happening. I wish briefly to point to  the advantages of the agreement embodied in this bill. In the first place it gives to the States some guarantee of financial permanency. It is not altogether a permanent solution of their difficulties, but I shall deal with that later. It will, as I have said, give to the States some guarantee that they will receive a certain fixed sum annually. 
Under the original scheme the Commonwealth proposed to evacuate certain fields of taxation. That would have left the States in a position of uncertainty. They would not havebeen able to budget with any confidence because they would not have known where their revenues were coming from. Under this agreement there is at least some basis of permanency and a guarantee of what the States will receive. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.15to2.45 p.m. 

Another reason why I welcome this arangement is that I realize the evils of unrestricted public borrowing. If governments like the Queensland Government and other Labour administrations, who have deserted their old ideals and have become the most extreme borrowers in the Commonwealth, can be thrust from office or converted to a less extravagant policy, limitations may be placed upon public borrowing both at home and abroad. Every thinking man must admit that we are drifting into extravagant expenditure. The public debt of the Commonwealth and the States exceeds £1,000,000,000. As it grows our interest bill increases and taxation soars. The 6,000,000 people who live in Australia pay annually £78,000,000 by way of Federal and State taxation, and revenue from that source is increasing year by year. The total Commonwealth and State taxation is something over £13 per head of the population. Of that £78,000,000 two-thirds, or £50,000,000, are utilized in the payment of interest. We cannot continue along those lines. Therefore, I welcome this proposal, one of the chief features of which is the limitation of public borrowing. 
We have to base our calculations on the capacity of the people to pay taxation; when that is exhausted our assets will not help us. A stronger reason for my approval of this proposal is that under it a sinking fund is to be established for the extinction of existing debts in a certain number of years. New South Wales has borrowed a huge amount, but has made no provision for its redemption by way of a sinking fund. Western Australia has established a considerable sinking fund and at the same time its taxation is lower than that of any other State in the Commonwealth. Although Tasmania has been reproached on many counts, she makes  per capita  as large a contribution to a sinking fund as even Western Australia, and in additionto having built up an appreciable fund has [wiped off a large portion of her liability. This proposal establishes the principle ..that all States must contribute to a sinking fund. That will be a very great advantage, and on that account alone every honorable senator should welcome it with open arms. It would not be altogether correct to say that.it is a permanent solution of our financial troubles, although I admit that it is a fairly satisfactory one. It . is not quite permanent because smaller States like Western Australia and Tasmania will need to receive special federal allowances from time to time. Western Australia, with its big area and the possibility of an extension of its wheat industry, may eventually be able to make herself independent of assistance other than that provided for under this proposal. But for very many years Tasmania will not be in a position to dispense with additional Commonwealth assistance, for reasons that are obvious. I do not think any opposition will be offered to the bill, even by labour senators. 
SenatorReid. - An amendment has been moved to postpone the secondreading of the bill. 
That cannot be regarded as opposition to the measure. I do not think that the Labour party objects in anyway to the proposal. That is evident from the fact that the agreement contains the signature of four labour Premiers. 
The fact remains that they have accepted it. This is the best arrangement that could possibly be made. I congratulate the Government, with the reservationthat this action was practically forced from them.. The proposal contained in the bill represents a triumph for representative government. We forced the Government to do what the framers of the Constitution intended should be done, and what the Constitution itself provided for. I believe that in the future there will be less friction among the States and that eventually the Commonwealth Government will be able to so raise our credit abroad so that when  Ave  have to borrow we shall be able to do so on satisfactory terms. I trust, however, that a halt will be called to public borrowing, because the burden is becoming almost too heavy to bear and is the cause of many of our economic troubles. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  that the further consideration of the bill should be postponed. Before its introduction a vote- of the people ought first to have been taken. If the people had agreed to the proposal, the Government could have proceeded with the measure with the assurance that it would become a permanent arrangement when it had been passed by both  Houses. As it is, there is nothing to prevent the people from rejecting the proposal. If they do, all our trouble will have been in vain ; because in such an event this legislation cannot become operative and the Government will have to find some other means of making payments to the different States. I think it was the late  Sir Alfred  Deakin who said - 
Federal Government might 'be, and in my opinion ought to be, introduced with a guarantee to each colony of the return to it of the sums it at present receives from the sources which the Federal Government takes over - of course, deducting the cost of the departments which the provisional Governments at present pay in order to obtain the revenue: and I would make the guarantee obtain not for five or twenty years, but for all time. The States have not been given back anything like the amount that has been taken from them. 
Under this proposal the States will not receive the amount that should be given to them. Seemingly, the agreement will remain in force for a period of 58 years. In that time Victoria would receive  under  the  per capita  system £190,000,000, whereas under the  agreement  it will receive only £123,000,000, a- loss of £67,000,000, Queensland would receive under the  par capita  system, £132,000,000, but under  the  proposed system will re ceive only £64,000,000, a loss  m  £68,000,000. South Australia under the old system would receive £72,000,000, but now will receive only £41,000,000. Under the old system Western Australia would have received £73,000,000, but under this agreement only £27,000,000 will be paid to that State. That represents a loss of £46,000,000. The payments to Tasmania under this agreement will be £15,500,000, as against £20,000,000 under the old system. Under this agreement the States  will lose between £400,000,000 and £500,000,000 during the next 5S years. Speaking in the South Australian Parliament, the  Hon.  L. L. Hill, Leader of the Opposition, in support of his statement that customs and excise revenue is continually increasing, gave the following figures: - 
Revenue collected in South Australia - Customs and Excise (actual) 1919-20, £1,157,057; 1920-21, £2.460,106; 1921-22, £2,221,284; 1922-23, £2,806,638; 1923-24, £3,196,314; 1924-25, £3,031,543; 1925-26, £3,902,626. 
From those amounts South Australia received the following amounts as  per capita  payments: -  Per capita  payment (actual) 1919-20, £578,094; 1920-21, £588,603; 1921-22, £621,862; 1922-23, £635.833; 1923-24, £650,453; 1924-25, £068,084; 1925-26, £684,932. 

 Senator Sir George Pearce. From what publication are those figures taken ? 
I am quoting from the South Australian  Hansard  of 20th December, 1927. If the Commonwealth Government had desired to treat the States fairly, it would have- paid them according to the figures I have quoted. Under this agreement the States will receive the same flat rate each year, al though there is every indication that the amounts received as customs and excise duties will increase. 
Perhaps it should ; but it does not. A period of 58 years is a long time for which to bind any people. Before the expiration of that period some better arrangement may be evolved; but difficulty will be experienced in altering this agreement. Provision should be made for an alteration should the States desire it. Notwithstanding its defects, this bill is an improvement on the one  Ave  had before us previously, but, in my opinion, the States  should have been consulted before the Commonwealth took the action it has taken, 
The State Parliaments may have done so; but they may not correctly represent public opinion. The fairest way would have been to consult the people. 
That is so; but I still maintain that the cart is being put before the horse. The  per capita  payments should have been continued until the people had been consulted. The Government could then have gone ahead knowing that, it had the approval of the people. 
I do not think so; but even if it were, time brings many changes. In any case, the people are superior to any party or parliament. They should be consulted. The bill contains one redeeming feature, in that it consolidates our borrowing. Instead of the several States going on the market perhaps at the same time, there will in future be one borrowing authority. I am glad that the New South Wales Government has decided to join the Loan Council. To the extent that it provides for uniformity of action and prevents overlapping and competition, the bill is an improvement on the Government's original proposal, but something more is necessary. I therefore hope that the Senate will agree to the amendment. 
 I feel that in opposing the second reading of the Financial Agreement Bill I am adopting an attitude which, judging by the vote just taken, is unpopular in this chamber. But I am not in the least dimayed because now, as previously, majorities do not get  any slavish respect from me. Majorities are not always right. In the past they have done a great many foolish things that the well-balanced judgment of to-day universally condemns. It was at the will of the majority that hemlock was handed to Socrates. The first judicial murder committed in the world was endorsed by a majority - it was a majority which said, "Away with Him." Another majority persecuted the Christians and sent them to the catacombs. Later on majorities caused the Christians to persecute one another. Even to-day things that are obviously wrong are often upheld and maintained by majorities. I say, therefore, that although there is an array of honorable senators supporting this bill it does not prevent me from saying that a majority has no right to deprive posterity of what is due to it. In this case I am appearing for posterity. 
In considering the question before the Senate, it is just as well first of all to define this chamber's position in the drama that is unfolding and to specify its right and obligations. Its duty, as we know, is to see that the interests of the States are safeguarded. Thatis its  raison d'etre.  We should not be here but for the need to preserve the interests of the States, and once those interests are determined, it is our responsibility to see that they are carefully and jealously safeguarded. The standing and reputation of the chamber suffer somewhat at the hands of not only the unthinking section of the public but also some of .its friends. The chamber is very often referred to in frivolous if not disrespectful terms by persons who are prompted by two motives; one because their party or interests are not represented here, and the other because the Senate is too democratic for them. In the early days of the framing of the Constitution the Labour party looked to the creation of a Senate because they thought that it would be a bulwark of democracy. The self-same party to-day, because it finds itself in a hopeless minority here, has, as an integral part of its platform, a proposal to abolish the Senate. The other element that" seeks to bring this chamber into disfavour is the Tory or reactionary section of the community, which finds no representation here, and has its champion in. the Melbourne  Age,  that reactionary journal which, at different periods of the same month, finds itself at opposite points of the compass on most questions. I am dwelling upon the rights and standing of the Senate to bring .home to honorable senators the seriousness of- the question we are discussing today and in the hope that even at this eleventh hour, an agreement may be made with the States which will he more equitable to them than this. The Senate is even more firmly established than the British House of Commons. It springs from the loins of the people of the country without any hindrance to the expression of their views. It is at once a child and instrument of democracy. It is the first chamber of its kind in any English speaking nation, "broad based upon the people's will." It stands on a high and pre-eminent level that can only be reached by a legislature brought into being by the popular will for the purpose of administering to the popular welfare. It is not a House of privilege. That is why it is not liked by one section of the community. Nor is it a House of political sections, factions, or cliques. That 5 s why it is not like another section of the community. Its purpose is to register the will of the people, as spontaneously expressed at the polls, and, despite what its critics may say, it will remain in existence as long as the federation lasts. I prophesy that the federation will be wiped out the day after the Senate is wiped out. Its duty is to hold the scales evenly: to see that the interests of each State are preserved, that each State gets fair play among its fellows, and that the States as a whole receive fair play as between them and the central government. 
We are now asked to endorse an agreement arrived at between the Commonwealth Government and the several States. But were the representatives of those States free agents when they entered into this agreement with the Commonwealth Government? Were they free to accept or reject it? Did they enter the conference as free men ? No ; they entered it as a body of men with only one course open to them : that was to accept the agreement. Knowing that such was the case, how are we to regard a compact which was brought about by duress or tyranny; because undoubtedly it was a tyrannical act on the part of the Commonwealth Government to force the States to accept this agreement without an alternative? On his return to Western Australia, the Premier of that State placed on record the fact that he had no option but to accept- it.  Mr. Forgan  Smith, of Queensland, and  Mr. Lang,  of New South Wales, said practically the same, and at the conference itself  Mr. Lyons,  of Tasmania, quoting with approval  Mr. Lang,  said that the Premiers of the States had no option but to accept the agreement holus bolus. We know that that is true. The Commonwealth Parliament having passed a bill to abolish the  per capita  payment, had stripped the States of any right or title to anything in the shape of money from the Federal Treasury, and the St.atcs when they came to that conference could do nothing but raise a hollow protest and accept the agreement placed before them. When one party to a bargain is compelled to accept it, we must admit that it has not been entered into as would an agreement which conferred equal privileges and rights. Aristotle has said that there is no such thing as right between combatants who are unequal. Bight applies only when  combatants are equal. "When they are unequal, as in this case, it stands to reason that the elements of justice and right are absent. The party in a position to enforce its will has all the say and all its way. It is clear as the noonday sun that the effect of a bargain entered into in such circumstances must be in favour of the party that can dictate the terms and not in the interest of the party that is hound to accept them. I cannot be led to believe that the States have entered into this agreement freely. The witnesses I call to prove the contrary are the actors in the drama, the various Premiers of the States. And when it is said by Commonwealth Ministers that this agreement- has been signed by So-and-so and Suchandsuch, their statement has to be qualified by the admission that the document was signed tinder compulsion - that the Premiers had to sign it or get nothing, or, at any rate, terms which were likely to be less favorable. It is about time we cast a searching eye on this agreement before calling it a bargain entered into fairly and squarely between two agents. As a matter of fact, it is not entitled to be so described. It is a one-sided bargain dictated by a strong central government, and a bargain which six weak State Governments have had no option but to accept. Can we say that these six State Premiers were free agents? We know that they were not; and we must admit that the agreement brought into this bill cannot be regarded as fin arrangement that has about it anything of the nature of even primitive justice. 
Having called attention to the' nature of the agreement and the arrangements which led up to the signing of it, I want now to say something about the effect it is likely to have. But before doing so, let me clear away some of the misapprehension which has been created in the public mind regarding it. The first Minister of this country said, among other things, that the chief reason why this agreement was entered into was because the central Government wanted to safeguard the interests of the States. The Prime Minister made it quite clear that he abandoned the role of spokesman for the central Government and became, for the time being, spokesman and con server of the interests of the six States. The Prime Minister said that he considered that the interests of the States had to be conserved. Cannot that duty be left to the people charged with it? I grant that it was a useful and skilful argument, used in the endeavour to abate hostility and opposition. The Prime Minister endeavoured to make people believe that he was adopting a chivalrous role by going out to fight the battle of the States. He said further, as a subsidiary reason 'for sustaining this agreement which was forced upon the States under duress, that a chance majority of a political party of a special complexion might spring into existence in Australia and, by a kind of villainous marauding instinct, inaugurate a public policy that would empty the coffers of the Commonwealth Treasury and leave nothing for the States. A fine bogy indeed! I re- ' mind the Prime Minister that the electors of the country would not be inactive if that were attempted. They would not countenance such actions. That is my answer to the right honorable gentleman's bogy. 
The States were treated with but scant courtesy at the conference held in Melbourne, when they claimed that they had a moral right to a continuance of the  per capita  payments. The Prime Minister denied their claim. In the past those payments had been made to the States freely, as an act of common equity. I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether, if the States had not a moral right,- they had not a legal right to the  per capita  payments? Of course they had, and we know that there is no higher warrant for the establishing of a legal right than making it spring from a moral foundation. And as these payments were made for years in virtue of a legal and moral basic right, time cannot alter the nature of that right. 
The  per capita  payments would not have been made to the States had they not a moral and a legal right to them, and it is merely a paltry quibble to claim now that no moral right exists. I fail to see why those payments should terminate suddenly merely because the Prime Minister suggests that that moral right is non-existent. With all respect, I differ from the Prime Minister on that point. The whole scene regarding the  financial  relations between the States and the Commonwealth has been so kaleidoscopic that it is very difficult to know exactly where we stand. For the last 25 years the central Government and the States have been at loggerheads over financial matters. As school boys, when we were all political neophytes, we were told that "finance is government, and government is finance." If that is so the central Government is the best government in the world. It is certainly the " boss  cockie"  in financial matters. The future holds an extremely sorry outlook for the States ; very little finance promises to come their way. Year after year the central Government has experienced accumulated surpluses while, on the contrary, the States have experienced accumulated deficits. It is about time that we endeavoured to bring about an equitable position by allowing the States to show surpluses instead of deficits, the Commonwealth, if necessary, to have a deficit by way of a change. At each of the conferences held in 1910, 1915, and onwards, the Commonwealth got the best of things. From the time when the States got three-quarters of the customs revenue as a constitutional right, to the time when as under this agreement they will get but a contemptible dole, is but a single span of life. Was this intended by the founders of federation? That is plainly disclosed by the figures now before us. But it will be some time before the worst is experienced by the States, and that is the deceiving feature of this agreement. When a man or a State becomes of necessity an object of patronage, he is in a sorry plight. That is the position of the States. Year after year they have been unable to pay their way. Croesus, the Commonwealth Government, has strangled their financial aspirations. Also, it has attracted to its service the best public officers in Australia. Honorable members will admit that, periodically, the pick of the public servants in each State gravitate to the central Government, attracted by the possibilities offered by service, with the " rich man," who might reward them even beyond their merits. It is practically an un- heard-of thing for a Commonwealth servant to revert to the State service. That is a simple illustration of how the Commonwealth Government always has the best end of the stick; in fact, the whole stick to itself. 
We are told that this agreement commences with the payment to the States of £7,584,912 annually towards meeting interest on State debts. An amount of 2s. 6d. per £100 is to be paid by the Commonwealth, and 5s. per £100 by the States to a sinking fund for the whole of the existing State debts, and by that means it is hoped to' wipe out the State debts in 58 years. The generation which will follow us will have no capitation grant, and will find that all payments from the Commonwealth to the States will promptly cease after the term of 58 years expires. I may be informed that it will secure other advantages. It will; but what will they be? 
Even if the Commonwealth did not take a hand in their extinction by enforcing this agreement, it is probable that, by other means, there would be no State debts at the end of 58 years.  Senator Andrew  knows that it is as broad as it is long. It matters not whether the Commonwealth pays the money direct to the bondholders or whether it hands.it over to the States, which, in turn, will pay it to the bondholders. The point 
I wish to emphasize- is that, while this agreement is claimed to be a step in the right direction, that is to say, that it is a proposal to deal fairly and even generously with the States, actually the opposite will be the case. Posterity, as I have shown, will not enjoy either, fair dealing or generosity. The State governments, eventually, will receive next to nothing from the Federal Government. Such a state of affairs as that was not contemplated when federation was consummated. What would have happened if a man, posing as a keen-eyed prophe*t, had said to the people 28 years ago, " The time will come when the States will not be in the enjoyment of 75 per cent, of the customs revenue, and later a time will come when the  per capita  payments of 25s., which will have been substituted, will be abolished altogether. Still later a time  will come when the States will get nothing but a poverty-stricken dole from the Federal Treasury." If that position had been put to the people prior to federation, and if the majority could have been made to realize that events would so shape themselves as to justify the prophecy, is it likely that they would have voted for federation" Is it not morally certain that they would have rejected the Federal scheme in its entirety? If that is so, and who can deny it,  WhY  should we trade upon the gullibility and credulity of the people of that day? At the inception of federation they believed that the States would never be deprived of payments from- the Federal Treasury to the extent now contemplated in this agreement. Unfortunately the States have been stripped of their financial strength to such an extent that only the bare bone is left, and that is hardly worth while flinging to a dog. All the assistance which they can expect in the future from the Commonwealth will be in respect of re-payments on borrowed moneys. In the course of time - the period is specifically set out in this agreement - they will be stripped of every vestige of financial rights from the Commonwealth Government which they have enjoyed hitherto, and which they honestly believed would be secured to them for all time. Solemn declarations to this effect were made by the late Lord Forrest, the late  Sir George  Turner, and other responsible Ministers in previous Commonwealth governments. We were told over and over again that the States's financial stability was to be the foundation stone of the Federal structure, and that their rights in that regard would never be invaded by the Federal Government. It is true that these inherent rights were not guaranteed in black and white in the Constitution; but they were by implication guaranteed to the States. The people were asked to " trust the Federal Parliament." They have done so. But they were never told that that " trust " would turn out to be one-sided and would completely extinguish the fundamental rights of the States as constitutionally guaran- teed to them. We have seen how that trust has been abused. We have only to look around to see how the States are now faring. We need only contrast their financial position with that of the Commonwealth. Can it be said or suggested that there is any sign of poverty or financial stress in the affairs of the central government? Who says " Yes " ? On the other hand, is there any sign of financial stringency or poverty on the part of the States? Who says "No"? Unquestionably there is. The right honorable  ie  Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  knows how these proposals will affect his and my State, as well as Queensland, South Australia, and other States. 
No. 
Responsibility for the financial difficulties in which the States find themselves cannot be charged against one political party or the other, because State, as well as Federal affairs, have been controlled alternatively and successively by Labour, Liberal or National governments. There have been the same alternating complexions in State as in Federal politics, so public extravagance cannot be charged against any particular party. For many years certain of the States have been in a chronic state of "hardupness." This is particularly true of Western Australia, which this agreement will hit very severely. The Leader of the Senate has not dealt fairly by the people of Western Australia. Some time ago in an address at Kalgoorlie he told them that the payment by the Commonwealth of £450,000, made on the recommendation of .the Disabilities Commission, would be the basis of the future arrangement, and might be regarded as a permanent addition to the State's revenue. Where is that £450,000 now? It materialized for one year only. Therefore the Minister has been false to his promises. 
The payments to Western Australia now are to be £300,000  for a period of five years. The Leader of the Opposition has just reminded me that the speech of the Leader of the Senate, in which he announced the payment of £450,000 to Western Australia was made on the eve of an election. It is possible that many votes were obtained by Ministerial candidates- in that State on the strength of that promise. The right honorable gentleman may think he was justified in making it. Perhaps he was, but it was not honorable to discontinue that payment. As a matter of fact, it should be paid to the State for all time. That certainly was the interpretation which the people placed upon his promise. The Minister later spoke in Melbourne on the same subject. There the right honorable gentleman told the people that in its financial dealings with the States the Government would see that the latter suffered no loss. Is it not true that under this agreement payments to the States on a  per capita  basis will cease. Does not that represent a loss in State revenue? This agreement is indeed a poor return from the Leader of the Senate to a State which has been so kind to him. It raised  Senator Pearce  from a position of obscurity and placed him where he is. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands)  . - Order ! I ask the honorable gentleman to confine his remarks to the bill. 
I am dealing with statements made by a responsible Minister of the Crown, and I am showing how, under this agreement, a promise made by the Minister to people of Western Australia has been falsified. How can we ventilate these matters unless we are permitted to criticize the people who are responsible for them? 
The honorable gentleman knows that, to be in order, hi,s remarks must be confined to the subject matter of the bill. I ask him to comply with the Standing Orders. 
I have already pointed out that under this- agreement, in 58 years' time the States will get nothing from the Federal" Government. I again remind the Government that the founders of federation and  the earlier leaders of public thought in the federal sphere avowed that the in,terests of the .State would not be impaired. 
Honorable senators should read the speeches that were delivered many years ago by  Sir John  Forrest,  Sir George  Turner,  Sir William  Lyne, and the Honorable C. C. "Kingston. The records of the past are studded with the most emphatic language affirming the principle that the States would never be deprived of their financial rights by the central administration if due respect was paid to the spirit of the Constitution. That undertaking had to be given to the States to bring them into line; otherwise there would never have been a federation. Such being the case, we should not now be false to our trust by ignoring the intention of the founders of federation. At the end of the 58th year the States will receive nothing except the trifling amount represented by the sinking-fund contribution on their indebtedness.' How much will that be? The proposal of the Government is based upon the assumption that £40,000,000 will be borrowed every year; and it is claimed that on that basis the contribution of 5s. per cent, by the central government will amount to £100,000 a year for the next 53 years. I have some startling figures which will prove to the Senate that that £40,000,000 is an imaginary figure, and is introduced merely for the purpose of magnifying the generosity of the Commonwealth towards the States. I have studied the borrowing of the early nineties, when the London money market was closed to Australia, and can show that the indebtedness of Australia in 1890-91 amounted to something like £47 per head of the population. The indebtedness of some of the States has more than doubled in the meantime, while that of others has increased sixfold. The public debt of the Commonwealth as a whole is now in the neighbourhood of £96 per head. Yet we have been told by a responsible Minister that borrowing is to be continued at the rate of £40,000,000 a year ! That fiction has been employed, as I have already said, to magnify the generosity of the Commonwealth towards the States! The sum of £100,000 annually will be required to amortize in the 53rd year the £40,000,000 borrowed in the first year. A further £40,000,000, it is said, may be borrowed in the second, third, and suc ceeding years. If that should be the amount borrowed every year for a period of 53 years, the sinking fund payment made by the Commonwealth on behalf of the States in the 58th year in full requital of the  far capita  payments will be a little over £5,000,000. Yet we have been told by the right honorable humbug who sits on the right of the Chair that the States will suffer no loss of wealth! 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! Did I understand the honorable senator to refer to another honorable senator as a humbug ? 
Order f I have asked the honorable senator if he has referred to another honorable senator as a humbug. If he has done so I call upon him to withdraw the remark. 
Let me now deal with another equally audacious reason that has been advanced for accepting this agreement. We have been informed that the  per. capita  system is a means of enriching the rich and impoverishing the poor. I do not know what is the hypothesis upon which such an assertion is founded, but my retort is that those who have followed the development of this country are able to find arguments to prove the contrary. The States of New South Wales and Victoria will not be aggrandized and made richer. The experience of Canada and the United States of America proves that the rich are likely to be impoverished rather than enriched. The early settled States in Canada, such as Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island, which are the equivalent of our older and richer States of the present day, have become comparatively poorer instead of richer. The population of Quebec has increased in the last twenty years by a shade over 2 per cent., and that of Ontario by slightly over 1 per cent. The movement of population has been to new lands like Saskatchewan, Manitoba, British Columbia and Alberta, where the increase has been from 6 per cent, to 36 per cent. In the case of Saskatchewan, the increase in population in 21 year? was from 91,279 to 757,510. Who will dare to say that such may not be the experience of. Western Australia- in the near future, and where then will be the justice and " generosity " of this proposal of the Government ? Therefore the Prime Minister worked on the credulity of the people when he said that the  per capita  payment would enrich the rich and impoverish the poor; the experience of Canada completely contradicts such an as.sertion. In the United States of America we find that the thirteen New England States which, at the beginning of the last century, stood high on the list, now contain only a fractional part of the population of that country. 
It is quite true that,  pro rata,  a fair share of the wealth still remains in the older centres; but on a  per capita  basis the new areas in both Canada and the United States of America furnish proof that the vacant places in Australia are likely to derive the greatest benefit by way of increase in population and the creation of new wealth. If honorable senators will compare the relative progress of Queensland and New South Wales in the last 50 years they will find that that is a correct assumption to make. In Western Australia the experience has been similar to that of Canada and western America. In those countries the population migrated to places where there was elbow room, and founded vast cities like Chicago, which in the early part of last century was only a hamlet. As this country occupies a position similar to that which was occupied by America only 50 years 'ago, its experience will be identical. In the settlement of a new country the relative progress in the new regions is greater than that of the old, so that the  per capita  system will decidedly favour the older, while inflicting unmeasured hardship on the newer" and less developed areas. 
We cannot prevent the party aspect from creeping into this discussion. We have in power to-day a party to which I give that support which is always the most valuable - the support of a candid friend who will tell a person of his faults as well as of his virtues. When I meet a man who will apprise me of my faults, I regard him. as one whose friendship I should cultivate; but it is wise to regard with suspicion the smooth-tongued gentleman who will flatter you and tell you only of your virtues, whether they be real or imaginary. I am a candid critic of this, as I have been of previous, governments. Of course, if I were more amenable to discipline, I should possibly fare better; but it is my nature to be as I am. In the past, I have been considered a .valuable man to send here and there to" places in which other persons were afraid to trust their skins. They lived in the security of salaried positions, while Lynch was sent out on dangerous escapades from which they stood to. benefit. So it is. in regard to the present Ministry. The astonishing thing is that the party in power is the party which all along lias claimed to have a deep-seated respect for the rights of the States. That party is now engaged in .stripping from the States the last  shread  of their financial security.  [Extension of time granted,.']  Instead of assisting the States, this Parliament proposes to persecute them. If the giant spirits of the past- were on the Treasury bench, this bill would not be before us; there would not be this attack on the States. If honorable senators have ever stopped to consider what the States stand for they will realize that those things which make for the welfare of the people- are in the control and keeping of the States. There is scarcely an economic and social advantage enjoyed by the people of this country which is not directly traceable to State activity. Honorable senators, when they leave this chamber to-day, cannot Teach their homes without the assistance of at least one State, because the control of transportation is a State function, and has been since the States were formed. "We have but to think of our water supplies and systems of education and justice, to say nothing of the other manifold. activities of the States, to realize the important part they play in the welfare and daily lives of the people. Why is it then that this attempt to rob them of their financial resources is made? Honorable senators will agree that "money makes the mare go," yet they will vote for a bill to impoverish the States. I am sorry to see the party in power endorsing such an outrageous proposal. Had the latterday Labour party been in power, it would not have surprised me to see attempts made to bring about federalization and centralization of everything. Yet even that party, if returned to power, notwithstanding its desire to aggrandize the central authority and establish bureaucratic government, would probably recognize that the States have some rights. In other directions we have evidence that that party has altered its view-point. But supposing it came into power, and put into effect its policy by which the Senate would be abolished and the wings of the State governments clipped, what would happen? Let us consider the position of the dwellers outback in that event. Supposing that a main water pipe were to burst in an outback district of Western Australia through the neglect or incompetence of the local authority - a pipe on which a duty of 50 per cent, has . just been imposed - the settlers would be compelled to appeal to the central government first for assistance and  then for an explanation. Before it was given their plight would indeed be serious. By robbing the States of their financial resources we shall cripple them. And what will be the gain ? The central,/ government could not discharge all the functions now discharged by the States ; it would be overloaded. I remind the Senate of the warning expressed by the late  Mr. Alfred  Deakin, that by overloading the central authority the heart of the nation would be so strained as to be utterly impotent to discharge its functions. I warn the Senate against bringing about the dawn of that period when in Australia we shall have a huge bureaucracy similar to that which has been bewailed by the  President  of the United States of America quite recently. Writing to the  London Morning Post  years ago the late  Mr Alfred  Deakin gave expression to some truths of which honorable senators should be reminded. I have not bore his exact words; but he pointed out that just as the power of the purse was the means whereby the House of Commons ascended to power, and became entrenched in the people's confidence, so would the same agency in Australia, particularly in the case of the central government, be the means of bringing to it one power after another until practically all authority within the Commonwealth would be vested in it.  Mr. Deakin  was a man of keen observation and prophetic instinct. He looked ahead and saw the time when we should be faced witu the  conditions which now exist. He foresaw that the central government would continue to rob the States of their power and usefulness, and he realized that that would be a bad and a black day for the people in the outback districts. The measure before us is the first of many to rob the States of every penny excepting that paltry £5,000,000 to which I have already referred. In the interests of the people of Australia the Government should call a halt. The electors are fully engaged in the performance of their daily work, and in trying to pay their way, and have not the time to study these questions. They leave' to us the control of. public affairs. But they expect us to do our job properly. The correct thing for us to do is to adhere to the fundamental principles of the 'Constitution, and to allow the States to retain that financial independence which the framers of the Constitution guaranteed to them. 
Order ! The time fixed under the sessional orders for the adjournment of the Senate on Friday.' having arrived, I must put the motion - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Motion agreed to. 
Senate adjourned at 4.0 p.m. 
I should like to know if the Minister representing the Prime Minister has seen in the press a statement by Captain Lancaster who recently flew from Britain to Australia to the effect that between Newcastle Waters and Camooweal he had travelled over hundreds of miles of desert ? Will the Government bring under the notice of Captain Lancaster that the country he describes as a desert contains some of the finest pastoral areas in Australia, capable of carrying millions of cattle and sheep, and inform him that he is evidently under a misapprehension in giving a description which if allowed to go uncontradicted may do a considerable amount of damage? 
[3.5] .  - There is a general desire that our proceedings should terminate to-morrow in order that honorable senators from distant States may reach their homes before Easter, but the Government is anxious to pass a bill which has still to come to us from another place. I ask leave, therefore, to move - 
That Standing Order 68 be suspended until the end of this month for the purpose of enabling new business to be commenced after half-past ten o'clock at night. 
If the Bill reaches the Senate to-night the suspension of this Standing Order will enable it to be taken to a stage that will allow of its consideration to-morrow. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) agreed to - 
That Standing Order 68 be suspended until the end of this month for the purpose of enabling new business to be commenced after half-past ten o'clock at night: 
In view of the dissatisfaction in the industrial arena produced by recent arbitration awards, I should like the Minister representing the Attorney-General to ask the AttorneyGeneral if he does not think it would be an advantage to give a holiday to some of the lawyer doctrinaires who act as arbitrators, and to remodel our industrial tribunal on the lines of wages boards, allowing employers to choose representatives from the employing side, and employees to choose representatives from the employee's side, both parties appointing an umpire? 
I shall convey the honorable senator's suggestion to the Attorney-General in connexion with a bill which is new before another place. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
In view of the fact that the directors of the Commonwealth Bank send to each member of Parliament a copy of their annual balance sheet, will the Postmaster-General see that copies of the annual reports of the Pacific Cable Board and the Amalgamated Wireless Company are forwarded to all members of the Federal Parliament desiring to have them? 
The copies of the reports of the Pacific Cable Board and the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited received by the PostmasterGeneral's Department are only sufficient for the use of that department, and none are, therefore, available for distribution. It will be arranged, however, for copies tobe made available in the Library for perusal by honorable senators. 
Before the curtain is rung down on this act of humiliation, this tragic despoiling of the States, I propose to move the following amendment: -  6. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this act for the first ten years after the passing of this act there shall be paid to each State 25s. per head of its estimated population. 
For the first year following ten years after the passing of this act, and thereafter for each succeeding year, there shall be paid to each State a sum equivalent to 20s. per head of its estimated population. 
For  the  purpose of computing the sums payable under (1) and (2), all moneys paid in liquidation of the debts of the States, payment of interest, and other purposes under the act, shall be deemed to be part of the total amount required to be paid on a  per capita  basis. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I take it that the honorable senator is indicating his intention to move an amendment when the bill is in committee. 
Yes. For greater accuracy and in order to make my meaning clear to honorable senators, I propose, with your permission,  Mr. President,  to direct the attention of honorable senators to a diagram which I have prepared, and which, I believe, will assist them to comprehend my argument more clearly. The diagram, as honorable senators will observe, contains three figures whose superficial areas approximate the amounts proposed to  be  paid under three respective schemes. All these figures start from a common line representing the present financial year. The scale is half an inch to £1,000,000. The first, shown in red, represents what would be the natural development of the  per capita  payment of 25s. over a period of 58 years, which is the term fixed under the financial agreement attached as a schedule to  the  bill, and then on to 65 years. It starts with the payment this year to the States of £7,584,000, the amount mentioned by the Prime Minister when explaining the agreement to another place, and shows the expansion which would take place as population increased, and as the resourcesof the Commonwealth were developed. It shows that at the end of the period of 58 years the payment would be in the vicinity of £25,000,000 per annum. I arrive at this amount by computing the increase in population on the accepted basis of 2 per cent., which would mean, in the 58th year, a population of 19,630,000, or, in round figures, 20,000,000 of people. If the  per capita  payments were continued, as I contend they ought to be, the several States of the Commonwealth would receive from the Federal Government £25,000,000 in that year. 
I turn now to the second figure, printed in black. It represents what will be the position of the States under the proposal embodied in the bill. Its shape, as honorable senators will observe, follows that of a spade, an implement used for the purpose, amongst others, of digging graves. As a matter of fact, this agreement virtually represents the financial grave of the several States. It begins, as honorable senators will see,with a slightly better scale of payments. Like the mermaid, it begins well and ends up anyhow. A mermaid is usually depicted as having a well-shaped head, comely features, and shoulders of the approved Grecian model; but there her beauty ends. The same may be said of the scheme as accepted by the State Treasurers. It begins well, but during the 58 years' period instead of expanding as does the figure setting out what would be the effect of continuing the old  per capita  payments, it contracts. After the end of the term, payments to the States practically cease. In the 58th year, namely, in 1986, the payments to the States will consist of £7,584,912; the capitation amount for the year 1926-27- £801,000, the yearly contribution of 2s. 6d. to a sinking fund for existing debts; £163,865, covering the increased interest on transferred properties, and a variable annual sum representing 5s. sinking fund in respect of all future debts calculated not to exceed £100,000 per annum, but commencing at £84,000. The total will be £13,800,000. In the following year, however, 59 years from the commencement of this financial agreement, the States will be in receipt of only £5,200,000, and this annual payment will go on until it is time to make another attack on the States. The last crumb will be gobbled up by the Commonwealth. In the total for the 58th year the Government improperly includes the payment of £165,000 a year as interest upon transferred properties. This is done to make the Government's scheme appear more magnanimous than it is. This payment of interest on the capital value of transferred properties should have no place in the calculation. We might as well include in the cost the stationery and furniture in this Senate. Another item improperly employed is £100,000, which is to  De  set aside annually to finance a borrowing policy of £40,000,000 per annum. 
I turn now to the third figure in the diagram which outlines what would be the position of the States under my proposal. For the first seven years it runs side by side with the scheme for which this agreement provides, but there it parts company. The per capita payments widen, but not at the same rate as is indicated in the graph dealing with the old  per capita  payments, because I propose to reduce the amount from 25s. to 20s. a head then and thereafter. 
I remind honorable senators that this chamber is upon its trial, and therefore, it should take action to avert this deadly blow which is being aimed at the States' financial security. I wish the Senate to stand up to allotted task. The Government's proposal will mean financial unification. Within the 58 years covered by the agree ment, the Commonwealth Treasury will be relieved of about £30,000,000, including £7,000,000 for war debts, £1,000,000 for repatriation services, and £20,000,000 for interest upon war indebtedness. This amount of £30,000,000 will definitely end 40 years hence, ,or eighteen years before the scheme reaches maturity, and to that extent the Com monwealth will be saved £30,000,000, That means that; with the £20,000,000, saved from the payment to the States  the  Commonwealth will be a gainer to the extent of £50,000,000 in the 58 years. That will be the position when it will reduce the States to the receipt of a miserable dole of £5,200,000 a year. When the words, "until the Parliament otherwise provides " were placed in the Constitution, it never entered the minds of the fathers of federation that this would be the destiny of the States' pass. "Until the Parliament otherwise repudiates " are the words that should have been employed, for this is an act of repudiation. That term would have truly and honestly expressed the present position. The six States are entitled to a substantial share of the Commonwealth revenue, and yet we find that the amount will eventually be reduced to £5,200,000. Even that is an inflated figure, because it is calculated on the basis of an impossible borrowing rate. The sum of - £100,000 annually is employed to sustain a borrowing policy of £40,000,000 a year, which is perfectly absurd. We shall never borrow £40,000,000 a year for the simple reason that the money lenders will check us long before that sum is reached. What would we do with £40,000,000 a year for the next 58 years ? Yet the sum of £100,000 is used in this deceptive calculation in order to obtain a favorable verdict from this Parliament, and, in particular, from the Senate. To make the position plainer, the Commonwealth undertakes to pay to the States 5s. per cent, as sinking fund on all future borrowings. For this purpose "the annual sum of £100,000 is used and payable to the States. In the 53rd year - the peak' 'year - the payment would be £5,300,000, and this sum would never increase if the Commonwealth borrowed for ever at the rate of £40,000,006 a year. In the previous calculation I have used £5,200,000 instead of  £5,300,000 on account of the reduced amount, namely, £84,000, payable for this year; but that is immaterial. 
I appeal to honorable senators with all the earnestness at my command to reject this agreement. I point out that, if they pass this bill, they will assuredly sign  the death  warrant of the States' financial -security and independence. If they do,  the  fault will be on their own heads. I shall fight the measure to the last ditch,:¥nd to the limit of my endurance in Western Australia. I will not allow such a fraud to be  perpertrated  on the people. The late Chief Justice Griffith described " as an act of fraud under the Constitution" something far less serious than this. This chamber is the custodian of the rights of the States. It is the supposed citadel of State rights. We are here to see that they get a fair deal, and they are entitled to natural justice. The present necessities of the States should not be dealt with as merchandise, as this Government is doing. No doubt normal times will return. Fiftyeight years hence, Western Australia, on a most moderate estimate, should have a population of 1,500,000. When that time comes, the grant to Western Australia under this  financial  agreement will amount to 30d. per head of the population. Thirty pieces of copper - not even silver - to the betrayed in this case, and not to the traitor ! 
Order! The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I do not intend to speak at length in regard to the financial agreement because I have previously touched on various phases of it. I congratulate the Government on the outstanding feature of the bill, and that is the provision it makes for loan redemption and debt management. The establishment of .1 sinking fund for existing and new debts, and the common management of our borrowing are steps in the right direction. Previous efforts have, been made to bring about this desirable arrangement; but never before has it been accomplished. It will eliminate competition in borrowing, and do much to enhance the credit of Australia. The debts of the Commonwealth and the. States at the present time amount to £1,040,000,000 and the annual interest bill is £53,000,000 per annum, which is practically three-quarters of our total revenue  from  taxation. If our credit were as good as that of New Zealand, and it were possible to convert all our loans at the present time, we should save no less than £1,500,000 a year, in interest alone. About a fortnight ago, New Zealand stock was quoted on the London market at £3 per cent, better than our own, and South African stock was £3 5s. per cent, better than comparable Aus  tralian loans. It is evident that the present proposal will mean much  to  Australia if it brings about, as I believe it will, the enhancement of our financial status in the' eyes of the world. On the 24th April, 1927, the Commonwealth borrowed £11,700,000 at 5 per cent., and for every £100 it received only £98. On the other hand, New Zealand, on the 3rd of May, of that year, borrowed £6,000,000 at 5 per cent., and its loan realized £99 10s. That the agreement will enhance our credit is shown already by world opinion. The London  Economist,  of the 25th June, 1927, observed - 
In recent years Australia laid itself open to criticism on the grounds of over -borrowing If  Mr. Bruce's  scheme leads to the strengthening of the Federal Loan Council, and to th&gt; adoption of a more conservative financial policy, he will have performed a useful service for Australian credit. 
At about the same time the London  Times  made the following comments on this arrangement - 
These factors should lead undoubtedly to the strengthening of the credit of the individual State Governments. The proposals are characteristically statesmanlike and courageous, and seem calculated to make a substantial contribution both politically and financially to the strength of the Commonwealth. 
The London  Financial Times  on the 18th June,; 1927, published the following : - 
There is no doubt that the scheme will ensure for the States better terms in the money market, and enhanced credit and greater security for the borrower. 
I could make many other quotations from London and New York newspapers, which indicate that in the future the effect of this agreement will be to enhance our credit. They believe that we shall not embark on any wild orgy of borrowing, that a proper sinking fund has been established, and that, as the Commonwealth Government will stand behind the States, our credit will be improved, with a resultant financial saving to Australia. I wish to touch on one phase of the agreement.  I have supported it from the beginning, because it makes provision for a minimum and not a maximum payment to the States. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  gives the assurance that he will treat the States equitably and justly. If that pronouncement had not been made, I could not have given my support to these proposals, because I believe that South Australia has a just claim for further consideration. The Government of that State appointed a commission to consider the effect of these proposals, and that body investigated the matter fully and exhaustively. The States of "West Australia and Tasmania have had special grants incorporated in the agreement, but South Australia could not advance its claim at that time, and therefore it must be dealt with after the agreement has been completed. A perusal of the draft Constitution Bill will show honorable senators that by clauses 91 and 92 the annual expenditure of the Commonwealth was limited to £300,000, and the payment on account of transferred services such as the Post Office, Defence, Customs, &amp;c, was limited to £1,250,000 per annum. On a population basis the cost to South Australia was to have been only £30,000 per annum. That was impressed on the people. But those provisions were amended at the Melbourne Conference, and as the measure finally emerged it provided that not more than one-quarter of the net revenue from customs and excise should be retained by the Commonwealth Government, the States being assured of at least 75 per cent. The net receipts from customs and excise in South Australia in the financial year 1901-1902 amounted to £698,000, and the payment made to that State was £615,000. Therefore it received very little short of what the Commonwealth collected. In 1910 the position had not materially altered. In that year the net revenue from customs and excise in South Australia was £1,085,721, and the payment to that State was £803,000. It appears to me that the  per capita  arrangement entered into subsequently was to some extent fatal to the 
States, It is hard to believe that they realized that the customs and excise revenue would increase tremendously, and that the  per capita  payments would remain practically stationary. In 1910-1911 the net receipts in South Australia from customs and excise amounted to £1,087,000, while the  per capita  payment to that State was only £514,000. The former increased  rapidly,  until in 1926-1927 they totalled £4,150,000; but on the other hand the payment to South. Australia advanced very slowly, and id that year was only £703,000. In addition to customs and excise the Commonwealth has collected by way of direct taxation twice as much as it has paid back under the  per capita  system. I realize that the Commonwealth Goverment has had to raise a greater amount of revenue ; but we cannot ignore the fact that the States also have had to impose heavier direct taxation. Some of the States have been more adversely 'affected than others. The amount of subsidy received by South Australia in 1901-1902 was £615,000, and in 1926-1927 only £703,000. Owing to the growing needs of the State the Government was forced to raise by way of direct taxation £266,000 in 1901-1902, and £2,798,000 in 1926-1927, while the estimated receipts from that source for the current financial year are £3,641,631. Honorable senators must realize what this heavy direct taxation means to the States. In some of the States, particularly South Australia, the burden of taxation is becoming unbearable. Railway freights have been raised to such an extent that the railways cannot compete with motor transport. To raise the rates further would result in additional losses. In 1907-S the taxation per head of the population in the various States was as follows: - New South Wales, 13s. 9d. ; Victoria, 15s. lOd. ; Queensland, 19s. 3d.; South Australia, £1 5s. 3d. ; Western Australia, £1 ls. lOd. ; Tasmania, £1 8s. Od. It will be seen that with the exception of Tasmania, South Australia was the most heavily taxed State at that time. But the position in South Australia to-day is even worse than it was then. The estimated taxation per. head of the population  for the current financial year is: - South Australia £6 6s. .Id.; 'Tasmania, £4 19s. 10d.; and 
Queensland, £5 5s.8d. The comparison with Queensland scarcely gives the true position, because in that State direct taxation is levied to cover losses on the railways. 
If their railways were a paying proposition, direct taxation in Queensland would be less. 
Until last year the railway deficit in South Australia had not assumed such large proportions. To show that the heavy burden of taxation is having a bad effect on industry I desire to quote from the report of a royal commission which investigated the effect of federation on South Australia - 
Every effort is being made to reduce expenditure. Where economies are possible they  are  being effected. The estimated expenditure of the Railways Department for the year 1927-28 has been reduced to a figure £376,874 below the actual ependiture for the year 1926-27 by means of a drastic policy of retrenchment and the provision of less service to the community. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to raise an additional £1,100,000 during the current financial year by increased charges for services and by increased taxation, which will have the effect of making the charges for the main services and the taxation per head in South Australia higher than in any other State in the Commonwealth. Even with this burdensome taxation there will still be an amount of £250,000 per- annum being paid from loan which should be paid from revenue, and a further sum of £250,000 per annum, for depreciation which should be paid from revenue. The difficulty and gravity of the task which still faces the State will be seen by the fact that the total amount received from income tax for 1926-27 was only £1,359,437. The difficulty of raising increased taxation has been so great that the Government has been forced to raise increased revenue by what is virtually a tax on the users of the metropolitan waterworks and sewers and the harbours. The charges for these services have been increased so as to return a profit of about £200,000 per annum after paying all charges for working expenses, maintenance, and interest. 
The difficulties of the States have been increased by certain enactments of this Parliament, and in particular by our tariffs. Material required for railways and water supply is subject to heavy import duties, with the result that the cost of development, particularly in a dry 
State like South Australia, is high. The policy of protection, while increasing the revenue of the Commonwealth and assisting the manufacturing States, has had the opposite effect on other States. Most of the manufactories of the Commonwealth are situated in New South Wales and Victoria where coal is obtainable at lower prices than in the other States. The protective policy of the Commonwealth has built up those States where coal is accessible. The report of the royal commission to which I have referred shows that the number of factories per head of the population in South Australia has declined during recent years in comparison with the other States. 
That information is not material at this stage. I was pointing out the effect of high duties on a primary producing State like South Australia. The secondary industries of New South Wales and Victoria, have benefited at the expense of the rest of Australia. 
To some extent, yes. In 1908 the estimated value of production per head of the population on the basis of 1911 prices was as follows: Manufacturing, New South Wales, 9.36; Victoria, 10.09; South Australia, 10.21. In 1924-25 it wasManufacturing, New South Wales, 13.35 per cent; Victoria, 14.81 per cent.; and South Australia, 11.053 per cent. Although South Australia had headed the list of States in 1908, its production per head of the population is now a good deal under that of New South Wales and Victoria. In the manufacture of boots and shoes, the number of workers employed is as follows :  - 

<graphic href="118332192803285_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

Queensland also has a slight increase. The figures in relation to employees of flour mills are as follows :  - 

<graphic href="118332192803285_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

What I claim is that the policy of -protection has been a far greater advantage to New South Wales, which has coal within its own borders, than it has been to South Australia. 
It has a  considerable  bearing on the attitude of South Australia to the agreement. South Australia is not at all satisfied with its position, and claims that, like Western Australia and Tasmania, it should be given a special grant. Already it has submitted a claim for £750,000 per annum and were it not for the fact that I believe the Commonwealth will treat the State fairly I should not support the bill. I want to show the effect the price of coal has on industries in South Australia, the conditions under which we receive it and the price we pay for it compared with the price that is paid for coal by factories and railways in New South Wales. 
I am not saying that it would. But it appears to me that during the whole term of 58 years the States will not be receiving as much as they would have received under the  per capita  system, and there is every reason for asking for special consideration for- those which have suffered from the effects of Federation. In support of that contention I quote the following paragraph from the report of the commission : - 
Seeing how vital a factor is coal under . modern economic conditions it is interesting to trace the history of its production from the mine in New South Wales to the consumer in South Australia. The wages and conditions of the miners are fixed by a special coal tribunal created by the Federal Government. Upon leaving the mine the coal is handled by the members of the Waterside Workers' Federation, whose wages are fixed by the Federal Arbitration Court. The coal is brought to South Australia in vessels on the Australian Register operating under the Commonwealth Navigation Act, which prescribes generally the conditions of maritime services on the Australian coast, while the wages of the seamen are fixed by the Federal Arbitration Court. Upon arrival in South Australia the coal has again to be handled by members of the Waterside Workers' Federation, _ whose wages and conditions are fixed by the "Federal Arbitration Court. The combined effect of the various Commonwealth activities .mentioned above- adds considerably to the price and explains, in some measure, why the South Australian railways Iia ve to pay 42s. 3d.  per 1tone    for their coal, compared with 17s. 4d. per ton as paid by the New South Wales railways, and why coal costs 43s. per ton on trucks at Port Adelaide, compared with 26s. 7d. per ton in ship at Newcastle. 
Those are the conditions under which South Australia gets its coal, and they make a vital difference to the cost of running the State railways. 
No. But it is owing to these artificial conditions that the price of coal in South Australia has been increased, and the heavy price we have to pay for coal I think entitles the State to special treatment under this financial agreement. The price of coal in Adelaide affects the price of gas and electric current. The latter is double the price in Sydney, while gas costs 7s. 7d. compared with 5s. 9d. in Sydney and 6s. 8d. in Melbourne. The Commonwealth tariff has increased the cost of developing our back country. The State is striving to place new settlers on the land, and every new settler means additional customs and excise revenue to the extent of £9. The States are thus doing work which builds up the Commonwealth customs revenue, and for that reason South Australia claims to be in exactly the same position as Western Australia and Tasmania, and equally in need of a special grant, because of the disadvantage it is suffering through the effect of the Commonwealth customs tariff. I trust, therefore, that . the Commonwealth Government will give serious consideration to the claim of the State for special treatment under this agreement. 
The agreement contained in the bill now before the Senate can rightly be described as one of  the most  important we have ever had to consider. When the Commonwealth Constitution was under consideration at the Federal Convention the greatest difficulty was experienced in arriving at a satisfactory basis for dividing the Commonwealth and States finances so as to ensure the future of the Stages. At the instance of  Sir Edward  Braddon, provision was made for the return  to the States of 75 per cent, of the customs and excise duties. Every endeavour was made by those who were representing the various colonies to find some other solution of the problem, and the section of the Constitution which provided for the payment to the States of 75 per cent, of the customs duties was then described, and has since been known as the Braddon Blot. Whenever efforts were made to review that provision of the Constitution it was a time of extreme anxiety to the States. All State Premiers and Treasurers, irrespective of their politics, approached the question with extreme anxiety. The division of the finances of the Commonwealth and the States has been one of the most contentious matters that has ever been discussed by Commonwealth Prime Ministers and Treasurers with' State Ministers. When the States Grants Bill was before this chamber, I opposed the abolition of the  per capita  payments. I said that I believed that their abolition would mean the severance of the last financial link that bound the Commonwealth to the States; that while I was prepared to admit that the Commonwealth Government would give favorable and even generous consideration to the position of the States, it was only right and proper that those who represented the States in the Senate, and also State . Ministers should know exactly what the Commonwealth's proposals were before we were asked to agree to repeal the legislation that since the inception of federation had formed the basis of Commonwealth and State finances. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate claims that the agreement now under consideration is the result of a conference between the States and the Commonwealth, and that it is a satisfactory conclusion of what for some time has been a.«very contentious matter. While I must  accept  the position as I find it, being assured by the right honorable gentleman that the agreement has been signed by all the States, I claim that the States had no alternative but to agree to the terms laid down by the Commonwealth "Government. 
I would not say that. I take it that the Government was acting as it thought best, and believed that it was treating the States equitably. 
I admit that they were; but it must not be forgotten that the  per capita  payments, to which they were entitled, had been withdrawn. There can be no doubt that the States always understood that they would participate in the customs revenue raised by the Commonwealth Government. While the Commonwealth has heavy financial commitments, the expanding needs of the States also mean that, with the progress of the years, their  financial  needs are becoming more urgent. For many years they enjoyed the exclusive right to revenue from certain forms of taxation, and prior to federation State Treasurers could budget for the year's expenditure with a fair degree of certainty. Generally speaking, their finances were easily adjustable. That is not the position to-day. 
That is so; but owing to their rapid development their expenditure also is steadily expanding. We should bear in mind that the same people are being governed in their respective spheres by the Federal and State Governments. Therefore we should not have the anomaly of State Treasurers being in financial difficulties, while the Commonwealth Treasurer each year is able to show a surplus. 
Certainly not. I do not admit that members of State governments are less competent to manage their affairs than are Ministers of the Commonwealth Government, nor  do I admit that members of State legislatures are less capable of dealing with their peculiar difficulties than are members of this Parliament to deal with federal problems. They are all representatives of the same people, and without reflecting in any way upon those who may not have sat in State parliaments, I suggest that those who have are in a better position to appreciate the difficulties of the States than are representatives in this Parliament who have not had that experience. 
I have yet to learn that the customs revenue which is the principal source of Commonwealth income, is the exclusive prerogative of the Commonwealth Government. The States have a right to a fair share of that revenue. I remind the honorable senator also that the principal expenditure incurred by State governments is in connexion with the management of their railways and the development of their education systems. It is essential that these public services should be efficiently controlled, and to do this large sums of money are required. In my opinion the day is not far distant when the Commonwealth should be called upon to accept some financial responsibility for expenditure on education. It is very desirable that we should have one system for the whole Commonwealth. It has been said that government is finance, and finance is government. If we accept that doctrine we must recognize the claims of the respective States to some reasonable share of the Commonwealth revenue. "Without it they are not in a position to meet their commitments except by unduly taxing their people. This agreement has been accepted by the States, and it has to be submitted to the people in the form of a referendum. I find myself in a difficult position. I oppose the abolition of the  per capita  payments because I believed that the States were justly entitled to  a  fair share of the surplus of the Commonwealth revenue. This was laid down as  a  guiding principle at the inception of federation. The Government has determined that the capitation payments shall not be continued, and as a result we are now called upon to pass judgment on this bill and the agreement which  it  covers. I am loth to  support  the proposal ; but I realize to the full the responsibility that must be mine  if  I vote against the bill. "While other honorable senators may regard the agreement as just and equitable,I submit that, because of their increasing financial responsibilities, the States are entitled  to  more generous treatment. I hesitate, therefore, to supportthe agreement, believing that it will work to the disadvantage of the States.Ifear that the States will be obliged to seek further financial assistance from the Commonwealth if the agreement is ratified. In my opinion this is a step towards unification. I do not suggest that the Government is taking it by design; but, if we mark the progress that has been made by the Commonwealth Parliament in the last fifteen yearsin the direction of the peaceful absorption and penetration of the rights of the States, we must come to the conclusion that in another fifteen years the States' means of raising revenue will have been restricted to such an extent that little will remain of their sovereign rights as we know them to-day. Whether or not the change will be in the interests of the Commonwealth, time alone will tell. Personally, I have my doubts on the matter. This process of absorption and penetration by the Government of the Commonwealth is depriving the States of those activities that were expressly allotted to them under the Constitution. I support the agreement only because it is the best offering to-day. I have no alternative but to vote for the bill, because it embodies an agreement made between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Whether I am speaking hopefully or regretfully, I take the responsibility for my own vote, and leave the honorable senator to  follow  the dictates of his own conscience. 
 The subject of the  per capita  payments, about which'  a  good  deal has  been said, is  not  really the  issue before the  Senate. We  are now  considering  whether  this is a just and a reasonable  agreement.  The money thatany Government  raises is  drawn from the  pockets of the taxpayers, whether they are considered as the inhabitants of the respective States, orare regarded collectively as the people of the Commonwealth. If the States receive less under this agreement than would have been paid to them had the per  capita  system been continued, either the Commonwealth will take more money than heretofore from the pockets of the taxpayers, or agreater sum. will remain in their possession. I do not think that the charge canbe sustained that the Commonwealth is collecting more than is required for its commitments, although it has been said that the Government is doing that by reason of the roads grant. Nobody will deny that this Parliament legislates to-day upon lines that were not contemplated when Federation was inaugurated. The people alone can prevent the continuationof that policy. Whether they reside in Queensland or Western Australia, they have the power of expressing their opinion on this as on every other matter through the ballot box. I have no doubt that the electors generally have a good idea of what is taking place. 
Certainly ; and I think that they are asked to pay a great deal too much, both in Federal and State taxation. The cost of government is constantly increasing. The Commonwealth should return portion of its revenue to the States, not only because of the heavy obligation incurred by the States in supplying the services that they rendered prior to the establishment of federation, but principally because the union took from them their chief sources of revenue, and those moneys that were most easily collected. Under the Constitution, the Commonwealth was obliged to return a specific proportion of itscustoms and excise revenue to the States; but, even before the expiration of the 10 years' bookkeeping period, during which the Braddon section operated,that system broke down and became inoperative by reason of a judgment of the High Court. In 1908 the court ruled that money appropriated by. this Parliament, and not actually expended, was expended within the meaning of the act, and was justifiably deducted from the customs' and excise revenue. 
Frequent endeavours have been made by governments of all shades of political thought to alter that position. The argument that the States will lose by the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments presupposes that, but for this action of the Government, those payments would have continued for all time. But, to my mind, the arrangement would have been varied, if not abolished, in the near future. If it had not been varied in the manner now proposed, it would have been changed in some other way that, perhaps, would not have been so beneficial to the States as the present agreement. 
I cannot say. I am not, like Saul, "also among the prophets." The Premier of Western Australia,  Mr. Collier,  remarked that the proposals of the Commonwealth Government were very attractive, in that they provided a larger contribution to the States for a number of years than they would have received under the  per capita  system. He added that it was difficult to say for how long the States would benefit under the scheme, because, after all, it was purely a matter of speculation. It was stated in another place that the States would lose this, that, or the other amount ; but, as  Mr. Collier  remarked, the exact sum is merely a matter of speculation. Although the agreement has been accepted by the various States, it is not like the laws of the Medes and the Persians; it can be altered. It is unthinkable that we should tie the hands of the States in such a manner that they would be unable to get out of their bonds for 58 years. The arrangement could be altered later if experience of the present agreement showed that it was inequitable or injurious in its effects. The agreement provides that the Commonwealth shall take over the net debts of the States. That will be distinctly unfair to those States which have made an effort to provide for the extinction of their public debts by the establishment of a sinking fund. Western Australia stands in a very good, perhaps the foremost, position in that regard. Tasmania, also, has done a great deal in a similar direction ; but the other States have made practically no provision. 
The Commonwealth should calculate the percentage which the net debt of a State like Western Australia bears to the gross debt, and take over a like percentage of the debts of the other States. 
The gross debt of Western Australia is £70,705,000, and the net debt £61,000,000. 
She gets credit for her sinking fund; but, at the same time, the Commonwealth proposes to take over her net debt. Some of the States have not made any effort to liquidate their indebtedness, and, therefore, they do not occupy a similar position. A good deal has been said in regard to the miserable pittance which the various States will receive under the sinking fund arrangement. It does not make any difference what money is actually paid ; the effect of the arrangement is that the Commonwealth will pay one-third of all existing debts and one-half of all future borrowings of the States. The basis of the sinking fund is that the debts shall be extinguished in a given time. As the Commonwealth is to contribute one-third of the total sinking-fund payments in relation to existing debts, the effect is that she will repay one-third of those debts; and, as she is to provide one-half of the sinking fund to liquidate future borrowings, in effect she will repay onehalf of those borrowings. Reference has been made to unification. I remind honorable senators of the Labour party that, on one or two occasions in the past, they have propounded socialistic schemes which, if agreed to, could have been financed only by the abolition of the  per capita  payments. It was even suggested that those payments should be abolished to enable their schemes to be put in operation. 
I cannot name them at the moment ; but I can distinctly remember their having been brought forward. 
In the past, yes. 
The appointment of the Development and Migration Commission, which received the approval of a majority of the States, has gone a' long way towards unification, and the taking away of the sovereign rights of the States. Every State in Australia welcomed the appointment of that commission, and none more so than Western Australia. The commission decides what public works in the States shall be financed out of the loan of £34,000,000 made to the Commonwealth byGreat Britain. If there were a real desire to preserve the sovereign rights of the States a move in that direction ought to have been made when it was proposed to appoint that commission ; yet no such action was taken. 
For the reason that positions carrying very big salaries were to be found for one or two men. 
I supported the abolition of the  per capita  payments when the States Grants Bill came before the Senate in Melbourne. I believe that the agreement which we are now considering will benefit the people of Australia and result in a more harmonious relationship being established between the States and the Commonwealth. I am not able to indulge in prophecy, but I sincerely trust that the agreement will be of advantage to the States. I do not believe that any man who holds such a responsible position 'as that of Premier of a State would sign the agreement under duress. Those gentlemen would have been acting quite within their rights if they had opposed it and put forward counter proposals. In my opinion this  arrangement is the very best that they could have made. If in the future it is found not to be to their advantage the people of Australia will be quite capable of handling the position. They will not regard their hands as having been tied. 
It is an obligation of the Senate to preserve the -fights of the States, and it has full control over all legislation that is introduced. This is a national, not a party matter. I have listened to and studied the mass of figures that has been quoted during the debate, and I must confess that, to a man with only a modest education, they are most confusing. Many men are able to juggle with figures, and give those that are false an appearance of truth. I have in my mind a man who juggled with figures not long ago. A bank manager informed me that in that respect he was the cleverest man he had met. In politics some men are just as clever at juggling with the welfare of the nation as with shillings and pence. It has been said that the States have agreed to this proposal. That may be so; but it is my opinion that the Premiers of the States were caught napping. They were not as intellectually alert as one would expect them to be. Even though this bill is passed, will it not be necessary for the agreement to be approved of by the people at a referendum? 
I can see what is in the agreement, but I should like to know what lies behind it. Since the inception of federation the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States have constituted one of the most difficult problems with which we have had to deal. An honorable senator has asked whether this agreement means unification. It is -true that one section comprising the Government advocates unification; but, like the moth, it works quietly.  .If the object is unification, why not propose it openly? I know that at one time the Labour party advocated unification; but I do. not know whether that is so to-day-. I am no unificationist; nor am I a federalist. I have no more time for the federation of the States than for the federation of trade unions or churches. Federation has not been the success that we were led to expect it would be. Now, after 27 years' experience of the Constitution, we are asked to alter it in order to injure the States. It is true that the State Premiers have accepted the agreement; but they had no alternative. It was a case of Hobson's choice - they were offered this agreement, or nothing. We a.re told that for a period of five years the States will be better off under this agreement. But what about the generations yet unborn? We should remember that we are legislating not so much for the present generation as for those which will follow. 
-- That is so. If this bill becomes law it will not be long before many now living will curse it. I am a strong advocate of State rights, and I entered the Senate as such. I never have been a federalist; indeed, I fought against federation, because, in my opinion, federation means the damnation of any country. 
-- While I live I shall fight for my principles. I have suffered for them before; but I still survive. In considering this measure we must not lost sight of the possibility of a change of government. What would happen if the Labour party were returned to power at the next election? Honorable senators may say that that' is not at all likely ; but I have lived long enough to see many unlikely things come to pass. Under federation South Australia sustains a loss of £750,000 per annum. It is true that under this agreement that State will gain for a few years; but what will happen then? And what will be the position at the end of 58 years? The framers of the Constitution were men of vision. One of then,  Sir Edmund  Barton, said - 
The whole principle  of federation depends on the framing of a constitution which maintains an even line of justice between the general authority and the provincial authority. To depart from that on one side or the other would seem to me to be a forgetfulness of the interests of Australia, or of the interests of one's own colony, We cannot do away with the solvency of the several States. If we do, those States die, and we have no longer a federation, but a legislative union. . . . 
Another of the founders of federation, the late  Sir George  Reid, speaking at the third session of the convention, held in Melbourne in 1898, said - 
Can we suppose for a moment that the Federal Parliament would listen to a man who showed by his proposals that he had not been able to reconcile the financial wisdom of the Commonwealth with the financial security of the States? Because the two things are absolutely bound up. 
In a letter written by  Sir GeorgeReid  on the 13th August, 1909, to the Honorable John Murray, the Premier of Victoria, the writer said - 
It seems to me that there is, whilst the matter remains open, an increasing danger of an arrangement which can be determined in a short time, not by conference or compromise, but by the will of the Federal Parliament. Time is on the side of your opponents. ... I am more responsible than any man for the termination of the Braddon clause. But I never wished to allow the States less than a fair share of customs and excise revenue, which is the only way in which the States can receive revenue from the masses of the inhabitants. 
 I do not agree that they foresaw such a time. The late  Sir George  Reid said that the States should have a fair share of the Commonwealth revenue. 
At least, the  per capita  payment of 25s. should be continued. The share of the States should certainly be on a  per capita  basis. The payments should increase automatically either with every increase of Commonwealth revenue or with the growth of the population. 
That may be so ; but is one State to be sacrificed because another might get a little more? Must we always consider these questions only from the stand-point of Victoria and New South Wales, Have not the other States some rights? The weaker States must be protected. Men likeO'Connor, Lyne and Symon, never imagined that the day would come when a Federal Government would say to the States)' as the spider is reputed to have said to the fly, "Will you walk into my parlour?" 
I do not say that the Government thinks otherwise than that it is doing right in introducing this measure; but the question I have to determine is whether I can vote for the agreement in view of its effect on future generations. 
This is a bill to approve of an agreement which has been signed, subject to parliamentary approval and the concurrence of the people of Australia, by the Government of the Commonwealth and the Governments of the six States. Possibly it is the most important financial measure that has ever come before the Senate, providing as it does for the permanent and final settlement of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. The problem of settling those relationships has occupied the attention of every Commonwealth Government, and it was the most difficult problem that faced the founders of the federation. It is quite unnecessaryf or me to go over the history of the various negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States. They are fresh in the minds of honorable senators, and the whole position was  thoroughly reviewed during the' debate that took place on the States Grants Bill. At that time the Prime Minister made it abundantly clear that his Government had no intention of inflicting any injustice or hardship on the States or of exercising its full legal rights by withholding from the States the financial, assistance they had enjoyed under the Surplus Revenue Act. On the contrary, he said that he was prepared to negotiate with them if they would meet him with a sincere desire to arrive at a fair arrangement. Ho said- 
If the States will meet us we are prepared to consider any scheme and any method that may be suggested. It is our desire not merely to give the States absolute justice, but, so far as lies in our power, to deal with them generously. 
I propose to show that he has lived right up to the full measure of his promise. The representatives of the States met the Commonwealth Government in conference in Melbourne in June, 1927, and in Sydney in the following month, and a full report of the debates that took place has been supplied to honorable senators. It makes most interesting reading. I propose to quote somewhat freely from it. The conference was probably one of the most momentous that has taken place between the Commonwealth and the States. We find that five of the States were in agreement with the main principles of the financial proposals submitted by  Mr. Bruce.  We have heard quite a lot during this debate about the States having the point of the bayonet levelled at them as if they were being bludgeoned into thi3 agreement, or, to put it vulgarly, as if the Commonwealth was " putting the boot into them." In this document I fail to find any evidence of any such intention on the part of the Commonwealth, or of any outcry on the part of the Premiers to indicate that that was the attitude assumed by the Commonwealth. I propose to read extracts from the debates at the conference. Any honorable senator who has studied the report of the proceedings at the conference will have his mind absolutely disabused of the idea that representatives of the Commonwealth and the States met in any hostile or cantankerous spirit. The Honorable J. T. Lang, Premier and Treasurer of New 
South Wales, who was at the conference was, in the main, agreeable to the Commonwealth's proposals. He said - 
I am prepared to accept as the basis of contributions to the States the amounts set out in the schedule of the Act to abolish the  per capita  payments. 
With regard to the establishment of a sinking fund he said - 
I am prepared to go just as far as the Commonwealth desires that the States should go in establishing a sinking fund. 
Dealing with the transferred properties he said - 
The Commonwealth proposal in this respect is absolutely acceptable to me. 
As to the establishment of the Loan Council, he stoutly expressed the view that " With regard to borrowing the Commonwealth and the States should be absolutely free to do as they saw fit individually " ; and he was of the opinion that, " individually they could secure better terms than united ". This is what he had to say on that score - 
The Commonwealth should not ask the sovereign States to give up their rights and hand themselves over shackled hand and foot to a Loan Council which, in effect, will be a Commonwealth Authority. I judge what has happened in the past is likely to occur in the future. If the Commonwealth has these extended powers, I do not think it will hesitate to use them. For these reasons T must state definitely that I entirely object to bind New South Wales to a Loan Council, anr] for me to agree to the insertion of such a provision in the Constitution would be practically to betray the sovereign rights of the State of New South Wales. 
We must remember that  Mr. Lang  had very  little if any experience of the workings of the Loan Council and subsequently the other State Premiers who had that experience did their best to persuade him to come into it, by telling him how well and smoothly it worked, and what a good institution it was.  Mr. Forgan  Smith, Acting Premier of Queensland, approached the subject before the conference in a very broad and tolerant spirit. He 'heartily approved of the Loan Council. Speaking of Queensland he said - 
For a period of twenty years it would gain considerably under the proposals as submitted. 
Then he went on to say - 
There can be no doubt as to the advantage of the sinking fund proposals. They mean that, instead of the various Commonwealth and State authorities competing in the money market, they shall go as an organized body to the organized financiers. No one is so innocent as to believe that there is no organization or co-ordination of work on the part of those who control and to a large extent, are responsible for the success or otherwise of our loan flotations. It is right, therefore, that we should organize so that we can go on the loan market as one borrower. By having one Australian security and establishing a sinking fund we shall secure better terms than we can hope to obtain while we have the  States  endeavouring to raise individual loans. The proposals in this regard are sound..... I have only to say, in conclusion, that while we come here as representatives of the several States and the State Governments, we should endeavour to approach the consideration of these matters from the point of view that we all represent the same people, and I am convinced that if we do so we shall be able to lay down the basis of a scheme calculated to give general satisfaction. 
That was the spirit adopted by the Acting Premier of Queensland throughout the Conference.  Mr. Hogan,  Treasurer and Premier of the State of Victoria, was, with some minor reservations, in agreement in- the main with the scheme now put forward, and was heartily in favour of the Loan Council. He had quite a number of worries, particularly about soldier settlements, a subject which he desired to stress . at the conference. He said - 
I am not in a position to State definitely to-day the final opinion of the Government of Victoria regarding the proposed Loan Council, but I agree strongly with the view put forward by  Mr. Bruce  and  Mr. Forgan  Smith that all the States would be infinitely better off if there was one borrowing authority instead of seven. " Unity is strength ", and to say that the six States and the Commonwealth would be stronger separately than if united, is to deny a truth which is as certain as the law of gravitation. I am prepared to approach this matter in the same frame of mind as that adopted by  Mr. Bruce, Mr. Forgan  Smith, and  Mr. Lang;  I am ready to consider alternative proposals and amendments in an endeavour to arrive at a just and equitable settlement. I hope that before this conference concludes a settlement will be found. The proposal now before us is infinitely better than that submitted by the Commonwealth previously and unanimously rejected by the States. 

 Mr. Butler, the Treasurer of the State of South Australia said that he was struct by the soundness of the Prime Minister's argument when explaining the Commonwealth's proposals. On the whole he agreed with these, but he suggested that special consideration should be given to what he termed agricultural States, of which South Australia . was one. He favoured the establishment of the Loan Council on the ground that it would restrict extravagant borrowing.  Mr. Butler  said - 
The present proposal has three advantages over that which preceded it - it makes provision for the payment ' of a  portion  of the interest on the State debts; it provides definitely for a sinking fund for all debts; and it provides for a Loan Council, which will act as a common borrower for the Commonwealth and the States. . . . The Loan Council is a natural corollary of the scheme. I cannot conceive of any Commonwealth Government taking over the huge loan liability from the States without having some protection. I have not the slightest objection to the loan expenditure of my State being reviewed by what I regard as an independent tribunal. The Loan Council will probably restrict the borrowing of the Commonwealth- more than of the States. The Commonwealth is prepared to have her loan expenditure reviewed by a council composed mainly of State representatives. That, certainly, will not interfere with the sovereignty of the States. It gives to the States as a whole the opportunity to review the expenditure of each State, but good rather than harm will come from that. The Loan Council may restrict -extravagant borrowing, but it will not restrict legitimate borrowing. 
I turn now to the attitude taken up by the  Hon.  P. Collier, Premier and Treasurer of Western Australia. He stated that while recognizing the many valuable features embodied in the Government's proposal, he hesitated to take any steps without further consideration. He did not doubt the advantage of the establishment of the Loan Council, but he feared that it might restrict the borrowing activities of his own State. He stated - 
I am certain that, operating through the Loan Council, we shall be told that we must curtail our borrowing. It may be argued that if we agree to the proposals now before the conference, we shall be surrendering our rights of independent borrowing; but, after all, we shall only be giving power to our sister States, and it matters not whether this authority is vested exclusively in the Commonwealth or in the several States. As I see it, those proposals are the greatest steps yet taken towards the unification of State finances since the inauguration of the Commonwealth. , ; , 
I come now to the views expressed by the  Hon.  J. A. Lyons. Premier and Treasurer, of Tasmania. He said that the new proposals were . infinitely better ' than. those submitted previously. The following is an extract from his speech at the conference :  - 

 Mr. LYON'S. I can quite understand the objections which some representatives have to constitutional provision being made for the establishment of a Loan Council, thinking that the operations of such a body may be of disadvantage to the States ; but it is my experience - I think  Mr. Collier  will support me in this, as he and I have had more experience on the council than perhaps other representatives - that there has been no antagonism between the States, or between the Commonwealth and the State representatives. 

 Mr. Collier. If I were sure that the proposed council would work as smoothly as the one now in existence, I would have no objection to offer. 

 Mr. LYONS. We should be guided by experience, and if  Mr. Lang,  who is hostile to the constitutional proposal, had become a member of the council, he would be of the same opinion. The State representatives on the Loan Council do not endeavour to take advantage of each other; but try to understand each other's difficulty. Certain objections may be raised to the proposal, but from our experience we must admit that one borrower is preferable to a number competing with each other. 
These quotations indicate clearly the trend of thought at the conference. On the following day the States Treasury officials, who were present with their Ministers, carefully examined the proposals  in camera,  and the result of their conclusions is to be found in the agreement which is attached as a schedule to the bill now before the Senate. I heartily support the bill, because the proposals contained in it aim at a settlement, on a permanent basis, of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. Under the agreement the States will be assured of a permanent arrangement for their financial stability. It makes for the consolidation and improvement of the credit of Australia as a whole, and it should ensure our being able to obtain loans upon more favorable terms than otherwise would be possible. It makes provision also for the establishment of a proper system of national debt redemption. This Parliament already has that power with regard to the redemption of the Commonwealth debt, including our gigantic war loans, but under this bill the power is extended to the whole of the debts of the Commonwealth and the States, past, present and future. I am optimistic enough to believe also that it will put a most effective brake on reckless borrowing. The agreement represents a truly harmonious settlement of what may be regarded as the most difficult problems that have confronted us since the inception of federation. I sincerely trust that the people of Australia will agree to the insertion in the Constitution of the proposed new section 105a to give effect to the proposals which, I believe, are in the best interests of the nation. 
Listening to the debate this afternoon I came to the conclusion that some honorable senators appear to be under a misapprehension as to the nature of the agreement. They affect to believe that it is an absolutely rigid instrument, incapable of alteration in any shape or form. If they had had the privilege which was mine on the 14th December, of hearing the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  moving the second reading of this bill in another place, any doubts which they might have had on this point would have been dissipated. The Prime Minister explained to members of another place the meaning of the proposed new section. Its terms are so important that it is advisable that I should quote at least certain of its sub-clauses. They are as follows: - 
Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto. 
Every such agreement and any such variation thereof shall be binding upon the Commonwealth and the States parties thereto, notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution or the Constitution of the several States or in any law of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of any State. 
The powers conferred by this section shall not be construed as being limited in any way by the provisions of section 105 of this Constitution. 
These indicate that the agreement is not by any means an absolutely hard and fast arrangement. When the States Grants Bill was under discussion in this chamber, it was claimed by several honorable senators that the States would be robbed if it were agreed to. In certain quarters there appears to be a disposition to regard the people of the States and the people of the Commonwealth as separate entities. Actually we are one and the same people. It matters not if we pay ? 1 in taxation to the Commonwealth and ?1 to the States, or whether we pay ?2 to the Commonwealth  and nothing to the States. To suggest that under this agreement the States will be down and out at the end of 58 years is to talk arrant nonsense. There is not a scintilla of truth in such a suggestion. For the reasons which I have given I intend heartily to support the bill. 
Honorable senators who have taken part in this debate have already considered in detail the agreement which it is proposed to ratify under the bill which we are now discussing. The agreement is the culmination and the crystallization into the language of an act of Parliament of negotiations that have been in progress for many years. At every Premiers' conference one or other of the provisions contained in it was considered by representatives of the States, fortified with the carefully weighed opinions of their financial advisers. Whatever its political aspect may be, I am satisfied that its financial aspect and its probable effect on the States have been well considered by disinterested people who as much as any member of Parliament, have at heart the interests of the Commonwealth and the States. In the circumstances we may very well ratify the agreement. I repudiate the talk about coercion of the States, and I do so because matters have turned out more happily than I had supposed possible when the States Grants Bill was under the consideration of the Senate. At that time, I must confess, I did not take as hopeful a view as the Government did; I did not think that the States would come to a conference when they were, apparently but not really, facing a blank wall. I now quite understand the reason that prompted the Government to reject an amendment that I proposed in the States Grants Bill - an amendment which embodied one of the principle features of the agreement now under consideration, namely, the provision for taking over the State debts, and the imposition of a compulsory sinking fund. I fully recognize that it is only right that a Government should not have any matters of policy suggested to it by a private member. If that was in the mind of the Government, it rightly rejected my amendment, which is now one of the not least important parts of the agreement. The accusation of coercion is unfounded; it is unjust to say that such an idea was ever in the mind of anybody. The States having the assurance of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  - an assurance that I think they have every reason to respect - that their interests would not be jeopardized, met again and acted absolutely as free entities. 
Free entities. The quotations made by  Senator Sampson  from the report of the last conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers point to that. 
Exactly ; but on reading the whole report, one finds that the contention that there has been coercion by the Commonwealth is not tenable. Certainly on one or two occasions there was some question of coercion by certain of the States; but that, of course, was a plan that would not work. Seeing _ that the agreement has been arrived at, not hurriedly, not in a month or a year, but as the result of careful and cautious consideration, not only by the Premiers and Treasurers of the States, but also by their responsible officials, wc may dismiss the fears for the present and the future that have been expressed by some honorable senators. It is quite true, as has been said that the protection of the States is the special care of this chamber, but let me point out that on no subject, that I am aware of, have the States had so much opportunity to protect themselves as they have with regard to this' agreement. Under these conditions I have not the least objection to the bill ; indeed, I have every desire to support it. In so doing, I  emphazie  that the agreement embodied in the schedule is not a hurried one, and further, that any amendment to the schedule would necessitate throwing the whole agreement into the melting-pot. 
That .is a matter of opinion, not of fact. An honorable senator, holding certain views strongly, may try to influence, but is not  likely to endeavour to coerce, other members of this chamber. Believing the bill to be for the good of Australia, and beneficial to the separate States, I have not the least hesitation in supporting the second-reading. 

 Senator PAYNE  (Tasmania) [5.40 J. - This measure is of such far-reaching importance that every honorable senator is justified in making a contribution to the debate, no matter how small it may be, in order that the people may know the views of their representatives. Coming, as I do, from a State that has had very great financial difficulties for many years, not through any fault of its own, but through circumstances over which it has no control, I find that the subject matter of the bill is of vital interest to the people of Tasmania. I have endeavoured to look at the measure from the point of view of not only a Tasmanian, but also a citizen of Australia, and a representative of one of the States of the Commonwealth. .It has been said to-day, and I heard it remarked prior to this debate, that the Commonwealth Parliament is morally bound to continue the original payments to the States for an interminable period. Quotations have been read to-day from speeches delivered by the late  Sir Edmund  Barton, and many others, that would convey the idea that their impression was that that was the intention of the founders of the the Constitution. It should be generally realized, however, that it was never the intention under the Constitution to make any arrangement regarding financial assistance to the States interminable, because it was definitely provided that the payments to the States should continue until the Parliament otherwise provide. The day arrived when it was found necessary in the interests of the Commonwealth that the distribution of the customs revenue should be ended, and a new system known as the  per capita  payment of 25s. was instituted. But even that was not made interminable. Those who have had the idea that these arrangements should last for all time, fail to realize the possibilities of Australian development. We have had to meet liabilities that' could not have been foreseen. I particularly refer to the enormous liabilities incurred owing to Australia's participation in the Great War. Such liabilities as these have made it necessary to do  something  to ensure, first of all, that the States would not be losers, and in the second place, that the Commonwealth would be able to carry out its programme of development. I have looked through the agreement carefully, and I find one item - it was mentioned by  Senator Carroll  - that needs close attention. I refer to the fact that the Commonwealth will relieve the States immediately of one-third of their loan obligations, and with regard to future loans, will take the responsibility for half the amounts borrowed. 
It is provided that the obligations will be eventually met by means of a sinking fund, and if the Commonwealth contributes 50 per cent, to the fund in respect of new loans, it follows that it will meet half the obligations. The agreement proposes that the Commonwealth shall contribute 2s. 6d. of the 7s. 6d. per cent, to the sinking fund for the liquidation of existing loans. 
Exactly. It is clear to me that the agreement will be distinctly advantageous to certain States; that aspect of the matter was fully considered by the State Premiers, and I have no doubt that it influenced the Premiers of the smaller States more than any other fact in agreeing to the ratification of the agreement. It is also provided that, for the years 1927-1920, 5 per cent, shall be paid by the Commonwealth on the transferred properties in lieu of 3J per cent., and at the end of that period, the Commonwealth will take over the whole of the obligation. 
Yes. I have endeavored to analyse the agreement to see whether Tasmania will be worse off or better off in future under it, and the only conclusion at which I can arrive is that the arrangement will eminently suit my State. From another point of view, I believe that the agreement will be advantageous to the whole of the States. It provides that no State may independently go upon the money market to float loans ; but all loans must be arranged after due consideration by the Loan Council. No loan must be raised by a State without proper provision being made for its liquidation by means of a sinking fund. 
Quite so. United in that way, the States shouldbe able to secure far better terms than if they were rival borrowers. It should be recognized that the Commonwealth Government has no desire to inflict injury upon any State; it wishes to assist them as far as possible by making a substantial contribution to the amounts required for their future needs. 
They were invited to confer with the Commonwealth authorities as to the best arrangement to be adopted. I admit that the first proposal contained features that I could not support. But the Commonwealth authorities, realizing that the point of view of each State must be considered apart from all others, invited the Premiers and Treasurers of the various States to meet them in conference and make any suggestions which they considered would be likely to result in a mutually satisfactory agreement. 
All that the Commonwealth told them was that the  per capita  system had to come to an end. 
Exactly. If the Commonwealth Government felt that it was imperative that that system should be ended and a more satisfactory one evolved, it would have been undeserving of the confidence of the people of Australia if it had not taken action as early as possible to bring together the Premiers of the States to discuss this most important subject.  Senator Sampson  has quoted extracts from the speeches of two or three Premiers, which show conclusively that they realize that under this agreement their States will have greater financial stability than they have had for very many years. I should be the last to support a measure which I thought would inflict an injustice upon the people of Australia. The argument that this agreement will bring certain States to the poverty line, and hamper their developmental programmes, will not hold water, because the Constitution gives to each State the right to apply to the Commonwealth Parliament for special assistance. That provision will not be affected by this agreement. Any State which, through unforeseen circumstances, finds it necessary to call upon the Commonwealth Parliament for special assistance, will have the right to do so; and I have no doubt that any such request will be fully considered and, if the circumstances warrant it, granted. 
I do not consider that the  per capita  system is a fair one. In the future certain States may lose a portion of their population to other States. Tasmania is put to the expense of educating its boys and girls. Its educational system is equal to that of any other State in the Commonwealth; but, through no fault of its administration, but entirely on account of its isolation from the mainland and the operation of certain legislation, thousands of young people have for some years been crossing Bass Strait to Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland, where they have given of the best that is in them. 
Certainly they do. The  per capita  system favours the rich. not the poor.  Senator Lynch  has argued that under this agreement the rich will be made richer and the poor poorer. 
I have followed carefully the argument which the honorable senator used, but I consider that the result will be the opposite of that which he predicted. Some compensation will be given to the States that contribute materially to the wealth of other States to which their people migrate. 
Thank goodness I have a soul above votes; they do not enter into my consideration of this question. I have many good friends in Tasmania who disagree with my views on this matter, but I am satisfied that the majority of the people of that State will appreciate the ratification of this agreement, the result of which will be the strengthening of the weaker States. It may reduce to a certain extent the assistance which hitherto has been given to the larger States; but they are better able to look after themselves than the smaller and poorer ones. I shall conclude by expressing my gratification at the fact that, out of the many attempts which have been made by Commonwealth Governments to bring together the representatives of the States, an agreement has eventually been arrived at. I have no hesitation in according to it my hearty support, because I believe it will tend to improve the stability of the individual States and benefit the Commonwealth as a whole. 
[5.57]. - I have been somewhat struck by the tone adopted in this debate by certain honorable senators, who have referred to the Commonwealth in terms which would lead one to suppose that it is a foreign body, in the shaping of whose destinies Australians do not share. As a matter of fact, it has the same taxpayers and the same voters as the States. I also draw attention to the adulation that the  per capita  system has received. I could understand the representatives of New South Wales and Victoria bowing down before that system, which suits them admirably, but that a representative of any of the smaller States should have aught that is good to say about it is surprising. There is a test which can easily be applied. If the  per capita  system is just and equitable to States like Western Australia and Tasmania, why do they find it necessary to approach the Commonwealth for special grants? The fact that they do is the strongest possible condemnation of the  per capita  system, and proves that it is inequitable and unjust to those States. 

 Senator Needham analysed what he said would be the position of Western Australia under this agreement over a perio'd pf 58 years. I agree with one  speaker  who said that it is dangerous to adopt the role of a prophet, and forecast .what will happen in 58 years. The honorable senator compared the estimated benefits to Western Australia under the agreement with the amount which that State would receive under the system of  per capita  payments. There was no guarantee that that system would survive the next elections, yet all his forecasts and prophecies were based upon the assumption that it would continue for the next 58 years! Assuming that it was a permanency - a very tall assumption - he arrived at the conclusion, that had already been arrived at by an honorable member from Western Australia in another place, that under the agreement that State will be worse off to the extent of £20,000,000 than it would be under the  per capita  system. The obvious inference is that, in his opinion, this agreement is not sufficiently liberal to Western Australia. I point out, however, that the views of the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber are in strange contrast to those of the Leader of the Opposition in another place. That gentleman said that his is a good bargain for the States and a bad one for the Commonwealth; that we are giving away too much; and that the agreement ties the hands of the Commonwealth. I commend to  Senator Verran Mr. Charlton's  references to certain coming obligations of tie Commonwealth respecting such matters as child endowment, unemployment insurance, widows' pensions, and industrial arbitration, because a good deal of significance attaches to them. What did he have in his mind when he made those references, except that those schemes should be financed by the Commonwealth at the expense, if necessary, of the payments to the States and that the States would have to re-adjust their finances accordingly. Apparently the interests of the States were not to be considered. The views which he expressed, however, are consistent with those held for some years by the Labour party. But for the opposition, of that party, the  per capita  system would have been embodied in the Constitution in 1910, when the Liberal party proposed to make it permanent. That scheme was opposed by the Labour party, and the electors rejected it. 
Let us now consider  Senator Needham's  attempt to belittle the agreement by making an unfavorable comparison with a permanent  per capita  system. His party would oppose that system just as strenuously to-day as they did in the past, if the Government brought it forward. The comparison which he has made serves little or no purpose. . He has compared assured payments with payments under the  per capita  system which cannot be assured; in other words, a certainty with an uncertainty. But quite apart from that aspect, his figures are altogether astray, and do not truly represent the position. In the first place, his estimates of payments to Western Australia have been based on an estimated increase of population at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum. Where is that increase to come from? It cannot be the result of the natural increase, which is only l£ per cent. It can be achieved only by immigration on a large scale, which he. and his party are always attacking. Are we to understand that they are likely to have a change of heart, which will lead them to support immigration? That is the only way ±o ensure an increase in the population at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum. The population of Western Australia admittedly has doubled since the inception of federation ; but an analysis of the figures shows that that is largely attributable to the boom which was caused by the discovery of gold in the early days. The increase in the last six years has been, approximately, 2.65 per cent., as compared with the average Australian increase of 2.1 per cent. For the sake of argument, let us agree that that high rate of 2.65 per cent, will continue for the next 58 years. On that basis the  per capita  payments would amount to £66,000,000, not £74,000,000, as stated by the honorable senator. 
The benefits to Western Australia under the agreement include interest payments as follows: - Fixed contribution of £473,432 per annum, which, in 58 years, will amount to £27,459,000; and an increased interest payment in respect of transferred properties totalling £11,047 per annum, which in the same period will amount to £641,000; making a total of £28,100,000, compared with the estimate £66,000,000 under the  per. capita  system - apparently a loss of £37,900,000. But that tells only half the story. Allowance must be made for the benefits that will accrue under the sinking fund provision. The Commonwealth will contribute at the rate of 2s. 6d. per cent, on existing debts and at the rate of 5s. per cent, on all new borrowing, for that period of 58 years. Accepting  Senator Needham's  estimate of £4,000,000 per annum as the amount that Western Australia will borrow, the total sinking-fund contributions of the Commonwealth will in 58 years redeem a debt of £66,000,000. During the period of 58 years, Western Australia will receive interest payments amounting to £37,900,000 less than would have been paid to that State had the  per capita  system been continued. She will, however, reap the benefit of sinking fund contributions by the Commonwealth, which will redeem a debt of £66,000,000.  Senator Needham  took no account of the accrued benefit to the States by reason of the advancement of  Australia's credit which this agreement will effect. We have only to look to Canada, South Africa, and New Zealand to see what we can expect when this agreement is in force, and the Loan Council is operating. New Zealand and South African stocks are quoted on the London market at about £3 10s. per cent. better than comparable Australian stocks. In the case of South Africa particularly, with her racial problem, that is significant. "Will honorable senators say that the security offered by South Africa is greater than that which any Australian State can offer? The position is due entirely to our foolish, competitive and unregulated borrowing system, and to the absence of a proper sinking fund provision in some of the States. 
Both  Senator Chapman  and  Senator Verran  referred to a royal commission appointed by the South Australian Government to inquire into the effect of federation on that State. 
I shall deal with that presently. Let me refer first to the inquiry into the disabilities sufferedby Western Australia through federation. The Commonwealth Government did not appoint three Western Australians to undertake the investigation. Instead, it appointed three gentlemen from the eastern States, who were in no way connected with Western Australia. They made an impartial investigation, and heard evidence from all sections of the community, not merely from civil servants in the employ of the Western Australian Government. The South Australian Government, on the other hand, appointed a royal commission of South Australians. Evidently it was determined to get a favorable verdict. 
I thought that the honorable senator said that the commission appointed by the South Australian Government was comparable with that which investigated the position of Western Australia. If I have misunderstood him I shall not pursue the subject further. Listening to  Senator Chapman's  speech one would have thought that the Commonwealth Government was a foreign institution. Both he and  Senator Herbert  Hays referred to economies effected by the States, and to the heavy burden of taxation in all the States. I ask those honorable senators to name one responsibility now shouldered by the States which was not theirs in 1914. With the exception of the reduced purchasing value of the sovereign, the war did not add one responsibility to the States. On the other hand, I could name half a dozen responsibilities assumedby the Commonwealth since 1914 as the result of the war. I need only mention the war debt and the interest thereon, war pensions, and repatriation. Liabilities totalling £30,000,000 per annum have been added to the Commonwealth since 1914. Yet some honorable senators would have us believe that the States are the unfortunate victims and that in some way the Commonwealth is to blame. Apart from the reduced purchasing power of the sovereign, the States are in no worse position to-day than they were in 1914. That disability, however, is suffered by the Commonwealth as well as by the States. 
 Senator Chapman  devoted considerable time to explaining the disadvantages suffered by South Australia by reason of her lack of coal. I ask what that has to do with the financial agreement. Surely the honorable senator does not suggest that the continuation of the  per capita  payments would result in coal being found in South Australia. If there had been no federation South Australia would still suffer the disadvantage of lack of local coal supplies. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Senator Carroll referred to the difficulty which will be experienced in connexion with the net debts of the States. If he will turn to the agreement he will see under the heading " Permanent provision ; Taking over States public debts " that it provides - 
Subject to the provisions of this part of this agreement the Commonwealth will take over on the 1st July, 1929 - (1) The balance then unpaid of the gross public debt existing on 30th June, 1927; and (2) all other debts of each State existing on the 1st July, 1929, for moneys borrowed by that State which by this agreement are deemed to be moneys borrowed by the Commonwealth for and on behalf of that State - and will in respect of the debts so taken over assume as between the Commonwealth and the States the liabilities of the States to 'bond holders. 
The Commonwealth will make to the States payments towards sinking funds not already provided for and also contribute to sinking funds already established. In the case of Western Australia or Tasmania the moneys so paid will not be applied to the extinction of the debts, say of Queensland, but to the debts of the States concerned. It will be seen therefore, that the arrangement does no injustice to Western Australia. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I have shown  Senator Verran  that provision is made in the Constitution for taking over the State debts, and, therefore, it cannot be said that that feature of the agreement is a step towards unification. There are two other main features of the agreement to which I desire to refer. The first is the formation of a permanent Loan Council, and the second the proposed establishment of a sinking fund for the liquidation of all debts, payments into which are to be made by both the States and the Commonwealth. No one would argue that the formation of a Loan Council is a step in the direction of unification. On the contrary, it is a step in the direction of co-operation. In any case, if the States feel that the Commonwealth is wrongfully using its power on this council, they have the predominating voice; five of them can block the Commonwealth if they choose to do so. But, surely, no one would argue that in order to avoid the Scylla of unification, we should run on the Charybdis of making the Commonwealth, whose borrowing powers are also to be limited by the council, subservient to the States. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. If the formation of a Loan Council is a step in the direction of unification that has not yet been demonstrated. 
In regard to the interesting graph '  Senator Lynch  has displayed, all I have to say is that graphs are very instructive provided they are complete; but, unfortunately, the honorable senator's is not complete, inasmuch as it does not show the liabilities of the States. It shows that during the 58th and the 59th year there will be a drop of £8,400,000 in Commonwealth contributions to the States; but it does not show that in the same year there will be a drop of £3,000,000 in the liabilities of the States. Because their present debts will have been wiped out, and their necessity to contribute interest and sinking fund in respect of those debts, consequently, will have gone, there will be a drop in the annual liabilities of the States amounting to £30,000,000, so that, allowing for the £8,400,000, they will actually, be in that year in a better position to the extent of £21,600,000'. So much for that argument. Can any one say that it is a step in the direction of unification when for the first time the finances of the Commonwealth and of all the States are put on a sound basis, to provide that from the time this agreement is adopted, when any Government comes forward with a proposal to borrow money, it must at the same time ask its taxpayers to make pro  vision not only for the payment of interest on the money that is borrowed, but also for a sinking fund to meet the debt when it becomes due! That is sound finance. I cannot see how it can make for unification. What might tend to unification is to have six States and the Commonwealth as competitors in the loan market. In 1923-4 there was full competition in a money market that was beginning to drop. State after State came into the market that year, and each, as it came in, had to raise the rate of interest, until the last State to enter the market offered 6 per cent., and had to pay'  &amp;i  per cent., taking into consideration the actual amount at which its loan was floated. Last year, New South Wales stood out of the Loan Council, and not only had to pay a higher rate of interest for its money, hut also found the London money-lender laying it down as a condition of providing the money that  the  State should make due provision for a sinking fund. 
The steps we are taking now are not leading in the direction of unification; they are leading in the opposite direction. The one thing that can bring about unification in Australia is the financial embarrassment of the States. This agreement is making for the financial soundness of the States. If the States are sound financially, and if the opinion of the people of Australia remains as it is to-day in favour of the federal form of government as opposed to a unified form, there is not a line in this bill that will help towards unification. I, therefore, commend the bill to honorable senators in the full belief that we are now taking a step* in the right direction - a step in the direction of the solvency of Australia, sound finance, and economy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative; 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
In accordance with the intimation I gave during the second-reading debate, I move - 
That the following now clause be inserted: - "6. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this act for the first tcn years after the passing of this act there shall be paid to each State for each year thereof a sura equivalent to 25s. per head of its estimated population. 
For the first year following ten years after the passing of this act, and thereafter for each succeeding year, there shall be paid to each State a sum equivalent to 20s. per head of its estimated population. 
For the purpose of computing the sums payable under (1) and (2), all moneys paid in liquidation of the debts of the States for the payment of interest and other purposes under the act, shall be deemed to be part of the total amount required to be paid on the  per capita  basis." 
It would be a great help to me if when out-lining my reasons for moving this new clause I could get some expression of honorable senator's support such as always seems to come automatically to the assistance of Ministers in the shape of "hear hears " ! The amendment needs to be considered side by side with certain matters that have been raised during the debate on the second reading. It has been said that this agreement has been entered into between the Commonwealth and the States in the freest possible way.  Senator Kingsmill  said there was no such thing as coercion about it, and that sentiment was endorsed by other honorable senators, if not orally, at any rate, by their silence. I contend, however, that the States were compelled to enter into it. There is no moral law to compel any one to accept or respect an agreement entered into in the circumstances in which this agreement has been entered into. When an individual is compelled to enter into an agreement against his will, he cannot be held to it as a consenting party. If that were not so we should have no freedom in entering into agreements of a mutually beneficial character. I shall cite evidence for my assertion that the States were compelled to enter into this agreement. The first witness I put in the box is the Premier of Western Australia. When  Mr. Collier  returned to his State, he was reported in the  West Australian,  of 27th July, 1927, to have said - 
The States had been forced into the position of having to consider an alternative arrangement. 
No compulsion? If  Mr. Collier  has correctly stated the position there was undoubtedly compulsion. The next witness I put in the box is the Acting Premier of Queensland. Speaking at the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in Melbourne on 27th June last, he said - 
I think it better that we should take the initiative and deal with the matter ourselves rather than have the position forced upon us at a later date. 

 His language there is plain. It indicates that, in his view at all events, the States had no option but to accept the proposals placed before them. The word " forced " was used by the Acting Premier of Queensland. Where force is employed, there must be an absence of freedom. Notwithstanding what other honorable senators have said, the remarks of the Acting Premier of Queensland clearly show that there was coercion. The last witness I propose to summon in support of my contention is the Premier of New South Wales, whose view was interpreted by  Mr. Lyons,  the Premier of Tasmania, in these words - 

 Mr. Lang said that if he accepted the Commonwealth Government's proposal, he would be recreant to the trust reposed in him by the people of New South Wales; but if theyhad a right to make a choice between the  per capita  payment and the new proposals, that objection would be removed. 
I emphasize the word " right ". According to  Mr. Lyons, Mr. Lang's  view was that if the State Premiers had the " right " to make a choice, the objection would be removed.  Mr. Collier,  who endorsed the opinion of  Mr. Lyons,  then interjected - 
We should all be campaigning in favour of the continuance of the  per capita  payment, showing clearly that the interpretation which  Mr. Lyons  placed upon  Mr. Lang's  remarks was that no other course was open to the Premiers - than that they had to accept the Commonwealth's proposals - take it or leave it. With these representatives of the States to support me, I repeat that the States accepted the agreement under duress. It is useless for any one to say that no pressure was brought to bear upon them because this Parliament has already abolished the capitation grants, and there was nothing else for the States to do but to eat humble pie. 
For the moment I shall not comment on the remarks of the Leader of the Senate as to the position of Western Australia, I shall have an opportunity to do that later. I propose now to consider some of the reasons advanced by this Government and supported by a number of honorable senators, in support of the view that the  per capita  payments tended to make the rich States richer and the poor States poorer. I take the opposite view and for very good reasons.  Senator Payne  is opposed to the continuance of the capitation payments. As we all know, Tasmania is losing its young people who are migrating to the other States. Under the  per capita  system, the mainland States would receive larger payments from the Commonwealth owing to the exodus of population from Tasmania, while that State would suffer owing to a reduction in its population. The honorable senator omitted to mention thatthe young people who left his State were no longer his potential supporters. No doubt he thought it would be more to his advantage to study the interests of those who remained in the State and who, perhaps, would vote for him at future elections. Under the Government's plan the Tasmanian who stayed in Tasmania would be provided for, but the State which received the young Tasmanian would get nothing at all for him. We can understand how selfish motives sometimes intrude in a debate on such a measure as this. We should, however, take the broader view and consider how these financial proposals will affect the whole of the States. The history of development in every country shows that as the population increases the people push out to the newer areas which progress at a relatively higher rate than the earlier settlements. That was the experience in Canada, and it has been the experience in Australia. In Canada settlement first took place in the maritime provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Newfoundland. Later, the people went north and west. Development was much more rapid in the newer than in the older provinces. We may expect, therefore, that the smaller States of to-day will be the more populous States of to-morrow. The Government has been wanting in courtesy to honorable senators in not having placed before them reliable information as to the position of the several States during the currency of this agreement and the old  per capita  scheme. Virtually we have been told, as the States have been, that we must accept it or reject it. 
Order! The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
[8.27]. - Naturally the Government cannot accept the amendment, and I ask honorable senators not to support it. At my request the Treasury officials have supplied me with an interesting set of figures. These show that, in the first year of the agreement, the payments by the Commonwealth to the States will exceed the total of the  per capita  payments by £900,000, and that,  over the first period of ten years, assuming that the annual borrowings of the States will total £30,000,000, the States will receive under the agreement £89,500,000, as against £85,000,000 which they would receive under the  per capita  payments, which are embodied in  Senator Lynch's  amendment. This means that, for the first ten-year period, they will receive under the agreement £4,500,000 more than they would get under  Senator Lynch's  amendment. Taking the second ten-year period, again assuming that the States borrow £30,000,000 a year, which is considerably less than the present rate of borrowing, they will receive under the agreement £187,000,000, and under the  per capita  payments provided for in  Senator Lynch's  amendment - 25s. per head for the first ten years and 20s. per head for the second ten years- only £168,000,000, for a total period of twenty years. The gain to the States under the agreement will be £19,000,000. In the final 38 years of the term, the States might receive an advantage under  Senator Lynch's  amendment. 
Yes; I use the word advisedly, because it is entirely a matter of speculation. It is obvious that, as the Commonwealth develops, the rate of borrowing may increase or decrease.No one can say what will be the progress of Australia during the next twenty years. There are some pessimists who hold that only the outer fringe of the Commonwealth is capable of development. Australia has no areas that are not capable of considerable development; but it is a matter for speculation as to how much borrowing will be found necessary beyond that period of twenty years. That is the uncertain factor that would determine whether the States would lose or gain under the agreement, as opposed to  Senator Lynch's  scheme, in the last 38 years. The position, so far as we can see it, is that the States would receive, under  Senator Lynch's  proposal, £19,000,000 less than under the agreement. 
It is necessary to guess what will be the rate of borrowing, and whether Australia will have reached that stage of development at which she will borrow merely for the purpose of loan conversion, or whether her borrowing will have been intensified through science providing means to convert what has been regarded as valueless land into profitable use. The proposed new clause invites this Parliament to revoke a previous decision, because both branches of the legislature have already declared against the  per capita  system, and for a very good reason. Two States have found it inequitable, and have asked the Commonwealth for financial assistance, in addition to the  per capita  payment. Now honorable senators from a third State, South Australia, point out that' the  per capita  system does not give it sufficient funds, and it can make out a good case for additional financial help. So we have half the States declaring that they are able to demonstrate that the  per capita  arrangement operates inequitably. But there is another feature of the proposed new clause that should be considered. It is not an amendment of the agreement, but of the bill, and there would be no more certainty for the States under this proposal than there was under the SurplusRevenue Act. That portion of the measure could be amended at any time. Any future Parliament could say, "We do not agree with this. We shall repeal it." Its repeal would not affect the agreement at all; it would not be a repudiation of the agreement. Therefore, any future Parliament could undo what  Senator Lynch  now proposes should be done. The proposed new clause would inflict a loss on the States certainly for the first twenty years, and confer a doubtful benefit for the remaining 38 years. It would have no permanency; it would be no part of the agreement, and it asks the Parliament to satisfy itself by reviving an arrangement that it has already rejected. For those reasons, I ask the committee not to accept it. 
When my time expired I  waa drawing attention to the position in Canada. We must consider what has happened in other lands in order to judge whether the capitation system is good or bad. I have already pointed out that, in the older provinces of Ontario and Quebec, the population has remained comparatively stationary, while in the new provinces it has increased at a very rapid rate. During the 20-year period from 1901 to 1921, the increase in population in Quebec was only 2 per cent., and in Ontario, only 1.7 per cent. The people were rushing to the new territories such as there represented in Australia by Western Australia and Queensland and the Northern Territory. During that 20-year period, the population in the province of Manitoba increased from 255,211 to 610,118; in Saskatchewan, from 91,279 to 757,510; in Alberta, from 73,022 to 588,454; and in British Columbia, from 178,657 to 524,582. The rates vary from 6 per cent. to 36 per cent. Would not the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments cause manifest injustice to the newer provinces in Canada, the equivalent of which in this country is found in Queensland and Western Australia. The capitation plan grows with the growth of population, whereas the Government plan develops at a snail-like pace up to a certain point and then remains fixed for all time. The thirteen colonies that in 1790 comprised what was known as the United States of America, then had a population of slightly over 3,000,000, and the present population of those areas is now 43,000,000; but the total population of the United States of America is now 117,000,000. Iu fact, a new and infinitely greater America has grown up outside the America that was known to the world in the 18th century. How would a capitation system apply there? Why it would starve the new and greater America and Canada, and that is exactly what is going to happen in this country under this agreement. In other words, two-thirds of the present population of that country is found beyond the borders of those thirteen colonies, the equivalent of which in Australia is represented by New South Wales and Victoria. Those figures con tradict the theory that the  per capita  system favours the old-established States - that it makes the rich richer and the poor poorer. The newer States of Australia will increase in population to such an extent that they will eventually far outnumber the present inhabitants of the old established areas. Under the Government's proposal, the more sparsely populated States will become poorer, and no allowance will bo made for the increase in population, which is the vital point, while the older established areas will be made comparatively richer, the exact opposite of the Ministerial nonsense. I think that 1 have disposed of- the sophistry about the  per capita  system making the rich richer and the poor poorer. 
The Leader of the Government stated that the agreement would favour Western Australia. I understood him to say that that State would receive under it £94,000,000 during the 58 years as against £66,000,000 under the per  capita  system. The Minister has agreed that the population in 1986 will be not more than 13,700,000. He must also admit that the amount payable under the  per capita  system in that year would he £25,000,000, giving an advantage to the States of over £8,000,000 as compared with the present agreement. The right honorable senator sought to make out his case by handling figures in such a mystifying way as to lead us to believe that the agreement would be of benefit to the States in the meantime. I have worked out the figures, as well as the officers of the department, and I challenge contradiction upon them. The Government tells- us that it will' apportion £100,000 a year for 58 years to support a borrowing policy to the extent of £4,000,000 a -year :over that period. Even accepting the amount of £40,000,000, which is an excessive figure, the total sum to be paid in respect to the liquidation of those vast loans would be £142,000,000 at the end of 53 years, and £168,000,000 at the conclusion of the 58-year period. Therefore, the Federal Treasury would pay to Western Australia not £90,000,000, but only about £16,000,000. The figures stand out in flat contradiction of the Minister's statement. Manifestly Western Australia will get the worst of the deal. The diagram that 
I prepared is as plain as the noonday sun. It shows that under the agreement the total payment by the Commonwealth to the States will increase from £8,600,000 to £13,800,000 in 58 years, whereas under the per  capita  system it would increase from £7,500,000 to £25,000,000, on the basis of a population of 19,600,000, in the same period. These figures give a true contrast of the two systems. Of course, they are not regarded favorably by the Government, for the simple reason that they picture the position so clearly, and on that account the Minister did not pay very much attention to them. I am reminded of a gentleman in New York, whose municipal administration was subjected to rather severe criticism. He is reported to have said - "I do not mind what the printers say about me; it is the pictures as kills me." It is my picture that kills this proposal of the Government. 
It represents a payment of about £5,000,000 at the end of the 58 years. 
It goes on  ad infinitum,  that dole! Whenyou arrive at the 58th year you can borrow until the crack of doom, but you need not pay more than £5,300,000 a year to keep going a borrowing rate of £40,000,000 yearly. That £5,300,000 is all that the States will receive, and if the rate of increase in proportion in Western Australia is not greater than the average, which is unthinkable, her share will be about £360,000 ayear, after 58 years from now. For the Commonwealth on a population of 20,000,000 that will represent something in the neighbourhood of 5s. a head. Bearing in mind the experience of other countries, and having a knowledge of Western Australia's vast untenanted spaces, it can be asserted with confidence that there will be a rush of population to every corner of that State until it becomes as closely settled as are those on the eastern seaboard. Its people will then feel the hardship of this iniquitous system. On their behalf I speak. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I ask the Minister in charge of civil aviation whether it is a fact that a considerable time ago tenders were called for the proposed air mail service between Perth and Adelaide, and then withdrawn? If so, what is causing the delay in calling for fresh tenders ? Seeing that a promise was given that this would be thefirst service inaugurated, will the Government expedite its establishment at an early date? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories in a position to make an announcement regarding the exclusion from Australia of certain negro entertainers, in view of the reports which have appeared in this week's newspapers concerning certain happenings in Melbourne ? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is the Commonwealth Government responsible for the appointment of another commission, namely, of four business men from Great Britain to advise in connexion with the -developmental and economic position of Australia? 
If so, what will be the cost of such commission ? 
Is the Development and Migration Commission not capable of advising the Government in such matters? 
Will the commission of four business men from Great Britain act independently of or in concert with the Development and Migration Commission? , 
By arrangement between the British and the Commonwealth Governments,, a delegation of four business men, viz.,  Sir Harry  D. McGowan, K.B.E.,  Sir Hugo  Hirst, Bart.,  Sir Ernest  Clark, K.C.B., C.B.E., and  Mr. Dougal  Orme Malcolm will visit Australia during this year. The members of the delegation arc to confer with the Commonwealth and the State Governments, with the Development and Migration Commission, and with the leaders of industry and commerce in Australia, on development in Australian resources, and on any other matters of mutual economic interest to Great Britain and the Commonwealth which may tend to the promotion of trade between the two countries and the increase of settlement in Australia. 
The balanced development of Australia and an increased rate of settlement from Great Britain are intimately associated with an increase of profitable trade between Great Britain and the Commonwealth. It, is essential that the people of Great Britain should have a better knowledge of the possibilities of Australia, its resources, needs (particularly as regards markets ) , conditions of living and its problems generally, and that Australians should realize and appreciate the problems of Great Britain. With this end in view the Commonwealth Government asked the British Government to arrange for the visit of four men of outstanding capacity in finance, ' commerce, industry, and market problems for the purpose of obtaining first hand knowledge, and ' discussing these questions with the Commonwealth and the State Governments, the Development and Migration Commission, and Australian business men. 
The cost of the delegation cannot at present be stated. The Government will not be under an obligation to meet these expenses, but while the delegation is in Australia they will be the guests of the Government. 
It is considered that the question of the capacity of the Development and Migration Commission for the work to be undertaken by the delegation does not arise. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
In connexion with the replies given by the Minister on the 23rd instant to questions as to footpath and guttering charges in the Federal Capital, is it alleged that the word " services " as used in the Building and Services Ordinance includes the formation of footpaths and kerbing and guttering? 
Does it also include "road-making"? 
Has this meaning been attached to " services " in any other statute or ordinance or judicial decision? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.The Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the f ollowing replies :  - 1 and 2. The replies given on the occasion referred to by the honorable senator did not do more than cite the authority pursuant to which the Federal Capital Commission purports to make the charges mentioned. The ordinance does not define the word " services." 
The Minister is not in possession of sufficient information to enable him to answer this question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement in the press to the effect that very great delay has taken place in the issue of land titles in New Guinea? 
In view of the fact that the Master of Titles is responsible for the issue of such titles(vide section6 of the Lauds Registration Ordinance ) , what action has been taken or is proposed to be taken in regard to the alleged neglect of this duty? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.The Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the following replies :  - 
No: but representations in regard to the matter have been made by the Planters and Traders' Association of the Territory. 
Advice has been received from the Administrator that there has been delay in issuing titles - due mainly to the exhaustive inquiries which must be made regarding native rights to land before a certificate can be granted. 
The ordinance provides that questions of native rights to land must be referred to the Central Court for inquiry and determination. 
An extra judge has been appointed to the Central Court recently, with the object of facilitating the transaction of the business of the court, including the determination of cases in which native rights are involved. 
I desire to make a few observations in rebuttal of certain statements of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in closing the debate on the motion for the second reading of the bill. The right honorable gentleman asked what guarantee we had that the  per capita  system of payments to the States would be continued for any length of time, assuming that they had not been abolished by this Government. I, in turn, ask him what guarantee he can give that the system embodied in this measure will continue for any length of time, or that the people of Australia will ratify the agreement when it is submitted to them at a referendum? He has no such guarantee. We realize that it is very difficult indeed to secure an alteration of the Constitution, because it must be consented to by a majority of the electors in a majority of the States. Several attempts have been made to have the Constitution altered in the direction of giving the Commonwealth Parliament greater powers, and nearly all have failed. The right honorable gentleman asserted that the Labour party would have abolished the  per capita  system if it had been in power. I refer him to the platform of our party, which proves that his statement is inaccurate. He then went on to infer that the figures which I quoted during the secondreading debate were obtained from an honorable member of another place. I give that statement a flat denial. The figures I used were compiled in my own office and without reference to the speech made by any other member of this Parliament. The Leader of the Senate stated that he could not understand how I had estimated that the increase of population in Western Australia would be at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum. He pointed out that the State had increased its population at a high rate during the gold rush, and that he had based his figures on statistics for the last six years. 
The figures which I quoted covered a period of 26 years - from 1900 to 1926- and did not take into account the accelerated increase clue to the discovery of gold. During the period mentioned the rate of increase was 2.91 per cent., compared with 2.65 per cent, quoted by the Minister. I suggest that my basis of computation was the fairer one, and further that there is good reason to believe that, in view of the rapid progress now being made in Western Australia, the rate of increase, during the period of the agreement will be , in the neighbourhood of 3 per cent, per annum. 
I regard my estimate as a modest, if not a conservative one. On this basis of calculation, assuming that the  per capita  payment had been continued, Western Australia would have received at the end of 58 years not £66,000,000 as stated by the Minister, but £74,000,000. The right honorable gentleman admitted that my calculations were sound, except in regard to the figures relating to the 5s. per cent, which the Commonwealth will, under the agreement, pay to the sinking fund for new loans. Let us examine the position more closely. Assuming that Western Australia borrowed money at the rate of £4,000,000 per annum, for the full term of the agreement - and this assumption is based on the amounts raised in recent years - the right honorable gentleman said the State would receive from the Commonwealth Government something like £66,000,000. That statement is entirely misleading, as I shall endeavour to show. Now, 5s. per cent on £4,000,000 represents £10,000 a year. That is the sum which, the Commonwealth would pay to the State in respect of the sinking fund on State loans for the first year. In the second year, assuming that the State raised another £4,000,000, the Commonwealth Government would pay an extra £10,000 into the sinking fund, or a total of £30,000 for the first two years. At that rate the Commonwealth in 58 years would pay into the sinking fund £17,000,000. 
I have considered that point. If the  per capita  pay- ments were continued, portion of the money so paid, would go to the sinking fund for . loan redemption. The amounts actually paid to the States, plus the interest on the sinking fund investments, would be greater than the sum which the States will receive under the agreement. I maintain that under the present proposals Western Australia will be approximately £25,000,000 worse off than it would be under the  per capita  system. It has been stated during the debate that the Premiers of the' States agreed to the proposal under duress. I endorse that view. The representatives of the States had no alternative. The Government had cut off their main source of supply. Consequently they had to make the best of a difficult position. Reference to the speeches at the conference support my contention.  Mr. Lang  said - 
The Federal Government's scheme for a rearrangement of the financial arrangements of the Commonwealth and  the  States is  not acceptable to  New South Wales, which  under  it would be in a worse position than under the earlier proposals for the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments. 
We have also a similar expression of opinion from  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Acting Premier of Queensland. He said - 
The Queensland Government has very carefully considered the draft proposals originally submitted by the Federal Government, and whilst not retreating in any way from its attitude in regard to the withdrawal of the  per capita  payment is  prepared to accept,  with amendments,  the  underlying principles of the scheme..... Coming to the main proposals so far as we have considered them, I am of the opinion that they do not provide an equivalent for what we are losing by the abolition of the  per capita  system. 
That is a very definite statement by one of the representatives at the conference. The next quotation I wish to make is from the speech of  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia. He said - 
 The proposals are very attractive in that they provide for a larger contribution to the States for at least a number of years, a larger contribution than would have been received under the  per capita  system. As to how long the States will benefit under this proposal, as compared with the old system, it is difficult to say. We may make calculations to cover a long period - 15, 20 or 40 years - but after all they must bp largely speculative. The proposal involves the amount of annual borrowing and the contribution of the Commonwealth Government to the sinking fund, lt also involves the question of increasing population, and in this respect I think the advantage is with the Commonwealth, because it may happen that the increase may be greater than that taken into consideration in the tables of statistics before us. We have based our figures upon a 2 per cent, increase in population, which percentage was given to us by the Commonwealth Statistician; but we know that for years past the population of Queensland has increased at a rate greater than 2 per cent. That is, therefore, a speculative matter, and possibly the future will show us that we have been very much astray in our calculations. 
Thus we have the representatives of three States at the conference stating definitely that from the point of view of the States, the new proposals would not be so good as the continuation of the  per capita  system. I repeat, therefore, that the States were obliged to accept the agreement. They had been placed in a tight corner, and had no option. What will be the fate of the agreement when it is submitted to the people I do not know. That is in the lap of the gods. I am convinced, however, that the Government, supported by a majority in this Parliament, has made a mistake in withdrawing the capitation payments to the States, thus taking away from them their main source of supply. It is well known and admitted that the responsibilities of the States for the construction of roads and railways, and the provision of education and other important public services, are steadily increasing, and that therefore their financial resources should not be curtailed. While the agreement may benefit them during the earlier years, I am satisfied that before it runs its course the States will be much the poorer. This will be particularly true of Western Australia. For these reasons I would prefer the third reading of the bill to be negatived. 
Before the final act of this ignoble drama vanishes from the stage and passes into regretful memory, I desire to have a last word. The passing of the third reading of the bill will mark the consent of the Senate to this measure. But there is yet hope- 'even at this, the 11th hour and the 59th minute - that this chamber will awaken to a sense of its duty and consider the rights of the States in this matter. .The introduction of the bill would suggest that in some quarters it is thought that the States have no rights at  all. Let me remind the Senate that in this instance, by conserving to the States their rights, we shall injure no other party ; we certainly shall not injure the Commonwealth. When we speak, as we are obliged to do to-day - of the rights of this and future generations, we are only doing our duty. This Parliament is the custodian of the interests of future generations as well  as  of those of the present generation. When we borrow money - whether it be for 20, 30, or 35 years, we incur liabilities which future generations will have to meet. Similarly, when we tamper with the Constitution to meet the needs of the immediate future, or, at most, the needs of this and the' next generation, we affect generations yet unborn. At the time of federation the States were given a solemn undertaking that they would continue to receive financial assistance from the central government. I challenge any honorable senator to produce one declaration by any of the founders of federation that the States would be denied financial succour. Yet, under this agreement, the States will suffer financial injury. The founders of federation were intellectual giants, men whose names are household words even to-day. The first Federal ministry, led by  Sir Edmund  Barton, was a ministry of giants, as was also the ministry which succeeded it. It would be wearying to honorable senators were I to reiterate what they said; it is well known that they were all of one opinion  - that the States should continue to share in the revenue of the Commonwealth. I go further; and say that, had it not been for that understanding, federation would never have been consummated. Now, after 27 years of federation, it is proposed to repudiate the bond then entered into. The word of the fathers of federation, which, in their time, they kept as a sacred trust, is to be dishonorably broken. The States will be left to the mercy of the Commonwealth. All that they will receive can only be described as a contemptible dole. 
I do not believe in the policy of securing ourselves, and saying " After us, the deluge ". Nor do I believe in adapting the old Egyptian adage to our time, and saying, "Eat, drink and be merry for to-morrow this generation will die, and the generation that will follow must take care of itself." The Constitution was framed for all the generations that would follow. . It certainly implied that the financial stability of the States would be secured to them. We ought to preserve a proper balance between the Commonwealth and the' States; but this agreement will' mean the death-knell of the financial security of the States. It will leave to them only the flotsam and jetsam which will remain after the Commonwealth has exploited every field of taxation. With the exception of a paltry £5,000,000, the customs and excise revenue is to be retained by the Commonwealth. It is true that there still remain to the States land and income taxation, probate duties, and the entertainments tax. But even those fields will not be wholly reserved to the States. With the Commonwealth still sharing the spoils of those lucrative fields of taxation, what chance will the States have of getting the wherewithal to finance their undertakings? It is a firmly established fact that where different authorities share the same sources of revenue the paramount body always . has first preference. In that case the necessities of the States will be subordinated to the desires of the Commonwealth. The States will be reduced to a condition of impecuniosity and utter financial helplessness. When that comes to pass what will be the position of the average citizen ? 
I remind honorable senators that, before federation, the States accomplished much useful work in this country, and that they Still have heavy responsibilities. In Australia the duties and functions of the States are different from those of the States comprising any other federation. The States of the American union, whose constitution we borrowed, are no more like the States in the Australian federation than is noon like the dark midnight hour. The smallest State in our union performs duties and accepts responsibilities which, in the time of Thomas Jefferson, were unthought of as coming within the province of individual States. In Australia, transport facilities, the provision of water and light, and other public utilities have always been under the control of the States, and probably will continue to be discharged by them. -With these heavy obligations to meet, and the 
Commonwealth obtaining for itself as much as it can squeeze out of the people, it stands to reason that the States will be reduced to a position of helplessness. In such' circumstances the position of a man far removed from the seat of Government at Canberra will not be an enviable one. Under existing conditions he knows that his necessities will be supplied by the government of the State in which he lives but with its sources of supply cut off, to whom will he be able to turn for succour? As the custodians of the rights of the people, the Senate should assert itself and maintain a proper balance between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Considerations of a purely transient nature have influenced the framers of this agreement. It is true that because of the war in which this country was involved heavy expenditure has to be met annually by the Commonwealth, but its war obligations must necessarily come to an end. The day must come when it will no longer be necessary to pay soldiers' pensions and some of the other war liabilities which now have to be met. After 1960 it is not likely that very many of the men who served in the great war will be living. It is true that their dependents may still be a burden on our finances, but, even so, we can safely assume that the payment of war pensions will practically cease about 1960. 
I am aware .that pensions are being paid in that country to the dependants of those who fought in the Civil War. In our case it is reasonable to  asume  that after 1960 it will no longer be necessary to pay any considerable amount by way of war pensions. Nor should it then be necessary to meet an annual expenditure of £21,000,000 for general Avar indebtedness. We have provided for a sinking fund of 10s. per cent, for the liquidation of those debts. The money to be applied towards the extinction of our war indebtedness will do its work by 1970, or eighteen years before this agreement terminates. What will be the position of the Commonwealth Trea surer of the day who will then be relieved of an expenditure of £30,000,000. I challenge the Government to deny that, on the one hand, expenditure will be reduced to the extent I have mentioned, and on the other, that the States will be deprived of £20,000,000. There may be £50,000,000 which the Commonwealth Government of the day will be enjoying while the States will be receiving only a miserable pittance. The Commonwealth will still be roaming over all the fields of taxation and carrying out duties, which, in comparison with those undertaken by the States, are infinitesimal. 
Take the position of a man in the back country of Australia to-day. The only service or benefit he gets from Commonwealth activities is perhaps an oldage pension or the delivery of a letter or two to him. All his other daily needs are met by services which the State authorities provide. When the central authority will be in this bloated financial position, and the States will be acting in a strikingly subordinate capacity, the outlook of the average citizen will be dismal, and his prospects still further jeopardized. The balance between the two authorities is now being upset, and as a result the people of this country will have to seek some means to make both ends meet so that they may take their part in the great race of life. The people will then find that the central authorities are rolling in wealth while the State authorities are hungering for a crust. In determining the nature of a permanent adjustment we should not allow a passing phase to influence us. Has the Minister in charge of the bill ever considered the attitude which would be adopted by two citizens entering into an agreement to go into business? They would doubtless review the balance-sheets over a period of years; the business might have shown a profit of 10 per cent, .or more on the turnover; but for two years there might have been an abnormal number of bad debts. I do not think they would allow those two years to seriously influence them. Let me give another illustration. A person buying an area of land might open negotiations during a time when the land was not covered with luxurious growth of grass. He might be faced with a sea of desolation as we know is the case when parts of the country are suffering under the effects of a withering drought. Would such a seasonal visitation be taken into serious consideration in assessing the value of the land over a period of years? That would be taken into account to an infinitesimal degree; but it would not be allowed to figure in the transaction as was our war expenditure in these negotiations. When arranging a proper adjustment between the Commonwealth and the States, these passing phases of our national life should not be allowed to permanently influence the settlement. 
I have already quoted figures showing that over a period of years the States have had as many deficits as they have had surpluses. Thin doubtless caused the present State Treasurers to come to hurried terms with the Prime Minister. Naturally they thought they saw a way out of the immediate difficulties confronting them, but in doing so they have forfeited the rights of future generations. That they are not entitled to do. This is an unsatisfactory adjustment under which the States will not receive the rights to which they are constitutionally entitled; it means that financially their death warrant has been signed. 
I regret that apparently the Senate has decided to support this proposal, and I now say advisedly that its action provides ample justification for the statements . of those who urge that the Senate has outlived its usefulness, and is not doing that which under the Constitution it was expected to do. Various decisions given by it show that it is now nothing more than a chamber in which we find a re-echo of Government policy. We have an opportunity in this case, however, for the Senate to assert its rights and to perform its constitutional duties. You, sir, as one who has had extensive experience in the political life of this country, know that the State Legislative Councils exercise their powers in no mean way in shaping public policy. But the Senate - the Upper House of the Commonwealth Parliament - on a vital question is bowing its knee to the will of the Government irrespective of the right of the States which it was constituted to protect. The interests of the States, and particularly a State such as 
I represent, where the  per capita  payments could give relief in a permanent form, are being sacrificed. Under the proposed agreement no relief can be afforded in the development of new areas. The Senate was specially constituted to preserve State rights and to hold the balance fairly between the central and State authorities; but it has failed in its duty. I can see no justification for the course which has been followed. One by ona State rights are being whittled away, and well might the States say, " He who takes the wherewithal by which I live, takes my life." 
I have voiced my protest, and have made an earnest appeal to the Senate to recognize its duty to the States. It is gratifying to know that there is still a final court of appeal - there must still be an appeal open to those of us who disapprove of this agreement to the people. Although I am afraid the issue will not be decided in our . favour, I maintain that the rights of the States are being jeopardized and filched from. them. I trust, however, that when a final appeal is made, we shall get something like a verdict so that there will not be too much encroachment upon the unalienable rights of the States. I shall oppose the scheme during the next election campaign, and shall vote against the third reading of the bill. I trust that as a result of the referendum which is to be held there will be a reversal of the verdict which the Senate is about to record. 
[3.56].-- I wish to correct an interjection which I made while the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  was speaking. When the honorable senator said that my figures as to the increase of population in Western- Australia were based on statistics for the last six years I interjected that they covered a period of ten years. On refreshing my memory by a reference to my notes, I find, however, that his statement was correct. I was misled because I had inferred that his calculations had included the ten years during which there was a mining boom, which had a marked effect upon the figures. The Leader of the Opposition also asked what guarantee there was that the agreement embodied in this billwould continue in force. There is this guarantee: it can be rescinded or varied only by the consent of the parties thereto, and only with their full agreement. It is obvious that if the Commonwealth and the States are of the opinion that it should be rescinded or altered that can be done. 
SenatorNeedham. - What will happen if it is not ratified by the people? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCEThen it will be the duty of the parliament of the day to provide something in its place. When I am asked what guarantee, there is that the people will approve the agreement, I can only say that the commonsense and good judgment of the people will enable them to know . a good thing when they see it.  Senator Lynch  is very optimistic, and I hope his assertion that the payment of war pensions will cease 50 years hence will come true. That has not been the experience in the United States of America, where war pensions are still being paid as they were soon after the Civil War, although every person who took part in it is dead. The pensions are being paid to the dependants. I remind  Senator Lynch,  who referred to the rights of the States, of the story of the soldier who claimed that the whole of the regiment was out of step with him. I suggest that there is just a faint possibility - I admit that I may be wrong - that the real position is that  Senator Lynch  wishes to give away the rights of the States, whilst we who support the agreement wish to safeguard them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.1]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the message 'being at once considered, and all consequent action taken. 
The modifications made by another place are consequential. They contain no departure in principle from any of the requests made by the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Ordered - 

That the message be taken into consideration in committee forthwith. 

 In committee (Consideration of House of Representatives' message) : 
On motion by  Senator McLachlan,  the consequential modifications made by the House of Representatives in items 105 and 208 were agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
As a matter of fact there is no Excise Tariff 1927, and for the sake of good draughtsmanship the words " as amended by the Excise Tariff 1927 " should be excised. The Excise Tariff was originally dealt with in two separate measures which it was subsequently decided to combine. In the act of combining them these words were inadvertently retained. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
[4.13].- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As a result of very careful consideration of the defence policy of the Commonwealth following upon , the deliberations of theImperial Conference in October, 1923, the Government in 1924 embarked upon a developmental programme to be completed in 1928-29. This programme included the construcof two 10,000 ton cruisers, the  Australia  and the  Canberra,  two sea-going submarines, the  Oxley  and the  Otway,  and one seaplane carrier, the  Albatross.  It is anticipated that the  Australia,  which will be put into commission next month, will arrive in Australian waters about October or November next. The  Canberra  will probably leave England during December next and arrive in Australia in January, 1929-. . The new submarines were recently commissioned and commenced the voyage to Australia unaccompanied. Extremely rough weather was encountered between England and Gibraltar, and on arrival at Malta it was found that defects had developed in the main engine supporting columns. The contractors accepted the responsibility for the cost of the substitution of new columns and repairs are now being effected at Malta. As soon as possible after these are completed the submarines will continue the voyage to Australia. Satisfactory progress is being made with the construction at Cockatoo Island dockyard, of the seaplane carrier which was launched on the 23rd February last, and its completion is contemplated towards the end of the year. 
The estimated cost of these five vessels equipped is £7,400,000, towards which sums already specially appropriated aggregate £4,500,000, viz.- Defence Equipment Act 1924, £2,000,000 ; Naval Construction Act 1925, £1,500,000; and Defence Equipment Act 1926, £1,000,000, leaving a balance of £2,900,000 still to be made available to complete the programme. Under this bill that amount is to be appropriated. As stated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, only £1,880,000 of the total of £2,900,000 will be transferred from Revenue to Trust Account during this financial year, the former sum, together with balance unexpended from the previous appropriations of £4,500,000, being adequate to cover anticipated expenditure- upon the programme during the current year. The balance of appropriation, viz., £1,020,000, will be made available from revenue in 1928-29. It will be recollected that, at the time of the passage of the Defence Equipment Act, 1926, in June, 1926, the estimated cost of the naval construction programme was stated as £7,000,000, whereas it is now £7,400,000 - an increase of £400,000. This increase is due to the following :  - 
additional expenditure on torpedoes, ammunition and gun mountings consequent upon improvements and modifications in those items - also to the cost of fitting in each cruiser a catapult for launching seaplanes, decision upon this having been reached recently ; 
an increase of approximately £71,000 is involved for- the Seaplane Carrier, £18,000 of which is due to increased prices for armament, while an additional £53,000 is necessary to cover the cost of application of the 44-hour week and the Workers' Compensation Acts in New South Wales ; 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.The total increase above the original estimate is £400,000. The third cause of the increase is - 
approximately £160,000 increase is also involved in necessary aircraft required for the two new cruisers and seaplane carrier. 
It is further proposed that a sum of £120,000 shall be appropriated under this bill for the continuance of the survey of the Great Barrier Reef. It will be readily recognized that a proper survey of the Australian coast and outlying islands and reefs, particularly the. Great Barrief Reef and the north and north-west coast of Australia, is of absolutely vital importance from the point of view of not only defence, but also the mercantile marine. For the comparatively small part already surveyed, old charts have been largely depended upon. Recent surveys show that even, when reefs and islands are correctly charted as regards contour and soundings, they are in very many cases out of position and the charts are generally very incomplete. Upon the accuracy of charts more than anything else the safety of shipping around our coasts depends, and, as even the modern charts of the east coast are incomplete and defective in certain respects, the desirableness of continuing the important work by the  Moresby  at the Great Barrier Reef will be fully appreciated. It is estimated that the £120,000 proposed to be voted will enable this vessel to carry on her important functions for two years. 
The question of transportation by air was very fully investigated at the recent  Imperial  Conference by a special Imperial Air Communications Committee, which recommended to the various Governments the early development of their air services. Further, the different Governments in Europe and America are devoting much attention to commercial aviation, recognizing the importance of improved transportation facilities. The Commonwealth Government recently has also fully considered the question and is satisfied that the extension of some of the existing, and the establishment of new, services are of vital importance. It has been decided to allocate a special sum of  £200,000  towards the development of civil aviation within the Commonwealth, and, as part of the programme, it is proposed to establish the following services :  - 
Perth-Adelaide; 
Camooweal-Daly Waters; 
Derby- Wyndham ; 
Melbourne-Hobart ; 
Charleville-Brisbane ; 
Sydney-Brisbane. 
These will involve approximately 4,000 miles of air lines, which, combined with the routes over which subsidized services arc at present operating, will mean a grand total of over 7,500 miles. When the newly proposed services are inaugurated, the entire Commonwealth will be practically encircled by airways, thus placing Australia in the forefront of all nations in so far as aviation highways are concerned. The £200,000 to be provided will be devoted to the payment of sub-  sidies to the companies which will operate the new services; to the provisioning and maintenance of aerodromes, &amp;c, along the various routes; to the additional cost of administration and supervision, and to all other activities in connexion with the development of civil aviation generally, other than those of airships, one of the major activities being the extension of the recently established system of flying training clubs and schools. 
 I notice that the bill proposes to appropriate the sum of £2,900,000 for the purpose of naval construction and only the paltry amount of £200,000 for aviation. It is not my intention at this stage to embark upon a disquisition in relation to the defence policy of the Government. I shall avail myself of another opportunity to deal comprehensively with that subject; but I say that the Government is not paying sufficient attention to the all-important question of aviation. I should rather see £200,000 appropriated for naval construction and £2,000,000 for aviation. Aviation will play a very important part if ever we should be plunged into another shambles - which, God forbid; and it will be a more important factor than cruisers in the defence of Australia should we be attacked at any time. The cruisers that have been built on Clyde Bank will be almost obsolete by the time they arrive in Australia. The great strides that have been made in aviation in other parts of the world should convince us of the necessity for devoting the keenest attention to that branch of science, for both military and civil purposes. I hope that when future appropriation bills which make provision for defence are brought forward they will disclose an intention on the part of the Government to spend much more upon the development of aviation. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [4.24].  -  SenatorNeedham has endeavoured to show that the Government has not given adequate consideration to the claims of aviation for defence and civil purposes, and he has suggested that the amount which it is now proposed to appropriate is the total sum that will be spent on aviation generally. ' I again point out that the proposed vote for naval construction is required to complete the payments for the cruisers, submarines and seaplane carriers that were included in the programme which was commenced in 1924: The Commonwealth is expending between £500,000 and £600,000 . every year upon its air force, in addition to a sum of between £120,000 and £140,000 on civil aviation and flying schools.. The amount which it is now proposed to appropriate is to be used to extend existing services. I think that honorable senators will agree that an extention of our air routes from 3,500 to 7,500 miles will be a- considerable achievement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill for an act to appropriate funds for the purchase of a supply of radium for use in the Commonwealth. Over a long period of years Federal and State statistics show a progressive increase in the death rate from the various forms of cancer. This increase is alarming, and renders it vitally necessary that every reasonable and practicable course should be followed to copewith it. In the world-wide search for means to combat its increasing toll on mankind, the most successful methods discovered are the removal of the malignant growth by surgical methods and treatment by one or other form of radiation by light energy, such as ultra violet light, X-ray and radium rays, with or without surgical aid. There has been a gradual evolution in surgical methods which are reaching perfection as far as the limitation of those methods will allow. Radiation methods are valuable substitutes for or accessories to surgical methods.- Most prominent amongst the radiation methods is the use of radium which has been effective in arresting the disease and in its treatment, particularly in cases of inoperateable cancer where surgical means cannot be employed. Although efficient surgical treatment is available to all classes of the community, efficient radio-therapeutic treatment is. not. Owing, perhaps, to the high initial cost of X-ray equipment and the heavy recurring maintenance expenses, Australia lags behind Britain, America and the Continent in its use and application of these methods. The Government, beingconvinced that a definite need existed for -the provision of means whereby- a sufficient supply of radium would be available in Australia for the treatment of all requiring it, and that the available supplies were deficient for that purpose, decided to purchase a quantity sufficient to establish a radium bank. In this action the Government was supported by the recommendations of the Federal Health Council consisting of the permanent heads of the Commonwealth and States departments of Health and also of a Cancer Advisory Committee. The Government now seeks the approval of the Senate for the appropriation of funds to meet the cost of the purchase. Owing to the fact that the introduction of radium into the human body is a highly specialized department of surgery, demanding expert knowledge of the highest quality, the Government deemed it advisable to adhere to the recommendations of its Advisory Committee and to engage an expert to superintend the preparation of the radium into the different forms in which it is used for clinical purposes and to advise on its subsequent distribution and use.  Dr. Burrows  arrived in Australia some time ago and is at present actively engaged in working out the details connected with the storage, distribution and expert utilization of this very valuable substance. I may add that the quantity to be purchased is  10  grammes. Of this amount,  3  grammes are now in Australia,  51/2  grammes will arrive next week, and  11/2  grammes are on route to the Commonwealth. 
I have no objection to offer to the bill. Cancer is one of the most malignant and deadly diseases that afflict mankind. Eminent surgeons have for some time stressed the value of radium treatment in the war which is being waged against this scourge. It is advisable, therefore, that we should do all that is possible to make available to the medical profession the most valued known means to combat the disease. I cannot help thinking, however, that the Government is not deserving of commendation for having purchased its supplies of radium outside Australia. I understand that there is a radium mine at Mount Paynter, in South Australia, where it should have been possible to obtain at least some portion of the radium required. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. I am advised that the representatives of the AustralianRadium Corporation offered to sell a certain quantity of radium to the Commonwealth Government. 
As I understand the position, when the Government was about to purchase this radium,  Dr. Cumpston  was in communication with representatives of the Australian company, and was disposed. to consider favorably its offer to supply a certain quantity. I believe he suggested that the Government should give . the company a chance to supply  5  grammes. The Government did not do this. It preferred to purchase its supplies from outside Australia at a cost of  £100,000,  for which the necessary appropriation is now sought in this bill. The Radium Beige 
Company from which the radium is being obtained, has practically  a  monopoly of the world's supply. The South Australian company was formed in  1914,  and has spent approximately  £8,000  on developmental work. On 27th October last it asked the Prime Minister to allow it to supply portion of the radium required. A letter on the departmental file will bear out my statement. As the company claimed to be in a position to supply at least a portion of the radium required by the Government, it should have been encouraged. I presume that in time further supplies will be needed. If so, I trust that the Government will endeavour to obtain the radium from the Australian company. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) .  [4.40] .  -  In reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  I may say that in July of last year  Sir Neville  Howse, who was then carrying out the duties of Minister for Health, had an interview with a Melbourne doctor, who was  chairman  of directors of Australian Radium Corporation, and was informed that the company was prepared to supply the Government with radium from its mine at Mount Paynter, but  Sir Neville  Howse gathered from the interview that the company had no radium on hand. Although, as  Senator Needham  has stated, the company has been in existence since  1914,  Sir Neville  Howse was advised that it would not be in a position to supply, radium in any quantity for perhaps nine months, or perhaps a year. In the circumstances, the Government decided to place the order outside Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.45] . -I  move - 
That the  bill  be now read a  second  time. 
By the Petroleum Prospecting Acts of 1926 and 1927, a total sum of £160,000 has been appropriated out of surplus revenue to meet expenditure in connexion with the search for mineral oil in Australia and in the Territories of New Guinea and Papua. In Australia, expenditure is being incurred in the payment of subsidies, on the basis of £1 for every £2 expended by the- recipient, to companies boring for oil in approved areas, and in contributions towards the cost of government geological surveys in selected areas. Certain administrative expenses, consisting principally of the salaries of a geological adviser, a palaeontologist and assistants, are also being incurred. In the territories, expense is being incurred in connexion with boring operations at Popo, in Papua, which are being carried out by the Anglo-Persian 
Oil Company on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, and approval was given recently for the payment of a subsidy to an oil company at Hohoro, also in Papua. The total expenditure to the end of last month was £63,658. The present indications are that the whole of the sum already appropriated will be required for work of the nature to which I have just referred. The following statement shows how the expenditure has been allocated : - 

<graphic href="118332192803296_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192803296_12_1.jpg"></graphic>

Since the last previous appropriation an arrangement has been made with the Anglo-Persian Oil Company to make a number of special surveys in Papua and New Guinea, with the object of determining the areas in those territories in which oil-boring operations by private companies might justifiably be subsidized by the Government. In pursuance of this arrangement, a well-equipped party of geologists and surveyors is now at work in Papua. As a preliminary to the land surveys, an aerial reconnaissance of the two territories was made recently by the Australian Air Force. The information obtained during that reconnaissance, by way of photographs of the country flown over, is being utilized by the geological party. The special surveys will probably extend over a period of three years, and the geological and aerial operations will, it is estimated, involve an expenditure of at least £50,000. The object of the bill is to appropriate an additional sum of £50,000 to cover that expenditure. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.Geological surveys are being carried out in New Guinea preparatory to advances being made to the companies operating there. It may interest honorable senators if I give a forecast of the probable ex- 

<graphic href="118332192803296_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

Operations are still being continued at Popo, but I am not aware of the depth which the bore has reached. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee - 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Appropriation of £50,000 for petroleum prospecting). 
.- Has the Minister any official information to give to the Senate as to the possibility of oil being discovered in commercial quantities at any of the places he has mentioned ? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [4.51]. - I have no information as to the results which may be expected from the boring operations now taking place, excepting that the ground is considered to be worth testing. 
I hope that the Government will not lose sight of the possibility of obtaining oil from coal and shale in Australia. I point out that this is being done on a commercial basis in Germany. 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; re-' port adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.55]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
By this bill it is proposed to amend the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1920 in regard to the payment of allowances to senators and members of the House of Representatives. 
In the case of a senator chosen or appointed to fill a casual vacancy the existing law provides that the payment of his allowance shall commence from the day on which his name is certified by the Governor of a State to the Governor-General. The bill provides that payment shall commence from the date of his choice or appointment. It also provides that when a dissolution of the Senate takes place, senators who arc candidates at the succeeding election willreceive their allowances up to the day of election. A similar provision is made in respect of members of the House of Representatives in the case of a dissolution of that branch of the legislature. 
This bill makes what, I think honorable senators generally will agree, is a necessary provision. Through want of it many members of this Parliament have suffered loss in the past. During the interregnum between the date of dissolution of Parliament and the next election, retiring members perform a lot of work for their constituents, and are, therefore, entitled to payment. ' 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed  through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received from  Senator Sir Henry  Barwell a letter dated 22nd March, 1928, resigning his place as a  Senator for  the State of South Australia, on account of his impending departure for Great Britain. 
I have also to inform the Senate that, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, I notified the Governor of South Australia of the vacancy caused in the representation of that State in the Senate by the resignation of  Senator Sir Henry  Barwell, and that I have received from  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral a certificate of the appointment of Albert William Robinson as a  Senator to  fill such vacancy. 
Certificate laid on the table and read by the  Clerk. 

 Senator Robinson made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 
[3.8]. - I lay on the table of the Senate the tenders received for the purchase of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
I take this course to enable me to give the Senate information concerning the sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, which was completed by the signing of the contract between the parties on Saturday last. Honorable senators have already had an opportunity to discuss the advisability of selling the. steamers, and I do not propose to touch upon that phase of the question to-day. I assume that all honorable senators are well acquainted with the fact that the Commonwealth Government has invited tenders on two occasions' for the purchase of. the Line. On the first occasion no tenders were received. On the second occasion three tenders were submitted and that of the White Star Line was subsequently accepted. It is with that company that the contract has been signed. When the Line was offered for sale on the last occasion the only absolute condition laid down was that the vessels should be retained on the British register, but the Commonwealth Government indicated that it would require the purchasers to maintain a service equivalent to that which was being given by the "Bay" and "Dale" steamers, and that preference would be given to any tenderer who submitted proposals to safeguard shippers to and from Australia arid' made definite proposals for ?be extension of the service available over and above that given by the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. There were two other tenders besides- that which was submitted by the "White Star Line. The original offer of the White Star Line was ?1,850,000, but owing to circumstances to which I shall allude presently, that amount was subsequently increased to ?1,900,000. 

 Sir James Connolly', of 30 Cadogansquare,  London, submitted an offer of ?1,575,000 on behalf of the Australian  Commonwealth  Shipping Company of 1928,. a company which it is contemplated would have been formed for the acquisition of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, had that tender been accepted. The third tender was received from Runciman (London) Limited, the offer' being ?l,000-:000; but by a communication dated 13th April, the amount was increased to ?1,250;000 provided  that the 'Commonwealth  Government gave an option o"S the Line to  that  company for' a certain- period. 
In considering these offers, it has been necessary to bring the position of the Line absolutely up to date. The figures that have been compiled, and which I shall quote, are accurate, although they have not yet been examined by the AuditorGeneral. They are truly indicative of the position up to the 31st March of this year. I do- not propose to give the history of the Australian Commonwealth- Line of Steamers-, because that has- already been discussed iri the Senate, particularly in 1923, when the Line was placed under the control of the Commonwealth Shipping Board, its capital' value being then written down by approximately ?8,000,000, and again last November, when Parliament reviewed the whole position. The following statement compares the results of the operation of the fleet for the years ended 31st March, 1927, and 1928 :- 

<graphic href="118332192804265_1_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192804265_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

I now propose to analyse the three ten=ders that have been received. The first is from the White Star Line. Its original offer was £1,850,000 ; but it has since been increased to £1,900,000. There is a reason for that increase. Under the conditions of tender it was provided that delivery of the ships should be at the first terminal port of call after the contract had been signed. As the fleet is trading between Australia and Great Britain, that meant that half of the vessels would be delivered in Australia and half in Great Britain. The tender of the White Star Line stipulated that, delivery of all ships should be in Great Britain. We cabled to the company pointing out that that . stipulation was a departure from the terms of the invitation to tender, and, if insisted upon, would involve the Commonwealth Government in the repatriation of all of the crews instead of half of them, as contemplated under the original invitation to tender. We indicated that the repatriation of all the  crews  would mean an increased expenditure on the part of the Commonwealth of £85,000, and the company, in view of that circumstance, agreed to increase its offer from £1,850,000 to £1,900,000. The company also agreed to assist the Commonwealth in repatriating the crews from Great Britain. It undertook to employ as many of the officers and engineers of the Line as practicable, and subsequently, in response to a cable from the Commonwealth Government, agreed to employ the personnel and sea- men who desired to remain on the vessels provided that they were suitable for the work. 
No. The Commonwealth gained that amount. The company has also given an undertaking that there shall be no general increase of freights without reference to a committee, to be appointed in Australia comprising representatives of such bodies as the Export Control Boards and the Australian shippers. 
The second condition was that tenders must be submitted by natural-born British subjects or from companies that will give an assurance that they will remain under British control. The White Star Company has a capital of £9,000,000, £5,000,000 of which is represented by preference shares, practically all of which are held by British subjects. As honorable senators will see by reference to the paper I have laid on the table, the Government has had the shipping register searched to ascertain by whom the shares in the company are held. Ordinary shares, representing £4,000,000 are held by Britishers. £1,000 each being held by Lord Abercorn, Lord Kylsant,  Mr. Sanderson,  and  Mr. Clark.  The Union Castle Company, Elder Dempster and Company, and the Royal Mail Company, each hold 1,000,000, and the Pacific Steam Navigation Company, and the Nelson Company, approximately 500,000 each. All these are British companies. The Government is, therefore, satisfied that the White Star Company complies with the condition laid down that the ships shall be sold only to a British company. 
As regards the price at which the vessels have been sold, it is difficult to make comparisons. It must be remembered that ships, have a limited life, and that the rate of depreciation increases 
With the life of the ship. : There is greater depreciation in connexion" with  p  ship ten years old than with one only five years old. 
That is so. The only record of comparative sales which the Shipping Board was able to obtain relates to two Italian vessels that were sold recently, and the  Ormuz,  one of the vessels of the Orient line. The gross tonnage of the  Ormuz  is given as 14,588, and the net tonnage as 8,082. The figures for the " Bay " steamers are 13,856 tons gross, and 8,415 tons net. The passenger carrying capacity of the  Ormuz  is 1,181 persons, as against a passenger carrying capacity of 738 in the case of the " Bay " steamers. The speed of the  Ormuz  when fully laden is from fifteen knots to fifteen and a half knots an hour, and that of the " Bay " steamers fifteen knots. The Commonwealth steamers were built in 1921-22 and the  Ormuz  in 1914; so the Orient Company's vessel is considerably older. The price received for that vessel was £257,500, but it included brokerage, which is a fairly heavy charge, whereas the Commonwealth vessels are being sold free of brokerage. The two Italian ships which have been sold recently are much smaller. Their gross tonnage is 9,700, and their net tonnage 5,900 ; but their passenger carrying capacity is high. Both have accommodation for 1,265 passengers, as against 738 in the case of the "Bay" steamers. Their speed also is greater, being fifteen to sixteen knots an hour, against the fifteen ' knots of the Commonwealth vessels. These Italian vessels were built in 1914 and 1915 and were sold in December last for £175,000 each. 
As the particulars of the other tenders are set out in the paper which has been laid on the table, I do not propose to analyse them in detail. One was from Runciman (London) Ltd., and the other from  Sir James  Connolly, who was representing a company to be formed. It is sufficient to say that in both cases the price submitted was not anything like as good as that of the White Star Company and the terms were not as favorable. Moreover, in the case of both tenders, there was to be no deposit, and the conditions were so onerous that no Government could accept them. 
We have been told that one of the objections to the sale of the ships, and it is one that was urged when this matter was discussed in the Senate, is that they have been of immense advantage to Australia's interstate trade. There have been one or two instances where the Line has been of assistance in that direction; but they do not offer a solution of the problem presented to us. 
I shall give the Senate the information. In this regard I may mention that a gentleman writing in the press over the nom de plume of " Traveller," said that the coastal passengers carried by the vessels of the Commonwealth Line represented 50 per cent, of the total passenger trade in Australia, and that if the first class passengers were excluded the "Bay" liners carried 80 per cent, of the total interstate passenger traffic. The Government statistician, after examining the figures, reported that the interstate arrivals and departures by sea in and from each State and in and from the Northern Territory for 1926', totalled 362,148. Those are the latest figures available and the statistics so far to hand for 1927 indicate a similar position. Of those passengers the "Bay" liners carried 12,350 or 3.4 per cent, of the total number. We have also been informed that the "Bay" liners were carrying a good deal of the interstate freight. The actual position is that for the year 1927 the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers carried 4,283 tons of- coastal freight, made up as follows: - General cargo 1,085 tons, meat 1,590 tons, butter 1,513 tons, flour 50 tons, and fruit 45 tons. On the other hand, for the last five years the total tonnages'' carried by coastal vessels were as follows: - 

<graphic href="118332192804265_3_2.jpg"></graphic>

These figures show that the interstate tonnage carried by the "Bay" steamers represented a percentage of only 0.6. There have been occasions when licences to engage in the coastal trade have been given to the ships of overseas companies. During the last two years 174 of such licenses have been issued, when the cargoes carried, consisting principally of meat, totalled 13,398 tons. The figures I have given show that whatever other argument may be used against the sale of the Line, it cannot be said that in disposing of it we are aiming a fatal blow at the Australian coastal service. 
I have briefly outlined the main factors in connexion with the sale, and have now only to refer to one or two points. One is the attitude of certain industrial unions, which have threatened that when the sale is accomplished, they will declare " black " the ships of the White Star Line, and will endeavour to hold up shipping services  of Australia as a reprisal - against the people for the action of the Government. In this connexion I direct the attention of honorable senators to a statement made by the Prime Minister in another place. To that I have nothing to add, except to say that I am sure that a great majority of honorable senators, in fact the whole of the Senate, will not allow Parliament to be dragooned by a threat such as that which I have mentioned. 
In view of the sale of the Line, it became necessary for the Government to review the position of the Cockatoo Island dockyard. It is now proposed to call for tenders to lease that dockyard. I do not intend to-day to go into the conditions of the lease, because they will be advertised, and honorable senators will then have an opportunity to see exactly what is contemplated; but it is proposed to invite applications for a lease of the Cockatoo Island dockyard under conditions that will enable the Government to retain it as an efficient dockyard for defence purposes. To sum up, the result of the sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers is that the Commonwealth cuts a loss of over £500,000 per annum, and retains the services of the Line for the Australian overseas trade. There is also a possibility that  if the conditions are favorable, the operations of the Line  will  be extended and larger vessels will be employed in the Australian trade. Any one familiar with the history of the Line, and who studies the particulars which I have submitted, will agree with me when I say that the Commonwealth has made a good bargain. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
 I lay on the table the report of the Royal Commission on the Moving Picture Industry in Australia, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
The subject of this report is most important and the investigations of the commission have been exhaustive and thorough. The censorship of films is controlled by the Department of Trade and Customs by reason of its powers to deal with the importation and exportation of all commodities, amongst which, of course, picture films are included. For many years there has been a growing feeling in the Commonwealth that complete film control is an important social and moral necessity, and although control nas been rigidly exercised by the Commonwealth Censorship within its powers, these powers have been found lacking in some very important aspects. There has been a general desire amongst the members of the legislature that an extended area of control should be exercised by the Commonwealth, and last year the Government considered that the time was ripe for the creation of some body that would be able to conduct an investigation into the whole subject. Consequently, a select committee appointed by Parliament commenced this investigation in April last year, and was subsequently created a royal commission armed with the necessary powers to investigate thoroughly all questions and matters raised in connexion with the industry. 
The Government has carefully examined the report and recommendations of the commission, and on its behalf I desire to inform the Senate of the policy that it is proposed to adopt in connexion with them. The commission's report contains many suggestions which the Government think should be carried out. In particular the recommendation that there should be uniformity throughout the Commonwealth in regard to the laws dealing with the motion picture industry is cordially endorsed. This suggestion is considered to form the essential basis of effective control of the industry, and to be the real key to the complete solution of. present difficulties. The permanent  strengthening of the censorship is adopted as a policy, the nomination of a woman on the censorship is agreed to, and the commission's suggestions regarding the fostering of the picture industry in Australia will be probed and developed. On many other points, too, the commission has made suggestions which may be successfully worked out later. As already mentioned,  the fundamental fact is that the Commonwealth's power of control over the industry at present is limited to importation and exportation only. The two questions for consideration, therefore, are - 
Whether steps should be taken to acquire wider powers; and, if so, in what way; 
What action should be taken immediately to strengthen the censorship pending the acquisition of such larger powers. 
The State of Victoria has,by legislation, already authorized an agreement with the Commonwealth to empower the Commonwealth Censor to act as censor for Victoria, and it appears quite possible that all the States would agree to a Commonwealth control. Uniformity of control has much to be said in its favour from every point of view, and the following recommendation of the commission has been adopted by the Government: - 
That . . . the Commonwealth Government request the States to meet them in conference for the purpose of arriving at an agreement whereby the States would enact legislation under section 51, paragraph xxxvii, of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, and would give the Commonwealth power to control the motion picture industry as indicatedin this report (page 26, paragraph 208 (2) ). 
As honorable senators are aware, section 51, paragraph xxxvii, provides that the Parliament of the Commonwealth may make laws with respect to matters referred to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the Parliament or Parliaments of any State or States, but so that the law shall extend only to States by whose Parliaments the matter is referred or which afterwards adopt the law. 
Referring to the commission's recommendations as summarized on page 28 of the report, the following actionwill be taken by the Government: - 
RecommendationsNos. 1 to 4 deal with the existing censorship. Present arrangements, owing to the growth of the work and of responsibility, were some time ago found to be inadequate, and consequently somewhat unsatisfactory. The leakages referred to by the royal commission were entirely due to the shortage of staff. In reviewing the position some three months ago the Minister for Trade and Customs found that it called for immediate action, and additional responsible help for the Sydney censor was secured. The new arrangement in Sydney, controlled by  Mr. W.  C. O'Reilly, with the assistance of  Colonel Hurley,  is working most satisfactorily to all parties concerned, and the previous complaints of delays and overwork have ceased. A further strengthening of the censorship is suggested by the royal commission, and the Government favours the commission's recommendation of a censorship of three persons, one to be a woman. The censorship in Sydney will, therefore, be added to at an early date by the appointment of an additional censor from among suitable, capable, and experienced women applicants, completing the censorship of three persons now decided upon. 
Recommendation 5 is to the effect that the Censorship Board shall have added powers, but obviously this question, must await common action by the States and the Commonwealth. 
Recommendation  6. - More commo dious premises in Sydney have been considered very necessary for some time past, and action will be taken by the Government to provide additional amounts on the coming estimates for the purpose of carrying but the suggestions made by the commission, thereby giving greater facilities for efficient and effective administration. As a corollary of the foregoing action it is proposed to close the Melbourne office and concentrate censorship in Sydney, which is the port of entry for 98 per cent. of the films imported. This proposal will effect some saving and obviate duplication, which will offset to an extent the additional expenditure on larger premises in Sydney. It will also result in a much greater convenience to the trade. 
Recommendation 7 relates to the creation of a Censorship Board of Appeal. This the Government agrees to and it will in due course appoint such a board, the members of which will be remunerated by fees. It is considered by the Government that the board should consist of three persons and not five as suggested by the commission, as the latter number may prove unwieldy and unnecessary. The Government will also, in this case, provide that one of the members of the board of appeal shall be a woman, and the creation of the board will be proceeded with by regulation pending the larger question of joint Commonwealth and State control being settled. It is obvious that the duties of this board of appeal will supersede for the present the functions of the Chief Censor now located in Melbourne, but with the developments and work hoped for regarding film production in Australia, and uniform control throughout the Cornwealth the duties of the members of the board of appeal will be important and far reaching. The period of appointment which the Government proposes is up to three years for each member of the board of appeal, retirement if possible to be in rotation. The Government agrees with the commission's conclusions that there should be no trade representa. tion on the censorship or the board of appeal to be created in connexion therewith. 
Recommendation 10 deals with the powers of the Censorship Appeal Board. It is clear that for the present the board will deal principally with appeals from the censorship, and also developments of recommendations 20, 21 and £2 regarding awards of merit. The other suggested functions must, of course, await concerted action by the Commonwealth and States. 
With regard to the marking of films, as suggested in- recommendation 11, the marking of films imported may be insisted upon under an amendment of the Commerce Act which the Government proposes to introduce in connexion with other matters. Some of the films imported into the Commonwealth are now marked with the country of origin, but to insist upon the country of origin being exhibited compulsorily will require wider powers from the States. 
Recommendation 12 refers to control over importers. This suggestion cannot be completely adopted without additional powers being obtained. The Government agrees with the desirability of keeping in check those few traders who have in the past imported films without regard to the standard of censorship set up. It is doubtful whether the Commonwealth has, as yet, any power over the compulsory registration of film importers. 
Recommendations 13, 14 and 15, regarding the distribution of films, and recommendations 16, 17, 18 and 19 regarding exhibitors and the exhibition of films, must await the result of the con.ference with the States.  Recommendations  20, 21, and 22 refer to film production in Australia and the Government agrees with  them  in principle. Careful consideration will be given to the best means of giving effect to the recommendations submitted and any other methods by which film production in Australia can be stimulated. 
Recommendations 23 to 32 deal with the qUota system. This formed the subject of legislation in Great Britain and also in the State of Victoria. The Government accepts these recommendations in principle, but the detailed developments of any definite scheme must await the acquisition of wider powers by the Commonwealth. 
Recommendation 33 regarding the film and native races will be taken up at once by the Government, and it will also take such action as may be possible within its existing powers pending the co-operation of the States. Instructions will be given to the administrators of the various Territories of the Commonwealth in the direction suggested. It may be some time before the effect of the action taken is discernible, Owing to the number of films still available for exhibition which have been passed by the censorship. 
Recommendations 34, 35 and 36 refer to children in connexion with the exhibition of picture films. One of the most frequent causes of complaint regarding the character of certain pictures which are shown on the screen is their unsuitability for the child-mind and their detrimental effect upon the young people of the community. While the compulsory enforcement of the recommendations of the commission requires wider powers than the Commonwealth at present possesses,, an instalment of reform will be inaugurated at the earliest possible date by classifying films in the manner suggested by the commission. This, with the co-operation of the distributors and exhibitors, will be a valuable guide to parents and those  in loco parentis  as to what films are suitable for universal exhibition. 
The Government is also in accord with recommendation 37 on the subject of educational films, and proposes instructing the censorship to give assistance to educational authorities in the various States desiring it. Recommendation 38 refers to taxation. This matter is awaiting the conclusion of judicial proceedings. 
Recommendation 39 and 40 have reference to British films. The question of British agencies in Australia has been dealt with at length in the annual reports of the censorship, and has had wide publicity. The result of this has been the establishment in the Commonwealth of at least two British agencies for the distribution of British films. There is no official censorship in Great Britain, and it is difficult to make . effective representations to any voluntary censorship established there regarding the general question of the standard of British films, but the Government proposes to make representations on this matter to the British Government. 
Recommendations 41 and 42 refer to customs duties. The Government approves of the proposal that the present duty of 1 1/2d. per lineal foot under the general tariff be increased to 2d. per lineal foot, and a proposal to that end has been submitted to Parliament. British films will still remain free, and it is hoped that additional incentive will thus be given to the importation and exhibition of suitable British films. The additional revenue from this increased duty will provide the funds necessary to carry out the recommendations made for improving administration by obtaining more suitable premises, increasing the staff and for stimulating the production of Australian pictures. Recommendations 43 and 44, suggest that reciprocal tariff preference be sought in Great Britain and other parts of the Empire. With this the Government agrees. A little has been attempted in this direction already, and the Government will take further steps to endeavour to carry out the suggestion made. 
The recommendations 45, 46 and 47 concerning the " Know your Own Country " series will be brought under the notice of the Development and Migration Commission for consideration. The Govern- ment entirely agrees with the proposals! contained in recommendations 48, 49 and 50, and they have been referred to in the suggestions for a Commonwealth and. States conference. The Government proposes to take practical and immediate steps to open up negotiations with the States, and the  chairman  of the commission. The honorable member for Wentworth  (Mr. Marks),  has been invited by the Government to assist in carrying through these negotiations. The numerous amendements of existing regulations will be found and the gazettal of new regulations necessary for the immediate adoption of the proposals of the Government pending negotiations with the States will be made in due course. These will be laid upon the table of the Senate in the usual way. Should the successful co-operation of the States be achieved, consideration will be given to legislation on the whole subject. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[3.48]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Honorable senators are aware that we cleared the notice-paper at the last sitting of the Senate, so there is no more business for to-day. It is hoped tomorrow that we shall be able to proceed with the second reading of the Commonwealth Housing Bill, and one or two other measures, of which notice was given to-day, and, also, if the Senate will agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders to-morrow, to carry those bills up to the second-reading stage. The debates may then be adjourned and resumed when we meet next week. 
I wish briefly to direct the attention of the Government to what I regard as unsatisfactory answers to two or three questions which I have asked. On 28th March, I asked whether in view of the fact that the Commonwealth Bank balancesheets were made available to members of this chamber, it would not be possible also to have the balance-sheets of the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and the Pacific Cable Board sent to honorable senators. The answer I received was that the department of the Postmaster-General had only enough copies for departmental use, but that a copy of the balance-sheet would be made available for perusal in the Library. I can quite understand the department not having a sufficient number of copies to supply all honorable senators with them, but surely the Government could Iia ve suggested to Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and the Pacific "Cable Company that copies of their balance-sheets should be made available to any member of Parliament desiring them. Without being asked to do so, the directors of the Commonwealth Bank forward copies of the half-yearly balancesheet of the bank to every member of Parliament. I do not ask that the same course should be followed in respect to the balance-sheets of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, but I do suggest that any member of Parliament who desires the balancesheets of this company should be regularly supplied with them. Why should it be necessary for an honorable senator to study them in the Library? Why cannot he peruse them comfortably in his own home? The company's balance-sheet is probably not an elaborate or costly document, and why my request in this regard cannot be met I cannot understand. On the 21st March I asked a question relating to the profit or loss made by the beam service, and was told that the directors of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, in view of the fact that they were competing with business rivals, were not prepared to furnish me with that information. If I were to purchase a share in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, I could go to an annual meeting of the company and get that information. 
If I owned 200,000 shares, I could get the information, and as a senator from New South Wales I represent people who own 200,000 shares in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. I admit that I have not had much to do with companies, but I  have yet to learn that a shareholder of a company who asks for information relating to it is not supplied with it. If this information which I seek is available to any shareholder in this company, surely it should likewise be available to those who own practically 200,000 shares in it. Australia owns 500,001 shares in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, and I suppose that the proportion owned by the people of New South Wales is about 200,000. Yet these large shareholders are to be denied an answer to a simple question asking what business is done by the beam service, what it costs to run it, and what profit or loss is made on it. Some time ago I asked a series of questions as an outcome of a statement made by the Prime Minister that it would cost almost a small fortune to have the tenders for the purchase of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers cabled to Australia, and that it would be necessary to await their arrival by post. Among the questions I asked was whether or not it was a fact that the beam service was not working half time for want of traffic. If I were a shareholder in the' company I could ask that question at a meeting of shareholders and expect an answer. The directors might, please themselves about giving me an answer; but what sort of directors would they be if they said, " We will not let you know " when the people of Australia asked them. " Is ' your line working full time, or half time, or quarter time?" When I asked whether the Government was aware that the beam service was not working more than half time for want of traffic the answer the Prime Minister furnished was, " I am not aware that that is the case." I want to know if it is not the duty of the Government to know whether or not it is the case. Is the Government so reckless in its expenditure that, notwithstanding the fact that £500,001 of the money of the people of Australia has been put into Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited,, it does not care whether a service conducted by that company is working full time, half time or quarter time? We hear a great deal about the necessity for having business men in Parliament, and particularly in the government of the country. Would business men run their private affairs in such a way that if they were asked whether a company in which they had sunk over half a million pounds was operating a particular service full time, half time or quarter time they would be compelled to reply "We do not know?" No doubt the department of the Prime Minister has a great many things to handle. 
If I can get the information I want by submitting my questions to the responsible Minister I shall be perfectly satisfied, but I am rather dissatisfied with the replies that have been given to my questions, and I should like to know whether they cannot be answered in a more satisfactory way. 
The matter brought forward by  Senator Thomas  is of great importance to the Parliament and to the people of the Commonwealth, who are supposed to have a controlling, influence in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. As  Senator Thomas  has pointed out, the Commonwealth Government has invested over £500,000 of the people's money in this company. Are we not therefore all shareholders in it, and, as such, entitled to the fullest and latest information in respect to it? As shareholders in the company we want to know if it is being run on business lines and on lines satisfactory to the people of Australia. As representatives of the people honorable senators are entitled to that information. The directors of the Commonwealth Bank, who are anxious to give to the shareholders of the people's bank the fullest and most complete information, see that each member of Parliament receives a balance-sheet every half-year. 
It shows whether the bank is being run profitably or unprofitably. 
It shows what the assets of the bank are, and what increased profits are made by it from time to time. Furthermore, the balance-sheet of the bank is advertised in all the daily newspapers. 
The information supplied to me by the PostmasterGeneral in response to the question put by  Senator Thomas,  was forwarded in the ordinary course of departmental business.  His  request to-day that the company's balancesheets should be supplied to members of this Parliament who desire it, is reasonable, and I shall pass it on to the Postmaster-General, who, no doubt, will communicate with Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited in the matter. 
The honorable senator's interjection is one of the best arguments in favour of the Government leaving business undertakings to private enterprise. 
 Is this private enterprise ? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned 4.11 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
When was the contract entered into for the building of the submarines  Otway  and  Oxley? 
What was the contract price for each submarine ? 
Was the contract price exceeded; if so, to what amount? 
When was the contract completed? 
When did the submarines leave England? 
Was it found that there were serious defects in both submarines before their arrival at Malta? 
Are the submarines still at Malta? 
If so, how long will they remain at Malta before the defects, if any, are rectified. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Immediately after the Commonwealth Housing Act was passed by Parliament in December last, the Commonwealth Bank officials entered into discussions with the Savings Bank officials of the several States. Although the principles embodied in the act were accepted by the State Savings Banks, the discussions disclosed that, in certain matters of detail, the provisions of the Commonwealth act conflicted with the practice of the State authorities. It therefore becomes necessary to make some slight amendments of the original law. The act provides that, except for the purpose of discharging a mortgage, no loan shall be made to a person who already owns a house. But a person who owns a dwelling-house may desire to enlarge it. As financial assistance for that purpose is consistent with the policy embodied in the Commonwealth's housing scheme, it is proposed that the act be amended to enable that to be done. The amending bill also provides that a person who has already received a loan to enable him to acquire a dwelling-house may receive an additional loan to enable him to enlarge it. Under the act a loan can not be made to any person who has already received a loan. A person who has acquired a home under the Commonwealth housing scheme may be compelled to change his place of residence owing to his transfer from one place to another in the course of his employment, or for some other cause; but, having already received one loan, he would not be eligible to receive assistance in acquiring another home in his new place of residence. It is proposed, therefore, to amend the law by providing that a loan shall not be made to any person who has already received a loan' unless that loan has been repaid in full. Should a person sell the home that he is leaving, and repay the loan to the house-building authority, he will thus become eligible to receive further assistance to enable him to acquire another dwelling. Some house-building authorities provide homes under a rent purchase agreement. Under that system the house-building authority retains the title to the land, and sells the property to the purchaser on payment of weekly amounts, including interest and principal. When the principal moneys repaid amount to 60 per cent, or 66 per cent, of the cost of the property, the title is transferred to the purchaser, and the outstanding balance of the principal money is secured by a mortgage on the property. In order to allow the housebuilding authorities to continue that method of selling houses under the Commonwealth housing scheme, the act is being amended to provide that any reference to an amount lent, or to a loan, shall be read as including a reference to an amount used by an authority for the purpose of a rent purchase agreement. For the purposes of clarity, it is also proposed to amend the act to make it clear that, where an authority administers more than one housing scheme, it shall be sufficient to enable it to share in the Commonwealth housing scheme if one of its schemes is in accordance with the provisions of the act. The original act provided that the Commonwealth Savings Bank should repay to the Treasurer, by means of a sinking fund contribution of 10s. per cent, per annum, any moneys lent to the bank under the authority of the Commonwealth Housing Act. It was intended that the Commonwealth Savings Bank should, in turn, make arrangements with the authorities that moneys lent to those authorities out of loans received from the Treasurer should be repaid to the Savings Bank by a sinking fund contribution of 10s. per cent, per annum. It is now found that this method of repayment is not acceptable to the authorities consulted. They point out that they receive repayments from borrowers at varying and frequent intervals, and they desire to be in a position to repay loans to the Commonwealth Savings Bank as and when they receive repayment of loans made to the persons acquiring the homes. To meet the State Savings Banks in this matter, it is proposed to amend the act to provide that loans made to the Savings Bank shall bear such rate of interest, and be subject to such terms and conditions of repayment, .as are agreed upon between the Treasurer and the bank. This is an elastic provision which will enable the Treasurer and the Savings Bank to come to an arrangement for the repayment of loans which will obviate the necessity of moneys lying idle because there may be no immediate avenue for investment. For the purposes of the national debt sinking fund, the loans will be recoverable loans, and as such the repayments will be paid over to the National Debt Commissioners, and will be applied to the extinction of the debt. If loans are raised in lump sums from time to time for the purpose of making advances to the Savings Bank, considerable sums of money, on which interest is payable, will lie idle in its hands until it is able to lend them to the house-building authorities. To obviate the loss to the Savings Bank, it is provided in the bill that, pending the borrow-* ing of moneys, the Treasurer may advance to the Savings Bank out of any moneys in the Commonwealth public account, sums not exceeding the amount which the Treasurer is authorized to borrow under the act. By this means the day-to-day requirements of the Savings Bank will be met without any loss of interest to the Treasury or the bank, and at a later date the public account will be recouped the amount advanced by means of a funding loan. The amendments now submitted are designed to facilitate the working of the scheme. They in  no  way interfere with the fundamental principles underlying the Commonwealth's housing scheme, and I therefore confidently commend the bill to the House. 
Debate (on' motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
Among the many political sins which this Government has committed, the selling of the Commonwealth ships stands out in bold relief as the greatest sin of all. This sale is an act of injustice against the people of Australia. My honorable friends opposite appear to take it as a matter of course. But the day has not long gone by when some of the same honorable senators were very loud in their praises of the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers, and used to point out in glowing language the splendid services the Line was rendering to the country. Foremost among those who praised the Line was the Prime Minister himself, who, in no unmistakable terms, pronounced his belief in the need for such a line, and stated that, to his knowledge, its existence was responsible for keeping Australia free from the tentacles of the Shipping Combine. To-day the same Prime Minister, as the result, I venture to say,  of outside pressure from the financial interests which dictate the policy of my honorable friends opposite, and which supply the necessary funds to pay their election expenses, has been compelled to change his mind, and to change the policy of the Government. This Government appears to be obsessed with the idea of handing over all national utilities and services to its friends.When it came into power a few years ago, we had in existence the Commonwealth Woollen Mills. Every one admits that they rendered good service to the people of this country ;. but, just when they were making a satisfactory profit, they were sold. The mills had been valued at £267,000, yet they were given away for a sum of £155,000 - a little more than half the amount for which they were valued. 
The sale of the woollen mills was not before the people at the last election. The only questions which they were asked to consider were red revolution, the alleged impending red menace, and the deportation of two men. The people were doped, and led into a condition of hysteria. No mention was made of the sale of the woollen mills. The Government got back to power on a wave of hysteria. 
We come now to the sale of the ships. This sale is bad enough in itself, but it is worse still to see the ships thrown away like remnants at the bargain sale of some emporium. These vessels are splendidly built; some of them are admitted by expert shipping authorities to be the finest vessels of; their class afloat. Yet, they are to be sold for a song. To whom? To a branch of the Shipping Combine. Lord Kylsant and Lord Inchcape practically control the shipping services of the world. When the Combine takes over these vessels, it will not have any concern for the Australian people, the Australian shippers, or the Australian primary producers. The ships will be run for the Combine's shareholders. I say advisedly that we need not expect any quarter fromthe Shipping Combine. 
It is impossible to estimate the financial benefits which those ships have conferred on Australia. Now, we are faced with the actual sale. Lord Inchcape in 1926 made a statement that unless prices came down, passenger fares would go up. Just as soon as passenger fares went up, freights would follow. We have been told by the Right Honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  not only yesterday but on another occasion when these ships were being discussed, that we were losing a certain amount of money a year, as a result of their operations. It is quite true that we were losing money, but, on . the other hand, the people of Australia were gaining by the fact that freights and fares were kept down. And if we were losing money by the operations of the Commonwealth Government Shipping Line, other countries have been, and still are, losing money by the operation of their national shipping services, but they still retain their fleets. Take, for example, America and Canada. America to-day is losing at the rate of 20,000,000 dollars a year on its national fleet. Canada is losing 7,000,000 dollars a year, and still they retain their vessels because they are a national utility. 
Anybody could sell ships at the price this Government is selling them. But the fact is that neither Canada nor America want to sell their vessels. They know that even though they may be losing from a commercial point of view, from the point of view of the nation as a whole, the retention of the ships is justified.' 
We have been told by this Government that we should have cruisers to protect our trade routes and, as a matter of fact, we have recently undertaken to build two cruisers at considerable expense. One of them has already been launched. We should not forget that some of these vessels that we have sold were capable of being equipped with heavy calibre guns. The cruiser  Sydney  carries eight 6-inch guns and four 3-pounders. Each "Dale" steamer is capable of carrying eight 6-inch guns and one 4-inch gun, and each "Bay" liner can carry seven 6-inch guns. Therefore, in comparison with our cruisers, they can be better equipped, as far as guns are concerned, and in time of trouble, if it ever occurred, they could be of very great assistance to us. Yet, we have sold these seven comparatively new vessels, most of them being not more than six or seven years old, for the sum of £1,850,000, or, if you add to it the £50,000 that has been thrown in for the repatriation of the crews, they have been sold for - £1,900,000. 
It is difficult to determine what the economic, value of these vessels has been to Australia, or the benefits they have conferred upon the people. 
The loss was patent each year, but the fact that the ships have been the means of keeping down fares and freights has more than compensated for the yearly loss in trading. I shall quote from some cablegrams to prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers was actually instrumental in keeping down freights. Here is a cablegram dated London, 7th December, 1925 - lt is proposed to increase outward freight rates, that is, from the United Kingdom to Australia, subject to merchants consenting as per agreement on the following basis: - £5 measurement to £5 10s.; £3 las. to £4; lower measurement rates by 2s. 6d. ; objectionable cargo £1, leaving iron and steel rates, paper and most weight rates unchanged. 
To that cablegram the Commonwealth Shipping Board replied on the 7th December as follows - 
Outward freight rates, Board of Directors has decided at meeting to-day cannot agree to any increased rates, considering such course fatal to interests of Line as being opposed to purpose for which it exists. 
I wish to draw particular attention to the tenor of the Board's reply to the request from London that it should agree to an increase in freights. The Board realized that its duty was at all reasonable costs to prevent an increase in freights and fares. 
Later, on the 23rd December, 1926, the following cablegram was received from London : - 
In view of coal position, Conference propose immediately advance outward freights  by  approximately 15 per cent. Foreigners agree. It is proposed to exclude items such as rough weights. British owners ask your earnest consideration and agreement. Atlantic lines increase from 15 per cent, to 25 per cent. Understand other trades also considering. Reply. 
To this the Commonwealth Shipping Board replied - 
Referring your telegram 23rd inst., regret ive cannot agree. Consider it would be equally impolitic from both British owners and our point of view. To refrain from advancing rates may encourage reduction berth tonnage, which is desirable. In any case oil-burning tonnage could not justify. Coal trouble is only temporary, and in our opinion increase likely to reduce volume of traffic. 
There we have a further proof of what the Commonwealth Shipping Board considered to be its duty. Speaking on the subject on 9th November, 1927, I quoted item after item of freights that had been reduced through the instrumentality of the Commonwealth Shipping Board. My facts are incontestible, and their accuracy has been admitted by honorable senators opposite. In addition to those reductions, the operations of the Commonwealth Shipping Line prevented increases in freights. Cablegram after cablegram passed between the Commonwealth Shipping Board and  Mr. Larkin,  the latter being anxious, according to many of his cablegrams, to bring about increased freight rates, but at all times he encountered the resistance of the Shipping Board to any increase. 
I am not concerned with New Zealand at the moment, I am confining my remarks to the operations of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. I contend that that line rendered splendid service to the general public of Australia, and it is deplorable that it should now be sacrificed and sold for a comparatively negligible amount. It has been claimed th'at because the vessels of the Line did not carry large cargoes of certain commodities, the reductions that took place from time to time wre not due to the existence of the Line. That contention is unsound. The Commonwealth Line may have carried only a small quantity of wheat, for instance, but the fact that it reduced freights again and again forced its competitors to do the same. 
The Line certainly influenced all rates of freights, irrespective of the quantity handled, because opposition lines knew that they would lose business if they increased freight rates. 
The conditions of the sale of the Line differ entirely from those which were suggested in 1925 by the Prime Minister. In that year the right honorable gentleman definitely said that his Government was not prepared to recommend to Parliament the transfer of the line to the British register and its manning under British conditions. Now the Government states that the line is to be placed on the British register. The Prime Minister also stated in 1925 that his Government was not prepared to sell the vessels unconditionally. The Melbourne  Age  of 24th February, 1925, stated- 
I am not quoting the opinion of the  Age,  but its report of what was said by the Prime Minister. The right honorable gentleman said that the Government proposed, to . invite tenders from prospective purchasers for the line as a going concern, subject to the condition that the purchaser would maintain a regular and efficient service between Australia, Great Britain and the continent. It was also provided that the purchasers should not increase freight or passenger rates, and the sale was also to be subject to the condition that the purchasers would not enter into any shipping ring or combine. The Prime Minister said that if such arrangements could be made, the primary function for, which the 
Commonwealth Line wa3 created, that of protecting the Australian shipper, would be effected. 
To-day tho same vessels are to be thrown away for a few pounds to one of the biggest shipping combines in the world. 
That is not so. The general public of Australia would have benefited had the Line been maintained, even though there was a monetary loss, as our producers would then have been assured that freights would be reasonable. 
The  Prime Minister, in a speech in another place a day or two ago, said that the purchasers had promised, as far as possible, to continue the policy of the Commonwealth Line regarding rates of freights, and that there would be no exploitation of Australian importers or exporters. I fear that my interpretation of that promise will be entirely different from that of Lord Kylsant and his friends. I believe that it will not be very long before there will be an increase of 10 per cent, in freights and fares. Lord Kylsant and his friends would not term that exploitation, but merely a reasonable profit. Later, the rates will probably be increased by 15 per cent, to 20 per cent., and those gentlemen will still consider that they are honoring their promise, and not exploiting the people of Australia. The only stipulation in the sale agreement is that the vessels shall be maintained on a British or Dominion register for ten years, and that for ten years a service shall be maintained equivalent to that ^ which previously existed. The remarks of the Prime Minister imply that we shall not enjoy an equivalent service. Previously, these vessels plied between the ports of Australia, carrying passengers and cargo, and they were very well patronized. We discover now they are not to trade on the Australian coast, so that the Prime Minister's promise is to go by tho board. 
A continuation of the service which was previously in operation on the Australian coast. 
In any case that was done, and we are not to receive an equivalent service in the future. I now come to the price of the Line, which is, perhaps, the most important feature of the transaction. The people of Australia were astonished when they read details of the price that is to be paid for these seven vessels, and I have no doubt that honorable senators opposite were also astonished. 
Two wrongs do not make a right. The following details  as  to the cost and date of the several vessels sold will be of interest: - 
Those seven vessels were sold for £1,850,000. 
That is so. The extra £50,000 was added to the price to cover the cost of repatriating the crews from the Mother Country to Australia. 
Let us analyse the transaction in another way. I have already shown that the vessels cost approximately £7,500,000 to build. Their age ranges from three years to seven years, and yet the Government has disposed of the entire fleet for practically the cost of one. Actually they are modern ships. It is extraordinary that in about six years after their construction the Government should sell the whole of the ships for the sum mentioned. Can Ministers and their friends point to this transaction as an example of sound business methods? Will  Senator Thompson,  who is acclaimed as a good business, man, subscribe to a transaction of this sort? 
When the Leader of the Senate was announcing the sale of these ships,  Senator Kingsmill,  by way of interjection, said something about obsolescence. Since none of the vessels are more than six years old, it cannot be said that they are even approaching obsolescence. As a matter of fact, shipping experts have declared that the two " Dale " ships are the finest vessels of their size afloat. Barely four years have elapsed since they were launched, so it is ridiculous even to hint that they are not new ships. I admit, of course, that a vessel launched to-day may not embody improvements in certain details to be found in a ship launched a few months hence. When shipbuilders have a contract for the construction of three or four vessels, they do not build all the vessels simultaneously. They lay the keel of one and carry out the work up to the stage of launching before they commence on the second. During construction certain improvements in detail are noted, and the later vessels may be in certain minor 'details slightly better; but for all practical purposes they may be regarded as sister ships.  Senator Sir George  Pearce also quoted the price received by the Orient Company for the  Ormuz  which was sold recently. That vessel was purchased for £257,000. But the  Ormuz  was built in 1914, whereas the " Bay " liners 'were constructed eight years later, and the " Dales " ten years later. There is nothing like "the same amount of depreciation to be provided for in the case of the Commonwealth ships, and yet the average price of the "Bay" steamers is only a little more than £257,000. Notwithstanding the disparity between the age of the  Ormuz  and the age of the Commonwealth vessels the Prime Minister in another place and the Leader of the Government in this chamber, quoted the sale price of the 

 Ormuz, as a basis of comparison for the sale of the "Bay" steamers. It is generally conceded that vessels of this type have an average life of 20 years, and as the  Ormuz  was built in 1914 its period of usefulness as a passenger-carrying vessel is now limited to six years. As its purchase price was £257,000, the buyer gave approximately £43,000 per annum for the balance of its period of usefulness. The average price paid for the " Bay " steamers is £300,000 each, and as we may presume that they have fourteen years of service ahead of them, the cost works out at about £21,000 a year. 
SenatorFoll. - Does the honorable senator believe that they will have fourteen years of life if run on the present time-table ? 
Yes. 
SenatorFoll.  -  That was not the opinion of representatives of the Line when they gave evidence before the Public Accounts Committee. 
I admit that there was a difference of opinion among witnesses as regards the probable life of the ships if run on the present time-table, but I believe that their period of usefulness will be at least fourteen years.  Senator Sir George  Pearcereferred also to the sale recently of two Italian steamers of 9,700 tons for £.190,000 each. I cannot say what is the anticipated life of those vessels, but I submit that compared with the sale price of the  Ormuz,  which is eight years older than the "Bay" steamers, the purchasers of the Commonwealth Line have made a much better bargain. The "Dale" steamers, I remind the Senate, are practically new vessels. They are  scarcely  four years old, whereas the  Ormuz  is fourteen years old. Of course, the vessels mentioned by the Leader of the Senate may have greater passenger accommodation than the " Bay " steamers, but from what I have heard of Italian ships, their owners are not very particular as regards the space allotted to passengers. They are inclined to cram two in a space which, according to our ideas of comfort and hygiene, should be set apart for one passenger. The Minister did not say anything about the cargo-carrying capacity of tiiose vessels. Perhaps he will supply this omission when he is replying to the debate. The  Fordsdale  and  Ferndale,  I repeat, are two of the finest vessels in their class afloat. They have more refrigerating space than any other vessel in the Australian trade and they are also very speedy. To my mind, it is absurd to compare vessels constructed in 1914 with others built in 1922 and 1924. A vessel built next year would probably be an improvement on one built this year, but steamers built four, or even seven, years ago cannot be regarded as having become useless. As a matter of fact, they are really in their prime. 
Last year, when we were discussing the projected sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, I mentioned that the present Government was accustomed to subsidizing private enterprise. There is no hesitation on the part of private concerns to come to this Parliament for assistance when they are in a bad way, and the statute-book gives ample proof of the fact that by means of bounties and bonuses and in many other ways the Commonwealth Government has subsidized private enterprise. Yet, because the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers has been making a loss of a few thousand pounds, the Government has sold it. 
SenatorFoll.  -  The enterprises subsidized by the Government were of benefit to the country, whereas the Commonwealth steamers were not. 
Does the honorable senator contend that the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers is not of benefit to the country? 
SenatorFoll.  -  It is not now. 
I think that the honorable senator was among those who, at one time, thought that the Line should be retained. 
When I asked  Senator Thompson  if he would take part in a business transaction similar to that which the Government has taken in the sale of these steamers, he said that he would scrap anything that would not pay. I wonder if he would scrap some of the industries, some of them in his own State, that are being spoon-fed. To me it is apparent that the Government revels in trying to do away with public utilities supplying essential services to the community. "When  Senator Pearce  was dealing with this question yesterday he spoke as if the extra £50,000 which the White Star Line is paying was an extra payment by which the Commonwealth would benefit. That is not so. The original tender stipulated that the vessels were to be taken over at the terminal ports. The Prime Minister has informed us that half the vessels have their terminal ports in Australia and the other half in Great Britain. It is obvious that on the steamers being handed over by the Commonwealth, the personnel will have to be repatriated. The White Star Company has asked that all the vessels be delivered in London. On the 26th March last a cablegram was despatched by  Mr. Larkin  stating that it would involve at least £85,000 for the repatriation of the crews if all the vessels of the Line were delivered in London; and, therefore, seeing that only half the steamers have their terminal ports in Great Britain, if the old conditions of the contract for the handing over of the vessels at their different terminal ports had been retained, it would have involved an expenditure of approximately £42,500 to repatriate the Australian personnel on those vessels whose terminal ports were in London. That expenditure would have fallen on the Commonwealth Government in any case, and it is clear that the delivery of the whole of the . vessels in London will involve the Commonwealth in a further expenditure of a like amount. Thus the greater part of, if not more than, the £50,000 which has been added to the offer by the White Star Line will be spent in repatriating personnel. It will certainly be more than the estimate of £35,000 given by  Senator Pearce. 
A good deal has been said, in discussing the projected sale of these vessels, about the Line having been run at a loss because of industrial trouble. That assertion is sufficiently answered by the following, which appeared in the report of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts, dated the 11th August, 1926- 
For some time, both before and after the inception of the Board, the operations of the Line 'were, it was stated, in evidence, considerably hampered by industrial troubles, but in June, 1925, an arrangement was made by the Board with certain unions in the transport group, other than the Seamen's Union, and since that date it was claimed the Commonwealth Line had had no serious trouble. 
It is quite evident that during the lastfew years the Line has suffered very little because of industrial trouble. Having reviewed the terms of the sale, I contend that the price paid for the vessels is outrageous. Any shipping man in Australia would agree that the steamers are worth more than the Commonwealth is getting for them. It is bad enough for Parliament in its wisdom to determine that the Line should be sold, but it was imperative that the Government should look after the interests of the people by seeing that a better price was obtained. 
I have not sufficiently advanced to own a car of any sort. Does the honorable senator suggest that the vessels should be classed as second-hand ! If a man buys an overcoat and wears it once, it immediately becomes a second-hand coat, but I cannot be led to believe that seven vessels, the oldest of which is only seven years old, which cost £7,500,000 to build, should be sold for £1,850,000. The Government has done wrong in committing this outrage on the people of the country, but the time is drawing nigh when it will be called upon to give an account of its stewardship to the people of Australia. 
I have never been afraid to give my opinion publicly on any public question, and my opinion on the matter to which the . honorable senator has drawn attention, will be given at the proper time and in the proper place. I am dealing now with the sale  of the vessels, and for* the reasons I have mentioned, and for others which I could adduce if I had more time to do so, I am opposed to the action the Government has taken. In order to test the feeling of the Senate, I move - 
That all the words in the motion after the word " That " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " in the opinion of the Senate the Government by the sale of the Commonwealth Line of Steamers has sacrificed valuable public assets and has placed Australian producers, shippers, and our people generally at the mercy of the shipping combine." 
I know that  Senator Needham  would be the last to endeavour to misrepresent another honorable senator, but in the course of his remarks he made a reference to myself which I must clear up. I had actually resigned from the Joint Committee on Public Accounts before the presentation of the first interim report, which was signed by  Sir Granville  Eyrie who succeeded me as  chairman  of the committee. It was probably an oversight on  Senator Needham's  part to associate me with the presentation of that particular report. 
When I resigned from the committee I think it had just about reached the stage of giving consideration to what its recommendation should be. 
In my opinion, the Government has made an extraordinarily good deal in disposing of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers to the White Star Line. I make no apology for supporting the Government's action. The figures presented to us yesterday by the Leader of the Senate were sufficient to justify the sale of the ships. In my opinion, the Government was fortunate in securing such a satisfactory price for them. It is ridiculous to compare the present value of the ships with their cost when constructed. Prices were probably at their peak when the "Bay" steamers were built. When the Shipping Board was formed to take over the vessels an independent valuation was made by an expert, and it was found to be £100,000 less per steamer than the value placed upon them by.  the  Government. Considering the amount of new tonnage which has been built since that time, and the prices realized for other vessels, the price obtained must be regarded as satisfactory. 

 Senator Needham said that, under existing working conditions, and with the present time-table in operation, the vessels belonging to the Line should have a further life of fourteen years. It is true that the honorable senator has had practical experience in the -construction of ships; but he knows that every competent witness who appeared before the Public Accounts Committee while he was a member of it stated definitely that the five "Bay" steamers could not be expected to continue to run to the present time-table. In order .to maintain a monthly service each way between. Australia and Great Britain they had been kept in commission without sufficient attention being given to them. That state of affairs could not continue indefinitely. The general manager of the Line said that to maintain a monthly service two additional vessels would have to be added to the fleet. To obtain those vessels another £1,500,000 would have been necessary. But that expenditure, instead of reducing the losses incurred by the Line, would have increased them. Had the Government purchased two new vessels, and thereby increased the losses it would have deserved the censure of the people of Australia.  Senator Needham  compared the selling of these ships with the disposal of the Commonwealth woollen mills at Geelong. That action on the part of the Government was given prominence by the Opposition at the election before last, and again at the last election. The people of, Australia were told that the mills had practically been given away. But what is the position to-day? Those mills are now rendering a greater service to Australia than when they were controlled by the Government. Instead of manufacturing only a limited class of material they are now turning out all kinds of cloth, their output is greater, and they employ more operatives than before they were taken over by private enterprise. That they are paying dividends to their Australian shareholders is probably the reason of  Senator Needham's  opposition.  Senator Needham  said that although in the early stages of its history the Line had experienced industrial disturbances, there had been freedom from such troubleslately. 
When the transport group in Sydney threatened to tie up all vessls trading to and around' Australia unless its demands were conceded, the private companiesreplied that while willing to obey Arbitration Court awards, they would not submit to dictation by the union. But the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers " scabbed " on theother companies when Admiral Clarkson signed the agreement demanded by the union. Before, the Commonwealth Shipping Board gave, way there was a deliberate campaign to harass the Line notwithstanding that its employees enjoyed wages and conditions better than those offered by other companies. 
At that time the members of the Commonwealth Shipping Board freely stated that, in their opinion, the leaders of the transport unions were in ' the pay of theInchcape combine. Combine ships were left alone, whilst Australia's own shipping line was constantly held up. We cannot ignore these facts. It was not until the Commonwealth Shipping Board acceded to the demands of the union that vessels belonging to the Line were free from interference. The action of the union leaders has done more than anything else to cause the present agitation for the repeal of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. I do not blame the Opposition for opposing the sale of the Line; the nationalization of industry is a plank in its platform. 
Had a Labour Government been in power in the Commonwealth, it would probably have bought the Tasmanian State steamers at any price when they were offered for sale. The Queensland Labour Government indulged in a little nationalization of industry when it purchased some State trawlers, but was glad to get rid of them. 
I wish now to turn to another aspect of the case. Queensland has had a very bitter experience of the nationalization of industry, and most of its financial difficulties and much of the exorbitant taxation which is imposed in Queensland at the present time is due entirely to the fact that the Labour Government there became involved in these State industries. Let me make a comparison, if 1 may, between what was done in connexion with the Commonwealth woollen mills, of which  Senator Needham  is so fond of speaking, and what was done with the Chillagoe smelters in Queensland. The mills were sold by the Commonwealth Government, and to-day they are running with double the capacity they had when they were under, government control, and they employ probably twice the number of Australians. In Queensland we have a large industry in the north known as the Chillagoe Mines and Smelters. It was probably one . of the biggest industries of its kind in the State, perhaps in Australia. These smelters began to fall upon bad times because of the low price of copper, and the increased cost of production. Those in control approached the Government with a proposal that the mines and smelters should be taken over by the State and eventually they sold out at an exorbitant price to the State Labour Government of Queensland. Now the works are shut up, and are likely to remain so. Compare this with the Commonwealth woollen mills, which after being sold, increased their productive capacity two-fold. The Queensland Government bought the smelters, and now, as a result of their being closed down, hundreds of employees have been thrown out of work, while hundreds of thousands of pounds have been wasted.. The mine had practically outlived its usefulness when the private shareholders asked the Government to buy. One of the leading men in the Federal Labour party now, was the man who was mainly responsible for the" purchase of the mine smelters. 
Mount Morgan has not been foisted on the taxpayers. The shareholders there have carried on their own affairs, and when they struck trouble they did not try to foist the industry on the State. They endeavoured to carry on, and when they were unable to do so for the same reason that brought trouble to most mining enterprises, they ceased production, and bore the loss themselves. But the Chillagoe works were foisted on the Government for something like £800,000 paid in government debentures and in cash. 
Which the foolish State Labour Government in Queensland was unwise enough to pay. The Government bought at a price which no sane business man would ever have thought of paying. 
I do not wish to look at the sinister aspect of the matter. I wish to keep the discussion on a higher level than  Senator McLachlan  has suggested. 
I know that the policy of honorable senators opposite is the nationalization of industry, even though some of them may not believe in it. 
I do not think that  Senator Hoare  himself believes in the nationalization of industry any more than I do, because he has had an opportunity of seeing what it leads to. There is not one State in which governments have indulged in State enterprise of this kind where they have not been sorry for it. 
Yes, that is a fair question. Would he favour the nationalization of the wheat industry on the basis adopted in Soviet Russia, with such disastrous results? In Queensland they went in for the nationalization of the cattle industry. They started State butcher's shops, and bought up cattle stations, with the avowed object of giving the people cheaper meat. Yet to-day every private butcher's shop can undersell the State shops. The trouble was, apparently, that the sausages were too red. Socialistic sausages never were a success anywhere. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hob. Sir John Newland).  - I think that tho honorable senator is travelling too far from the subject matter of the debate. 
I admit that there is very little connexion between sausages and ships. 
Yesterday, when the Minister was speaking,  Senator Thomas,  I think it was, made some interjection about the Oodnadatta railway. Personally I should be prepared to sell the Oodnadatta railway to-morrow if I could get a White Star Company to buy it, and undertake to run a satisfactory service. I think that a little private capital invested in the running of railways might be a good thing for this country. If the suggestion of  Sir Thomas  Mcllwraith for a land grant railway in Queensland had been adopted years ago, I believe that where there is one person in Western Queensland to-day there would probably have been hundreds. We have had bitter experience throughout Australia of the nationalization of industry. 
By the bargain it has entered into with the White Star Company, the Commonwealth Government has relieved the people of Australia of a loss of hundreds of thousands of pounds a year. The chances are that under the efficient management of this company we shall have as ' good, and perhaps a better, service than we have now. That is provided for in the agreement that has been entered into between the parties. I am glad to see the Government get out of this business altogether. Honorable senators on this side of the Chamber do not believe in the nationalization of purely trading interests such as shipping, which is quite a different matter altogether from the nationalization of railways, which are necessary for the general development of the country. This Line did not make a sufficient impression on the general shipping trade of Australia to keep down freights. The Minister proved that the bulk of the cargo from Australia was not carried by this line at all; it was proved also that the Commonwealth ships did not carry 1 per cent, of the coastal cargo. When honorable senators opposite refer to the profits made by the Line in the early stage of its existence, they forget to state that much of this profit was made while the ships were not trading to Australia at all. Many of the ships bought by  Mr. Hughes  traded all over the world, and did not, for some time, come near Australia. That was when everything that could float was of immense value, and every one in the shipping business was making huge profits. In fact, any one who happened to own ' a ship could not help making profits; but after the war when these ships came into active competition with other shipping companies they were no longer able to make profits.  Senator Needham  said that there, would be a different tale to tell when the elections came on. Personally, I hope this tale will be told throughout the length and breadth of the country. For my part, I want no better tale to tell to my constituents. 
No one can say that the present administration is zealous in the best interests of the country. Such an administration would be seriously anxious for the development and progress of Australia. It would give every possible assistance, financial and otherwise, to the building up of industries, in these southern seas, which would provide employment for Australians. It would show a disposition to foster the creation and development of those industries which would' have been established here if the right government- had been occupying the Treasury benches in this Parliament. It was once our ambition to build up in Australia a big shipping industry, and for that purpose we sent men overseas to receive training and experience to qualify them for carrying out the work here. A small beginning was made at Cockatoo Island in the building of ships. From time to time I have heard statements in disparagement of Australian workmen, and of Australia itself, in regard to the cost of those ships. There is no justification for those statements. When we first began to build locomotives in Australia it was said by some people that we could not possibly build them here, and that even if we could it would only be at so great a cost that it would be more profitable to import the locomotives from abroad. Nevertheless, we began to build them, and the cost of the first one was greatly in excess of what it costs us to build them now. 

 Sitting suspended from 1246 to 2.15. 

To-day Australian nationalized workshops are turning out hundreds and hundreds of locomotives, which are equal to any that were imported. They are turned out, too, at a cost lower than was paid for the imported locomotive. The Newport nationalized workshops, manned by Australian workmen, have turned out great numbers of locomotives and by their efficiency, have saved the taxpayers of Victoria thousands of pounds. Recently we had the satisfaction of seeing placed on the State railways of Victoria one of their products^ - the biggest and best locomotive ever manufactured in Australia. For workmanship and finish it is equal to anything turned out ' anywhere in the world. That engine is capable of performing the work of two ordinary engines, and it will probably shorten the period occupied in the train journey between Melbourne and Albury by one hour. I had hoped that a similar state of affairs would apply to shipbuilding in Australia. But this Government declared definitely and emphatically that, while it occupied the Treasury bench, there should not in any circumstances be any shipbuilding industry in Australia, nationalized or otherwise. 
Honorable senators who support the Government in selling the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers speak with varying voices.  Senator Foll  stated, as one of the reasons why the Line should be disposed of, that it was threatened with industrial trouble. Other honorable senators approve the Government's action simply because they are opposed to any form of nationalization. Still others claim that the action of the Government is justified because, as they allege, the Line was a non-paying one. Dealing first with the statement of  Senator Foll,  I remind honorable senators generally that industrial trouble is prevalent throughout the world, and that it applies to a far greater extent to private enterprise than to any nationalized industry. Honorable senators opposite speak with two voices when they claim that they are opposed to every form of nationalization. If they really mean what they say they are more or less hypocritical. The Federal Capital area in which we are now living is a nationalized area. There is not one big private industry in the Federal Territory. To whom does the land belong? Not  to  private enterprise, but to the people. To whom do the roads, the lighting, the water, sewerage and transport services belong? To the people, amongst whom is  Senator Foll.  Honorable senators have prated of the success of private enterprise. Throughout the civilized globe there are numerous monuments to the failure of private enterprise. Is there any competition to-day in the shipping world? No. There was in years gone by but, because freights- and fares were so low that it scarcely paid private enterprise to run ships, those concerned put their heads together and came to an " honorable understanding." They increased freights and fares and pooled their profits. The shipping interests of the world form one huge combination, an octopus with tentacles stretching out to every section of the globe. 
Of course their activities pay. They are made to pay by the raising of freights and fares, the increased cost being passed on to the community. 
I remind honorable senators who are opposed to nationalized industry that little or no progress would have been made in Australia had it not been for State controlled activities which, although they may not have paid directly, have, indirectly, paid very generously. There are many railways in Australia that do noi pay, but they are a boon to the people.  Senator Thompson  stated that he would not support the maintenance of an industry that did not pay. Would the sugar industry in Australia pay if it did not receive aid from the Commonwealth Government ? Would the wine and the iron and steel industries pay if they did not receive substantial bounties from the taxpayers of Australia? Are there any important industries in any part of Australia that have been built up by private enterprise without the assistance of the people ? There are not. 
If honorable senators opposite are consistent in their attitude, they must oppose every form of protection which involves the imposition of higher duties or the granting of bounties to any industry struggling to get on its feet. I claim that the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers did pay, directly and indirectly. Certainly the people of Australia benefited through its operations. Freights and fares were lowered because of its activities, and increases were prevented. It saved the primary producers of Australia thousands and thousands of pounds. The Line was extensively patronized by thousands of Australians who went abroad, people who spoke, and still speak, in the highest terms of the excellent treatment they received, and of the uptodateness of the ships themselves. Recently a party of Scotsmen, making a pilgrimage to their native country, chose one of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers by which to travel; and I am satisfied that when they return they will be generous in their praise of the ship and of the treatment that they received aboard. 
Probably at the instigation of  Senator Pearce. 
This is a two-faced sort of Government. It sold the Commonwealth Woollen Mills- because they paid, and now it sells its steamers because, it alleges, they do not pay- 
No one knows better than  Senator Pearce,  who was Minister for Defence during the trying period of the war, the favorable price at which cloth was manufactured at those mills, and turned into finished articles in a nationalized industry. No one should know better than  Senator Reid,  who appears to treat this matter lightly, that what private enterprise has done recently in connexion with those woollen mills, would have been achieved by nationalized industry had a Labour government been in power instead of this Government. 
I think that it did. 
It conferred a remarkable benefit on the community during the war. We know that these ships originally cost about £7,500,000. Undoubtedly those built in Australia took longer to construct than was anticipated, but it must be borne in mind that Australia was then just beginning operations in the shipbuilding industry, and also that high initial costs are not peculiar to nationalized industry. The work of construction was carried out in an eminently satisfactory manner. The workmanship reflected the highest credit upon the artisans and all those associated with the industry. The ships were fitted with turbine engines and the most up-to-date refrigerating machinery - equipment of the greatest importance to the primary producers of Australia. Unlike the private enterprise, British-built submarines, the  Oxley  and the  Otway,  the Australian built ships did not break down on their initial voyages. The Australian, British built, sumarines, which are now at Malta undergoing repairs, will in all probability remain there some weeks yet before the defects are rectified. If we had had a similar experience with the Australian-built ships on their first voyages there would have been an outcry from one end of the Commonwealth to the other. 
I am referring to the two "Dale" ships. Those vessels have been sold for less than half the value placed upon them by the Commonwealth Shipping Board. We have heard something about the keenness of people to attend bargain sales. The sale of these ships was undoubtedly a star bargain sale for the White Star Line, which obtained them for far less than one-fourth their original cost. 
I admit that there has been a fall in the cost of shipbuilding in recent years, but to what extent prices have dropped, I am unable to say. 
Not only were these vessels sold for less than one-fourth of the value placed on them by the board, but their wages bill will also be cut practically in half by the new owners. The ships will be placed on the British register, and about 1,000 men will be thrown out of employment. It is not at all likely that the White Star Line will continue to employ Australian seamen at Australian rates of pay. 
Of course it is. Probably that is one reason why honorable senators opposite are gratified that the vessels have been disposed of. In future seamen employed on these ships will be paid much less, and will not enjoy the same favorable conditions of labour. 
We do not hesitate to give the highest form of protection necessary for the encouragement of secondary industries because we realize that under Australian conditions our manufacturers cannot, without assistance, compete against overseas rivals who are permitted to work their employees long hours on lower rates of pay. For this reason we impose high customs duties on certain commodities, or encourage Australian manufacturers and producers by means of  bounties. Unfortunately the same consideration has not been given to the ship*, ping industry. The view of honorable senators opposite appears to be that because it could not be made to pay on Australian wages and under Australian conditions, the Line had to be sold. This was the opinion expressed by  Senator Poll. 
The honorable senator's argument was that, as the ships were not paying, they should be disposed of and British seamen employed on them at lower rates of wages. 
That, I know, is the figure stated in the Public Accounts Committee's report. In the evidence given it was further stated that the estimated losses on the running of the ships on Australian conditions was about £400,000 a year. 
Assuming that the honorable senator is right, what does it mean? Did not we help the wine industry to the extent of £420,000 last year? If we had assisted the Commonwealth Shipping Line to the same extent we could have almost made up the difference in the cost of running the ships under Australian conditions.  Senator Chapman,  who approves of the sale of these vessels, would work himself into a state of frenzy if a proposal were submitted to abolish the bounty to the winegrowers of Australia. He and other" honorable senators appear to lose sight of the fact that the Commonwealth ships have been of immense value to the primary producers of Australia. 
All those producers who export their commodities in abundance. 
Are wheat and wool the  only  commodities produced in abundance in Australia? 
Assuming that the honorable senator is right, surely n was worth while continuing the Line in the hope that later it would include ships capable of carrying the whole of Australia's exportable produce.  
Does the honorable senator suggest that there would be no back-loading for our vessels? 
Notwithstanding  the higher duties imposed on imports from time to time, there always will be a considerable volume of trade to Australia. 
If freights and fares on Commonwealth ships were lower than in the case of vessels controlled by the combine the nationalized ships would always be assured of full cargoes. 
The evidence on that point does not support the honorable senator's contention. 
I made a strong protest when the proposal to sell the ships was first mentioned.  My protest to-day is- as strong as it was then. I believe in the nationalization of all industries which, under government control, can serve the people better than under private enterprise. I am a believer in nationalized railways, and as a nationalized shipping service is just as important to ensure the development and ' progress of the country, I believe in governmentcon trolled steamships. This is not the view of the Labour party only. It was the opinion of a royal commission representing all parties in Parliament that inquired into the shipping industry some years ago, and recommended the establishment of a Commonwealth Line of Steamers. ' Representatives df- primary producers, in their evidence before that commission, emphasized the disabilities under which they then laboured. . . 
That is of no importance. 
We kept pace with the march of progress in regard to the class of ships built for the Australian trade. The " Dale " ships constructed at Cockatoo Island were up to date in every particular. 
If every enterprise had been measured by the cost we should have made no progress in Australia. We should have had no railways, no public utilities, and no educational institutions, because they could not have shown a direct return on the capital invested. 
How can honorable senators who are supporting the Government in this matter reconcile their views on the sale of the Commonwealth ships with the opinions expressed by them recently in the tariff debate?. It is admitted that bounties granted for the encouragement of many primary industries are paid by the general taxpayer, and that the higher duties imposed for the protection of secondary industries are borne by the general community. We make these sacrifices to encourage the establishment of industries, and to ensure the development of Australia. When we were considering higher duties on timber,  Senator Herbert  Hays, who interjected just now about the cost of Australian-built vessels, did not then stress the point that higher duties  on  timber would mean slightly higher coat of buildings. Honorable senators opposite now contend that as the Commonwealth Line did not pay directly, the Government was justified in disposing of it. This is not a logical line of reasoning on the part of those who believe in protection. The sale of these steamers is not in accordance with the wishes of the people. The disposal of modern vessels, from four to six years old, at such a ridiculously low price is inimical to the interests of the taxpayers. In the course of time, when the people have an opportunity of expressing their opinion - and it will not be long before they have that opportunity - 1 believe the majority of the electors will not hesitate to say that the Labour party was justified in opposing the Government in the sale of these steamers. 
 I want to deal with one or two of the issues that  Senator Findley  has raised in his very interesting speech. The first is in connexion with the price which has been received by the Government. I think it is only natural that, as vendors, we should like to see the price a little higher; but we have to consider whether in all the circumstances, it is not a reasonable price to pay for these vessels.  Senator Findley  made a great point of their cost, which, he said, was £7,500,000. But every one knows that the " Bay " boats were ordered by the Hughes  Government  just at the conclusion of the war, when the cost of shipping was higher than it has been at any other time. The price paid for . the construction of those vessels was 100 per cent, higher than the tonnage rates applying to-day for the construction of even more modern vessels, including the very latest in the improvements that each succeeding year brings forth. Consequently the price we have received for vessels with six or seven years off their lives has properly to be compared with the cost of new tonnage to-day, and in order to do so we have to cut the £7,500,000 in half. It is true that two of the steamers were built at Cockatoo Island, but we all know that the circumstances under which vessels are built in Australia are such that the cost is inevitably very much greater than it would be if they were built in British yards. 
A fair price for the " Bay " steamers, new, would be about £3,-500,000, and that is the figure we have to use as a fair basis of comparison with the £1,900,000 obtained by the Government for the sale of the Line. But we have to  go  a step further, and remember that the steamers of the Australian Commonwealth Line have now had  six years' actual wear. A fair amortization charge against the " Bay " boats on their original cost would be about £40,000 a year. If we multiply that £40,000 by six and then multiply the result by six, we find that, after making due allowance for an amortization charge on the ordinary average commonly accepted rate at which ships are written down, £2,000,000 is just about the correct price to pay for the steamers of the Australian Commonwealth Line. The Government has, therefore, to be congratulated on having received an offer round about the fair market value of the boats under existing conditions. That disposes of  Senator Findley's  charge against the Government that the vessels have been sold at what might be regarded as bargain rates. 
The honorable senator also emphasized the desire of our community to indulge in socialistic enterprises, and claimed that as honorable senators supporting the Government believed in the nationalization of the railways, telegraph services and other similar public activities, we were necessarily inconsistent in our opposition to the nationalization of shipping. Where does the honorable senator draw the line? Does he believe in the nationalization of every service done for the community? Does he believe in the nationalization of all industries? 
Let us see where that will lead us. Does the honorable senator believe in the nationalization of the food services of the country? They are services for the common good. 
I know perfectly well that the honorable senator does not believe in the nationalization of all services. 
I should like to point out why a line has to be drawn between services which we think should be nationalized and those which we would not think of nationalizing. There is a very good logical reason for favoring the nationalization of railways and telephone services and drawing the line at the nationalization of shipping. All services which are public utilities are in their very essence in the nature of monopolies. In the case of most of them the door is not open to private enterprise to provide that competition which is so essential to enable the community to gather the best results; and although there are many drawbacks in respect to their nationalization, we think that on the whole it is in the interests of the people that they should be controlled by and on behalf of the people. But shipping is in an entirely different position. Any one can sail a ship on the pathless ocean. In shipping there is no monopoly. On the contrary, there is a system of competition which even under the peculiar conditions of to-day is very real. I am connected with sundry enterprises which have a good deal of produce to ship overseas, and on more than one occasion I have been astonished at the tremendous competition for freight that exists to-day. If one has 10,000 tons of freight to distribute one is surprised at the number of men who are waiting on the doorstep trying to secure the right to convey it to market, and at how many offers made to carry the produce at rates 2s., 3s., and 4s. a ton lower than the quotations of others. As a matter of fact,  Senator Findley  would find, if he had freight to handle, thai, competition for overseas freight is very real.  His  argument in this respect is untenable. There is ample competition on the seas, and the conditions under which honorable senators of the Ministerial party would favour the nationalization of a public utility do not apply. But I go further and say that lately - I do not speak without some knowledge on the point - there has been, although not in a definite way, a concentration of energies on the part of the management of the Commonwealth Line of Steamers in the direction of trying to keep up rather than bring down freights, the object, of course, being to prevent the losses on the vessels becoming more gigantic than they have been in the past. We have only to draw upon our knowledge of human nature to thoroughly understand, the motive, which actuated the management in this respect. 
-For most of the time the management has been intimately connected with the combine. 
 The management of the Australian Commonwealth Line attended the meetings of the combine. 

 .- Senator Findley said that the selling of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers did not meet with the approbation of the people of Australia. I should like to know on what the honorable senator bases his opinion. If we compare the number of Government supporters in the Senate and in another place with the number in the ranks of the Opposition, we are justified in concluding that the party of which  Senator Findley  is a member does not represent the people of Australia. The nationalization of industries is distasteful to the majority of people to-day, although some years ago many persons were in favour of further experiments being conducted along those lines. At one time I held views similar to those now professed by  Senator Findley.  I doubt whether the honorable senator is sincere in his advocacy to-day of the nationalization of industries. He must admit that the system has been a failure. 
It is merely a question of facing facts. Apart from public utilities, I challenge  Senator Findley  to point to one experiment in the nationalization of industry which has been a success. 
That is a public utility of which the Government has a monopoly. It was because of government control of public utilities, such as the Post Office, that many persons, including myself, at one time favored further experiments being made in government control. The experiments which have been made have all failed. 
That is not the only reason for their failure. They have failed largely because they have been overmanned during the periods that Labour governments have been in office. At one time I was in favour of the Commonwealth entering the shipping business, and of the establishment of the shipbuilding industry in Australia. That the industry has proved a failure is due to the men not having been fair to their employers, the people. 

 Senator Findley referred to the wonderful ability of Australian -mechanics and other workmen. I do not doubt their ability; but notwithstanding their ability, the workmen at Cockatoo Island, who have one of the best jobs in  the Commonwealth, were unable to build two cruisers at a price comparable with that for which the vessels could be built in England. In the purchase of locomotives also various governments, both State and Federal, have had to go outside their own workshops. Even the Government of Queensland, whose socialistic tendencies are well  known, had to purchase locomotives from private firms because its own workshops at Ipswich, although well equipped with up-to-date machinery, could not compete with them. When the Commonwealth Shipping Board was established the capital value of the, vessels of which it was given control was written down by about £8,000,000. Yet the Line has been run at a loss. It has been computed that in respect of each vessel the loss sustained since that time is approximately £1,000,000. At the time I opposed the vessels being placed on the Australian register, because I realized that it would he difficult, if not impossible, for the Shipping Board to compete with companies working under different conditions. Had the vessels been placed on the British register, they could still have been manned by Australian seamen; but under Australian articles it was impossible for them to compete successfully with the vessels of other  companies  not subject to the same conditions. 
We have been reminded by the Opposition of  the "benefits which the Line has conferred on the people of Australia, particularly the primary producers. But has the Line, after all, been of such a benefit to Australia as honorable senators opposite would have us believe? What about the £8,000,000 by which their capital value was written down ? I admit_ that during the war period the vessels were of immense benefit to this country; but since shipping has returned to more normal conditions, the Line has been run at a loss. For that state of affairs I blame the unions. At no time have they made a determined effort to make the Line pay. On the contrary, they have harassed it on every possible occasion by declaring the ships "black," and holding stop-work meetings. No other line of steamers was interfered with to the same extent. A mere handful of men set out to injure the Line; and they have succeeded. The failure of the Line lies at the door of the seamen's, cooks', and stewards' unions. 
Bather than continue to run the Line at a loss it would be better for the Government to subsidize other companies in order to keep down freights. It is clear the Line cannot charge lower freights than are charged by other companies, and still make a profit. 

 Senator Findley spoke of the uptodate machinery in the vessels belonging to the Line; but it is not so up-to-date as that in some of the other vessels trading between Australia and Britain. So far as chilling machinery is concerned, the vessels belonging to the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers are six years behind the times. They do not offer any better inducements to exporters of butter than do some of the vessels belonging to rival companies ; and as they do not carry much wheat or wool, the benefits they confer on Australian primary producers are purely imaginary. The sale of these vessels will not. seriously affect the passenger trade on the Australian coast. The whole of that trade is now catered for by seven vessels. And even then one cannot say that they are paying. I do not know how much profit the companies have made. Even supposing they combine to put up freights I do not know that there is as much profit in it as we are told. If there were, there would be more ships running on our coast. The Patrick Company set out to cut down freights. They did cut them down, but eventually they themselves had to throw in the sponge. They got all the freight and passengers they wanted; their ships were full for every trip, yet they were unable to carry on. I ask leave to continue my speech at a later date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
.- On the 8th March, nearly seven weeks ago, I asked the Leader of the Senate a series of questions based on the 
Government's proposal to curtail expenditure in several departments. Among other questions, I asked - 
The amount of money it is expected will be saved in each department! 
Details of the works that will be affected, showing the saving expected to be made on each item? 
The number of men that will be, or have been, put out of employment as regards each of the works ? 
To question c the answer of the Minister was that the information was being obtained. I now ask the Leader of the Senate if he would,' between now and the resumption of business next week, obtain such information as will enable him to give a definite answer to my questions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.9].-  (By leave.)- On  the 8th March last the Prime Minister announced that a poll would be taken this year on the subject of liquor in the Federal Capital Territory. It has now been decided to take it on the 1st September next, which is the date of the forthcoming prohibition poll in New South Wales. An ordinance is now in course of preparation which will provide authority for the taking of the. poll and prescribing -  a  The qualifications of voters;  b  the method of voting; and  c  questions to be submitted to the poll. 
Enrolment and voting will both be compulsory, and the qualifications and disqualificatons of voters will be the same as those of Commonwealth electors. This will mean, so far as the residential qualification is concerned, that voters will require to have lived in Australia for six months continuously, and to have lived in the Territory for one month immediately preceding the date of their enrolment. The questions to be submitted at the poll, and the order in which they will appear upon the ballot-paper, will be as follow :  - 
Prohibition of possession of liquor in the Territory. 
Continuance of ordinance prohibiting the sale of liquor in the Territory. 
Sale of liquor under public control. 
Sale of liquor in licensed premises. 
The method of voting and the conduct of the scrutiny will be the same as for elections for the House of Representatives. Voters will, therefore, be required to mark their ballot-papers in accordance with the system of preferential voting prescribed for elections for the House of Representatives, and the question in favour of which an absolute majority of votes is ascertained to have been recorded will be deemed to have been affirmed. Provision will be made for a further poll to be taken at such time as the GovernorGeneral determines after the expiration of five years from the date of the first poll. The preparation of a roll for the forthcoming poll will commence as soon as the necessary enabling ordinance becomes law, and the last date for enrolment will be the 4th August, four weeks before polling-day. 
[3.15]. -  (By leave.)  - I desire to inform the Senate that the Government has requested  Senator A.  J. McLachlan to represent the Commonwealth as senior delegate at the forthcoming Assembly of the League of Nations, and that  Senator McLachlan  has consented to act in that capacity. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that  Sir Charles  Nathan, who left for England recently, has been appointed by the Commonwealth Government to represent them in connexion with the floating of certain loans and the organizing of the British Empire Exhibition that it is proposed to hold in Sydney in 1931? 
Has this appointment been made because the Commonwealth financial adviser has been found in any way incompetent to act as the representative of the Commonwealth Government in the floating of loans? 
If not, then why has the Commonwealth Government not instructed the Commonwealth financial adviser, instead of  Sir Charles  Nathan, to represent them in this matter? 
Regarding the proposed British Empire exhibition to be held in Sydney in 1931, why has not the Government instructed the High Commissioner for Australia to look after their interests instead of appointing  Sir Charles  Nathan? 

 Sir Charles Nathan had intended making a private visit to London next year, but in view of his thorough knowledge of the Australian arrangements for the British Empire exhibition to be held in Sydney, the Government asked him to go to London forthwith, as it was considered that his services would be of great value to the Commonwealth in London, when the bill authorizing the exhibition had been dealt with by Parliament.  Sir Charles  Nathan consented to alter his plans in accordance with the wish of the 
Government. The Government does not intend to pay  Sir Charles  Nathan for his services, but will probably bear a proportion of his travelling expenses. 
No. 
In addition to the matter set out in reply to question No. 1,  Sir Charles  Nathan will negotiate with the Government of the United Kingdom in regard to certain financial proposals of the State Government of Western Australia, which are being made under the migration agreement after consultation with the Development and Migration Commission.  Sir Charles  has been associated with these consultations, and his first-hand knowledge of the question will be of great value, and is, therefore, being availed of. The services of the financial adviser will also be utilized, if necessary, in this regard. 
See answer to No. 1. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The State Laws andRecordsRecognition Act 1901, provides for the recognition throughout the Commonwealth of the laws, the public acts and records and the judicial proceedings of the various States. In some recent proceedings in respect of an offence committed in New Guinea difficulties arose in proving in Australia that a warrant issued by a justice of the peace in New Guinea had been so issued. To meet such cases in future it is proposed to amend the State Laws andRecognition Act with a view to placing the Territories in a similar position to that of the States in regard to the proof of documents issued in the various Territories. The effect of the various clauses of the bill is as follows :  - Clause 2 amends the long title of the principal act to make it clear thatthe act applies to Territories as well as States. Clause 3 provides for certain consequential amendments. Clause 4 inserts a definition of " Minister ", when used in relation to territories and defines " Territories " as including territories governed under a mandate. The definition of " Courts " is also extended to include Territorial Courts and Arbitrators, under Federal, State or Territorial law, and all other persons authorized  by  law to hear and examine evidence. Clause 5 requires all courts within the Commonwealth to take judicial notice of all ordinances of any Territory. Clause 6 requires all courts within the Commonwealth to take judicial notice of the seal of any Territory. Section 5 of the principal act requires all courts within the Commonwealth to take judicial notice of the signatures of persons holding various offices, that is, the office of governor, judge, commissioner of titles, &amp;c. By clause 7 this section is to be extended to the signatures of persons holding similar offices in the Territories. Clause 8 amends section 6 of the principal act. This section relates to the proof in courts of proclamations, commissions, orders and regulations issued  by  the Governor of a State or by any minister of a State. It is proposed to extend the section to proclamations, commissions, orders and regulations issued in a territory by the Governor-General, or  by  the minister or other authority in the Territory. It is also proposed to insert a new provision to the effect, that proclamations, commissions, orders or regulations issued by the Governor-General or by the minister or other authority in a Territory may be proved  by  production of a copy or extract purporting to be certified to be true by  any  Minister. Clause 9 amends section 7 of the principal act, which relates to the proof of proclamations or acts of a State. It is proposed by the clause to extend this provision to Territories. Clauses 10 to 14 extend the provisions of sections 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13 of the principal act to Territories. These sections deal with the following matters: - Section 8 relates to the proof of certain public documents and records. Section . 9 provides that any public document which is admissible in any State without proof shall be admissible to the same extent in all courts within the Commonwealth. Section 10 deals with the production of any book or other document of a State. Section 12 makes provision for the proof of the  Government Gazette  of  a  State. Section 13 deals with the proof of documents printed by the Government Printer of a State. Clause 15 inserts a new provision to the effect that where under any lawin forcein a Territory the Governor-General or the Minister or some authority in the Territory is empowered to do and act, production of the  Government Gazette  of the Territory purporting to contain a copy of notification of the acts shall be evidence in all courts within the Commonwealth of the fact that the act has been done. Clause  16  adds a new section,  15a,  which provides that a by-law or regulation of a Territory may be proved by the production of a copy of the by-law or regulation purporting to be printed by the Government Printer of the Territory. Clauses  17  to 20 extend sections  16  to  19  of the principal acts to Territories. Sections  16  to  19  deal respectively with the proof of incorporation of a company; the proof of judicial proceedings, and the faith and credit to be given to public documents properly authorized. Section  19  provides that the provisions of the act are to be in addition to and not in derogation of any powers existing at common law or under any law in force in any State. The measure is a non-contentious one, designed to improve the machinery of the law, and I commend it to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Need-  ham) adjourned. 
. -I move - 
That the  bill be now read  a  second time. 
This is a somewhat lengthy and interesting measure, but I can assure honorable senators that it contains no new principle. Its purpose is to improve the working of the Post and Telegraph Act. In order that honorable senators may better understand the bill, I shall endeavour to summarize briefly the proposed amendments of the principal act. Clauses  1  to  5  contain provisions to change the designation of the permanent head of the department from that of Secretary to that of "DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs," and that of the chief officer in each State from  "Deputy  Postmaster-General," to "  Deputy  Director, Posts and Telegraphs." The present designation of the permanent head does not correctly indicate the nature of the position he occupies, or convey a proper indication of the responsibilities attached to the position. The new title is in conformity with that adopted in respect of certain other Commonwealth departments - for example, Comptroller-General of Customs and Director-General of Health. The new designations for  Deputy  PostmastersGeneral has already been adopted by the Public Service Board in connexion with the classification of the service, it being much more appropriate than  "Deputy  Postmaster-General which, in fact, is a misnomer. While in clause  6,  section 23 of the act is repealed and a new section inserted in its stead, actually the provisions of the present section are only altered to a very slight extent and for the purpose of making the wording conform to recognized postal practice. Proposed new subsections (2) and (3) are new matter and are being added because under the existing law the PostmasterGeneral is not enabled to recover from thesender the difference between the postage paid and the correct postage on postal articles which it is found after delivery were irregularly posted at a lower rate of postage than that applicable to the articles. The enclosure in a newspaper of something which is not part of the newspaper itself, necessitates a higher rate of postage to be charged, and the same applies in the case of other classes of mail matter which contain what may be termed irregular enclosures. Under the act at present any article which it is discovered contains an irregular enclosureis taxed double the deficiency in postage, and the amount is payable by the addressee on delivery ; but if the fact that the article or a number of articles contained irregular enclosures does not come under notice until after delivery is effected there are no means by which the loss of revenue can be recovered. This weakness in the law will be remedied by the proposed addition, and, moreover, it will give the department the power to recover such loss from the person primarily responsible, namely, the sender. Theprincipal features of the amendments contained in clause 7 are a new definition of a newspaper for postal purposes, and the introduction of a new postal classification, "Periodicals," for magazines, reviews, and other periodical publications which will not come within the classification of newspapers. 
 Can the Minister say why church papers have been taken out of the definition of newspapers. 
Posted by proprietors and newsagents, 2½d. per 20 ounces on the aggregate weight. 
Posted by the general public,1d. per 8 ounces for each periodical. 
Before going on to explain the effect of these alterations as regards publications which will thereby be removed from the newspaper class, I wish to stress the point that no publication which is at present registered as a newspaper and is issued daily or at intervals not exceeding one week will be any way affected. Such publications will remain in the newspaper class and continue to be transmitted at the existing rates of postage. 
As it is intended to adopt a bulk rate of postage for periodicals posted by the proprietors thereof and by newsagents, the effect of the alterations will be merely an increase in postage of the nominal amount of1d. per 20 ounces or four-fifths of a penny per lb. On the other hand the application of this new bulk rate to magazines will give to the publishers thereof a concession not hitherto enjoyed. At present they pay at 'the rate of1d. per 8 ounces on each magazine posted, but under the new rate they will pay2½d. per 20 ounces on the aggregate weight of the copies posted at the one time, which will reduce the postage on all magazines which do not weigh exactly8 ounces or multiple thereof. So far as the general public is concerned, the alterations will have practically no effect at all, the only difference being that publications now classed as newspapers will be subject to postage at the rate of1d. per 8 ounces instead of1d. per 10 ounces and very few, if any, of the publications which will be transferred from the newspaper to the periodical class exceed 8 ounces in weight. 
Clause 8 provides the machinery for the registration of publications as newspapers and periodicals. Section 29 of the act as it stands at present covers only the registration of newspapers; but as it is proposed to adopt a bulk rate of postage for periodicals posted by the proprietors thereof and by newsagents it is necessary to have such publications registered for transmission at such rate in a similar manner to that hitherto followed in regard to newspapers. This clause also provides the machinery for the removal from the register of newspapers of those publications which by reason of their infrequency of issue or other cause will, no longer be eligible for inclusion in the newspaper classification. Their transfer to the register of periodicals is a formal matter which will be covered by the regulations and for which it is unnecessary to make provision in the act. In drafting the bill the provision in the present act giving the right of appeal to a court against the deregistration of a newspaper was dropped as the view was held that as the final decision on the question of registration rests with the Postmaster-General the decision as to whether a publication should remain on the register should, consistently, also rest with him. In view of the fact that this right of appeal has been in existence for a considerable period it has now been decided to retain it, and when the bill is in committee I shall move an amendment to that effect. 
Clause 9 provides for an amendment to the section of the act which relates to the repayment of postage in cash instead of by means of postage stamps affixed to the article. The portion to  dp  deleted provides for something which cannot at present be complied with by the department, namely, the marking of each article with the full amount of postage paid thereon. . As honorable senators are aware there is at present a bulk rate of postage for newspapers under which postage is calculated on the aggregate weight of the newspapers posted at the one time, and as' the postage is paid on the total weight of the whole consignment, obviously it is impossible to mark on each newspaper the amount of postage paid individually. A slight error which occurred in the drafting of this clause has just come under notice, namely, that the words " and the postmaster," which precede the words " or other officer " in the present section, should also be deleted. This will be rectified later. The additional matter which it is proposed to insert is rendered necessary because of the adoption of the franking machines in the Commonwealth, and as the conditions relating to the use of such machines provide for the payment in advance of the value of the impressions representing postage. 
Clause  10  relates to the sale of precancelled stamps. Under the provisions of the present act the department is unable to avail itself of the advantages to be derived from the sale of precancelled postage stamps for use by firms posting large quantities of parcels, catalogues, &amp;c, at the one time, and in consequence the postage stamps on articles which are too bulky to be passed through any stamp cancelling machine have all to be cancelled laboriously by hand. The treatment of this class of postal article is greatly expedited by the use of pre-cancelled stamps and the system is in force in many other countries. No fear need be experienced that the system is unsafe from a revenue viewpoint as the regulations regarding the sale of these stamps wi?3 provide for their disposal only to firms which make large postings arid a record will be kept of the names of firms authorized to use pre-cancelled stamps. Moreover, all postings bearing pre-cancelled stamps will be made at a prescribed office over the public counter and there will be other safeguards which will adequately protect the revenue against loss. 
Under clause 11 it is proposed to insert in section 38 of the act a provision which will enable the department to deliver an A.E. registered article to the authorized representative or agent of the addressee. An A.E. registered article is one on which the sender has paid a special fee in order to be supplied by the department with a signed acknowledgment from the addressee that he has accepted delivery. At present the department can deliver an A.E. registered article, if posted within the Commonwealth, only to the addressee personally, and this restriction has been the cause of a good deal of difficulty. In some cases personal hardship to both the sender and the addressee has resulted and instances have occurred where the department has had to refuse to deliver a registered article to a properly and legally authorized agent, although the addressee had instructed that delivery of the article in question should be made to his agent. This restriction does not apply to A.E. articles posted to Australia from abroad, for the international postal regulations, in common with the practice in other countries, permit delivery to properly authorized representatives or  agents. It is to remove the anomaly and to overcome the attendant difficulties that the proposed alteration is necessary. 
In the main, clauses 12 to 14 relate to the treatment of postal articles hearing or containing something of an objectionable or improper nature, and make clearer the method to be followed when an article of such nature is discovered in the post. Experience has shown that the provisions of the present act in regard to matter of an objectionable or improper character are too restricted. It is therefore proposed to take this opportunity of stating more clearly the nature of the matter which properly comes within this category. 
The provisions of the act in regard to the treatment of undeliverable postal articles containing valuable or saleable enclosures are unwieldy. Clause 16 sets out to remedy this defect. At present anything of a valuable or saleable nature must be returned to the sender from the Dead Letter Office by registered post. Under a literal interpretation of the act anything of a saleable nature, no matter how small its intrinsic value, must be dealt with in this manner. Such a provision is unnecessary, and it is now proposed that only articles containing enclosures of such value as would render compulsory the registration of the article at the time of posting shall be forwarded from the Dead Letter Office by registered post. 
The amendment proposed under clause 18 is to reduce the period for which telegrams and other official documents shall be retained prior to destruction. The present provisions, requiring the documents to be held for a period of two years, necessitate the use of a considerable amount of floor space for storage purposes, which, in many buildings, is needed for working purposes. As experience has shown that a document over one year old is rarely required, it is proposed to reduce the period of retention from two years to one year. The period will meet all necessary requirements. It will be noticed that in the case of transit or tape recorded telegrams the proposed period of retention is three months. 
These  records are required only for de partmental purposes, and such period of retention is all that is necessary. 
At present the maximum amount for which a money order can be obtained is £20. If an order for a larger sum is required, two or more orders must be issued. Clause 20 increases the maximum to £40. This provision will be a convenience to the public, and should result in a saving of time and labour in the issuing of and accounting for money orders.For many years other countries, including Great Britain, have had a similar maximum for domestic money orders, and, apart from the provisions of the present act, there is no reason why the Commonwealth should not follow suit. 
The remaining clauses, contain nothing of a contentious nature ; they are merely amendments of a formal character, which have been found advisable in the interests of the service. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the  bill be  now  read a second time. 
In the main the amendments proposed in this bill are of a purely formal character, and are consequent upon the amendments to the Post and Telegraph Act in regard to newspapers and periodicals. The only features which appear to call for comment at this stage are those covered by clause 5, sub-paragraph (d), and the new part 1a - Periodicals - which it is proposed to insert in the first schedule to the act. 
Clause 5, sub-paragraph (d) proposes the deletion from the present act of the provision giving the concession of bulk rate of postage to newspapers returned to the publishing office by news vendors and agents. Investigations have disclosed that this provision is practically a dead letter, of which advantage is seldom taken. In any case, thereis no justification for returns to be transmitted at the low rate of postage which was adopted by Parliament for the express purpose of assisting in the dissemination of news to the people of Australia. The application of the bulk rate of postage to returns is unquestionably a concession rate to newsagents only, which is not justified, seeing that the returns are forwarded to the publisher merely for the purpose of obtaining a refund in respect of unsold copies of a journal. The new part 1a of the first schedule sets out the proposed rates of postage for " Periodicals." Briefly stated, such rates are as follow: - (a) Posted by proprietors and newsagents, 2½d. per 20 oz. on the aggregate weight; (b) posted by the general public,1d. per 8 oz. for each periodical. The classification "Periodical " will embrace publications, now registered as newspapers, which are issued less frequently than once in seven days, and publications now classified as magazines. The transfer to the " Periodical " classification of publications now registered as newspapers which are issued less frequently than once a week will only nominally increase the present rate of postage. Actually, the increase in postage will be only1d. per 20 oz., or four-fifths of a penny per lb. On the other hand, the proprietors of publications now classified as magazines will obtain the advantages of a bulk rate of postage calculated on the aggregate weight' of each posting instead of, as at present, the postage being calculated at the rate of1d. per 8 oz. for each magazine. This will reduce the postage on all magazines which do not weigh exactly 8 oz., or a multiple thereof. So far as the general public is concerned, the alterations will have practically no effect, the only difference being that publications now classed as newspapers will be subject to postage at the rate of1d. per 8 oz. instead of1d. per 10 oz., while very few, if any, of the publications which will be transferred from the " Newspaper " to the " Periodical " class exceed 8 oz. in weight. For publications which are not at present registered as newspapers - magazines - there will be no increase in postage, as the rate of postage for " Periodicals " posted by the general public is1d. per 8 oz. for each periodical, which is identical with the existing rate for magazines. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Need-  ham) adjourned. 
.- Under existing conditions the shipping companies cannot expect to do more than make a fair profit on the capital invested. We have been told that freights between Australia and Great Britain would be kept down for the benefit of the Australian primary producer by continuing the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, even if we sustained a loss in doing so. But that is contradicted by some figures which were given by the Minister for Markets  (Mr. Paterson),  in another place, and which, in the long debate that followed, remained unchallenged. The Minister showed that without incurring any loss through running State-owned steamers, New Zealand by means of the ordinary competition of shipping companies was scoring an advantage over Australia in the matter of freights. He said - 
From Auckland to London via the Panama Canal is 110 miles further than the distance from Melbourne to London via the Suez Canal, so that it cannot be said that any advantage enjoyed by New Zealand in respect of freight rates is because of its nearness to the market. Yet on the three commodities which the dominion exports in competition with Australia - dairy produce, lamb, and wool - it has an advantage. The freight rate on Iambs is 1.25d. from Australia and 1.18d. from New Zealand. In regard to wool, notwithstanding that Australia is very much the greater exporter, New Zealand has a slight advantage, the rates being 1.04d. as against l.06d. On butter, the rate is 4s. a box from both countries, but New Zealand enjoys the bigger discount. Until the recent arrangement was made by the Butter Export Control Board Australia received no discount, while New Zealand has been enjoying a discount of7½ per cent. for years, and in 1929-30 will benefit by a discount of 124 per cent. 
The arrangements recently made by Australia will give to our shippers only part of that advantage. We shall get a discount of 2J per cent, if we export 40,000 tons and over; of 5 per cent, if we export 55,000 tons and over, and of 7i per cent., or the New Zealand rate, if we send away more butter than we have sent previously "in one year. New Zealand has an advantage over us in regard to dairy products. 
He also showed that Tasmania was not deriving any great advantage from the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, because it carried only 10 per cent, of the cases of fruit despatched from Tasmania to the British market. We have little to gain by continuing these steamers for the purpose of securing low freights for our primary producers. On our particular lines of produce Kew Zealand enjoys an advantage over Australia. 
It is true that a private company could not hope to run against a country owning its own vessels and cutting freights. If Australia continued to run its own vessels and cut freights, the only result would be to compel the private concerns to provide us with inferior, instead of up-to-date vessels. There is at present ample competition among private companies. Lord Kylsant and Lord Inchcape are engaged in a strenuous fight all the world over, and I think the people of Australia can rest assured that out of the competition now prevailing they will get a fair deal. 
The terms of the contract between the Commonwealth Government and the White Star line provide for a guarantee that the vessels taken over will be run in the Australian service for ten years without any increase of freight except with the sanction of a local committee, on which no doubt the primary producers will be amply represented. What better guarantee can we have for the maintenance of an adequate service between Australia and Great Britain without any loss to us? 
The vessels of the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Line are getting out of date. 
They have been running for five or six years without a break. Any shipping concern that wants to keep its vessels up to date must dock them occasionally to prevent deterioration. But the Australian Commonwealth Line has not one steamer in reserve to take the place of another that requires docking. I am very much afraid that when our steamers are taken over by the White Star line they will need to be overhauled. The expenditure the company will have to incur in this regard will mean a saving of many hundreds of thousands of pounds to Australia. 

 Senator Findley, when speaking, waved his arms and said, " The loss incurred by the Government in running the Line does not matter." That is so, from his standpoint. He does not mind if a loss is incurred on any State enterprise, and the party with which he is associated looks at these enterprises from the same view-point. All the shipping enterprises controlled by the various State Governments are run at a loss. It seems to me that the main object in establishing these ventures is to find soft jobs for a few people. What is the attitude of the unions towards them ? They say, " We shall run the ships to suit our own convenience, and hold them up whenever we like to do . so, loss or no loss." Many people in Australia agree with  Senator Findley  that it does not matter what loss is sustained by any enterprise that is nationalized, so long as it is run in the interests of a section. 
When, in 1925, the Government endeavoured to dispose of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, not a single tender was received on the conditions which were at that time laid down. Evidently no one was anxious to secure the vessels on the terms then laid down. On this occasion only one tender worth considering has been received. If these vessels are the bargain that my friends opposite declare them to be, other acceptable offers would have been received. The fact that only one tender was received on the condition laid down - that the vessels must be retained on the British register - is the best proof of the real value of the Line. Australia is a growing place; its production is greater than ever before, and its overseas trade is likely to increase. Surely a line of vessels engaged in carrying Australian produce to overseas markets would be likely to find plenty of purchasers if they were the bargain that my friends opposite have said they are. The Public Accounts Committee has shown us that Australia  suffered a loss of £220,000 a year by running the steamers on Australian articles, and that this loss would have  been  converted into a profit of £30,000 if the crews had been on British articles. On Friday I said that I was never in favour of these vessels being run on the Australian register, because I recognized that they could not compete with  Other  lines. 
The sugar question is quite a different matter. If we are to have a White Australia, we must pay for it. 
It is not a Queensland matter. In order to have a White Australia the Commonwealth Parliament deprived the Queensland sugargrowers of cheap labour, and if the growers had not been compensated in some other way, they would have been compelled to cease growing sugar-cane. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John Newlands). -  The honorable senator is wandering from the question before the chair. 
I thought it was necessary to enlighten the darkness of my friends opposite in regard to sugargrowing in Queensland, and to show that the principle involved was really that of maintaining a White Australia. It also affects our overseas trade, because we subsidize the Orient Company to carry our mails  with  white crews. 
We have been told by a  union  official that  if  the vessels of the Australian Commonwealth Line are sold and run on British articles, the Seamen's Union will take steps to declare them " black " and make all the trouble possible. As one who has read that statement, and also the statement of the Prime  Minister in  the other House, I trust that the Government  will  take a very firm stand upon this matter. I do not know to what extent  Mr. O'Neill  represents the Seamen's Union, but  it  is just about time that the Government informed  Mr. O'Neill  and  other  members of the union, that  the  will of Parliament must be supreme, and that the interests of the country  will  be guarded. I think that the Government and the Arbitration Court have been extremely lenient to the maritime unions in dealing with troubles caused, particularly in regard to this Line. It is disgraceful, having regard to the excellent treatment of the members of the Seamen's,, Union, and the high wages they received on the Commonwealth ships, that they should have destroyed the Line. Their behaviour has forced the Government to get rid of the ships altogether. The union says that it will declare the ships black, but I trust that the Government will teach  Mr. O'Neill  and his friends that the will of Parliament is supreme. I shall be behind the Government in any action which it may take to make the unions obey the law. Under the constitutional means provided through their representatives in Parliament, the unions have had full opportunity to make their protest against this sale. A majority of Parliament has decided that these ships are to be sold. We are being paid for them and conditions have been inserted in the agreement that they are to be kept on the Australian route, and that they will continue to carry Australian cargoes. Any company which takes over the ships on that understanding is entitled to full support from the Government, and an assurance that it will be granted the necessary facilities for carrying on trade. The unions are going just a little too far. 
Our friends opposite say that the sale of these vessels is going to be a good election cry. They are quite welcome to it. Personally I feel sure that the majority of the electors of Australia are glad that the Government is getting rid of the ships, and I am sure that they will be behind the Government in any action that is taken to enforce the law. I am certain that I represent public opinion in my State when I urge the Government to take whatever steps are necessary to see that the company which has purchased these ships is given a fair deal. 
 I have listened with interest to the remarks of speakers who have favoured the sale of these vessels. One honorable senator declared that the purchasers had secured a star bargain. 
I should not call it a star bargain; I should say rather that it was an Easter gift. The vessels were given away, they were not sold at all. Other Government enterprises have been sold just when they were making a handsome profit. 
Perhaps  Senator Chapman  might be able to tell us. I maintain that the disposal of these ships was an absolute gift to the White Star Line by the Commonwealth Government. My friend  Senator Reid  has said that his State is behind him in the attitude he has taken up on this matter; I can say with equal emphasis that my State is behind' me in my attitude. It is no use" now opposing the sale, because the ships have been already sold, but I wish to express my disgust at the terms upon which they have been handed over. When the sale was being considered in 1926, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  expected to receive for them much more than has been obtained, and the depreciation on steamships is _ not so great as is represented by the difference in- price. This transaction is an absolute crime on the part of the Government. If the ships were to be sold at all an adequate price should have been obtained for them.  Senator Reid  says that there was .only one genuine tender. It was patent to everybody that there was an honorable understanding among the shipping lines on the other side of the world that there would be only one tender. 
I am telling the honorable senator now. 
I have proof of it. These ships compare favorably with any vessels of their type. They have been so constructed as to carry eight 8-inch guns in case of emergency. Any of these ships could have out-distanced the  Emden. 
No, they will not. We have an understanding with the company that the ships will run on the Australian route for ten years, but there is a provision that a committee may be approached for an increase in fares and freights. It is quite evident that freights and fares will go up, and the people of this country will have to foot the bill. The. ships are passing out of the hands of the Australian people to whom they originally belonged. The people of Australia paid £7,500,000 for the "Bay" liners, and now they, with two others, have been sold for £1,850,000. 
These vessels may be compared with the railways. There is not a railway system in any State which is actually paying, but they are being maintained because they are essential services. 
The capacity of these ships, as far as refrigerated space is concerned, is second to none. The Line has been instrumental in keeping down freights between here and Great Britain. We have been told by  Senator Reid  that industrial unrest, fomented by the Seamen's Union, has been responsible for the failure of the Line. That is not correct. There has been less industrial trouble on the Commonwealth Line of Steamers than on any other line during the last three years. The disagreement and unrest amongst the members of the Shipping Board has really damned this :Line in the eyes of the exporters. In 1926, when  Mr. Larkin  came back from Great Britain with an offer for the fleet, it was not opportune just then to accept it, and the Line carried on. The fact that the sale of the Line was being considered created an atmosphere of fear and distrust amongst the exporters. They were frightened to continue supporting it lest, when it went out of operation, they .would be unable to obtain space . on the other lines. It was this fear, rather than any industrial unrest, which was responsible for the falling off of trade. The ships of the. Commonwealth Line were built so as to enable them to carry certain armament, and on that account they are more valuable to the purchasers than other vessels would be. Some of them are only five or six years old.  Senator Reid  says that they could not be docked because there were no vessels available to take their places. The fact that they have been running for that period without being docked speaks volumes for their construction, especially when we remember that the two submarines recently built at Home, have had to be docked for repairs on their way out to Australia. When the ships first started on the Home route, they carried full cargoes on every trip, but now, owing to the stampeding of shippers to other lines for the reason which I have stated, they are not able to get sufficient cargo. 
Since the sale of the Line the other shipping companies have reduced freights on dried fruits, wool, apples, and other items of cargo. This has been done on the condition that they obtain a guarantee of 70,000 tons of cargo. The  Bulletin  dealing with the operations of the Commonwealth ships stated a bulletin issued by the Federal Parliamentary Country party says that the ships last year carried only 11 out of every l,000bags of wheat, 23 out of every 1,000) bales of wool, 5.7 per cent. of flour and pollard, 2.6 per cent. of beef, 12.9 per cent. of mutton, and 12.1 per cent. of lamb. Why? Because the refrigerated space was not sufficient. 
I know it is not, but refrigerated space was necessary for many other classes of cargo that were offering. The ships of the Commonwealth Government Line were responsible for reducing the time occupied during the journey between Australia and Great Britain from 30 days to 28 days, Their presence on the run kept other companies up to the mark. Yet they have been practically given away to the White Star Line. 
SenatorGRAHAM.-  The Seamen's 
Union could not be blamed for that decision. The responsibility for failing to lift Tasmanian apples must rest with the management.  Senator Verran  asked me just now if I knew of any nationalized undertaking that could show a profit. Many government-controlled enterprises are paying, as the honorable senator knows. The Geelong Woollen Mills were highly profitable before  Senator Guthrie  and his friends secured them. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands.).  - Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the motion before the Senate. 
-I have no wish to disobey your ruling,  Mr. President,  but I should like to emphasize that the Geelong Woollen Mills paid handsomely up to file time that they were sold. Unfortunately, everything that this Government has touched has proved a failure. Full credit has not been given to the Commonwealth Government Line for its, influence in keeping down freights from Australia to Great Britain. Even if it were considered necessary to sell the vessels, the Government should have obtained at least £3,000,000 forthem. 

 -Senator Reid need not be so bitter against the Labour administrations, in Australia. 
-Queensland is doing verywell at the expense of the rest of the other States. The sugar industry in that State has been bolstered up to the extent of£ 3,000,000. A great deal of hard cash has been given to the Queensland growers by way of bounties to enable them to export their surplus sugar. It is little short of a crime that theCommonwealth Government Line of Steamers should have been sold for such a paltry sum to the White Star Line. There is not the slightest doubt that before long freights and fares will be increased, because the combine now has the people of Australia at itsmercy. 
.- It was inevitable, I supposethat a long and animated debate  should take place over the decision of the Government to sell- the Commonwealth ships. 
The honorsenator, at all events, spoke at some length, and appeared to be at least semi-animated; but I shall take his word for it that he was not. The Government decided, after the fullest inquiries, that it was in the best interests of Australia that the ships should be sold. I expected, and my expectations have been realized, that those who were opposed to the sale of the vessels would object to the price obtained; but I feel sure that the people generally will consider that, in the circumstances, it is very fair indeed. In this matter we have to consider the value of the ships to the sellers in the first place, andi to the buyers in the second place ; . and if 
Ave  examine the causes that were responsible for the Government's decision to sell, I think  Ave  must come to the conclusion that the Government and the people of Australia have got out of an impasse very  well  indeed. The price offered by the successful tenderer is in the neighborhood of £270,000 for each ship. If honorable senators  W111  bear in mind the price of shipping throughout  the  world, and consider -.also the. age of the vessels sold, they will", I am sure,  agree  with me that the price received is essentially a fair one. Let us examine the value of the ships to. the sellers - the people of Australia. I do not know  how  honorable senators can describe as a valuable asset- a Line that is systematically losing £500,000 or more a year. ..Any capital value  which  can be put upon such vessels must be in the -nature of a minus quantity, in view of the hopelessness of making them pay under Government control. 
It has been pleaded as a reason for the continuance of the Line that it has been of immense advantage to the producers of Australia ; but I should like to emphasize that wheat and wool, our greatest exportable primary products, have never been exported to any considerable extent in bottoms of the kind represented by the Commonwealth Government Line. Those vessels carried only 1 per cent, of Australian wheat. A fair quantity of wool is carried to the United Kingdom in vessels of the type represented by the Commonwealth  vessels  which have lately been disposed of, but the figures  show  that they secured only 2.3 per cent, of our exports .of that commodity. If the vessels were of such immense value to the primary producers of Australia, we  would  naturally have expected those  two  sections of primary producers to make some effort to retain the Line. Certainly we should have expected them to ship more of their produce by the Government steamers, in an  endeavour  to prolong the life of the Line. Other primary products were sent  away  in these  vessels  in the following proportion: - Flour, 5.7 per cent.; beef, 2.6 per cent. ; mutton, 12.9 per cent. ; and lambs, 12.1 per cent. The balance of our export trade in those branches of primary production was exported in vessels under private control. 
An examination of the facts discloses that the primary producers, whom I notice honorable gentlemen opposite are endeavoring to rally to their support in opposing the action of the Government, have not responded so readily as might have been expected of them, assuming that the Line was of such importance to them. Naturally they looked at the matter from a business point of view. They either got better terms from other private shipping companies, or for some other reason of  which  I know nothing, they did not ship their produce in greater quantities by the Commonwealth Government ships. As a matter of fact, these vessels have had a fair proportion of the trade  outwards  from Australia to the United Kingdom, and have had wonderfully good cargoes from the United Kingdom to Australia. Almost invariably they have had 80 per cent, of their cargo space occupied on the run to Great Britain, and very often have returned with full cargoes. In these circumstances, 
Ave have  to look  elsewhere  for the reasons that have been responsible for their failure under Government control. The reason, as honorable senators know, is that the ships have been running under Australian conditions, which  may  be  very good as long as their activities are confined to the Australian trade, but put them out of court immediately they meet outside competition. 
It does. While we persist in imposing artificial restrictions of labour on Australian industries, and back them up by absolutely ridiculous and tyrannical tariffs, those conditions will apply. The party to which I have the honour to belong is not alone in its determination to impose high tariffs. Honorable gentlemen opposite, if they were in power, would, I believe, enact even higher protective duties in respect of many industries. I hope,  Mr. President,  that you will pardon me for apparently disgressing;  but after all, what I am saying is not  really  a digression, because the protective policy in Australia is inextricably interwoven with the subject now under discussion. 
Some time ago the Public Accounts Committee made a careful investigation of the position of the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers, and issued what I consider is an absolutely true and unbiassed statement concerning the conditions under which they were run as compared with ships' in other parts of the world. It is most interesting to see what these conditions were. Honorable senators will find them set out on page 11 of the report, at the bottom of which there is the following paragraph,  which has a distinct bearing on the sale : - 
Taking Australian wages and conditions as at £100, the Committee was informed- 
This is the result of the unbiased research of officials of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers - that in respect of a vessel of 6,000 tons gross the British wages would be £32.41 ;- 
That is less than one-third - the American, £42.21:- 
That is less than one-half, but is of little interest as our maritime trade with America is almost negligible - the Swedish, £24.51;- 
That is getting down to one-fourth - and the Danish, £15.44, but since those figures were prepared, the Australian rates have been increased by 5s. a month per rating. 
Another element has to be considered in this connexion. Since the report was prepared, the Scandinavians, particularly the Swedes and Norwegians, have made their appearance on the seas with motor ships on which the wages paid are less than one-fifth of those paid under the Australian conditions, and with these the Australian Commonwealth Line has to compete. 
Let us consider for a moment - I know every one wishes to be fair - what has been done by the men who enjoy these labour con,dition, to justify their continuance. When we come down to hard facts we should at least expect an adequate return for conditions such as these men enjoy. Let us take, for instance, the employment of white labour as against coloured labour. White labour, which is employed on nearly all the ships which come to Australia, is paid more than coloured labour, because fewer white sailors are required. Is that the case in! connexion with the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers? It is not. We find if we institute a comparison, that the position is very instructive. Figures supplied to the Public Accounts Committee showed that the " Bay " steamers under . Australian conditions carried a complement of 170, at a cost, including overtime and leave, of £3,725 per month, while a vessel of similar class on the British register carried a complement of only 154, at a total monthly cost of £1,654. Leaving wages out of consideration, how does it arise that the number of men employed on vessels under the Australian register, where the wages are higher and presumably the value given should be greater per man, is greater than on ships under the British register? It is very evident to me that these conditions have not had the effect of stimulating Australian seamen and other ratings to the extent that might be expected in view of the higher remuneration paid. 
It is peculiar that these persons do not seem to be able to stand success. They have succeeded in securing conditions beyond the expectations of any maritime employees in the world They have secured conditions the like ofwhich the world has never seenand which, Idoubt, the world willever see again. Jeshurun is mentioned in the Old Testament as having "waxed fat and kicked." These men have also waxed fat and kicked. 
Yes, and, to use an Americanism, are kicking right now, as ships running on the Australian coast are being held up owing to the recalcitrant behaviour of one or two cooks. Let me give an instance of how little these gentlemen whoattend to the culinary needs of passengers, have need to grumble. There are men within the precincts of the House who can hear me out when I say that on a ship on which I travelled the cook drew a few pounds more permonth than the captain of the vessel. Is that a fair thing? It is a comic opera proposition. 
I presume he is or he would not be there. But the captain is also a most important member of a ship's complement and surely he should be paid for skill he possesses and the training he has undergone. I may say that I hadno great admiration or enthusiasm for the resultant efforts of this overpaid cook. They left a great deal to be desired, but he kept on drawing a few pounds more a month than the captain, which, as Euclid would say, is a reduction to an absurdity. 
Yes, it is tragic comedy, but that is the sort of thing that is happening. After an experience of some years, I believe-and I am glad to see the Government also believes - thatthe people have become utterly sick of this state of affairs. In circumstances which involve Competition with the rest of the world it is absolutely obvious that when competitors are paying in wages somewhere about one-fifth of what the Line has been paying, we should not endeavour to continue to derive benefit from the existence of the Line. The Government has acted wisely and, in my opinion,has been very fortunate to get out of the awkward position in which it found itself, as well as it has on this occasion. 
A great deal has been said of what the Line has done in keeping down freights. It has done very little. It has carried an inconsiderable percentage of the goods to and from Australia. The shipping combine to which, my friends opposite so frequently refer, could at any time have driven the vessels of this Line off the water had it so desired. Did it do so? It did not. I do not say that it refrained from so doing from altruistic principles. I think honorable senators opposite have a false idea of what the shipping combine really is. A combine may be described as a number of persons bound together with the object of opposing others. What is the position in connexion with these shipping companies? 
The honorable senator knows very well how the Conference was described before the Public Accounts Committee of which he was then a member. The report of that committee made it evenmore palpable than before, that it was impossible to continue the Line. He will also remember that the CommonwealthShipping Line authorities were as much in the Conference as were other companies, He must further remember that the Conference consisted of various shipping companies. It was a most elusive sort of thing, because shipping companies would slip in and out of it, as it suited their intentions, like rabbits in and out of a burrow. When they wished to do anything contrary to the wishes of other members of the Conference, they would slip out. 
I do not think so. I am inclined to agree that it is true that the Commonwealth Line was able to give betters terms as a result of being a member of the Conference; but if the Conference had so decided, the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers would not have continued as such, for many months. It hadthe power and the money to chase the Commonwealth Line off the water. It did not do so. It did an approximately f air thing. Reductions in the freight on wool were not brought about by the Commonwealth Line, but by other shipping companies, and the reduction in the freight on butter by New Zealand. No doubt these reductions have been credited to the Commonwealth Line. 
I wish to give it credit for working 'as it has Tinder a huge weight and an absolutely staggering overhead 'expenses in- the matter 'of management. It has struggled against these obstacles and against a set of competitors who were absolutely neglectful of it rather than opposed to it. If we capitalized 'the annual loss of £500/000 a year at 5 per cent., it would represent £10,000,000, which means, from a business viewpoint, that we are £10,000,000 to the bad, to which must be added £2,000,000, making a total of £12,;000,;000. We have incurred a loss of practically £12,000,000 during the time the Line has been in operation. In these circumstances we are well out of the difficulty, and I do not think the people of Australia will have anything to grumble at, neither will they complain at the amount fixed for repatriation. If there is one matter in which the Government has done well, it is in connexion with the cost of repatriating the 'crews. I understand that an allowance of £50,000 has been made for repatriation. For the repatriation of whom? The repatriation 'of 'a number of seamen, stewards and engine-room men who I do not suppose wish to be repatriated. 
Yes, it is most instructive to see how these marvellous conditions have been taken advantage of by the seamen of Great Britain. Take, the classes for which these conditions were established. Who have been making the most noise since the Navigation Act and Commonwealth Conciliation . and Arbitration Acts have been in operation? Putting them in their order of merit - or demerit - they are: the stewards, the deck hands, and the engine-room complement. I place the engine-room complement last because these vessels, being nearly all oil burners, employ few firemen. "Of the stewards, 173 are Australians, and 202 Englishmen, ot men domiciled "outside Australia. In the case of the deck-hands, -the numbers are 85, and 140 respectively. Of the engine-room complement, the respective figures are 61 'and 89. Taking these three classes of employees we find that 219 .'are Australians and 431 English or men domiciled outside Australia. 
I blame Australian conditions and the enormous overhead expenses, which for seven vessels amounted to approximately £90,000 per annum, for having rendered necessary the sale of the ships. 
I repeat that Australian conditions, and the enormous overhead expenses, made necessary the sale of the fleet. 
Honorable senators may know that I have never looked with favour on th.e Line. They may recollect the occasion on which I have sought information about the ships - their cost, their Tunning expenses and other matters. I persisted with my enquiries until those in charge of the Line stated that they did not think it necessary to supply further information. I said then that, notwithstanding their reluctance to supply the information, I would get it. 
Seeing that the vessels of the Australian Commonwealth Line of steamers were on the Australian register, and that their crews enjoyed the benefits of Australian wages and conditions, the Public Accounts Committee called for particulars of the domicile of the personnel of the fleet. From the figures which I shall quote it will be seen that for the whole personnel the majority of those whose domicile is outside Australia is not so great as in the three sections I have quoted. Apparently those who have cried loudest for Australian conditions have not been prepared to live in Australia. The figures obtained by the committee show that of a total complement of 1034 men, 514 reside in Australia, and 520 outside Australia. Of the masters, who do not belong to the agitator class, five live in Australia, and two in the United Kingdom. In the case of the pursers the figures are respectively 57 and 19. Sixty oftheengineers,whoseworkisofaskilled nature, are Australians, and 27 come from other countries. The 27 apprentices are all Australians. The more direct reppresentatives of the employing class are Australians, but the representatives of those sections for whom such wonderful conditions were created have not taken full advantage of them. It should lessen the blow of the sale of this Line to know that if any injustice is done, it is done not to Australian sailors, but to those unfortunates from other countries who have been misled into accepting employment on vessels operating under Australian conditions. 
That is very likely. And, many of our Australian seamen, if they are wise, will do the same. The British register strikes the happy medium. Having regard to the observations of the Opposition, one would think that the British register is the result of tyrannical conditions imposed on the sailors of Great Britain. But that is not so. British sailors have always been well looked after. British Boards of Trade are not composed of cruel, inhuman men, but of men who are just as desirous of making the conditions of employees as comfortable and happy as possible as are other employers through- out the world. 
The Opposition would have us believe that the British seaman is a down-trodden, unfortunate, and oppressed individual. He is not. Were British seamen of that class, do honorable members think that they would have played in the history of the world the wonderful part that has been theirs? 
They get fair treatment. While I believe that Australian seamen should be treated fairly, I also believe that those who get good conditions should render better service than those treated less generously. Unfortunately, that has not been so in the case of the employees of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. 
I do not remember having said that I approached the matter with an open mind. If I did say so, it must have been a slip of the tongue. I said that ever since I had been a member of this Parliament it had been my fixed idea that the Line was of no benefit to Australia, and the more I inquired into its operations, the more I was confirmed in that belief. Hence, my enthusiastic support of the step which the Government has taken. 
AlthoughI do not remember saying that, my mind has been free from prejudice. There is a considerable difference between prejudice and reason. I approached the investigation without sentiment; but I had no desire to defend a class which, in return for good treatment, rendered unsatisfactory service. Throughout the history of the Line, honorable senators opposite have been careful to remain silent regarding the actions of the seamen. I realize the difficulty of their nosition - that whatever they said would have placed them in an even more difficult position. Perhaps their policy of silence was in the circumstances the most judicious and tactically effective. 
I have dealt with the value of the ships to the seller which from our experience over a number of years, appears to be in the nature of a minus quantity. In the circumstances, I think that Australia is fortunate to receive what may be described as a fair commercial price for  these ships. The sale of the vessels will not create a shipping monopoly or alter the existing state of affairs among the members of the Conference. In any case, we may rest assured that the Scandinavian nations with their wonderful fleets of motor vesels, particularly suitable for freight purposes - cheaply run, having sufficient speed, and additional cargo space because of their means of propulsion - will see that freights are not unduly increased. I also remind honorable senators that between the lines forming the Conference there is a great amount of internal competition. That has been the case in the past, and there is no likelihood that the Government's action will alter the position. At any time the companies in the Conference could have combined to drive the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers off the seas. But they did not do so then, and there is no reason to believe that they will do so now. The conditions attached to the sale of the Line are such that it will be impossible for them to do so within the next ten years. 
I am glad that the purchasers of the fleet propose to increase its efficiency by the addition of twomotor ships similar to those I have mentioned. The effect must be to improve the shipping service between Australia and Great Britain. That fact, together with the knowledge that the sale of the Line will represent a saving of at least  £500,000  per annum to the people of Australia, is sufficient to justify us in supporting the action of the Government in bringing to so successful an issue the negotiations for the sale of the Line. 

 Senator BARNES  (Victoria  [5.3]. -  I had no intention of speaking on this subject but- 
A story is told of a cook who went to his employer and asked for his pay as he was leaving his employ. When asked the reason for his leaving, the cook replied " One of the fellows called me a B B." When the employer inquired of the other men who had used the abusive term, one of them replied " I do not know, but I should like to know who called the B B a cook ". 
The shearers all have good cooks. It takes as long to train a good cook as to train some of the officers of whom  Senator Kingsmill  spoke. 
Honorable senators should consider the circumstances which led up to the establishment of this Line by the Commonwealth. I ask them whether they think that they were purchased for a joke, or whether they were considered necessary to protect Australia from the shipping combine. 
SenatorBARNES. - At the time the fleet was purchased the action was considered necessary in the interests of Australia. Now the Government alleges that because the vessels are running at a loss, they are a burden to the Commonwealth. Because of that loss, estimated by  Senator Kingsmill  at£500,000 a year- 
Whether the loss is  £500,000  or  £1,000,000,  the principle involved is the same. Because of that loss we are told that we have to get rid of our vessels and place ourselves at the mercy of Lord Kylsant, and others of the same character. 
He will be with them. They will not cut each other's throat. They will soon form a combination that will make the people of Australia pay higher freights than they are paying now. All combinations have done the same - all have made the people pay more. 
I have before me the report of the Public Accounts Committee. It states that the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Board decided - 
To take all possible steps to bring fares and freights down to the lowest economical limits and, when fares and freights had been brought down, to use every endeavour to keep them down. 
The comment of the Public Accounts Committee was: - 
The Board recognized, as its only source of revenue was from fares and freights, that the' expectation of Parliament that profits would be earned could be met only by a material increase in fares and freights, but as, in its opinion, the Line existed for the purpose of disciplining the private shipowners, and compelling them to charge only reasonable rates, . it was obviously precluded from making any increases, even had it so desired, because, if private ship-owners agreed to them, the cost to shippers in the Commonwealth would be much more than the losses incurred by , the Line if the increases were not made; whilst, on the other hand, if the Line alone imposed increases, it would not be able to obtain either passengers or cargo. The Board considered, however, that existing rates could be reduced if the trade were conducted more economically by the withdrawal from the berth of surplus tonnage, and with that object in view, it took steps to have rates lowered. 
Those were the obsolete vessels  which  were sold. . .,. 
A great portion of the losses  incurred  by the Line is ascribed to inefficient management. The Public Accounts Committee was emphatic that the triumvirate who were managing the Line were either incompetent or temperamentally unfit to carry on the ' task of acting in concert. Surely that matter could have been remedied easily enough. The members of the board did not have their 5 positions allotted to them for life. If it became obvious to the people who owned the Line that the management was useless and inefficient, the remedy was to -remove that management. Why  was it  not done? The Government was well aware that the board could not do its job. Why was it permitted to continue adding .loss to loss? 
Would that have been in the matter of salary paid ? 
The Public Accounts 'Committee made reference to industrial trouble. I know that strikes do occur, and that they are unavoidable. 
Strikes have been illegal ever since we have had a Trades Union Act.; nevertheless action has to be taken by people when they know that the law makes no provision for giving them what they think they are entitled to. The last industrial trouble in which I was personally concerned was that in which the men engaged in the pastoral industry ceased work. The members of the Australian Workers' Union stand very loyally to arbitration. There are very few industrial troubles among them, compared with the huge membership of the union. But we had a big industrial trouble in 1922. It was not because we were anxious to strike; the strike was brought about because of the inefficiency of a judge who gave an outrageous award. He made a mistake in his own figures and would not go back on it. Of course we lost, but so did the other  fellow.  Our loss amounted to about £3,000,000, because of a mistake made by a judge. Do honorable members suggest that men should lie down in such circumstances and not put up a fight? 
Nothing happened to him; he is still drawing his screw, although it was made clear in this chamber that he had made a mistake. 
Coming to the effect which the Line had in keeping down freights I point out that the Public Accounts Committee reported as follows: - 
 Further, in August, 1926, the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Board was instrumental in bringing about a general reduction of approximately 10 per cent, on freight rate6 on commodities exported from Australia to the United Kingdom and .the Continent. Confidential documents placed before the committee prove that this all-round reduction was not a spontaneous action by the other shipowners, but was forced by the determined action of the members of the Shipping Board in Sydney. The -annual saving to Australian primary, producers and -exporters &lt;by reason of this reduction alone amounts to far more than the greatest annual loss made by the Line. 
On page 22 of the honorable senator's report. 
It may be the minority report, but the fact stated has not been disputed in any other part of the report. In Parliament we take notice of minorities. Why cannot we take notice of the minority report of men who were just as honest, earnest, and capable as those who signed the majority report ? In another portion of its report the Public Accounts Committee, referring to industrial trouble, said: - 
For some time, both before and after the inception of the Board, the operations of the Line were, it was stated in evidence, considerably hampered by industrial troubles, but in June, 1925, an arrangement was made by the Board with certain unions in the transport group, other than the Seamen's Union, and since that date it was claimed the Commonwealth Line had had' no serious trouble. 
It has been mentioned thatthe loss onthe Line has been about £600,000 a year. The Public Accounts Committee shows that the overseas trade of the Commonwealth is considerably over £300,000,000 a year, and that is the volume of trade we are now placing in the hands of the shipping combine, with power to charge whatever rates it likes. Increased freights may not be charged at the moment, but they will be in the not far distantfuture, and it will takebut a smallincrease in rates on a volume of trade amounting to £300,00.0,000 a year to outweigh easily the £600,000, which the people of Australiahave been payingto maintaintheir ownfleet of vessels on the overseastrade. Wehaveno reason to expectthatthepurchasers of these steamers will be more mercifulthanother combines haveproved to be in our experience. The simplicity of a government that believes they will beamazes me. 
That may be true, but what will be the position when we are at the mercy of these people, having no steamers of our own? 
Successfully, perhaps, but not satisfactorily to the. people of Australia. We have had many instances of how hard it has been for primary producers in Australia tomake a livingbecause of the high rates of freight theyhave had to pay on the produce they have shipped to overseas markets. The loss of £600,000 a year on the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers is a flea-bite compared with what the people of Australia will have to pay when their own vessels are no longer running. The Public Accounts Committee has shown that had it not been for the existence of the Australian Commonwealth Line freights would have been increased by 15 per cent. What would that 15 per cent. increase mean to the people of Australia on a total trade of £300,000,000 a year ? 
Off-hand, I cannot account for them. 
While the steamers of the AustralianCommonwealth Line were well equipped for carrying passengers and freight, they were also, I understand, capable of carrying guns more powerfulthan those on the  Sydney,  our cruiser that sank the  Emden.  The Governrnent professesto be very concerned about the defenceof Australia, yet it has disposed of what are equal to eight cruisers of the  Sydney  class, and has paid £4,000,000 for the building of a couple of cruisers in Great Britain. 
I am informed that they are, and as the Minister has not contradicted me, I must accept the statement as correct. 
I wonder what the object of the Government is in getting rid of a line of steamers that hasbeen soeminently serviceable to the community and a unit that would be powerful in the defence of Australia ifthe necessity arose. 
  SenatorBARNES.- Butnot under our own management. 
SenatorGuthrie. - Surely the honorablesenator would not mind them being underthe management ofthe British Navy. 
But that would not be under our own management. We took good care to keep our soldiers under our own management when we sent them abroad. Our sea services during the war were just as important as were the services given by our men in the trenches; and as we did not hand over the control of our soldiers to the British army, I contend that 'we ought not to hand over to the British navy the command of our own vessels. 
In my opinion the real object of the Government is to use all the powers it has at its command to destroy any service that is run successfully or unsuccessfully by the people of Australia. Time and time again it has demonstrated that that is its object. How is it that other people can get that efficient management, which the Government cannot obtain? We have ample power to sack any man who is inefficient. The country is not obliged, any more than a private employer would be, to retain the services of a board of management  ot  of the captain of a vessel whose services have proved to be inefficient. Mention has been made of the Commonwealth woollen mills. They made a profit of £50,000 during the last year, of their operations. Nevertheless they were sold, or rather, given away. It was claimed that they were not being managed properly, but any concern which can make a profit of £50,000 in a year must be under fairly efficient management. In that instance, the country itself selected the management. There are other instances also, but I shall not go into them.  I desire merely to state my most emphatic objection to the disposal of so important a service as this. No one can convince me that seven ships so well equipped and so comparatively new as these, could be bought anywhere else on earth for £1,900,000. 
The Seamen's Union may have many faults, even. I suppose, as has the Lawyers' Union, which occasionally needs to be disciplined. I am sorry that the Government has seen fit to do this grevious thing, and am sure that it will meet with the condemnation of the people when they have an opportunity to pass judgment upon this action. 
This matter was threshed out when the proposal for the sale of the ships waa first made, and most of the figures that have been quoted during thisdebate were quoted then. The Government has received tenders for the Line, and has submitted those tenders tothe House for consideration. The whole thing seems to hinge on the protection of the primary producers. It has been stated that the primary producer will be subjected to untold exactions, such as excessive freight charges if the Line is disposed of. The profits that were made by the Line during the war were made from the primary producers, but at that time there was no sympathy expressed for them. They had to pay in order that the Line itself might be a paying proposition. At that time the Line served its purpose, which was to get the freight overseas, other vessels not being available. To-day the sympathy professed for the primary producer appears to me to be a very weak argument. This Line is a white elephant, and is losing over £500,000 a year. During the last three years it has lost over £1,500,000. If a man who is running a business finds that it is losing money, he gets rid of it as quickly as possible in order to cut his loss. The Commonwealth Government, in its wisdom, is getting rid of this white elephant, because it is not a paying proposition. The ships are relatively new, but as they become older the losses will be greater. Repairs and replacements will be necessary, and the loss in future years will be a good deal more than £500,000 a year. Why should we, as a Parliament, inflict upon the taxpayers of this country such a great loss, when we have a chance to sell the Line? We are obtaining £1,900,000 for it. If we got nothing at all for the .Line, but merely saved the loss which we are now making, it would be a good thing for the Commonwealth to get rid of the ships. 
Much has been said about this Line joining the combine, and about freights going up. The Government provided against this in the conditions  which it laid down for tenderers. Clause 6 of the conditions states - 
Tenders should include an undertaking to enter into an agreement and provide satisfactory guarantee or security to - 
Maintainthe vessels on the British or a dominion register for a period of at least ten years; 
Conduct, with the existing fleet and/ or other vessels of an equal size, speed and class and with at least equal accommodation for passengers and refrigerated and other cargo for a period of not less than ten years, a minimum service equivalent to that provided by the Line between Australia and Great Britain at present, viz., at least eighteen round voyages per annum. 
It will cost a great deal in repairs and replacements to keep the present service going for ten years. It is evident, from the conditions which have been laid down, that the Government is determined to protect the interests of the Australian exporters and importers. Clause 7 of the conditions states - 
Offers should include detailed proposals as to the services which tenderers are prepared to provide. 
The Government will give particular consideration to the terms of proposals submitted in respect to: - 
The maintenance of an efficient and reasonable passenger service; and 
The provision of refrigerated space in vessels to be substituted for or employed in conjunction with the existing units of the fleet. 
Even new ships to be added must come up to a certain standard in order to meet the needs of exporters and importers. Every possible care has been taken by the Government in drawing up these conditions. Referring to these stipulations, the successful tenderer states - 
Clauses6 and 7. - The conditions contained in these two clauses are acceptable and will be complied with, namely: That the vessels be maintained for a period of at least ten years in the British register; and 
That they be continued to be employed in the trade between Australia and Great Britain as at present - indeed, it is hoped to augment the service rather than otherwise, with suitable vessels, all partly insulated; and of approximately equal speed to the " Bay " steamers. Conversely, the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia for the said ten years to extend to the new owners the same privileges, advantages and facilities - whatsoever they may be - as the fleet has hitherto enjoyed under Government control. 
Those conditions have been accepted by the tenderers, and full provision is made for the next ten years to ensure that the ships will come up to the standard necessary, and that the exporters will not be exploited. . In regard to condition 8, the successful tenderer states - 
This clause deals with the question of rate of freight, and safeguarding the interests of Australian exporters and importers. It is the intention as far as possible to continue the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Line in this respect, and, in any case, there will be no exploitation of Australian exporters and importers. 
The staple industries of Australia, such as wool and wheat, were not seriously catered for by these vessels, but were left to other lines. There was plenty of space in these ships for this class of trade. In the details of the ships given on the tender form, it is stated that the  Esperance Bay,  which has the biggest carrying capacity, has space for 768,135 bushels of wheat. The smallest vessel, the  Fordsdale,  has very nearly the same capacity, namely, 750,162 bushels. Therefore, it was not for want of space that this trade was turned down. As regards wool, it is stated that the carrying capacity of the  Esperance Bay  is 721,880 bales. 
It is set out in the official paper. 
If it is wrong, then the paper from which I am quoting is wrong. In any case, it is clear that there was sufficient accommodation in these ships to cater for Australia's primary products, but it was not availed of. 
There has been much talk about the effect which the existence of this Line had in keeping down freights, and restricting the operations of the shipping combine. New Zealand, however, has no Stateowned shipping line, yet cargoes are being carried from there to the Old Country cheaper than from Australia. Therefore, the Government has done wisely in selling the Line. 
It would be a good thing if honorable senators opposite would advise the seamen to. give these vessels a fair  deal, and not subject them to hold-ups, as they have been in the past. At the present time seven large ships are lying idle in various ports in Australia through the cooks' strike. Their total tonnage is 27,390 gross, and the approximate capital involved is £610,000. The number of passengers inconvenienced by this hold up was 3,500. They had to leave the ships and to find their way back to their homes. Cargoes delayed, stopped, and interfered with to the detriment of owners amounted to 35,000 tons. As much as possible of the cargo has been handled by other ships. "Working days lost were 160 ; the number of men directly involved is 400, and indirectly all the men engaged in loading and discharging cargo have been affected. Wages lost by the men involved amount to £10,000. No industrial organization can stand such serious losses. 
My advice to my, honorable friends opposite is to persuade trade unionists to bring reason to bear in all their deliberations. Our principal need to-day is industrial peace. If Australia is to prosper we must have industrial peace, so that we may have a reasonable expectation of success in all our industrial enterprises. I regret that the industrialists have declined the invitation of the Prime Minister to attend an industrial peace conference. 
I held in my hand two statements dealing with this important matter. The first is a cable message, dated London, 26th April, in the following terms : - 

 Mr. Ben. Turner has reported to the Council of the Trade Union Congress that progress is being made with negotiations at the conference with the group of employers led by  Sir Alfred  Mond. The sub-committees have reached agreements regarding credit and currency, trade union recognition, and victimization arising from the general strike. Questions of industrial relationship and machinery for conciliation and negotiation will be discussed at an early date. 
The second is dated Sydney, 26th April, declaring that trade unionists will not attend the proposed industrial conference. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Plain).  - Order! The honorable senator "must confine his remarks to the motion before the Chair. 
I was under the impression that the statement which I was about to read had a direct bearing upon the motion, because we have been told that continued industrial unrest in Australia was a factor in the Government's determination to sell the ships. It is because the Line was subjected to so many industrial attacks that the vessels proved a losing proposition. However, if you rule me out of order, sir, I shall not continue the discussion .along those lines. I feel strongly in this matter. The Government, in my opinion, has taken a wise step. The interests of the primary producers will not be jeopardized by the sale of the Line, because the vessels carried only 5 per cent, of Australia's exportable primary products. I commend the Government for the businesslike arrangement which it has made. 
We are living in an age when it is desirable that all men who have opinions should state them definitely. The Government's decision to sell the ships was not unexpected. I doubt if any man, other than the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  would have undertaken the responsibility of purchasing the vessels which proved to be the nucleus of the Commonwealth Government Line. We have to remember, however, that during the earlier stages of the war any action that could strengthen our hands was justified; but when the war was over the usefulness of the fleet to the Commonwealth was not so apparent. Every one knows that the platform of the Labour party contains a plank for the nationalization of industry; but, up to the present my Labour friends have not had the courage to give full effect to it. It is just as well that the general public should be reminded that the Labour objective is the nationalization -of all industry. The sooner the leaders of Labour declare themselves, the sooner they will be regarded as honest men. 
The objective of the party is the socialization of all industry. The ships of the Commonwealth Line had a fair trial. The Government proved patient and  long suffering, and was fully justified in relieving the general taxpayer of the financial burden which the running of the ships placed upon their shoulders. 
The workers of Australia appeared to regard the Line as a toy to play with. When I was rearing my family I was careful always to place dangerous toys out of the reach of my children. The seamen and other industrial organizations acted as they pleased with the Line. Messrs. Walsh and  Johannsen  caused strikes whenever it pleased them to do so. My honorable friends opposite cannot deny this. The ships were continually subjected to industrial troubles. The position became so bad that finally the Government decided to sell the vessels. Now that they have been disposed of, our friends opposite are charging the Government with having betrayed the interests of the primary producers. They tell us that we are now at the mercy of the shipping combine. Will they be honest enough to say what is their own objective? Is it not true that, as a party, they are out to destroy capitalism? 
That is so. The Commonwealth Government ships were an inspiration to a certain class of industrialists to do wrong. They took advantage of every opportunity, through the medium of the Line, to interfere with the interests of private employers, it matter not how good they were. 
Last week I saw two letters written by so-called Labour representatives to the Premier of one of the States. 1 shall not call them Labour men. Their faces are no cheer-up society. In their letters they state that the present unemployment difficulties in the Commonwealth are due to the capitalistic system; that the only remedy is to give effect to the Labour plank for the socialization of all industries, and that the right thing to do is to bring out men from Russia to destroy the capitalistic power in the Commonwealth. I do not suggest that the general body of the Labour movement believes in the wisdom of this plank of its policy; but there it is. 
By selling the Line the Government has done the right thing. The vessels had a good trial. The men working on them had the best of conditions, and yet the Line went to the bad to the extent of over £500,000 a year. It has been urged that the presence of the vessels on the run between Australia and England kept down freights. I doubt if that statement can be substantiated. Surely my honorable friends opposite realize that the employment of capital is necessary for the production of wages, and that the more capital we have invested in the Commonwealth the higher will be our wages bill. The experience of the Line has not been a happy one. A friend of mine who travelled on one of the vessels told me that every seaman employed on the ships came first, the captain second; and the passenger last. The conditions of employment were so good, and the wages so high, that there should have been every incentive to the men to give a good return for the wages received, and make the Line a profitable concern. Unfortunately, that was not done.. 
When  Senator Graham  was speaking I asked him, by way of interjection, to name one enterprise that had proved a success under government control. I know what happens, because I have had some personal experience in this matter. When I was Minister of Public Works in South Australia I bought a mine. Honorable senators will please remember that, at that time, I was a firm believer in all the principles of the Labour party, and resolved to put this one to the test. I would not like to tell the Senate all that happened in connexion with that mine. It was a good proposition, and it should have been a profitable venture, but the men employed on it regarded it as a sort of lying-in hospital or a benevolent institution, with the result that it proved a failure. Throughout Australia we have had numberless instances of nationalized activities - mines, shipping, machinery works, and many other ventures - that have been unprofitable. Can  Mr. Theodore  say that the experience of the State Government in Queensland has been a happy one? The position reminds me of the story of an old man who could not pronounce the words, " Shadrach, Meshach  and  Abednego,"  and was told, " Oh ! just1  say, shake rags, make rags, and away they go." Actually that is what has happened in connexion with many nationalized industries in Australia. At all events, they have all gone. The Commonwealth Government Line has been costing the people of Australia over £500,000 a year. It would have been better to give it away than to retain it on that basis. 
The Navigation Act has also hampered progress in this country. I should like to see that legislation repealed. There are many people in Australia today who say that the Navigation Act has been a menace to Australia, largely because the men who have been receiving such high wages and enjoying such favourable conditions have not acted fairly to their employers. On one occasion when I was putting the case for some miners before the Arbitration Court the judge said, "If the mine cannot pay reasonable wages it should be closed down." If the Line cannot pay its way it should be sold. Those who have purchased the ships are very optimistic. 
They are; and I do not think the Commonwealth will lose by the transaction which has just been completed. As the men have abused the laws passed for their protection they must bear the consequences. My friends opposite know that there is not a Labour leader in the Commonwealth with sufficient courage to tell the men that they should obey the law. 
No. They obey the dictates of a few open-mouthed men who are hanging on to their backs. I cannot understand why they so readily respond to the wishes of these mealymouthed creatures, who cause disputes and stop-work meetings, and whose views are contrary to those of real trades unionists. I am glad the ships are sold, and when the burial service is held I shall be pleased to say, " Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord." 
. I wish to say only a few words in support of the Government's rather belated action in disposing of the Commonwealth Line of Steamers. The action of the right" honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  as Prime Minister, in establishing the nucleus of the Line, was justified, since we were then at war and it was very difficult to obtain , tonnage to carry footstuffs from this country, which was overflowing with milk and honey, to feed the men who were fighting for us overseas. But it is ridiculous for honorable senators opposite to say that the Line has been of any service to Australia since the termination of the war.' As a primary producer who has shipped wool, wheat and meat from Australia, I can say without fear of contradiction that the Line has been of no service whatever to the primary producers of Australia. Wool is our principal primary product, the most valuable freight carried by any ships, and of this commodity the Commonwealth Line has carried only 2.3 per cent, of our exports. The Opposition claim that the Line has been instrumental in reducing freights on primary products, upon which the success of this country depends; but the ducts from New Zealand, where there is no Government line of steamers to Great Britain are less than they are from Australia. If we study the freights from  South Africa and other Dominions, where there are no state-owned steamers, we find that in respect of primary products they are less than one-half of those charged by the Australian Commonwealth Line. 
There is no doubt that the ideals of the Government in establishing the Line were worthy of support, but conditions have altered to such an extent that its retention is no longer justifiable. I believe in men receiving high wages and being provided with good accommodation, but those employed on these ships have not given their employers a fair. deal. The union bosses have done more to destroy the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers than all the shipping combines are ever likely to do. There have been innumerable strikes and stop-work meetings, and union leaders who have advocated slow-down tactics have always been preaching inefficiency. As  Senator Kingsmill  said, ships of the same class and tonnage on the British register, are effectively manned by fewer men than are those of the Australian Commonwealth Line. I do not object to high wages, but it is an economic impossibility to compete with companies whose wages bill is only one-fifth of that paid to the seamen on these ships. 
They cannot. 1 do not think the Line could pay its way even if freights were increased by 25 per cent. In the present circumstances it cannot be placed on an equal footing with its competitors, and the whole situation is Gilbertian. It is a tragedy and not a farce, particularly when, as  Senator Kingsmill  stated, some cooks are paid more than the masters of ships, who are responsible for the navigation of the vessel and the safety of the passengers, crew and cargo. If there is a shipping combine, the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers has been a member of it, and has charged the same freights as other shipping companies. 
It has been said that the sale of the Line will have a detrimental effect upon employment here; but if we look at the facts we find that those whom honorable senators opposite -term the " brass hats," have been 'living in Australia, whilst most of the seamen who enjoy Australian conditions and pay have been living overseas. 
No, they get all they can and then take it out of the country. According to the information with which we have been supplied, the Commonwealth has been losing over £500,000 a year, which is a colossal sum.  We  have also to remember that the capital value of these ships was written down by over £8,000,000, when they were placed under the control of the Commonwealth Shipping Board, in order to place the Line on a proper business basis. Even when operating on this greatly reduced capital value they have been unable to meet expenditure. It is absurd for any one to blame those in control. The unfortunate position of the Line is due to the fact that the wages paid are five times higher than those received by seamen on the vessels with which the Line is competing. 
Honorable senators opposite have frequently referred to certain governmental activities, which they said should not have been sold. We have been told that the Commonwealth Woollen Mills at Geelong were showing a profit of £50,000 a year, when they were disposed of. That is an absurdly inaccurate statement. It is true that those mills made a profit during the war ; but later when they had to enter into competition with other woollen mills it was found that even with a reduced staff of 300 which was working only one-third of the time, they could not carry on without a loss. When the Commonwealth mills were showing a profit during the war period, they were not paying Commonwealth or State taxation, or rates of any kind. These mills are now being conducted by private enterprise, and- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John Newlands)  .-Order ! The honorable senator will not be in order in discussing the operations of the Commonwealth Woollen Mills. 
I wished only to state that the Woollen Mills are now employing 600 hands, working full time. Many of the employees are shareholders, and are delighted with the results of  the sale. The people of Australia will also be delighted to know that these ships, which have not been of any benefit to the primary producers and a terrible burden to the whole of the people who have had to share the loss, have been disposed of. We have heard a good deal from time to time concerning the . value of socialistic enterprises, and of the benefits to be derived from the control by the people of all means of production, distribution and exchange, but I think from the experiences which governments have had in the past, we are able to definitely determine that privatelycontrolled business is of greater advantage to the people. 
.- One point which I do not think hasbeen sufficiently emphasized during the  debate is that we have been losing as has been said between £500,000 and £600,000 a year on the Line. But in addition, as has not been mentioned, the ships are becoming obsolete, and before long they will have to be replaced. 
If the Commonwealth Government had retained the Line, two new ships would have been necessary in order to maintain a monthly service each way. The Labour party would expect those vessels to be built in Australia regardless of cost. Judging from past happenings, it would be necessary immediately to write down their capital cost as was done in the case of the existing vessels, so that, in addition to incurring further losses of at least half a million annually in connexion with the working of the fleet, that additional loss of capital would have to be borne by the taxpayers. We are not justified in asking them to bear such losses. The Opposition, which condemns the Government for selling these ships, has remained silent about the sale of the unprofitable State cattle stations by the Queensland Labour Government. Is not the supply of cheap meat to the people as important as cheap freights ? I commend the Government for having the courage to dispose of the Line. 
Notwithstanding that the fallacies of the Opposition have been exposed, they have been repeated to-day, and probably honorable senators opposite will continue to repeat them until the next election. I, therefore, feel that it is necessary to set out the real facts in the interests of the electors. The Opposition has endeavoured to compare the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers with our national railways. The comparison is absurd.. A public utility like our railways, with which there cannot be competition, should be a Government monopoly. There is, however, no monopoly of oversea shipping. On the contrary, there is competition between the various companies. Honorable senators opposite have contended that because ships which cost about £7,000,000 have been sold for a little under £2,000,000, the sale is really in the nature of a gift.  Senator Greene  showed that that reasoning was unsound. He pointed out that the " Bay " steamers were built during the war period when building costs were at their peak. Yet the argument has been repeated here to-day that these vessels have been almost given away.  Brassey's Naval and Shipping Annual  for 1928 contains a statement showing the fluctuations in the price per ton for building a new 7,500-ton cargo steamer over a period of years. The figures might not be exactly applicable to the vessels of the Australian Line of Steamers,but they will give a fair indication of the trend of shipbuilding costs. The statement is as follows: - 

<graphic href="118332192805024_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

That statement shows that shipbuilding costs have decreased considerably since about 1919, when the contract for the building of the present Commonwealth steamers, with one exception, was let. Building costs have dropped at least 60 per cent., and the present day cost of construction should have been quoted. When this is taken into consideration, together with depreciation, the price received appears to be reasonable. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Second-hand ships are to-day selling at ridiculously low prices. I regret that I have not been able to obtain comparisons with vessels of the type of the steamers sold by the Commonwealth Government, but according to  Fairplay,  the recognized world's shipping authority, other vessels have  been sold at prices which will astonish honorable senators. The steamer  Port Hacking,  about 9,400 tons dead weight, has just been sold for £13,150. The  Colonia,  a two-decker steamer of 10,250 tons dead weight, has been sold to Norwegian buyers for £25,000. The Norwegian steamer  Dagfred,  of 8,919 tons dead weight, fetched £45,000. The Belgian steamer  Graanhandel,  of 6,430 tons gross, built in 1919, has been disposed of for less than £25,000. Smaller vessels have been sold at exceedingly low prices, the reason for which is to be found in the tremendous amount of idle tonnage there is in the world to-day. According to  Brassey's Naval and Shipping Annual,  the total laid-up steam tonnage of the world is 4,000,000 tons. That of Great Britain and Ireland is 621,000 tons; the idle tonnage of the United States of America is 2,550,000 tons; and that of France,  91,000 tons; Greece, 79,000 tons, and Italy, 83,000 tons. In the face of these facts there can be no prospect of any rise in freights for some years to come. 

 Senator Barnes says that freights to and from Australia will be increased by about 15 per cent. straight away because Of the sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line, and some time ago  Senator Needham  said that because of the existence of the Line freights from England to Australia had been reduced by about 50 per cent. I notice that during this debate there has been no mention of that figure in regard to drop in freights. That is because there has been a much greater drop in freights between England and countries which have no State owned lines of steamers. The following tables show the estimated average rates of freights for steamers in the open market 

<graphic href="118332192805024_29_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192805024_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen from these tables that nothing is to be gained by mentioning one instance in which the existence of the Commonwealth Line may have reduced freights. The average freights between England and other countries have dropped considerably more than have the freights between Great Britain and Australia.  Senator Barnes  would have us believe that we are not justified in attributing the losses of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers to industrial troubles. I am prepared to admit that some of the losses incurred by the Line were due to bad management, but at the same time I hold that the greater proportion of the losses was due to the direct action tactics of the unions. It is true that at the present time the unions are turning their attention to private lines, but we never know when the turn of the Commonwealth vessels will come again. 
In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 19th March, 1924, it was reported that the assistant secretary of the Seamen's Union,  Mr. Johannsen,  had stated at the Shipping Master's office that he was there to prevent the Line from selecting the men required, and he challenged the right of the owners to pick their own men. That afternoon the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Board felt impelled to make the following statement :  - 
The Seamen's Union demands the right of selection of a crew for the  Fordsdale,  and the men selected from the members of the union by the board's officers are being prevented from signing articles. The Australian Commonwealth Shipping Board is unable to delegate the selection of a crew for such valuable property as the  Fordsdale  to irresponsble union officials. The  Fordsdale  will be removed to Cockatoo Island, and will remain there until men the board considers suitable offer themselves for engagement. 
On the 5th November, 1924, it was reported in the daily papers that the Com' monwealth Line had come into conflict with the Seamen's Union, and the Marine Stewards' and Pantrymen's Union, as a result of which both the  Ferndale  and the  Moreton Bay  would be delayed, and might be tied up indefinitely. The trouble had arisen through the refusal of the stewards on the  Moreton Bay  to watch over mental cases on the way to England on the steamer's previous voyage. On the 6th November, 1924, the  Sydney Morning Herald  drew prominent attention to the fact that the  Ferndale  had been definitely boycotted .by the waterside workers, and that valuable cargo had been lost to the vessel owing to the overtime strike and the action of the maritime unions in holding the vessel up for a crew. We see, therefore, that at a critical period in the history of the Line, the vessels were actually held up and valuable cargo was lost as the result of illegal action by unions which were not willing to submit their cases to arbitration. Owing to the refusal of the waterside workers to work after 5 p.m., the unloaded portion of a large meat shipment had to be handed over to the steamer  Raranga,  which was being loaded by Dalgety and Company Limited under the flag of the White Star Line. This valuable cargo had to be handed over to an outside line because of the action of the waterside workers. 
Yes. There are honorable members on the Labour side who say that they are in favour of arbitration, yet have defended the action of the men during the time that the Line has been in operation, saying that such action is in no way responsible for the loss and the decision of the Government to sell the ships. The report from which I have been quoting goes on to say - 
Another 1,000 tons of cargo has been' lost in Sydney owing to the hold up of the vessel for want of a crew. The irony of the position is that the cargo which the waterside workers will not load after 5 p.m., was loaded on to the rival steamer  Raranga,  by labour from the Shipping Labour Bureau. 
On 27th February, 1924, the Commonwealth Government liner,  Moreton Bay,  was held up owing to the strike of her stewards. On 19th November, 1924, the  Evening Sun,  Melbourne, contained the following report : - 
In spite of all the efforts by the management to establish the Line satisfactorily, the men who exist by the Line have ceaselessly campaigned to throw it out of gear, even to the jeopardy of their own livelihood. No other shipping company has had such trouble with organized _ labour. For long, every Commonwealth liner, on its arrival back in Australia, from a voyage overseas, was held up by some petty dispute, in face of the warnings that there is a limit to loss on the Line to which the country will submit. 
Now, when we have reached the stage when the losses are so great that the country will not bear them any longer, honorable senators opposite, who never raised their voices before in protest against the action of the union, are shedding crocodile tears over the sale of the ships. The statement continues - 
In the hamstringing of the Commonwealth Line the waterside workers then took a hand. The first result of the Sydney overtime strike was to compel 500 tons of wheat consigned by a. Commonwealth vessel to be left behind to be shipped by a non-Australian steamer worked by men of the bureau which the union was challenging. Another vessel of the Line, the  Carina,  was delayed in Melbourne just long enough to dissipate the profit which normally would have been made on the cargo it brought from Europe. 
On 23rd August, 1924, the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported that  Mr. A.  F. Waters,  President  of the Employers' Federation, had stated that - 
The black-listing of the 50 members of the crew of the  Fordsdale  is one of the most remarkable cases of unionist tyranny on record. The  Fordsdale  is an Australian ship, which was built in an Australian dock by Australian workmen for a State-owned Australian enterprise. When she was launched, arrangements were made to man her with an Australian crew for her maiden voyage, and so. it might be supposed everything about the ship, from her ownership and the laying down of her keel, to her ultimate going to sea, was in keeping with the principles so loudly advocated by local socialists. 
On the 31st July, 1924, the Melbourne  Age  reported - 
The Seamen's Union has decided to declare - the Commonwealth steamer  Fordsdale  black on her arrival from London. The men claimed the right to pick up her crew when she sailed on her maiden voyage four months ago, but the management refused their dictation, and ultimately secured a unionist crew that was chosen by her captain. 
This is the sort of thing that went on in connexion with the Commonwealth Line ; now the men have transferred their affections, and are taking their job control methods to other ships. On Thursday, 1st March, the second cook of the Huddart Parker steamer  Ulimaroa  gave notice. Application was made to the union for a cook, but the secretary of the union stated that no labour would be offered unless an extra cook was placed on the vessel. The  Ulimaroa  had been running for years with the same complement of cooks, and it had been found that this number was sufficient to cater for a full passenger list. As a matter of fact, it is very seldom that the ship sails with its full complement of passengers. The first demand served was for two additional cooks, making fifteen in the galley; but that demand was afterwards reduced to one. Because that demand was not conceded, the galley staff on sailing day walked off the ship. They had a constitutional means of redress. If conditions were wrong there was nothing to prevent them from going to the Arbitration Court and getting their grievances remedied, but instead of that they waited until sailing day, and then walked ashore. The passengers were disappointed, and many of them seriously  inconvenienced.  There were men who, for business reasons, wanted urgently to get away. There were others on holiday who had only a limited amount of time at their disposal.' Some of the passengers were returning to Australia, and had, perhaps, only a small amount of money to carry them over. Seven ships are now held up owing to similar tactics. It is action of this sort which has really brought about the sale of the Commonwealth Line. 
Statements have been made by members of the Labour party that if this Line is sold it will be declared black, and that the new owners will be subjected to this harassing treatment.  The Prime Minister has made it clear that he will hot stand for that sort of thing. Personally, I voted in South Australia to give the men arbitration, so that they might obtain fair wages and fair conditions. We have set up an industrial court for that purpose. Surely the men can have nothing fairer than that. Nevertheless, instead of abiding by arbitration, they are prepared to hold up the whole trade and commerce of Australia, and adopt direct action to enforce their demands. If this continues, the question will . arise as to who is really going to rule Australia - Parliament or unions.  I stand behind  Mr. Bruce,  and behind the Government, in the determination to see that the awards of the Arbitration Court are enforced, and that the will of Parliament is supreme. 
I am inclined to think that the Labour party is using this matter of the sale of the Commonwealth ships as a kind of election issue. When the Leader of the Opposition was speaking in this chamber on the subject, he said that the present Government had sold the Commonwealth Line in order to please its political' friends, who found the money with which it fought elections. We might retort by saying that the Labour party is using this issue as a means of discrediting the Government at the Commonwealth elections, and thus pleasing its friends, who provide its funds for fighting the elections. 
Those who oppose the sale of these ships say that they should be retained for two reasons. They say, in the first place, that they would be useful in case of war, because they have been designed to carry guns. If they would be useful for that purpose, it must be remembered that, even if they are sold, they can be commandeered for defence purposes. Therefore, the first argument falls to the ground. The other argument is that they have some influence in keeping down freights and charges to the producers. That argument has been answered very effectively by  Senator Kingsmill  and other speakers, who have pointed out how unlikely it is that the Commonwealth Line, which carries such an insignificant portion of the freights from Australia, could have any influence in keeping down freights and charges. Ii may also be pointed out that, although the Conference  of overseas shipping lines comes' to some general arrangement as to rates, there does exist very keen competition for cargoes between Australia and Great Britain. If the companies trading to Australia attempted to increase freights beyond a reasonable figure, they would immediately meet strong competition from other lines. There are continental shipping lines, including oilburning Swedish vessels and Norwegian, French, and German ships, to say nothing of American lines, which are all looking for freights. The Conference Lines dare not put up the freights beyond a fair thing, or they would lose a great deal of the trade which they have at present. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that the almost inevitable result of this sale will be that freights will rise. My view is that if the companies try to raise freights, they vill meet with competition from other  lines.  What is the reason for many of the increases that have taken place in freight rates? The seamen themselves, and the Labour party must accept some responsibility for high freights. 
-I shall talk sense if it is possible to hammer sense into the honorable senator's head. There is a strike in Australia to-day in the Huddart Parker ships, which are being held up, with a consequent loss of hundreds of thousands of pounds, because of some paltry dispute amongst the men. The cost of the strike will have to be borne by the producers through increased freights. A short while ago we had a big overseas shipping strike, which caused immense losses, and resulted in increased freights. It is not always the greedy, grasping companies that are the cause of high freights. 
Nevertheless, such things have a tendency to keep freights up. Surely  Senator- Needham  will admit that if a company has to meet extraordinary expenditure, it cannot work from its reserves; it must meet the cost by increasing its revenue. At one time I was a supporter of a government-owned shipping line, believing that it might solve our overseas transport problems. Consequently, I was an ardent advocate of the policy of collectivism, or State enterprise; but experience has taught me that the State is not capable .of running a trading business successfully. In certain protected industries the State may be on safe ground. A State may successfully manage railways and post offices, because these are not subject to competition, but invariably government-controlled concerns fail when they are subjected to the keen competition from outside. 
Unfortunately very few railways in the Commonwealth are paying just now. The severe competition from motor transport services is largely responsible -for the serious deficits in the accounts of several State railway systems. 
No. I approve, nevertheless, of the sale of the Commonwealth Government ships. If  Senator Needham  argues seriously that ships which cost £12,0Q0,000, and which involve the taxpayer in losses amounting to over £500,000 a year, should be kept in commission as a government activity, he is not fit to occupy a seat on the Treasury bench. The mere suggestion that they should be retained is ridiculous. The attitude of my honorable friends opposite clearly indicates a great lack of business ability on their part. 
I will now tell  Senator Barnes  something interesting. Some years ago, when I was a member of the Tasmanian Parliament, the primary producers practically forced a Nationalist government to purchase a fleet of four small steamers* - two vessels for the tradebetween the islands and the mainland of Tasmania, and two freighters for the Australian trade. The Government ran those ships for three or four years, and, needless to say, they proved a losing proposition. When a Labour government came into power, its first important official act was to sell two .. of the larger vessels. This afternoon I received a telegram from the Under-Treasurer of Tasmania stating that the capital cost of the  Poolta,  then practically a new ship, was £68,181, and the  Melbourne,  an older vessel, £59,468, and that the two ships were sold for £26,000. In other words, they were sold at a loss of £101,649. In addition, there was a trading loss on those vessels of £100,000 in three years, so that the total loss on two small vessels alone was approximately £201,000. Contrary to the attitude of the Labour party in this Parliament, the Labour Government in Tasmania came to the rescue by selling two State ships which had been bought by a Nationalist government. 
Does not the Labour party in Tasmania believe in nationalization? 
It is strange that while honorable senators of the Labour party have been complaining of the sale of the " Bay " and " Dale " steamers, nothing has been said concerning the disposal, a year or two ago, of six " D " class freighters, each of 3,300 tons, and costing £95,000 each. Those vessels were sold for £28,000 each, and, in addition, twelve " E " class ships, which cost £220,000 each, were sold for £42,500 each. 
It has been argued that they should have been retained, because they were responsible for keeping down freights, thus benefiting the primary producer. That is very problematical. "We must expect to incur losses on all such transactions. If a man buys a motor car, and runs it for a week, he can only sell it for one-third of its original cost. Similarly ships depreciate rapidly. The vessels of the Commonwealth Line have been in use for a considerable number of years. They are comparatively old ships. 
It has been stated that the Line gave  ' employment to a large number of Australian seamen. That is not true. "When I came over from Tasmania in the  Nairana  last week I heard an argument between two men concerning the Government's decision to sell the ships. One steward said  to me  - " The Government should not have sold the ships, because they provided employment for Australian seamen." The other man, who happened to be an official of the Cooks and Stewards' Union, said to me "Don't you take any notice of what he says. The Line has never been any good to the Australian seamen. Only British seamen are employed on the ships. Very few Australians are able to get jobs on them at all." 
It has occurred to me that perhaps there is another reason why the Labour party wishes to retain the ships as a Government activity. Up to the present this reason has not been mentioned during the debate. We all remember what happened when the big shipping companies were struggling with the seamen, and when the trade and commerce of Australia was held up. During that crisis members of the Labour party were mute. "We did not hear one word of protest from them. The situation was rapidly becoming critical indeed, and at one stage, it looked as though the shipping companies, and the people generally, would take joint action against the seamen. Then when things were about at their worst the Commonwealth Line came to the rescue of the seamen. It broke the strike. On another occasion, when the waterside workers were causing trouble, the Commonwealth Line again came to the rescue. The management, not being required to make profits, ac ceded to the demands of the waterside workers, and brought about an end to the dispute. No doubt the management felt that it had no need to worry, because there was plenty of money behind it and, if need be, another loan could be raised. 
One reason why State enterprises fail is that there is a lack of responsibility. The management is not called upon to hustle for living. Consequently it becomes lax and careless. I shall be extremely interested in the near future to see if  Mr. O'Neill  and  Mr. A.  H. Moate carry out the threat to declare these ships black. I shall also be interested in seeing whether the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and  Senator Findley  will support the Seamen's Union or any similar organization in this declaration, or whether they will stand by the law and constitutional practice of the country and tell these men they are doing wrong. So far as I am personally concerned, I believe we have reached the stage at which we shall have to tell the seamen, and certain other trade unionists, that they must obey the law or suffer the penalty. The time has arrived when we should restore the management of trade unions to the rank and file, and take away the autocratic power now possessed by a few individuals. If these men carry out their threat and bring starvation, want, misery, hardship and depression into the homes of the working people of this community, I shall not be afraid to openly condemn them, and to do what I can to assist in seeing that the trade of this country is carried on in a legitimate manner. I shall support any Government which adopts a strong attitude if such an unfortunate event should occur. I congratulate the Governmentupon having disposed of the ships which have caused such enormous losses, and also upon the very satisfactory price it has secured for them. 
[8.55]. - During the debate we have heard it said by the Opposition that the vessels of the Australian Commonwealth Line of 
Steamers have been a very valuable asset to the Commonwealth. Finding it difficult to understand how a line of ships losing at the rate of £500,000 a year and the capital value of which had to be written down by £8,000,000, could be so described, I was moved by curiosity to turn to a dictionary to discover the exact definition of the word " asset." I find that it comes from an old French word meaning " sufficient " or " enough ". I should say that we have had sufficient and enough to prove that " this very valuable asset " exists only in the vivid imagination of honorable senators opposite. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so. I confess that I am a disillusioned man. There was a time when I too believed that these ships were a valuable asset ; but I am one of those who, when up against a stone wall, know it is there and are prepared to admit it. In this case we are up against a stone wall. It has been demonstrated not only by speeches which have been delivered during this debate, but by bitter experience that this Line instead of being a valuable asset has been a cursed liability to the Commonwealth. 
I desire now to refer briefly to one or two statements which have been made during the discussion. In the first place the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  said that the sale of these ships was the greatest sin that had been committed by this Government. If it .is then we shall not have much for which to ask absolution at the next general election. The Leader of the Opposition further said that the ( Prime Minister  ("Mr. Bruce)  in disposing of the fleet yielded to the pressure, of financial interests. I should like to know what the honorable senator meant by that. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE Let me remind the Senate first of all, that these ships have been sold to a company not one share in which is held in Australia. That being so the &lt;" financial interests " must be outside Australia. 
What did the honorable senator mean? Did he wish to impute corruption? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No doubt it is an illustration of what we shall hear during the election campaign, but such a statement ought not to be made here. The shareholders in the company which has purchased these steamers reside not in Australia but in Britain. That being so there can be no political advantage to the . Prime Minister or to his Ministry in selling the "ships, and I therefore ask the honorable senator what he meant by his remark. 
Reference has also been made to the value of the ships for defence purposes. Honorable senators opposite seem to have very short memories. Do they forget that the Commonwealth had not only, its own war ships during the war period, and also the use of ships owned by private companies? Do they forget that the  Orama,  which was running between England and Australia prior to the war, was commandeered by the British Government, armed with guns and rendered very valuable service? Do they forget that the Commonwealth Government commandeered the  Berrima,  the  Karoola,  the  Kanowna  and quite a number of other vessels? There still remains in the hands of the Governments of the United Kingdom and of the Commonwealth the power to commandeer not only such ships, but any other suitable vessels on the British register 'for use in any part of the Empire. 
I do not propose to pursue the argument concerning the value of the ships in keeping down freights since this has been answered by  Senator Chapman  and others who have quoted instances of even great reductions for which the existence of the Line was in no wise responsible. The Leader of the Opposition seemed to think that there was some inconsistency between the speech made by the Prime Minister a year or two ago, when he was referring to a proposal to sell the ships, and his recent speech in regard to the tenders received. But the Prime Minister is also a disillusioned man. At the time he made the speech to which the honorable senator referred, he believed that the Government could lay down certain rigid conditions under which the ships should be sold. We attempted to do so; but what was the result? The shipping combine, which the Opposition tell us is so hungry for these ships, did not rush into the arena. The Government did not get a single offer for them. In these circumstances, the Prime Minister and his colleagues were convinced that the Government could not attach rigid conditions with which no purchaser would be likely to comply. 
It was, however, the conclusion of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition' which interested me most, and his reply to a pointed question by  Senator Ogden  as to the attitude he would adopt if the Seamen's Union declared the ships black. An opposition is a recognized part of the system of parliamentary government. It has its place. It is the Governmenttobe at some future time. On a subject such as this it was proper, therefore, to ask the Opposition what its policy would be if a section of the citizens of this country endeavored to defeat the will of Parliament by unconstitutional action - action contrary to the law of the country. What did the Leader of the Opposition reply? He said, "I will answer that question at the proper time, and in the proper place." Is there a more proper place than this chamber for dealing with such a question ? Is there in the Commonwealth a more appropriate place in which to put such a question and to expect a reply? This is a branch of the legislature of the Commonwealth, and  Senator Needham  has been elected to it by a section of the people to assist in the government of the country. Here is a definite challenge to the Parliament and Government of the country, and yet the Leader of the Opposition says that this is not the proper place in which to state his attitude. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What is " the proper time ? " 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.When this challenge is thrown down to constituted authority - when this defiance of the Parliament and the Government is threatened - surely this is the proper time for all who believe in constitutional government and the authority of Parliament to state their attitude. When could there be a more proper time - where a more proper place than this? May I suggest that what the honorable senator has in his mind is that, as on the occasion of the British seamen's strike, and also when the transport services were held up, he will remain silent until after the event. Then only will he tell us his opinion. 
It was a question to which the honorable senator had .every reason to expect a reply. 
Honorable senators opposite have declared that during the last year or so no industrial disputes have occurred in connexion with the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, and that, therefore, the loss sustained by the Line cannot be attributed to that cause. That is a strange argument, because undoubtedly industrial disputes that have taken place in connexion with this Line over a series of years have inflicted most serious loss upon it. They were of a character different from that of ordinary industrial disputes. There was no disagreement over wages, hours, or other working conditions. All the benefits enjoyed by the seamen had been obtained for them, not by the Walshes or  Johannsens,  and other latter-day unionists, but by the  Guthries,  the Sangster a and other leaders .of the seamen who believed in constitutional government. 
It was not Walsh and  Johannsen  and the Seamen's Union, as constituted today, who obtained those conditions for the men; they already enjoyed them when these gentlemen from foreign dimes ' appeared on the scene, and proceeded to institute in this country what is known as job control. I do not know whether honorable, senators are fully aware of the meaning of that term; but I shall give the Senate a picture of job control as painted for me by a member of the Commonwealth Shipping Board. One of the Commonwealth liners, manned by unionists who were working under the Navigation Act, and awards of the Arbitration Court, giving the highest wages and the best conditions obtaining in any part of the world - conditions that were outlined by  Senator Kingsmill,  and compared by him with those obtaining in other countries - had on board hundreds of  passengers who had left their homes and had all their luggage with them preparatory to proceeding to the other side of the world. The refrigerating space in the ship was full of perishable cargo, which with a week's delay would be made absolutely valueless. There was other cargo in the holds which depended for a profitable price on reaching the market at the right time. It had been placed on board by the shippers in the hope and belief that it would reach its destination at the proper time. The ship was ready to sail, when three firemen, within an hour of the scheduled time of. departure, came up from below, and began to walk on to the gangway. They were intercepted by one of the ship's officers, who asked them to return. Theyreplied, " No," and walked off. The captain was informed, and at once negotiations were begun to have them replaced. The union was communicated with, and was asked to replace the men. It refused to do so, although there were scores of unemployed seamen in the neighbourhood of the union office at the timeThe ship was thus held up. One of the men who had walked off went that night to the Superintendent of the Labour Bureau, and asked that his action should not be recorded as a black mark against him. He said - " I did not walk off the ship voluntarily. Three of us were told that we had to leave the vessel at a certain hour. I had no grievance; but I was told that I had to walk off - that if .1. did not, I would be a marked man. I would have been declared a scab. I would have been declared black. I had to walk off at the behest of the delegate of the union." The superintendent said that he had every reason to believe that that man had told the truth.   
A good deal is said about the conduct of the men; but the blame for action of this sort is not to be laid at the door of the seamen themselves. The responsibility lies with those who under this latter day system of unionism constitute themselves the masters of .  the men, and tell them what they are to do. These individuals do not take their instructions from their employers, the unionists who put them in their positions, and provide their salaries; they dictate to the men what they shall do. That is job control, and that policy was pursued relentlessly, particularly against the ships of the Commonwealth Line.  Senator Chapman  has shown how ship after ship of this Line was held up - and he could have made the chapter longer than he did - while ships carry ing similar cargo and sailing to the same ports, but manned by coloured and foreign labour, were allowed to sail without let or hindrance. These Australian ships manned by Australians who arc paid the highest rates of wages in the world, and who enjoyed the best conditions known, were picked out for this special treatment by the so-called Seamen's Union. They were selected by these emissaries of the Soviet who have declared through their mouthpiece that they utilize this system not to obtain better conditions for the workers. but to bring capitalism to its knees. The trouble that is occurring with the ships of the Huddart Parker Line to-day is due to the same policy; it has been caused by the same men in the same way. How can any State-owned or even privately-owned  industry succeed under those conditions, which have done more than anything else to bring about the absolute and abject failure of " this attempt at State ownership? 
But our honorable friends opposite do not believe to-day in State ownership; that is not part of their platform. What they now aim at is not the nationalization, but the socialization, of industry. In the words of  Mr. Willis,  one of the leaders of this new unionism, the socialization of industry means ownership of it by the men who work in the industry. State ownership we are told is. State capitalism, and is only different from private enterprise in so far as the State instead of a private capitalist, is the employer. The socialization of industry is far in advance of that, according to their wild theories, and, therefore, the men who work in the industry should own it. 
That is the ideal promulgated from Moscow, and that is the ideal of the Labour party to-day. That is on their platform. But they have not the courage, even if they had the capacity, to put that plank of their policy into operation. They had .a wonderful opportunity in connexion with the sale of the Commonwealth Line, to put it into actual practice, if they believed in it. Here was a line of steamers with adi the goodwill of a going concern, which they say was capable of being made a success, and according to the Leader of the Opposition it was practically given away. When ex-Senator Bob Guthrie was Secretary of the Seamen's Union, he told me just before he was kicked out of the Labour party, because he dared to stand for his country and advocate conscription, that they had a bank balance of £35,000, besides freehold properties in every part of the Commonwealth. I suppose that now Walsh and  Johannsen  have had the management of the affairs of that union for a few years, the bank balance is not quite so substantial as it formerly was. But, at any rate, they have another Treasury on which they can call to-day. They have at their back the resources of the Government of one of the greatest countries in the world. They have the resources of the Russian Government behind them, and they are linked with that government in that one of their leaders, aye, their chief apostle in this country to-day, is blatantly declared to have been promoted to a high position in the council of the Russian Government !  He is now a member of the executive of the Third Internationale, and everybody who understands the constitution of that peculiar form of Government in Russia, knows that the executive of the Third Internationale is the real Government of Russia. 
What would £1,000,000 be to the Soviet?  Mr. Garden  had ' only to say "Here is a glorious opportunity to demonstrate to the people of the Commonwealth the virtues and advantages of the socialization of industry. Let us buy this Commonwealth" Line, and run it on socialistic principles. Let the men who run the industry own it, and then all the people of Australia will be converted to this great doctrine of ours." But I have not heard a word by honorable senators opposite in advocacy of this remarkable doctrine of the socialization of industry. They have been advocating State capitalism all the time. That is not the socialization of industry. That would not be the ownership of the industry by the men who work in it. That would be only another form of capitalism. I presume, however, that honorable senators opposite will presently have to answer for their sins.  Mr. Garden  will want to know why they missed this unique opportunity to secure possession of the Line for less than a couple of millions. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I. agree that he is a great political asset to us, but for quite a different reason from that which the honorable senator has in mind.  Mr. Garden,  at least, has the honesty to tell us where he stands ; but there are many persons holding public positions who, by their silence, give consent to his nefarious doctrines. They do not believe in them, although they have not the courage to say so. He is an asset in that he enables the people of this country to see the sort of men who are shaping the policy of the Labour party to-day. The Labour party could have possessed the Line for a mere song, to use the expression of the Leader of the Opposition. For £2,000,000 they could have given ocular demonstration of the success of their theory of the socialization of industry. The only conclusion we can draw from their inaction- is that they do not believe in the principle that has been placed on their platform, and placed on it not to attract the common-sense voters, but because the men who are driving them to-day demand that it shall be placed there. They have not the courage to denounce those who are dragging Australian unionism in the mud. They say, " This is not the proper place or the proper time to do it," and thus seek to avoid the issue; but they cannot avoid their responsibility by remaining silent while systems built up by the unionists of the past are being gradually broken down. Do we not all remember the splendid work that ex-Senator Guthrie did on behalf of the seamen of Australia in the framing of the Navigation Act? That measure gave them the best conditions enjoyed by seamen in the world to-day. But how did they respond ? Since the coming into force of that act their behaviour has been so rotten that it has made the measure a by-word. They have brought it into contempt throughout Australia and have created against it a public opinion, which almost imperils its existence. It is due to the excesses and the wrongful actions of men of the type of Walsh and Johannsen and to the way in which the seamen have abused the privileges which have been bestowed upon them by the people of this country. Those who sit opposite are as fully aware of this as I am; yet they allow this abuse to go on without raising a word in protest. 
It has been mentioned time after time during this debate that the followers of the believers in direct action have declared that they will make every effort to thwart the will of Parliament; they will penalize the people of this country because the Parliament, elected by the people, and the Government responsible to that Parliament, hare taken a step which is believed to be in the interests of the country; in some unconstitutional way they will try to dragoon this Parliament. Yet our friends opposite in this case also have uttered no word of protest. It is that sort of. attitude that is bringing unionism into disrepute, and keeps the Labour party in Opposition, where it will remain so long as its leaders allow their courage to be subdued as it hasbeenduring this debate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health.  upon notice - 
Has a quantity of radium arrived in Australia to the order of the Government! 
If go, amongst what hospitals has such radium been distributed? 
Will quotas be made available to the principal country hospitals of the Commonwealth; and if so, when? 
Is it the intention of the Government to augment the supplies of radium from the Australian mines, and if so will a proportion of same be available also for the use of country hospitals ? 
Yes. 
No actual distribution has yet been made, but arrangements are being now completed with the Brisbane and South Coast, Royal Prince Alfred, Melbourne, and Adelaide Hospitals. 
The position of the country hospitals in respect of radium for therapeutic use is now being ascertained; a decision as to distribution of radium to country, hospitals will be made as soon as the metropolitan hospital arrangements are complete. 
A decision in this respect will not be made until the necessity for such augmentation becomes apparent. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
At what (late is the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act to be brought into force by proclamation ? 
Will the Minister see that reasonable notice is given to the public before the commencement of the operation of the act? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions - 
No date has yet been fixed, but it is hoped to make an announcement very shortly. 
Yes. 
asked the Ministerrepresenting the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Whether he has noted in the Melbourne  Herald,  of Saturday, 28th April, a statement made by Lieutenant-Colonel Weddell, Government Resident of North Australia, to the effect that the introduction of a number of Asiatics under proper regulations would go far to solve the labour problem ' in that Territory ? 
If so, docs he think it proper that the Government Resident should, in his official capacity, express opinions at variance with the White Australia policy endorsed by the people of the Commonwealth? 
The statement referred to has been brought under the notice of the Minister. 
A report is being obtained from the Government Resident, who is at present en route to Darwin, as to the accuracy of the statement attributed to him. It is being pointed out to him, at the same time, that when he is desirous of making representations on questions of public policy the proper  course  for him to  follow  is to make such representations to the Minister to whom he is responsible. 
The first . thought that occurs to one in considering this question is the splendid work accomplished by the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the moving picture industry. The zeal and diligence displayed by the members of the commission are certainly worthy of commendation, and no honorable senator can have perused their report without coming to the conclusion that they carried out the duties entrusted to them faithfully and well. 
The importance of the moving picture industry in Australia and its effect on the every day life of the nation cannot be over estimated. Films have entered into the public and private life of the community; they have a considerable influence for good or evil, and it is well that an exhaustive inquiry has been made into this industry with a view to placing it on a footing that will be a benefit not only to the nation, but also to the people individually. The picture theatre is today the chief form of amusement for the people. It is not only popular, but also cheap. . It is readily accessible to the majority of wage earners who are precluded from attending dramatic or operatic performances for which high admission charges are imposed. Pictures are also instructive and can be made more so. 
Generally speaking, I am in agreement with the recommendations of the Royal Commission, and I am glad to learn that ' it is the intention of the Government to give effect to that portion of them which come within the ambit of the powers of the Commonwealth. Some of the recommendations of the commission touch upon matters that lie within the control of the States. 
It is estimated that there are 1,250 picture threatres in the Commonwealth, affording employment to 20,000 persons. Therefore, apart from the question of amusement or recreation, this business enters largely into the public life of the country because of the employment it gives. I glean from the report of the commission that the capital invested in the moving picture industry is approximately £25,000,000. 
One of the recommendations of the commission is to increase the duty on certain classes of films by  id.  a foot. The money derived by means of this extra duty would amount to £44,000 a year  and  portion of it, I understand, would be devoted to granting awards to the makers of the best pictures produced in Australia. The commission recommends that £10,000 a year should be devoted to this purpose.- I realize the necessity for helping on the picture industry in Australia, and I think that this country lends itself particularly well to picture production. We have the space here, we have' the natural scenery, and I am sure that we have the talent necessary to produce good films. While there may be something in the contention of the commission that advantages would be derived from the imposition of this extra duty, I myself have grave doubts as to whether this money would be paid by the picture proprietors. I do not want to cast any vote in this Parliament which might have the effect of making this class of entertainment any dearer. 
I have not yet said that I shall oppose the duty. I have said that I should hesitate to agree to the imposition of an extra duty of -Jd. a foot on certain classes of films if I thought that the picture theatre proprietors would pass that tax on to their patrons. The prices to-day are just about as much as the average picture theatre patron can afford. At present prices many men do not find it possible to take their wives and, say, three or four children to the pictures more frequently than once a fortnight. We should not do anything which might reduce the opportunity of such people to indulge in this form of recreation. I remember a statement credited to  Sir Victor  Wilson who, I understand, is  Chairman  of the Motion Picture Distributors' Association that if the ½d. a foot extra duty was imposed on these films it would have to be passed on to those who visited the. theatres. On the other hand, I have read that the Minister stated that, allowing 6,000 feet to be the average length of a feature or dramatic film,  which in  ordinary circumstances would be screened about 75 times, the extra cost imposed by this duty would be about 3s. 4d. for each screening. If that is so, I cannot see any necessity for passing on the extra duty. 
That question is not before us at the moment, but if it were I should very seriously consider whether I would vote for that increase in duty unless we had a positive assurance from the Government, or from a representative of the motion picture industry, that the public would not be penalized by the imposition of the extra duty. It is estimated that on a Saturday evening 156,000 people visit the various theatres, picture shows, and other places of entertainment in the Commonwealth. Of that number approximately 124,000 visit picture shows. The report of the Film Commission states that during the course of a year 110,000,000 visit the theatres in Australia. Taking into consideration the population of Australia, it may be seen how many times a year the average citizen patronizes the theatre. 
The report also makes a recommendation regarding the introduction of the quota system. I realize that we are practically inundated with American pictures, and that an English picture is relatively a  rara  avis.  We must remember that America is the home of the film industry. She has displayed considerable enterprise in fostering the industry, and has spent- an enormous sum of money on it. 
I admit that she had a free hand, but even apart from that, it must be admitted that Great Britain, up to the present time has not made a very serious attempt to compete with America in the production of pictures. The United States of America, on the contrary, has attained the peak of proficiency in the production of films. Personally, I am not a frequent visitor to picture theatres ; I go occasionally, and have seen only one or two- English pictures, and they have not impressed me. I do not say that we cannot get as good pictures from Great Britain as from anywhere else. I believe that the English producers are now making an earnest effort to improve the quality of their output, but they have a long way to go before they catch up with America. 
I doubt if Great Britain, will spend nearly as much money on the development of the industry as America has, or that those controlling it in the Mother Country will pay the same almost fabulous salaries to skilled artists; but unless they adopt this course, the success of the industry in the Mother Country will be to some extent retarded. Statements ' were made prior to the appointment of the commission to the effect that the American combine had strangled the industry in Australia. A perusal of the report of the commission does not support that contention. On the contrary, the view is expressed that there is evidence of something in the nature of an Australian combine. We are told that Union Theatres control 42 picture houses, and that Hoyts Limited controls 116 picture theatres, or a total of 158 houses throughout Australia. It is stated also that the Australian combine regulates the distribution of American pictures in Australia, and frequently is in a position to dictate its own terms. I feel sure that members of the commission did not reach this conclusion without having carefully weighed the evidence submitted to them by witnesses, many of whom are prominently identified with the business life of this country. 
The commission states also that the Australian combine practically dictates its own terms. 
Dealing with the censorship, the commission recommends the establishment of an appeal board, to consist of five members, one of whom shall be a woman, and a board of censors, comprising three persons, including one woman. I approve of this recommendation. We are all agreed that moving pictures exert an extraordinary influence for good, or evil in the community, and particularly on the younger generation of our people. It is my firm conviction that no matter how good an example may be set children in the home - and home influence is the thing that counts most in the development of our citizens - we cannot afford to ignore the part played by moving pictures, and therefore it is essential that, by a system of strict censorship, we should fake every precaution to protect our public morals. But I am not one of those who subscribe to the view that hitherto Australia has been flooded with pernicious or immoral pictures. I admit that a certain number of suggestive films have been passed by the censors, but on the whole those officials have done good work under considerable difficulty. 
If, as the honorable senator says, Australia has not been flooded with bad pictures, why has it been necessary for the censors to reject or alter over 50 per cent, of the films imported? 
It is indeed gratifying to members of the commission to find that their recommendations have been so favorably commented upon by all sections of this Parliament and the press of Australia. This unanimous approval is almost unique in the history of the deliberations of royal commissions or select committees. As a rule there is plenty of room for differences of opinion as to the findings of .such bodies, particularly when financial interests of such importance are involved. It is gratifying also to know that the Government has accepted unconditionally most of the recommendations made, and in respect of others, it is only waiting for the necessary power to be vested in it by the States, to enable it to give effect to them. That is one of the difficulties which confronted the commission as soon as it commenced its inquiries. It found that whilst the Commonwealth has full power over the importation of films from other countries the States really possess even more important powers relating to the production, exhibition and to some extent the censorship of pictures in Australia. It therefore became necessary' for the commission to endeavour in some way to suggest a means of reconciling conflicting Commonwealth and State interests in order to reach a common agreement. The commission, realizing that some of its recommendations did not come within the scope of the Constitution under which this Parliament legislates, has made certain suggestions because it believes that the time has arrived to negotiate with the State Governments with the idea of entering into an agreement under which the States will hand over to the Commonwealth the powers necessary to enable it to deal with the whole problem of picture production, importation and screening in Australia. The commissior has not recommended that the powers of State Parliaments to control the actual theatres in which pictures are shown should be given to the Commonwealth. All that the commission desires is that the Commonwealth shall possess all embracing powers over the films themselves. 
The Commission found when it entered upon this extensive inquiry that the opinions which many of its members held, in common with other members of Parliament, and a great majority of the community, had to be thrown overboard. Honorable senators will remember that the commission was originally appointed as a select committee of Parliament because of the popular agitation that had been set up both inside and outside of Parliament for an investigation of the whole business. As the work of the committee proceeded it was found that in order to obtain all the necessary information it should be converted into a royal commission. That was done. 
I am not forgetting that. It was on the motion of  Senator Grant  that a select committee was appointed, and we were all pleased that that honorable senator was a member of the committee and eventually of the royal commission. The commission visited every important centre in the Commonwealth where the picture industry was of sufficient magnitude to justify the taking of evidence. It carried out its business in a. most expeditious and economical way, in. order that the people of Australia might know the position of the industry in Australia, and what legislation the commission considered necessary. As I have stated, the members of the commission had to drop many of their preconceived ideas concerning the picture show business in Australia. Some of the Commissioners, in common with the general community, believed that the business had fallen into the hands of an American combine, and that it was using the enormous power, influence, and money at its disposal to strangle every other picture interest in the Commonwealth. It was also thought that it was using the power it possessed to secure a grip on the Australian market for the purpose of throttling the extension of picture production in this dominion. 
The Commission  enedavoured  so far as possible to obtain evidence from every section of the community. I do not believe that any  person who wished to give evidence was prevented from so doing. It sought evidence that would be useful and perhaps vital to its work. It went even further. It approached the Government and asked that a responsible officer of the AuditorGeneral's Department should be placed at its disposal to conduct a financial investigation into the affairs of the American exchanges operating throughout Australia, to ascertain if they were making more than a fair thing, and whether the charges that they were refusing to pay income and other taxation to the Commonwealth were true. This officer conducted an inquiry in a thoroughly efficient manner into the financial affairs of the various Australian firms that are representing American companies. Practically all of the evidence of this official, which it is not proposed to print, was given  in camera  as it would not have been fair to publish it. 
As the report clearly states, the whole -of the distributing houses in Australia are registered as Australian companies; but only sufficient shares are issued here to render them eligible for registration in Australia. Actually they are American companies registered in the" Commonwealth for the purpose of trading in the Comonwealth. 
No, the commission could inquire only into the affairs of companies operating in Australia. The commission found that the charge that there was a combine between these various distributing concerns in Australia was not borne out by facts, but that, on the contrary, there was the keenest competition for business between the Australian exchanges. The competition was so keen that in some cases they undercut one another and for that reason the commission, as mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  found that the combination of interests in Australia was able to impose its own terms and conditions upon American exchanges. As the report mentioned there is a very powerful combination consisting of Union Theatres and Hoyts Limited operating in Australia. These two concerns control practically the whole of the first  release houses in Australia. Having great resources at their disposal they are in the fortunate position of being able to dictate to the American exchanges as to what pictures they will accept and what price they will pay for them. The control of the first release theatres is most important, because a picture which has not secured a first release in a big city theatre is not wanted by country showmen. The advertising of a picture by the proprietor of a big city theatre creates a demand for it throughout the country. 
The position in the moving picture industry is entirely different from that placed before the Senate before the appointment of the select committee, and also from what is generally understood by the people of Australia. Although the commission found no evidence of any American combine, it was made clear to it during its investigation that two Australian companies were able to dictate terms to the American distributing houses. 
I would not say that they are combines, because they are bona fide Australian companies, operating with Australian capital, each controlling its own circuit of theatres, and in no way imposing upon the people of Australia. Their prices are reasonable; their theatres are splendid, and they are rendering a service to the people. 
SenatorFoll. - But they are not showing Australian pictures. 
The honorable senator may remember that Britain was just entering the picture production business in a big way when the Great War broke out. Thereafter, during the continuance of the struggle, the energies of the nation were devoted to the prosecution of the war. The American picture producers were not slow to avail themselves of the opportunity which presented itself. They set out to create a demand for pictures of a certain standard and type, and because they were in continuous production and had an assured market throughout the world for their pictures, they were able to secure the investment of enormous sums of money to produce still better pictures. 
Some people imagine that almost any one can, without difficulty, produce motion pictures. That is not so. It is true that there have been instances, even in Australia, of people who, with little experience, have produced one or two freak pictures that have paid moderately well in Australia, but have had no market outside Australia. For picture production, either in Australia or in Britain, to be a success, an enormous amount of capital is necessary. In addition, a highly efficient staff of technicians, actors, and others is essential. In this connexion the American producers are at a distinct advantage because of their longer experience. It is pleasing to note that, within the past two or three years, Britain has been tackling the problem, and to-day is producing many pictures of a fairly high standard. But it cannot be said that the standard of British pictures which so far have come to Australia is equal to that of American pictures. Indeed, showmen who gave evidence before the commission were not at all keen about being forced to accept pictures merely because they are produced in the British Empire. 
SenatorRobinson. - Is it not time that our children were shown something besides the Stars and Stripes? 
There is not so great an intrusion of the American nationality into pictures to-day as there was in the past. The Americans are too astute for that. I remind honorable senators that the American pictures exhibited in Australia are produced originally for exhibition, not in Australia, but in the United States of America. The Australian market is, as it were, only a side show. Of the total receipts by American producers for their pictures, only 2 per cent, comes from Australia. 
SenatorRobinson. - American pictures are destroying our national outlook. 
The American producers could easily refuse to send any more of their pictures to Australia. 
I remind honorable senators that £25,000,000 of Australian capital is invested in the motion picture exhibiting business in Australia, and that 20,000 Australians are employed in the industry. 
Were it not for American pictures every Australian picture theatre would have to close its doors for lack of supplies. The commission has endeavoured to stimulate Australian production, as honorable senators will see by a perusal of its report. At present, so far as I am aware, not one picture is being produced in Australia. It is true that a few fairly good Australian pictures have been produced, but the number is small. The position in Germany is much the same as it is in Britain, and for the same reason. 
It was; but they have had to modify that provision recently. Moreover, German producers are able to carry on only because of an agreement which enables American producing companies, with American directors, actors and technicians to produce pictures in Germany. Even if we were to secure all the pictures produced in Germany or Great Britain, whether they suited our conditions or not - a great many of the British pictures do not suit our conditions - there would not be enough of them to keep the picture shows of Australia open for one week. The commission, because of that, has had to be very cautious in its recommendations. "We did not want to injure the picture showmen of Australia, men who have put so much capital into the business, or the pleasure-loving people of Australia, who like to attend picture shows because they find in them a cheap source of amusement and entertainment. 
They do it for their own protection, because it insures to them a  continous  supply of films of a high-class nature for a long period. They are not anxious to enter into repeated short tenure contracts which do not give them any degree of certainty that their competitors here may not compete against them with success. I could mention firms, but it would not be wise to do so, who are having the greatest difficulty in securing films to keep their shows open because competitors with more money have outbid them and entered into long contracts with American exchanges. These long contracts are not always sought for by the American exchanges. Very often it is the Australian showmen who seek them. When we asked witnesses if they were in favour of abolishing long contracts altogether, with almost one breath they said, "No." They are not anxious to abolish these long contracts because their abolition would leave them high and dry. They would not know exactly how they stood. The commission has recommended, however, that no contract should be permitted for a longer period than twelve months. It has made other recommendations relating to contracts, so that every precaution possible may be taken to safeguard the interests of British showmen and producers against the continuous stream of importations from America. But we have had to act in a careful way to insure that that stream will not dry up before there is another from somewhere else to take its place. 
The commission has- had to report that there is not a word of truth in that statement. I am aware that certain well-meaning and enthusiastic gentlemen were led astray by people in whom they reposed their confidence, but who were unmistakably branded before the commission as liars of the first water. We examined one gentleman who brought films from Great Britain. He said that it was impossible to get a theatre in which to screen them; that he had been boycotted not because of himself but because he was handling British films. He said that the treatment he had received from the showmen in Australia was such that he was being hounded out of the country. The commission found that the terms which he was asking were so exacting as to be almost impossible to accede to them. He wanted about 60 per cent, of the gross receipts. 
No. 
In the case of some big films, such as the " Ten Commandments," the American producers demanded and obtained 60 per cent., but it paid the showmen to give them those terms. , 
Yes. But they have not been alone in that respect. In some cases the gross percentage demanded for the screening of " For the Term of His Natural Life " was as high as 65 per cent. That film was produced in Australia, and was handled by an Australian company. 
That is so. We learned from the showmen who handled films for which they paid 60 per cent, of the gross takings, that it paid them to do so because the net return they got from the screening of those films was greater  than it would have been from the screening of the ordinary programme picture, for which, generally speaking, the charges made by the American exchanges are low. As a matter of fact the charges for these ordinary pictures are so low that the Australian, and very often the British, production is not able to compete with them. 
The evidence taken by the commission showed that showmen have had to pay considerably more for Australian pictures than for American pictures of a very much higher standard. We have to remember that we are placing a great strain upon the patriotism of the Australian showman in asking him to take Australian or British pictures for which he has to pay much more than is demanded for American pictures. We have also to remember that while some American pictures are harmful to the British national sentiment, and to some extent to the morals of the younger generation, generally speaking, the standard of American pictures is very high. It is regrettable that the class of pictures that is cut about so much by the censor, to whom the commission has paid a high meed of praise because of the excellent work he is doing, is produced not only in America, but also in Great Britain. Some of the most atrocious cuts the members of the commission saw were made from pictures imported from Great Britain. 
For this reason, thai we draw attention in our report to this feature and recommend that the British Government be approached by the Commonwealth Government and asked to exercise a more rigid censorship over the films exported from Great Britain to Australia. We do not want that class of picture in Australia- 
I assure the honorable senator with a great deal of regret that there is no comparison between the American and the British war picture. The former is so far in advance of the latter that it is almost impossible to compare the two. Of course, I am speaking not of the story, but of the method of production. 
Not for truth, but " Ypres " and " Mons " were not so much pictures as they were a series of what might be called gazettes strung together in a very loose and disjointed way. That sort of picture' does not  make the same appeal to the ordinary every day citizen as does a picture that is built round a story. 
There is not' a shadow of doubt about that, but the most successful novel is often one that does not stick actually to hard facts, but wanders into the realms of fancy just as the works of Jules Verne do, thus securing a larger reading public than does a strictly historical work consisting of a mere chain of events, arranged . in chronological order. A political novel may secure 100,000 readers, but  Hansard,  which is a true rendering of what actually occurs in Parliament, may not secure more than 5,000. That best illustrates  the difference between the war pictures  Senator Thompson  has mentioned, and those that have been produced by Americans. The latter are sometimes grossly untrue and very often grossly unfair, but they have been produced in such an entertaining way and have been so magnificently photographed and acted that they make an appeal to the Australian public from the showman's viewpoint. 
Yes, but from the showman's viewpoint they are a draw. It would be hideously unfair to do anything that would force the showmen of Australia who have to make a living out of this business to screen films that do not make an appeal to the public. 
The Australian public demands pictures with a story in them, and until Great Britain can give us the pictures the Australian public wants it is not fair to force on Australian showmen the duty of showing others to the Australian people. 
The Australian people have a wide choice of pictures. Of course I am not speaking of small country towns where there is only one theatre and where the people have to take what they are shown. In bigger centres there are many picture shows and the advertisments in the newspapers indicate that the public has the very widest choice of not only American, but also British, German, and, occasionally, Australian pictures. The commission, however, recognizing that the position was not altogether sound, has submitted recommendations for an increased rate of duty, awards of merit and the provision of other encouragement of increasing Australian production. It believes that the extra customs duty recommended and which the Government has now imposed, by giving a wider margin of preference to British producers, will enable them to place pictures on the Australian market at a price that will 'permit them to compete more effectively with American exchanges. Hitherto they have not been able to do so. 
I do not know. The commission was not concerned with the views of any individual. We did our job in the way we thought it ought to be done and I am proud to say the members of this Parliament have endorsed what we have done, and have commended our labours. 
Despite strong appeals made to the commission by various witnesses we have recommended not an Australian, but an Empire quota. We were faced with the position that no pictures were being produced in Australia to-day, and that nearly all of those already produced had been widely shown and no one wanted to see them again. Had we recommended the introduction of a purely Australian quota it would have been impossible to find sufficient Australian pictures to fulfil the requirements of that quota. We have, therefore, recommended an Empire quota which, of course, is a matter that will depend upon an agreement with the States. The Commonwealth cannot impose on the showmen of  Australia the responsibility of showing any quota of British or Australian pictures. Providing the States agree we have recommended that there shall be imposed an Empire quota, starting with a carefully considered ratio - not a high one, I know, in the opinion of  Senator Guthrie  and others - but as high as it' is safe to go. We knew of the pictures that were being produced in Britain, we knew the market in Australia, and we knew what pictures it was possible to obtain from other countries, and we took these things into consideration in recommending the quota for the first year. 
It will, because the Australian industry will come within the Empire quota. We have recommended that negotiations be entered into with the British Government to ensure that Great Britain will give us the same consideration that we are giving to her in order that there might be built up a great Empire motion picture industry that will enable us to " boost " our own national sentiment, instead of placing all the time before our people the sentiment of a foreign country. 
We have made these recommendations, feeling that every one of them is in entire accordance with the weight of evidence, and feeling, also, that if they are adopted and acted upon by the Government, and supported by the people of Australia, they will not only materially assist the Australian motion picture industry from a production point of view, but. will have the effect of stimulating production in Great Britain and- in the Empire, thus making us, as far as possible, independent of outside sources of supply. I am gratified as a member of the commission to find that our report has been received in such a very kind way by all sections of this Parliament. We were a very happy family, and all got on very well together. Our report is unanimous, except on one point - .the question of the Empire quota. 
I agree. Our  chairman  was as good a man for the position as could have been obtained. There is only one point upon which we differed. The majority reported in favour of an Empire quota.  Senator Grant,  who took such a big part in the establishment of the commission, has expressed the opinion that there should be in the Empire quota an Australian quota as well. We did not think that there was room for that or, indeed, any necessity for it. 
Some men are always looking for what they can get out of a thing, but this commission was looking only for the truth. Here it is, in our report, and we present it to Parliament with every confidence. 
 I wish to join with other speakers in expressing my appreciation of the work of this commission. Those of us who have had the pleasure of listening to  Senator Duncan  this afternoon, must realize the extent to which the members of the commission have" given their best efforts to the solution of the difficult problems surrounding this question, and they are entitled to all the encomiums that have been heaped upon them since the presentation of their report. 
Everybody knows that this industry is of a. peculiar character, and I feel some hesitation in venturing upon any criticism of the report of a body which has done such excellent work. There is only one matter in regard to which I am doubtful whether the recommendation of the commission is a wise one. It has already involved some action on the part of the Government, but as it must come up for determination by this Parliament at a later date, I mention it now because I wish the Government to give careful consideration to a suggestion I have to make before the matter is dealt with finally. In spite of all that has been said about American films, I have always felt, and nothing that the commission has said has altered my belief, that the real reason of the success of the American film is its excellence. 
No matter what barriers we try to erect, short of total prohibition, we cannot prevent these films from coming here unless we produce something else which is better, or at least as good. Films are like art productions of any kind:- The demand for them rests entirely upon their intrinsic value. 
In the point of view of certain people, yes. It is entirely a matter of demand, and, unfortunately, so long as there are people with salacious tastes, there will be a demand for that sort of thing. However, I do not propose to argue that subject with  Senator Elliott  just now. 
I think that most honorable senators will agree that the success of the American films in this country has been due to their excellence. America has sent its pictures all over . the world, ' and the  world has taken them because they are good - because, in short, they meet the public demand. 
I admit that. But I think that the commission has proved that there is nothing whatsoever to prevent others from doing exactly the same thing, and entering into fair competition with the American article. 
I have no doubt that there is. Judging by the national policy of America, I have every reason to believe that such restrictions exist.I am doubtful, however, about the wisdom of imposing an additional duty of1/2d. a foot under the general tariff in respect of certain classes of films. I do not think that it will have any effect in the direction, of increasing the quantity of films which will be produced by" Britain or Australia, because the matter does not really rest on that basis. This is not an industry which can be assisted in the ordinary way by means of a protective duty. The additional duty will probably lead to an increase in the price of admission to the public, and I am not certain that it is really necessary. ' I am prepared to meet the views of the commission and of the Government to the extent of agreeing that the industry should be made to bear the cost of carrying out the recommendations of the commission. If the Government can show that this will absorb the whole of the £45,000 which this additional duty will provide, I am prepared to support the imposition of the duty. I do not think, however, that this duty should be made the means of raising additional revenue at the present time. "We are now reaching a point with regard to taxation beyond which it is not wise to go. I am doubtful whether it is necessary to impose an extra duty of1/2d. a foot in order to meet the cost of carrying out the commission's recommendation.. I believe that a duty of1/4d. a foot would be sufficient. This would provide a revenue of £22,500, and I cannot see anything in the recommendations of the commission which would justify the raising of more than that amount. 
I do not know that there is anything else that is taxed by the foot. I see no reason why we should not impose the duty of1/4d. a foot, and I think, that the industry could bear that without any extra charge to the public. But the whole £45,000 could not be raised without increasing the price of admission to picture, theatres. I throw out the suggestion at this time in the hope that it will be acted upon as the bill has not yet been introduced in another place. 
A motion for the imposition of the extra duty of1/2d. per foot has been submitted by the Minister, but the bill itself is not yet before' the House. Perhaps if the Government goes into the matter carefully it will see that the whole of the extra revenue proposed to be raised is not necessary, and it may recognize the advisability of imposing an extra duty of only1/4d. a foot rather than a1/2d. I think that the former sum will be sufficient to meet all the needs of the situation. . 
With the general recommendations of the commission I am thoroughly in accord, and I hope that the Commonwealth Government will be successful in this instance in securing the co-operation of the States in passing the legislation necessary to give full effect to the commission's recommendations. This is one more of the many instances we have had in this Parliament of our lack of powerto deal in a national way with a really national question. If the States can be induced to co-operate in the manner suggested in the report, the commission will have rendered yet another service to the people of Australia. It will be the first body to have succeeded in finding a subject upon which it has been possible to obtain unanimous legislation by the States, thus enabling the Commonwealth Government to deal nationally with a national question. 
(Victoria) [4.18 J. - I wish to add my congratulations to those of other honorable senators on the excellence of the work done by the commission. I think that this report supplies the answer to most of the criticism by the press and by our friends opposite that the business of this Government is carried on entirely by means of boards and commissions. In no other way could the necessary evidence have been collected, and this report made. 
The honorable senator probably means that other commissions have served no useful purpose. I am not going to subscribe to that. Other commissions, even if they have not done such splendid work as this, have done equally valuable work in their particular spheres. 
The American producers have been able "to get away with a good deal of Australian money. The commission makes the point that its investigations seem to indicate that losses are being incurred on the importation of American films. I think that impression was due to what may be regarded as a. rather clever manipulation of figures and I agree with the conclusion of the commission that unless the business showed a substantial profit the American producing companies would not continue to export films to Australia year after year. I understand that the American companies hide their profits by declaring that the films are being hired by branch organizations in Australia, and as income tax in this country is levied only on profits, the Taxation Department is not able to obtain income taxation on business connected with the hiring of films. Itshould not, however, be impossible for the Government to devise some alternative method for the levying of taxation upon these American branch organizations. 
-When a foreign company is trading in Australia and when there is not sufficient 'data upon which to ascertain its profits, power is given to the Taxation Commissioner to make an arbitrary assessment. 
In the case of certain foreign companies trading in Australia, the only means of ascertaining profits are the figures relating to the quantity of goods sold. Such goods; I understand, are usualy invoiced at such a high figure that the business does not disclose any discernible profit. But if the commissioner seeks information as to the cost of manufacture and it is not forthcoming, he has authority under the act to fix a certain percentage as profits and levy income tax on that amount. 
That is so. It is reasonable to assume that the profits of the American branch film houses are in the neighbourhood of 20 per cent, or 30 per cent. If the companies concerned are showing losses on their trading operations, it. should not be difficult to furnish the necessary proof. 
Of course income tax is paid on salaries received. The point I have raised is, I think, the only one which was not satisfactorily explained by  Senator Duncan. 
.- It is not my intention to occupy the Senate for any length of time in discussing the motion before the Chair. Figures quoted in the debate this afternoon show that the moving picture industry is a most important one. We have been told that 110,000,000 people annually attend the 1,250 picture theatres throughout Australia. Judging by the activity manifested in at least two of our capital cities, and I presume that the same may be said of the other cities in the Commonwealth, adequate provision has not yet been made for the many thousands of people who attend picture shows nightly everywhere. I read in the columns of the daily press the other day  a statement that a new picture theatre, opened recently in Sydney cost £180,000, was capable of seating 3,000 people. I know also that the foundations have been laid for a large picture theatre in Melbourne, and that arrangements are in hand for the erection of another huge picture house in that city. 
Those who attend moving pictures are, in the main, people engaged in the workaday world ; that is to say, they belong to the working class. Moving pictures are a cheap form of entertainment, and this appeals to the masses. A few years ago when the Government introduced and passed a measure. levying a tax on admission charges to places of entertainment, I and other members of the Labour party strongly objected to it on the ground that the tax would fall chiefly on the workers, and that therefore, it was in the nature of a class tax. The commission recommends the imposition of an additional duty on the importation of films, which impost, according to  Senator Duncan  will realize about £45,000 per annum.' On this point I remind honorable senators that a gentleman closely identified with the industry is reported to have said that if the duty is increased the additional impost will not be borne by the industry, but will be passed on. Unquestionably the added burden would under those circumstances fall upon those who patronize moving pictures. If that is the intention of those controlling moving picture theatres I would hesitate to support the recommendation of the commission for the proposed increased duty. It is true that we may, by legislation, provide that only certain pictures shall be screened in Australian theatres ; but after all those who attend such places regularly are the most competent to judge what isacceptable or unacceptable to them. 
I am assuming, of course, that the pictures have been passed by the censor. If I required confirmation of this viewpoint, I should have it in the speech just delivered by  Senator Duncan  who admitted that the showmen were the best judges of what pictures were acceptable to their patrons. It is obvious that if they put on programmes that were not popular attendances would dwindle and their business would become unprofitable. 
In regard to the report itself, it is as well, I think, that I should remind honorable senators that, had it not been for the interest in this matter shown by  Senator Grant,  who is a member of the party to which I belong, the commission would not have been appointed.  Senator Grant  submitted the motion for the appointment of a select committee. He was supported by members on the Government side and the committee was duly constituted. Subsequently it was converted into a royal commission. I congratulate  Senator Grant  upon his action and J regret that owing to his very serious indisposition, he is not able to attend the Senate to take part in the consideration of the commission's report. I feel sure, also, that other honorable senators join with me in this expression of regret with regard to the illness of  Senator Grant. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
I am sure he did, because he discharges conscientiously any duty which he undertakes. He has always taken a keen interest in the moving picture industry and at all times has done what he could to promote its development as well as to ensure a fair deal for those engaged in it. 
On page 4 of the commission's reportthere appears the following statement with regard to film censorship :  - 
Registration will not be granted in the case of a film which in the opinion of the censor - 
is blasphemous, indecent or obscene; 
is likely to be injurious to morality or to encourage or incite to crime; 
is likely to be offensive to the people of any friendly nation; 
is likely to be offensive to the people of the British Empire; or 
depicts any matter the exhibition of which is undesirable in the public interest. 
I direct attention particularly to paragraph (c). On page 14 the commission recommends - 
That, subject to recommendations by the 
Was it general? 
Apparently the commission realized the  serious  effect of pictures upon the . education of children, but was unable to suggest a remedy. On visiting Western Australia it found a partial remedy had been provided. In that State Friday night is observed as a special children's night, when pictures suitable only for children are shown. As there is no school on the following day, their education is not affected. Is that the result of an arrangement with those engaged in the picture show business, or is there any State law or. regulation covering it? &gt; 
Are not children admitted on other nights? 
Is special provision made in, say, Perth for children to attend picture theatres on Friday night? 
Although the commission realizes the seriousness and importance of this aspect of the question, it has not made any definite recommendation. 
I know that; but the commission has not even made any such recommendation. In the dairying industry in some parts of Australia some years ago many children worked before and after attending school. Public attention was directed to the fact that some children so engaged were listless at school, and some of them even fell asleep. I do not know whether the same results have followed attendance at picture shows. 
I do not wish them to be debarred from attending places of amusement. 
If children who frequently attend pictures are handicapped in their education some definite recommendation should be made in their interests. 
The commission also recommends the appointment of a censorship board consisting of three members, and an appeal board of five. Why should there be aboard of appeal ? 
Should not a censorship board of three be competent to censor all pictures? 
There might be an outcry against the decision of the appeal board. It does not follow that the appeal board will vary a decision of the censorship board. Personally I do not see the necessity for superimposing on the censorship board a board of appeal, the members of which will have to be paid an adequate remuneration for the service they render. 
No evidence on behalf of the public has been given in support of it. 
Until stronger reasons are advanced by  Senator Duncan,  and others familiar with the work of the commission, I shall not feel -disposed to support that recommendation. 
(Senator the  Hon. Sir John  Newlands). - Order! I ask honorable senators to allow  Senator Findley  to proceed without interruption. 
.- In common with other honorable senators I wish to congratulate the commission on the excellent work it has accomplished in clearing the atmosphere which existed concerning the position of the picture industry in Australia. The report of the commission shows that many of the charges made in the Senate, and as a result of which the commission was appointed, have not been proved, and that there is apparently no justification for the statement that an American combine is endeavouring to strangle the picture industry in Australia. When the. proposal for the appointment of a select committee was made, I stated that most of the information could be readily secured from those engaged in the industry. I am, however, very pleased with the way in which the commissioners have carried out their work, and with the recommendations they have made. Unfortunately, I have not had an opportunity of carefully perusing the report because although it wastabled in another place last week, a copy of it was made available to me only at 10 o'clock this morning. I do not know who is responsible for the delay in the distribution of this document, but I protest against the delay. 
Considering the effect that motion pictures have, particularly upon the young people of Australia, I trust that . effect' will be given to many  of the commission's recommendations, and that, as a result, pictures will be produced more in harmony with the civilization we are building up here. No one can deny the effect which American pictures have upon young people, and even upon some adults. Our views of domestic life and our social customs are altogether different from those portrayed in American productions. Many of the scenes depicted on the screen have a detrimental effect even upon adults. The  portrayal of extravagance and luxury creates a feeling of discontent and gives to picture patrons abnormal views of life: 
The commission has recommended the enactment of legislation providing for a quota of Empire pictures. I am sorry that a higher quota could not be "recommended, but I am afraid that to provide even a 5 per cent quota a lot of rubbish will be screened. 
To the extent that the quota will stimulate local producers and encourage the importation of Empire pictures, it is justified. 
I am not enamoured of the commission's recommendation of a bonus for good Australian pictures. It may encourage producers; but if they can produce pictures with an international appeal the returns from the pictures themselves will be sufficient without any award of merit. I have sufficient faith in the ability and enterprise of Australians to believe that, apart from the prospect of a bonus they will go in wholeheartedly for the production of good pictures. The making of pictures is an expensive undertaking. Good pictures like " The Ten Commandments " are costly to produce. 
That it was a good picture was proved by the way the people flocked to see it. Yet that picture, which was so costly to produce, did not give any return to its producers for several years. 
A good deal has been said regarding American pictures controlling the market.  Senator Duncan  has made it clear that were it not for American pictures nearly every Australian picture theatre would have to close its doors. One of Britain's foremost picture producers,  Mr. Stoll,  admitted that he could not compete against his American rivals. 
No; his statement was made some years after the termination of the war. A good deal has been said 'about the influence of some American pictures, but the censor has stated that some of the British pictures produced just after the war ended were so disgraceful that they had to be rejected. Even some which passed the censors were so bad that the showmen would not exhibit them. Particularly in connexion with pictures dealing with the sex question British producers got to lower depths than did the Americans. 
If the honorable senator will inquire of the censors he will find that the statement is correct. 
The members of the commission will confirm my statement. 
That is a cheap gibe. I have no greater respect for the Yankees than  Senator Guthrie  has. For years before I saw Australia I was prejudiced against them because I knew something about them. But my prejudice is not sufficient to cause me to shut my eyes to facts. I am as British as is any other honorable senator, but to refuse to acknowledge facts, is foolish. If I had my way I would wipe out the American picture industry to-morrow, because I know how demoralizing many American pictures are. But it cannot be gainsaid that the acting, the photography and the finish generally of American pictures are superior to that of pictures produced in any other country. I know that some excellent pictures have been made in Great Britain, and that leading British actors have been induced to leave the legitimate stage to act as film stars. My remarks apply to average British and American pictures. In the matter of sub-titlesthe American pictures are far ahead of those produced in Britain. The truth of the well-known saying that the average Englishman has no imagination is made clear by a study of the subtitles of moving pictures produced in Britain. 
SenatorREID. - No; but those subtitles exhibit cleverness. Their wit and humour cannot be denied. I dislike their slang. 
They do. British producers should give more attention to sub-titles. 
SenatorREID. - I have not yet seen an American picture which has correctly interpreted British history. At times my blood has been stirred by whatI have seen. Nothing has so tended to demoralize the colored races as have some of the pictures purporting to depict the domestic life of the white races. These pictures have done much to injurethe Empire in the eyes of its colored peoples. 
I am extremely sorry that British producers have so far been unable to produce pictures acceptable to Britishers. 
I repeat, that at times my blood has been stirred by the way historical facts have been misrepresented in American pictures, but that does not blind me to their excellence in other respects. British producers must exercise more imagination and bestir themselves if they would find a market for their pictures. 
Even since the war they have not made much progress. The effect of pictures on children is a matter of considerable importance. Most picture showmen hold matinees on Saturday afternoons so that there is no necessity for children to remain up late at night to attend picture shows. But many parents who desire themselves to view the pictures have no one to look after their children while they attend the theatre, and so they take them with them. In our industrial districts it is not an uncommon sight to see parents, with their children, some in perambulators, returning home late at night from the picture shows. It is difficult to legislate in this matter, because if we were to prevent children from attending picture shows at night, we should interfere with the liberty of parents. I know that in order to. avoid their children being out late at night many parents deny themselves to the extent of spending their Saturday afternoons with them at the picture theatres. 
In my opinion the only justification for the increased duty on foreign films is that the additional revenue may be required to meet the expenses of the censorship. I favour the establishment of an appeal board. Should the censorship be too strict at times, the showmen should have the right to have their case heard. The general public also should have the opportunity to present its views to such a body. The members of the Appeal Board will have to be paid for their services and I think the industry ought to provide the money, but I am afraid the tax will be passed on to the public. In 1927, according to the annual report of the Commonwealth Film Censorship, America sent us 1,681 films representing 24,187,591 feet, the United Kingdom sent us 271 films representing 1,904,190 and other countries sent us 1.99 films representing 1,366,466 feet. The total length of films imported for the year, was thus 27,458,247 feet. The imposition of this extra duty of1/2d. a foot will mean that the distributors will have to provide an additional £45,000 in customs taxation, and as I do not suppose they are making sufficient out of the business to pay this out of their own pockets, they must pass  it on to the showmen who in turn will pass it on to the public. I do not know whether the registration fees can be increased to cover the expenditure which will be involved in appointing a Censorship Board and a Board of Appeal. 
 That being so, the £45,000 will easily be swallowed up; nevertheless I fear the duty of  id.  a foot will be passed on to the public. If the money is spent in the production of clean pictures and in purifying the screen it will be well spent. 
I am pleased that the royal commission has recommended that ' there should be a woman on the Board of Censors and on the Board of Appeal. I trust that the Government will adopt that suggestion. In regard to sex questions women are often better judges than men as to what is right or wrong, and as a rule a mother exercises more care than does the father in regard to what the child should or should not see. I hope that the Government will help to make the industry cleaner by the appointment of a board that will see that the best possible pictures are screened for adults as well as children 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) [5.10J.  -  The debate on the motion for printing the report of the royal commission on the moving picture industry has been of such a nature that there is very little by way of criticism for members of the commission to answer. It is extremely pleasing and gratifying to honorable senators who were members of the commission that its recommendations have been received so favorably not only by the Parliament but also by the press, by those engaged in the industry and, I. am sure, by the general public.  Senator Findley  has pointed out that  Senator Grant  took the first step in the Senate for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the moving picture industry. If my memory serves me right the motive which prompted  Senator Grant  was that he believed, with many others in  Australia, that greater encouragement should be given to the production of films  iv  Australia. Another honorable senator who took  a  prominent part in the  debate  upon the motion for the appointment of the select committee, was  Senator Guthrie  who stated his belief that something more should be done to ensure the production of British films. 
In its inquiries the royal commission examined many witnesses in regard to the possibility of Australia supplying anything like a substantial proportion of the requirements of the Australian picture showmen, and found that it was utterly impossible for Australian producers to do anything substantial towards meeting those requirements. It also ascertained that even Great Britain could not supply anything like a substantial proportion of Australia's requirements. Indeed we know that the quota adopted in Great Britain after a great deal of consideration was only 2J per cent. 
Great Britain's opportunities for producing pictures are five times greater than those of Australia. At the first glance one might think it an easy matter to establish the motion picture industry in Australia, but the commission was unanimously of opinion that it would be impossible to establish an industry in Australia to produce pictures only for the Australian market. Australia must produce films for an international market if it wants- to enter seriously into the business. The average cost of producing a feature film is estimated at £50,000, but the most liberal estimate of the earning power of such a picture in this market alone is nothing like 50 per cent, of that amount. It is clear, therefore, that the Australian market in itself is not sufficient to encourage capital to engage in the industry of producing pictures for the Australian market alone, and that it is necessary to look for a market abroad. 
I am not so pessimistic as to say that Australia could not engage in this industry. If producers have sufficient capital and go into the matter seriously, realizing the competition that is against them, there are  possibilities of producing pictures in Australia that will find a market abroad. 
I think there would be. Already pictures produced in Australia have beenexhibited successfullyin other parts of the world. But the people who are anxious to engage in the industry of film production in Australia, must realize the enormous expenditure it would involve, and must be prepared to - enter into serious competition with other countries in the markets of the world. 
As honorable senators are aware,. and as the report shows, 90 per cent. of the world's requirements of pictures comes from America. One would gather from the trend of the debate this afternoon that pictures produced in America are produced by Americans. That is a mistaken impression. During the war, when all the other countries that had been previously engaged in producing pictures were engaged in that titanic struggle, the Americans took the opportunity to do everything possible to develop the production of pictures. They set about this businessinthewayinwhichtheyhave set about the establishment of other industries. They started off with the advantage of having a great number of home buyers for their output. That is an advantage enjoyed by Americans in other industries. For instance, the American motor car manufacturers have, in America itself, a tremendous number of customers for their output. Furthermore, like other American producers, "the film producers could engage in mass production. They have enormous capital at their command, and by this means are able to attract to Hollywood the best artists from all countries. In a big feature film they do not rely on make-up for their different types, but if necessary, draw the actual types themselves from all parts of the world. Because of the large salaries which they are able to pay, they are able to attract the best actors, the best directors, and the best producers from other countries and concentrate them in their own centre of production. 
I would remind the honorable senator that among those who are engaged in making the film industry in America are many leading British actors, and many Australians who have been very successful in America. 
A great deal has been said about the difficulty experienced by the British film producers in finding a market for their products in Australia, and in arranging for the exhibition of their films. This is, in a measure, true, but we must remember that those engaged in the picture theatre business in Australia have invested their own capital in it. It is a commercial enterprise with them; they are selling entertainment to the public. In view of this, we should be particularly careful, while doing what we can to assist production within Australia and the Empire, not to do anything which would jeopardize the capital of those people who have invested their money in the picture business. There was a good deal of truth in the statement made by  Senator Guthrie  that the British producers have been unable to obtain screenings for their films in the Commonwealth, but I think that those who gave that information to  Senator Guthrie  told onlypart of the story. We found in the course of our investigations thatit mattered little to the exhibitors what the country of origin of a film might be; with them it was a question of its entertainment value. 
I wish to draw the attention of  Senator Guthrie  to this fact : The American producer has his own distributing house in Australia, or a branch of his company operating here on bis behalf, and this local agency arranges for the leasing and distribution of films. The British producer, on the other hand, has been trying to sell his films instead of hiring them out as the Americans are doing. In many instances Britishfilms were sold at ridiculously low prices to those who hawked them around Australia. When, however, they went to the exhibitors and asked them to put aside other films so that the British product might be exhibited, they asked 40 per cent., 50 per cent. and sometimes 60 per cent. of the gross takings. The British producers have failed because they did not follow the American practice. They should have appointed their own distributors in Australia, who would have arranged to rent the films out to the exhibitors, and then pass them on to other distributors through their own organization. Provided the merit of the pictures was equal, they would secure the same return from them as the American producers are doing.  Senator Guthrie  referred to the difficulty experiencedbecause exhibitors had entered into long contracts. In this connexion it must be remembered that it is the practice in commercial circles to enter into contracts for a considerable time ahead. In some cases importers have to make contracts to take the whole output of a woollen mill for perhaps one, two, or three years. The contract system ensures to the exhibitor a continuous supply of films, and guarantees him his programme for several months ahead. The commission recognized that it was not desirable that these long contracts should be made, and came to the conclusion that steps should be taken to encourage the production and exhibition of Australian and British films. 
On the subject of censorship, the issue has been raised as to the suitability of some of the films that have been exhibited. We all realize the difficulties under which the censor works, and the tremendous task with which he is confronted. While it is possible to set out by regulation in a general way rules for the guidance of the censor, it is not possible to lay down definitely what pictures he may or may not release. In thefinal analysis, a great deal will depend on the standard set by the censor himself. I think that we should compliment the chief censor upon the vigilance which he has exercised in the course of his work. Nevertheless, we all admit that there have been leakages from time to time which have justified the complaints as to the standard of some of the pictures exhibited. It must in fairness be said, however, that the same thing applies with regard to spoken plays, and to literature. It is not fair to point in the one direction only, and to say that all the harm is done by films. If I may digress for a moment, I should like to say that I think it would be a good thing if more supervision were exercised with regard to the class of literature which is distributed throughout this country. 
At the present time there is a right of appeal from the censor to the Minister. It is not desirable, nor is it fair to ask, that a Minister of theCrown should have to make decisions upon such subjects as this. Ministers come and go, but if an appeal board is appointed, consisting of three or five members, it will be. constantly engaged on this class of work, and the members will have the necessary qualifications to enable them to come to a proper decision. 
Under the Constitution every State has power to appoint censors, and some of them have exercised that right. In order to give effect to the recommendations of the commission, the consent and cooperation of the States are necessary. Instances have occurred in which films have been released by the Commonwealth censor, and have been subsequently refused exhibition in one of the States. Therefore, in order to secure the goodwill and co-operation of the States, we have recommended the appointment of an appeal board, so that if a particular film is regarded as objectionable by any organization, representation to that effect may be made to the Minister, and the matter may come before the board of appeal, whose decision in my opinion, should be final. If this course were adopted it would, I feel sure, bring about a more  satisfactory state of affairs than exists to-day. At present the States have certain powers of legislation and one or two have set up local State censorship boards. 
The commission recommends the adoption of uniform legislation and uniform standards of censorship, the object being to secure co-operation of the several States and the setting up of one competent authority to- control the moving picture industry. This should place it on a more satisfactory basis and give general satisfaction. The commission gave consideration to the possibility of further advertising Australia through the medium of the " Know Your Own Country" pictures. These films are distributed  by one agency and are being shown 'in a considerable number of towns throughout the Commonwealth, but the commission believes much more can be done in this direction. The pictures are very much appreciated by the people. 
I cannot say definitely what is the evidence on that point. 

 -Senator Reid and one or two other honorable senators made special reference to the recommendation concerning the attendance of children at evening performances. I can assure honorable senators that the commission found the position bristling with difficulties, and realized, that after all we must depend to a large extent upon parental control in this matter. The commission ascertained that although matinee performances were advertised by various' exhibitors throughout Australia, the programme was not always specially arranged for children. As a matter of fact in most theatres the evening programme was put on and therefore was not always suitable for young people. Exhibitors explained that they found it extremely difficult to obtain films suitable for children only and therefore were obliged to fall back upon ordinary programme pictures. To meet what is admittedly a difficult situation, the commission has recommended that films should be graded by the censor as " universal " or " for adults only " ; and further that exhibitors should advertise the grade of picture to be shown at every performance. This would throw on parents the responsibility of deciding whether their children should attend certain picture performances. Speaking from memory I think the censor stated that not more than about 40 per cent, of the films ' imported could be graded as suitable for children. It is important therefore that parents should be aware of their responsibility in this matter. The commission did what was practicable to meet the situation. 
In closing, I should like to say a few words in praise of the work of the  chairman  of the commission.  Mr. Marks  entered into the inquiry most enthusiastically, and was at all times a tower of strength to his fellow members. I am very pleased to know that the Government proposes further to utilize his services in carrying out certain negotiations with the States and I feel sure that he will be equally successful in the special duty so entrusted to him. 
Since my name has been mentioned several times during the debate and American film producing companies have had many champions, it is appropriate that I should take this opportunity to state my views concerning the commission's report and recommendations.  Senator Duncan  was almost fulsome in his .praise and advocacy of American films and sought to belittle the effort of the British companies to make pictures. Surely in a British communit.y like this it is natural that some one should wish to defend British institutions and do what is possible to assist Britain to recover the picture trade which she founded prior to the war but which, unfortunately, she lost' together with 1,000,000 of her men in those frightful four years. In this connexion it is as well to remember that during the first three and a half years of the war the United States of America with ' a population of 110,000,000 and most of the wealth of the world, did not have a man in  the fighting line.  Senator Duncan  spoke strongly in defence of the American film producing concerns and their pup companies in Australia. 
I have not the slightest desire to be offensive to  Senator Duncan  or any other honorable senator. When  Senator Duncan  rose I was merely making a statement based on my notes of what he had said. I do not wish to infer that the honorable senator in his speech this afternoon defended the American films, but certainly he spoke in defence of the American companies. It has been asserted in another place that the branch distributing houses in Australia are merely pups of the American concerns, by means of which they are evading Commonwealth income taxation. 

 Senator Duncan also stated that there had been no boycott of British films by Australian exhibitors. My information is to the contrary, and I accept as authoritative statements made by several gentlemen of high reputation, including  Colonel Pottinger  who definitely assured me that he could not get a screening of his British films in Australia in any recognized circuit, with the result that he had to exhibit in -houses outside the combine. 
I understand that Colonel Pottinger had several British pictures for which he could not get a screening in Australia. 
The commission's report states that from 50 per cent, to 65 per cent, of the gross takings of the 1,250 picture theatres in Australia is paid to the American film companies in respect of certain films. That is what I would like honorable senators to bear in mind. 
I wish to discuss the report in a dispassionate manner. I regret very much that owing to illness, my colleague.  Senator Grant,  is not able to take part in this debate. He has always shown a keen interest iti the moving picture industry. It was on his motion that the Government appointed a select committee, which subsequently was. converted into. a royal commission because a prominent manager of one of the big companies in Melbourne refused to answer certain questions put to him by the  chairman  of the select committee.  Senator Grant,  like myself, thought that not only in Australia but also throughout our great Empire, we should have cleaner films and a greater proportion of films of Empire production. 
The members of the commission have worked' hard and have, I think, presented a valuable report, although, of course, I do not agree with everything it contains. For instance, rather too much attention was given to the interests of those engaged in the industry for profit, regardless of the suitability or otherwise of the films screened and their effect upon the people. Too much attention was also given to the interests of the showmen in Australia who are dominated by the producers in America and too little to those who gave evidence hi support of the screening of a greater number of films of a higher moral standard and of -the production and exhibition of Empire films. Still, on the whole, I approve of the report, the  recommendations  of which, if adopted, will result in some good. 
I have nothing to retract in regard to my enthusiasm for the British Empire and the encouragement of British industry. -The report of the commission which I read only this .morning confirms practically the whole of the statements in my speech in the Senate in August, 1926, and the evidence which I gave before the commission, when I again directed attention to the enormous power of films . for good or for evil. In Australia alone, the report states, there are 1,250 picture theatres to which no less than 110,000,000 people annually pay for admission. Of. this number 80" per cent, comprises women, girls and children. I have always endeavoured to stress the enormous influence of films upon the people, particularly children, and the terrible stranglehold -on the industry  which  the Americans enjoy. Thai stranglehold is just as great in Australia as elsewhere as is shown by the figures in the report. For instance for the year 1925, of the 24,000,000 feet of films imported into Australia, 22,841,000 feet came from: America. In 1926 of 23,779,000 feet imported, 22,000,000 feet came from America, and last year, of 27,458,000 feet imported, no less than 24,187,000 feet came from the same source. According to the report 17,430,869 of the 19,153,912 feet of feature films, which are the most important and draw the largest audiences, came from America. 
I wish again to emphasize " the tremendous grip  which American producers have upon the whole of the film industry in Australia, 'and in doing so shall repeat the figures, facts and arguments which I gave in my speech on a previous occasion. On page three of the commission's excellent report, it is stated that approximately 90 per cent, of the films imported into Australia are produced in the United States of America, and on page seven are further official statistics dealing with this matter. In paragraph 48 it is stated that "Importers claim that generally they have no choice of selection in the films exported to them from America." I emphasize those words in order to show that the Americans have a very strong grip on the industry in Australia. The report also states " It is not surprising therefore that these films frequently contain features objectionable to Australian standards." On page nine it is stated that one exhibiting company controlling a large circuit of theatres in the capital cities and the suburban areas recently made a three years' contract with an American producing company. 
But such lengthy contracts do not assist the pro1duction of British or Australian films. Even if picture showmen were sufficiently patriotic to provide for the screening of British or Australian films on their programmes, they would still have to pay the full price for a programme of American films. 
They would have to exclude an American picture for which they have paid, and would- thus lose money. So far as I know, picture showmen are not philanthropists. In paragraph 101 it is stated that -  . . . It must not be forgotten that some OS per cent, of the films shown in Australian theatres to-day are produced in foreign countries, and, with the exception of 2 or 3 per cent., these arc of American origin. . . . 
Surely if the commission, which has done much good work, finds that 95 per cent, of the- films shown in Australia are of foreign manufacture, and of the 95 per cent, only 2 or 3' per cent, are not of American origin, it clearly proves the tremendous grip which the American industry has upon the picture business of this country. 
These statements were supported in speeches made in another place by the  chairman  of the commission  (Mr. Marks),  and other honorable members. The  chairman  said, " The Americans are pretty smart people ; I have great admiration for them." There has been a lot of admiration expressed this afternoon for the Americans, but none for the British.  Mr. Marks  further stated - 
If the Commonwealth has not the . power to legislate in the direction required, they will see that no films other than American are shown in Australia, and Australian production will be postponed for ever. 
He shows quite openly the stranglehold which the Americans have upon the film industry, particularly in Australia, and asks that the Commonwealth should have power to combat it. He proceeded - 
The commission has been most lenient in its recommendations regarding showmen. 
With that contention I agree. The commission, perhaps, paid more attention to the interests of the showmen than to those of any one else. In another part of his speech the  chairman  said - 
It is true that with about 95 per cent. of the films shown in Australia being of American origin the American picture producers control the Australian screen. 
Some of the members of the commission seemed to be annoyed when I gave evidence to that effect before the commission, a fact which I also mentioned in this chamber, but here we have an admission by the  chairman  that my statement was correct. I cannot understand their attitude towards me in this matter. My only object has been to secure the screening of cleaner films and a greater number of British Empire production. I have no other motive. The  chairman  also said, " America dominates the picture industry." 
The honorable member for Capricornia  (Mr. Forde),  another member of the commission, repeated in another place much of what I have contended, but he also said that the British Empire has not recognized the importance of the motionpicture industry. That is nonsense. Prior to' the war the British were well abreast of other nations in the production of films, but on the outbreak of hostilities their factories and talents had to he put to other uses. Since then Britain, unlike America, has been suffering from the aftermath of war, and has been endeavouring to regain the trade she has lost. The Americans made enormous fortunes during the war period, and had ample time to concentrate upon the organization of industry, and to extensively circulate American propaganda. . The Americans were digging into the film industry while the British were digging in at Gallipoli, Flanders, and elsewhere. Now they are demanding from Great Britain £31 a minute for the next 60 years as a repayment of the money advanced to help Britain and her Allies, really in the cause of America, while that country was preparing her men for the fighting line. I do not blame the Americans for seeing that trade follows the film. We cannot deny the overwhelming value of the film for propaganda purposes, particularly when we realize that in Australia alone, a country with a comparatively small population, 110,000,000 people per annum pay for admission to picture theatres, and £25,000,000 is invested in the industry, I admire the business acumen of the American people in getting in early and sending their filmic to all parts of the world in order to increase their trade and prestige. 
I have been accused of being almost hysterically in favour of British films. I am a most enthusiastic Britisher, and am not ashamed of it. I always wish to see everything possible done to help the good old Mother Country to win back the trade which she lost during the war.  Mr. Forde,  in speaking in another place, said - 
Practically95 per cent. of the pictures shown all over the world are produced in the United States of America. 
He says, "all over the world." If that is not a stranglehold on the film industry, I do not know what a stranglehold is. Another member of the commission,  Mr. Gregory,  also speaking in another place, said - 
The evidence which was placed before the commission left no room for doubt that, to a very large extent, trade follows the cinema. The screening of American pictures in South America has had a pronounced influence, and has tended to the building up of American as against European trade. 
That is only natural. I do not blame the Americans for that. 
I have always said that a lot of the films which enter this country are of a low moral standard. I have also, at all times, given credit to Professor Wallace, the chief censor, for the manner in which he has performed his onerous duties. I am not acquainted with the censor in Sydney, but understand he also is an excellent man. The censors have done their work well. 
I have been accused of having exaggerated the necessity for more extended powers being given to the censors and for a stricter censorship. This report of the  commission gives conclusive evidence that many of the films bought by the Australian combines for exhibition to our people are unsuitable. The report states that last year over 50 per cent. of the films imported into Australia had to be rejected in part or in whole. The film censors have never been accused of being extremists or anti-American; yet that is their statement. Of the feature films which entered Australia last year 319 were passed unconditionally, 308 were passed after eliminations had been made, and 88 were totally rejected. That is evidence of their low moral standard. 
Yes ; I do not desire to exonerate any one in this matter. The numberof British films entering Australia is, however, so small that their effect on the people has not been so prejudicial. 
That is so; but the report admits that there has been some leakages of undesirable films. The censors have been overworked. Moreover, both in Sydney and in Melbourne, they have been working under difficulties. That insufficient facilities for viewing films have been provided, is stated in this report. I think I have shown clearly that numbers of undesirable films have been shown in this country. 
No ; the censors have done excellent work, but they have too much to do. For that reason I am glad that the commission has recommended a board of censors, and that better accommodation be provided for them. 
I desire to emphasize the necessity for a stricter censorship in the interests of our children, the importance of which is shown by the statement in the commission's report that 80 per cent. of the people who attend picture theatres are women, girls and children. I am delighted that the commission has recommended the appointment of a woman to the Censorship Board. That is what I have advocated all along. I am also glad to see the recommendation in favour of an appeal board. I hope that Professor. Wallace, who has done such excellent work, will he persuaded to accept the chairmanship of the board. 
As further evidence of the low moral standard of many of the films which still are sent to Australia, I desire to quote from the speech in another place of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  when tabling the report of the commission. The Minister said: - 
The Government agrees with the view that some stringent power should be given over those few traders who have in the past bought or imported films without regard to the standards of censorship set up. 
There is no possible doubtthat, by means of the film, there is an infiltration of ideas that tends to break down, rather than build up, that distinctive national sentiment which it should be the object of all well-wishers of this young nation to cultivate. 
In another part of his speech the Minister said: - 
No real improvement in the standard of the pictures sent to us by producers is as yet apparent. 
That is quite true, and is borne out by the censor's latest report. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15  to  8  p.m. 

 Privatebusiness taking precedence after 8 p.m. 

It is so long since  Senator Thomas  moved this motion that I feel sure the majority of honorable senators have almost forgotten what he said, in his remarkably able and clear speech. On that occasion  Senator Thomas  was followed by  Sir Henry  Barwell, who is not now with us. I was surprised that that honorable gentleman who usually had a broad outlook in regard to big 
Australian questions was not inclined to support the motion. His chief objection was on financial grounds. He could not see -that any great advantage would accrue to Australia commensurate with the cost of building the proposed line. But in the consideration of a proposal  for the construction of a railway that will confer many advantages on the people of Australia, we cannot afford to look at it merely from the point of view of present-day cost. 
I hope to be able to tell them to the honorable senator, who has succeeded  Sir Henry  Barwell, and who, I trust, will not adopt the stand of his predecessor in regard to this railway. I hope that he will see that in the interests of South Australia he ought to support this motion. Since  Senator Thomas  first submitted his proposal a great change has come over affairs. There is no doubt the construction of a railway between Port Augusta and Hay would open up a great deal of valuable land now held for pastoral purposes; but the New South Wales Government having extended its railway system to Broken Hill, the cost of linking up the east-west railway with the New South Wales system has been considerably reduced. 
Many advantages would be derived from the construction of this link. First of all, there is the prime consideration of defence. It is unfortunately true that one of Australia's greatest disadvantages, from a defence point of view, is our inability to transport large bodies of men rapidly from one point to another. The bulk of the people of Australia live on the east coast. Although Western Australia is making big strides, and gives promise of becoming one of the most populous States of the Commonwealth, it has not yet reached that stage in its development. 
There are. all sorts of reasons why that should not be done, but the principal objection- is the fact that the Australian standard gauge on which the east-west railway is built is 4 ft. 8£ in. 
We have no desire to deceive an3' one. By the building of this line we propose to do South Australia one of the greatest services it- could possibly have done to it. If Western Australia or South Australia were threatened by an enemy* the greater part of the population of Australia from which it would be possible to draw forces to repel an attack would be found on the east coast, in Victoria, New South Wales, and Queensland. Victoria has splendid railway communication with South Australia and Western Australia, and it would be easy to transport men and material from that State to the other States I have mentioned; but in order to transport to South Australia and Western Australia men and material from New South Wales, which ha3 the largest population, it would be necessary to drag everything down to the break of gauge on the Victorian border&gt; and move it first of all south to Melbourne,and thence north-west again to South Australia and, if necessary, to the connexion between the east-west line and the South Australian railways. That would involve an enormous waste of time and money. 
The motion submitted by  Senator Thomas  is eminently- practicable. In the case of attack by an enemy, a connexion between Broken Hill and Port Augusta would make it possible to transport everything essential from the great populations of New South Wales and Queensland in an almost direct route to the East-West railway. 
If it is to the disadvantage of South Australia to provide it with additional means of communication with the greater centres of population in Australia, then the sooner we cut off all its means of communication with the other States, the quicker it will become rich and powerful. To my mind, the honorable senator is seeking to reverse the natural order of things. I have always imagined that in a country like Australia, with its wide ' spaces and  enormous distances to cover, we cannot have too many railways, providing they are not directly competing with each other.  Senator Thomas  proposes to give South Australia a line which would provide direct means of communication with the -greatest market Australia has. It would bring to South Australia a great deal of business it does not get to-day. It would add very largely to its importance. 
That is so. There might be room for opposition from Victoria to this proposal, because a direct connexion between the New South "Wales railway system and the east-west railway might take away some of the traffic which the southern State now enjoys, and give it to South Australia; but there is no reason for opposition to it from the people of South Australia. They would get more speedy communication with the east coast of Australia, and with America, Japan, and China. The State is doing quite a large business in certain lines with the eastern coast, and is hoping to do a great deal more ; but it is severely handicapped by all its communications with the eastern coast having to pass through Victoria. Yet  Senator Verran  would have us believe that that is not in the interests of " "South ' Australia. The construction of the railway proposed by  Senator Thomas  would increase the prestige of that State tremendously. It would make it a central place of business between the east and the west of Australia. A great deal of the traffic and business which now go  t,o  Melbourne, and not through South Australia, would go from Sydney to Adelaide, and from Adelaide to the west. 
To my mind,  Senator Thomas  has put forward one of the finest proposals, from a South Australian point of view, it is possible to imagine. But we ought not to look at the matter from a parochial stand-point. We should look at it from the point of view of the great bulk of the people of Australia. Although the proposed line might not be of immediate advantage to the people of Victoria or Tasmania, it would be of very great advantage to the people of Western Australia, 
South Australia, New South Wales, and Queensland, which States will carry the great bulk of the population of the Commonwealth in the years to come. Victoria, which already is highly developed, may not continue to show any great increase of population; but in the other States the population must grow enormously, and the honorable senator proposes to give them direct means of railway communication, which will be of great advantage to them, looked at from the points of view of defence, business, and development. We have not to look only at the very large area through which the proposed line would pass: We must consider it from the stand-point of the areas at each end of it. If we looked at a railway proposal only from the point of view of the territory to. be traversed, the eastwest railway would never have been built, because for the greater part it runs through what is termed, perhaps not quite correctly, " desert." 
Only partly for military purposes. Until it was built, Western Australia could hardly be regarded as an integral part of the Commonwealth'. Its construction made it actually a part of the Commonwealth. Adelaide opposed it, because the people  there thought . that it ' would injure South Australia. But, on the contrary, the construction of that railway has been a good thing for the State. It has given South Australia an increased prestige which it otherwise would never have had. This is another proposal of the same sort. It cannot be regarded merely from the point of view of the territory through which the line will run. 'It cannot be expected that this territory will, for many years, pay interest on the cost of construction. The traffic will be a through traffic, either from Adelaide or Sydney. The New South Wales Government has had courage enough to build a railway line connecting Broken Hill with Sydney, not because it thought that the country to be opened up by that line was first class land, but because it recognized that it. was necessary to give communication between the capital city of the State and one of its important outlying cities. It  was felt that Broken Hill could not be recognized as really a part of the State until it had direct communication with the capital. The New South Wales Government was looking to the future, to the years that are ahead. It realized that the construction of such a line was not only in the interests of the State itself, and of the territory through which the line passed, but of the Commonwealth as a whole.  Senator Thomas,  with a larger vision than some of those who are opposed to this proposal, is not looking to the next five or ten years, but to the time when we shall have a teeming population in New South Wales, Queensland, and Western Australia - a population that will need quick communication, and means to transact its business without any of the delay involved by an excursion into Victoria or anywhere else. This railway will have to be built sooner or later. If we do not agree to this motion the people who come after us will say that we were men of small vision, who could see no farther than our own noses, and that we were not able to realize the possiblities before this country. 
Perhaps, but this project has to be considered on its merits, and it has sufficient merit to induce us to carry this motion. Even the starting of negotiations, with a thorough discussion of the whole position, and of the possibility of a line either from Hay or Broken Hill, would be an advantage, because we should then be able to determine whether the advantages which would accrue from the construction of the line would be worth the cost of construction. 
I earnestly commend the motion to the Senate. Since  Senator Thomas  has introduced it, he has met with a good deal of support from New South Wales, and not because New South Wales wishes to injure South Australia. It is not possible to shift Adelaide to New South Wales, and we are supporting this motion because we believe that it is in the interests of New South Wales, of South Australia, and Western Australia, that there should be speedy communication between the States without the farcical detour down through Victoria. I do not believe that, in the long run, Victoria will lose anything as a result of the building of this line. Eventually, both Victoria and Tasmania will benefit by the fact that the carrying on of business has thus been facilitated, and that the continent is being more rapidly developed. 
Anything that benefits the Commonwealth as a whole must necessarily benefit Tasmania. 
If we have a large continent being rapidly developed, and all its sections prospering, we shall be able to render assistance to Tasmania to a greater extent than we are able to do now. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carroll)  adjourned. 
Speaking before the dinner adjournment, I was dealing with the low standard of. some of the films that unfortunately have been allowed to come into this country, and I am very glad to see that the commission, in its report, has completely substantiated my contention. On page 8 of the report there appears a paragraph in which it is stated that repeated representations have been made to America - 
Regarding the unsuitable nature of some of the films exported to Australia from that country. The practice, as revealed by the censor's reports, nevertheless continues. . . . Your commissioners realize that the action which they propose is an indirect method of securing the object desired, viz., the prevention of the exportation to Australia of films of an objectionable or undesirable nature, but something drastic must be done to put an end to such practices. The producing exporters in the country of origin must be brought to realize that Australia will not permit the moraltone of its community to be in any way undermined by these low type films. Presumably they are sent here because it is profitable for the exporting companies to do so. . . . If these companies will not conform to our Australian standards then they must be prevented from forcing upon the Australian public films which, from any aspect, are undesirable. 
It has been said that the films are not of an anti-British character ; I admit, certainly, that they are first of all proAmerican, but I have seen some which are either directly, or cunningly and cleverly, of anti-British sentiment. I have received a letter from four Englishmen in Chicago referring to a very objectionable film being shown there. This film depicted English officers shooting private soldiers at the front for not saluting properly. It showed also English officers running away from the enemy, and English soldiers violating women. These Englishmen said that they went to the authorities in Chicago ' and protested, but received no satisfaction whatever. I have also received a letter from a gentleman who held a high position in the British Diplomatic Service in China. In the course of his letter he drew attention to similar types of films being exhibited in the East, and stated that many of the American pictures shown there were very detrimental to the prestige of the British Empire, and of the white races generally. I have myself seen cuts from American films in Melbourne, which were almost too disgraceful to refer to. They depicted white women very scantily clad being sold at auction to Chinese and Indians. These things injure the prestige of our white races in the eyes of colored peoples. 
That is so. In the case of another film I had difficulty, when giving evidence before the commission, in proving my authority. I had read about a film which depicted the surrender of the German Navy to the American Fleet at Scapa Flow. I put a returned " Digger" on the job of searching through the files of American newspapers, and he found the advertisement of that picture, and a description of it. The Americans have exhibited another film showing how they sunk the  Emden.  As the  Emden  was sunk in 1916, and America did not declare war until 1917, that was rather ridiculous. Honorable senators must admit that most of the American pictures, excellent as they are from the point of view of art, always show Americans in the roles of heroes and heroines. One cannot altogether blame them for that, but in many of their pictures, if there is a fool, or a rogue, or a degenerate, or a coward, he is almost invariably an Englishman. I have seen any number of these pictures. 
The British war and sea pictures are much superior to any pictures produced by America, and they are true to history, whereas I think it is admitted that American pictures dealing withy naval and military matters are not historically accurate.  Senator Reid,  ! think, said that the British had not the necessary imagination. 
Let me point out to  Senator Reid  that most of the best American pictures are founded on British fiction. Our writers and artists are at least equal, if not superior, to those of any other country. Has not the British Empire done more than any other country in the way of exploration and colonization ? ' Have not our people pioneered the great air journeys such as that made by Ross Smith? 
Our Empire has the greatest variety of scenery and the best climatic conditions for the production of pictures. It is humiliating to suggest that the people of the British Empire cannot do what  the people  of other nations do. I am glad to know that, as a result of the commission's recommendation, British films will receive better treatment in Australia in the future than hitherto has been the case. 
On page 18 of the report the commission, dealing with the effect of certain films on the child 'mind, states: - 
Many children are  susceptible  to whatever influence visual entertainment might exert. 
Unfortunately . . .it frequently happens that the pictures shown to the children in the afternoons are the same films as are shown at the ordinary evening screening. Many of these films, dealing as they do with sex problems, and with excesses of one kind or another, can, by accustoming the child mind to such matters, exercise to a greater or lesser degree a certain demoralizing influence. A great deal of evidence in support of these views was placed before your commission and a. widespread feeling of uneasiness was manifested as to the possible cumulative effect of such exhibitions upon future generations....... The frequent attendance of school children at night picture performances is found by school teachers to militate against their educational progress, for it is noticed on the days following nightly picture show attendances that the children are listless, inattentive, and unable to concentrate........ It has been stated that the mis-spellings and the slang used in sub-titles of pictures are being absorbed by children . . . Censorship should not allow mis-spellings, Americanized spellings or words offensive to Australians. 
As regards blind booking, to which I have always been opposed, the commissionhas made a number of recommendations which are to be found on page 10. I extract the following from them :  - ...... Where a contract is entered into whereby the exhibitor agrees to take the product of a certain organization and he is not aware of the pictures he will receive, owing to the pictures not having been made or the production plans of the producing unit not having been finalized, such hooking is called "blind-booking." ..... Many exhibitors have stated their willingness to continue block and blind booking..... The insertion in the contracts of a clause allowing the exhibitor to reject a percentage of the films without financial prejudice is recommended...... Some exhibitors contract to the extent of 100 per cent. of their programmes. 
Prior to the dinner adjournment when I was dealing with this aspect of the moving picture business, one honorable senator stated by way of interjection that exhibitors did not contract to the extent of 100 per cent. of their programmes. It has also been suggested that my references to the difficulty experienced by British producers in obtaining screenings in Australia were incorrect. On this point I find the following statement in the commission's report : - 
It is apparent that in the case of an exhibitor who has fully booked his programmes for a period with foreign pictures he has no room to screen any British or Australian picture of merit that may be released during the currency of his contract unless he is prepared to place a contract picture aside and screen the British or Australian picture in its place. He will, of course, have to pay for the contract picture if screened or not and all exhibitors arc not prepared to make such a sacrifice. Booking to the extent of 100 per cent., therefore, narrows the market for British and Australian productions. 
That is exactly what has been my contention all along. Dealing with this matter and having particular reference to the "Know Your Own Country" series of Australian pictures, the commission states :  - 
When, later, it was decided that these pictures of typical Australian scenery, industries and cities should be exhibited within Australia, the department endeavoured to arrange for screenings but was unsuccessful. 
I have on more than one occasion referred to the existence of combines in the moving picture industry in Australia. Again I find confirmation of my view in the commission's report. On page 11 there appears the following: - 
One company in Australia has interests in 8!) theatres while another is concerned in 42. The majority of the city and suburban picture theatres are controlled by the two companies referred to...... 
I omitted to state, when referring just now to the harmful effects of certain pictures on the child mind, that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  in another place, endorsed my view-point. The Minister said - 
The report of the commission gives prominence to the indirect, but still gravely demoralising influence which is exercised over children by some films. We have no more important duty than rightly to direct the character and cultivate high ideals in the childhood of the nation and theGovernment welcomes this opportunity of taking immediately a step to bring about this desirable reform. 
On the same subject the  chairman  of the commission in another place stated - 
Hundreds of youngsters who attend picture shows on week nights are unfit for school next day because they then were suffering from watery eyes, were listless and their brains were tired. 
Exactly. As honorable senators are aware I have always advocated the adoption of the quota system and I am glad to know that the commission gives prominence to this matter in its recommendations. I regret, however, that there is to be no provision for an Australian quota, but I suppose the time is not yet ripe for that reform. The commission recommends that as from 1st January, 1929, the Empire quota in all programmes shall be 5 per cent. during the first year, 10 per cent. in the second year, and 15 per cent. in the third year. I am disappointed that the initial quota is not higher. 
I understand the British quota is 5 per cent., but the number of theatres in the Mother Country is, of course, very much greater than in Australia. 
I have always advocated the imposition of higher duties with the object of encouraging the developmentof the moving picture industry within the Empire. The commission's recommendation that the duty on foreign films be increased from l1/2d. a foot to 2d. a foot, has already been given effect by the Government. The threat made in certain quarters that the extra duty will be passed on to the public appears to be ridiculous in view of the fact that the gross takings at all Australian picture theatres is approximately £5,500,000 a year. Assuming that the higher duty will return £45,000 a year, this works out at only 3s. 4d. for each entertainment. 
SenatorGUTHRIE. - In view of the huge amount of the gross takings in Australia it might very well come out of profits. Surely it is possible for exhibitors to make a better renting arrangement with the American producers who, I understand secure from 50 per cent. to 65 per cent. of the gross takings of all picture theatres in Australia. 
I was under the impression that the position was as I have stated, butI stand corrected. . 
Dealing with the financial aspect of the industry, and referring to the arrangements made by the Australian companies for the handling of American films in this country, the commission states - 
The agreements provide that a certain percentage of the earnings are to go to the credit of the American company, the balance to be retained in Australia. This percentage varies, 50 per cent. to65 per cent. being transmitted to America. 
Reference is then made to the high salaries paid. Paragraph 154 states - 
Most of the registered capital of the companies is held in America, and, in the majority of instances, the share capital of the Australian company has little or no bearing upon its operations. The working capital is provided by America, and the organization of the Australian companies is such that no capital need be provided in Australia at all. 
Their main interest, therefore, lies more in maintaining a large turn-over than in securing a surplus over expenses. The commission found against the distributors in their claim that they were purely Australian companies, and expressed the opinion that they were virtually distributing branches of American concerns. Broadly speaking, the report of the commission substantiates what I have previously said in the Senate, and in my evidence before the commission concerning the operations of the film industry. I am sure that the exhibition of films can be a power for good or evil, and that the Americans, largely due to the intervention of the war, have a stranglehold on the world's film industry, including Australia, where over 90 per cent. of those shown are of American production. The report of the commission substantiates practically everything I have said. 
I do. I am convinced that prestige and trade follows the film; that America uses the cinema for national and trade propaganda, and that some of the American films are directly and others subtly anti-British in character. I am also convinced that a large proportion of American films are of such a character as to be prejudicial to the moral well-being ofour  people, especially children. Many of the American films shown throughout the world are damaging to British prestige, particularly amongst the coloured races. 
In conclusion, I wish to say that I stand by every word of the evidence which I gave before the commission, and claim that its findings substantiate nearly everything for which I have been fighting. I believe that considerable good has. been done, and that beneficial results will accrue from the report of the commission. I am satisfied from the report that the so-called Australian companies are merely pup organizations of American concerns, and that huge profits are sent to America on which Commonwealth taxation is not paid. That is admitted in an article in  Everyone's Magazine,  and also in the report of the commission. I am hopeful that the good sense of the States will result in their falling into line with the desire of the Commonwealth Government, and that the quota system, which has been recommended in the report, will be given effect to. 
I, like others who have spoken, wish to congratulate theRoyal Commission on the Moving Picture Industry upon having conducted its investigations in a thoroughly efficient manner, and upon its presentation of an extraordinarily interesting and informative report. . The Government is also to be commended for its adoption of most of the commission's recommendations. This debate has, in a sense, created a pro-American and proBritish atmosphere; but I would not differentiate between the country of origin of any picture, provided it was a good one. I have seen some remarkably good pictures of French and Italian production, and, prior to returning from the war, I also viewed some excellent German productions. I have likewise seen some fine British films, including one entitled " The Happy Ending," which I viewed recently in Melbourne. I have taken strong exception, however, to a number of American productions which, without doubt, have been directly or subtly anti-British in sentiment, and in which historic facts have been distorted. I think all honorable senators, particularly those who have had an opportunity of viewing at 501 Swanston-street, Mel bourne, the cuts made in films by the Commonwealth censor, are agreed that there is an absolute necessity for a strong censorship. That is vital to the interests of the public. The censor has a thankless task to perform; it is impossible for him to please every one. 
I am glad that the commission has recommended the appointment of a censorship board to consist of three members, one of whom is to be a woman. On the local censorship board in Tasmania, we have an estimable lady in the person of  Mrs. E.  A. Waterworth, and I know dozens of capable, broadminded and cultured women in Australia, who would willingly officiate on a Commonwealth Board of Censors, with advantage to all concerned. I am glad that the Government propose to accept the recommendation of the commission in that respect. I cannot, however, see the necessity to appoint an appeal board. It will mean appealing from one board to another board, and Gilbert would have delighted in producing a musical comedy dealing with the confusion arising from the operations of two such bodies. 
Yes, and the trade will probably appeal against the decision of the Censorship Board in the hope of scoring a point. 
What is the use of appointing a board of censors unless its decision is to be final? We already have sufficient boards, and if the Censor- . ship Board cannot do its work effectively, its personnel should be altered. Why not have a super-appeal board? 
I am in entire agreement with the commission's recommendations that the customs duty on foreign films should be increased by1/2d. a lineal foot. That is of interest to me, because I, with several other honorable senators, made an attempt two years ago to increase the duty to 21/2d. a lineal foot. We scored a win for the time being, but in the next round we were beaten. I should like to see a still higher duty on foreign films than that proposed, but every little helps. I trust that the censors working under the proposed new scheme will be broadminded, reasonable and strong, and that only films of the highest standard will be released for exhibition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Although only a few months have passed since the Government introduced a Commonwealth Housing Bill an amending measure is now before the Senate. The object of this bill is an attempt on the part of the Government to fulfil the promises it made during the election campaign of 1925, when the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Sir George Pearce),  told the people that if the Government were returned it would place upon the statutebook a measure under which every person in this country who so desired, would be able to purchase a home of his own on reasonable terms. That promise was made during an election campaign the like of which had not previously been known in the Commonwealth. It was conducted when the people had been worked up to a state bordering on hysteria. Having regained the Treasury bench, the Government took two years to take the first step towards honouring that promise. It introduced a bill, which ostensibly provided for a housing scheme, but upon examination proved to be merely a money-lending scheme. Other authorities were to accept the responsibility connected with the construction of homes and to repay the money lent to them by the Commonwealth. 
During the discussion of this bill in another place, one honorable member stated that had it not been for the opposition of the Labour party, legislation providing for a housing scheme would have been placed on the statute-book much earlier than was the case. That was a wild statement. All that the Labour party did was to point out the defects in the  Government's  proposals, particularly those which had relation to the separation of the savings bank branch from the general business of the Commonwealth Bank. As a result of the criticism of the bill by the Labour party, the Government was forced to recede from the position it had taken up. The Government's housing scheme provides for the setting aside of £20,000,000 for the erection of homes for the people; but because of its desire to dress the financial window in view of the approaching election, the Government has embarked on an economy campaign. After years of extravagance it is endeavouring to present a favorable budget to the people.. One would be fairly safe in prophesying that not one penny of that £20,000,000 will be expended, nor will one house be built under the scheme before the next appeal to the people. The Government prates continuously of its policy of preference to returned soldiers ; but it has not fulfilled its promise to provide them with homes. At the present time there are 1,041 deferred applications from returned soldiers throughout the Commonwealth for war service homes. Notwithstanding that large number of unsatisfied applicants, the amount provided in the Estimates for the erection of war service homes has been reduced by £19,500. It may be said that that amount is not large ; but any reduction of the amount provided in the Estimates suggests that the Government is not keenly desirous of fulfilling its promise to provide homes for returned soldiers. 
The bill before us proposes to amend the principal act in order to permit of an advance being made for the enlargement of a home. That is a proper provision. A man who finds the existing accommodation insufficient for his requirements should be able to receive assistance under this scheme. But the bill goes further ; it provides that a person who has secured a home under this' scheme and removes to another locality, may secure an advance  to  provide another home, provided that he has repaid the amount due  on  the first house obtained under the scheme. With that provision I  do  not agree. Before any person is assisted to purchase two homes, every citizen should he given the opportunity to secure one home. When every applicant for a home has been satisfied, it will be time enough for the Government to assist citizens to secure a second home. 
The only other provision in the bill to which I propose briefly to refer - andI am compelled by a temporary vocal disability to be brief - is that contained in clause 4. That clause proposes to repeal sub-sections 3 and 4 of section 10 of the principal act, which read - ( 3. ) In respect of each loan by the Commonwealth Treasurer to the Savings Bank, the Savings Bank shall pay - 
to the Treasurer, half-yearly, interest on the amount  of  the loan, the rate  of  such interest being such rate as is certified by the Auditor-General for the Commonwealth as representing the cost of the money to the Commonwealth, after allowing for discounts on the issue  of  loans and the expenses of flotation; and 
to the National Debt Commission, half-yearly,  on  the first day of January and the first day  of  July in each year, such sum as is agreed upon between the Treasurer and the Savings Bank, not being less than Ten shillings per centum per annum of the amount of the loan.  (4.,)  The payments for which the last pre ceding sub-section provides shall be continued for a period sufficient to provide for the redemption of the loan  in  respect of which the payments are made, and for the purposes of this sub-section the payments made under paragraph (i) of the last preceding sub-section shall be deemed to accumulate at the rate of  5  per centum per annum compounded. 
Under this bill, a certificate of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth will not be required. That is a radical departure from the principle embodied in the original act, yet the Minister, in his second-reading speech, ad vanced no solid reason for the change. I hope that he will do so, either when concluding the second-reading debate or  in  committee. The Auditor-General is probably the only officer in the Commonwealth Public Service who is independent of Ministers. He is directly responsible to Parliament, and to Parliament alone. Without reflecting on the Treasurer, I maintain that in a scheme of this nature it is. well to have the safeguard provided by the certificate of the Auditor-General. I repeat that I am in agreement with the proposal to grant assistance to persons to enlarge their homes,but that I am opposed to the granting of advances to assist persons to obtain more than one home, and also to the elimination of the provision requiring that the rate of interest to be paid shall be certified by the Auditor-General. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Andrew)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that certain Commonwealth departments are shortly to be transferred from Melbourne to Canberra; 
If so, at what date or dates, and what in the number of persons in each department to be transferred? 
In the event of such transfer taking place, is it proposed to lease privately-owned promises in Canberra, in order to provide accommodation for the officers transferred; if ao, from whom, and what rents ore to be paid to the owners? 
Is it intended to enter into leases for terms of years? 
The honorable the Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Yes. 
Electoral Office, 6 officers, 9th July to 14th July, 1028; Bureau of Census and Statistics, '44 officers, 16th July to 7th August,  19.28; Public Service Board, 46 officers, 8th August to 31st August, 1028; Superannuation Fund Management Board, 38 officers, 31st August to 11th September, 1928; Invalid and Old- Age Pensions Office, 11 officers, 11th September to 18th September, 1928; Department of Health, 33 officers, 19th September to 29th September, 1928. 
Yes.  J.  H.  Teather,  £343 6b. 9d. per annum;. Oakley and Parkes, £308 9s. 6d. per annum;  Sir Jas.  Calder, £358 7s. per annum; Canberra Building and Investment Co., £477 4s. per annum; State Savings Bank, £435 12s. per annum; H. McNall,  £103 7s. 6d. per annum;  Lariston  Building and Investment Co., £499 13s. 6d. par annum; Canberra Shops Ltd., £1,628 10s. per  annum 
Yes, for a term of four years, with an option of renewal for two further periods of twelve months each at the same rental and a still further period of two years at a rental to be determined by arbitration. 
T move - 
That the bil] be now read a second time. 
It is well that at the outset I should indicate that this measure deals exclusively with Commonwealth employees and has no application whatever to employees, of private individuals carrying on business within the Territories of the Commonwealth. Their relationships as employers and employees will have to be provided for by ordinances passed from time to time, as occasion requires, in the various Territories. 
In connexion with the consideration of . this bill it may be useful to refer briefly to the history of the law under which a master has been liable for injury or death of his servants in the course of their employment. From early times the common law imposed a duty on the master to take proper care to see that employees engaged by him in carrying on his work or industry did not suffer injury by reason of  hia  personal negligence or through his failure properly to superintend and control the undertaking in which he and his employees were engaged. For his own personal negligence the employer was always liable and still is liable at common law. The obligations of the master in this connexion extended to: - (1) The provision of a proper and suitable plant; (2) the selection of fit and competent fellow servants; (3) a proper system and, control, of the work; (4) the observance of regulations imposed by statute. The extent of the employer's duty varied according to the degree of danger involved in the work, and also, according to the skill and experience possessed by the servants. Contributory negligence on the past of a servant would absolve the master from liability in re,spect of injury arising from such  negligence.  Where the risk and danger of the work were known and appreciated by the workman, and v/hen he undertook to per-, form the work, the master was not, following the maxim  volenti non jit in,juria,  liable for any injury resulting from the risk or danger thus undertaken by the workman. The master further was freed from liability where the doctrine of common employment could be invoked, that is to say, where the person suffering, and the person causing, the injury were fellow servants engaged in the common employment for and under the same master.* This doctrine has, to a certain extent, been modified by legislation, to which I shall refer later. 
The common law on this subject was first invaded by statute law when the Employers' Liability Act was passed in England in 1880 as a tentative measure to remain' in force for seven years. It has, however, been kept in force from time to time by the annual statutes, the Expiring Laws Continuance Acts. The act did not abolish, though it largely modified, the doctrine of common employment. The general effect of the law was that whereas previously the workman could recover only if he could show that his employer had neglected a statutory duty or was personally responsible for negligence that led to the injury, he could now recover where the employer had delegated his duties or powers of superintendence to others who had been negligent in the performance of those duties or powers. Th? effect of the act may be stated generally as placing the obligation on the employer to pay compensation for personal injury caused to a workman by any defect in the condition of the ways, works, machinery or plant; the negligence of his superintendents; the negligence of persons to whom he had delegated the power to give orders to his workmen; defective by-laws and defective trade instructions; and in relation to railway servants, the negligent management of signals, point3 and trains. 
The next step in the development of this subject was the passage of the "Workmen's Compensation Act in England in 1906. Here the liability to pay compensation attaches to the relation of employer and employee, and is quite irrespective of negligence. With a few exceptions the obligation is placed upon every employer of labour to make pecuniary compensation to a limited extent whenever death or disablement happens to a workman in the course of his employment. Every employment is within the act, where a contract of service or apprenticeship exists, whether the work involved is manual labour, clerical work, or otherwise subject to such express exceptions as are made in the act. The persons to whom the act does not apply include - (1) Those whose remuneration exceeds a specified sum and who are employed otherwise than by manual labour - in respect of these honorable senators will note a distinction in the measure which we shall deal with presently more in detail - (2) casual employees; (3) outworkers; (4) members of the employer's family dwelling in his house ; and (5) persons in the naval or military service. The injury in respect of which compensation is payable under the act must be the result of accident arising out of and in the course of the employment of the employee. This provision, as is generally known, has been a frequent cause of litigation. 
The first legislation by the Commonwealth on this subject was the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act 1912, which was to a considerable extent, based upon the British of 1906. Such provisions of the British act as were found to be applicable to Commonwealth conditions were applied. Since that date legislation has been passed in the States, and the basis upon which compensation is calculated has been considerably altered. It is thought that the time is now opportune to bring Commonwealth legislation on this subject up to date, and with this object the measure now under consideration has been introduced. 
The bill provides for comprehensive and up-to-date legislation in connexion with compensation for injuries to Commonwealth employees who are not entitled to participate in the rights of 
State laws. Commonwealth legislation is therefore necessary. In many respects the present act, which was passed in 1912, is out of date. The bill therefore provides for the repeal of that measure and the introduction of new provisions. It contains many important variations from the present law, the chief of these being: - (1) Administration to be in the hands of a commissioner; (2) the act to apply to all employees irrespective of salary but to exclude naval, military and air forces; (3) payment of increased compensation ; (4) payment of medical benefits; and (5) specified payments for certain injuries. 
Under the present act questions of compensation are decided by agreement, arbitration or by the court. In the case of death it is the practice to refer questions of dependency to the court, thus causing delay and expense. Provision has accordingly been made in the bill that the act be administered by a commissioner. The powers and functions of the commissioner are set out in clause 6. They provide that he shall determine all matters subject to the provisions of the bill. There is, however, a right of appeal from his decision to a county court. The act applies to all civil employees of the Commonwealth, except employees receiving more than £500 per annum. In the bill the limit of £500 has been abolished, and the act therefore will thus apply to all civil employees. At present the law applies to naval and military forces except when on active service, but the defence regulations contain comprehensive provision for compensation in respect of injuries to members of the forces. It is proposed, therefore, that the bill shall not apply to the members of the forces, but provision is made for the extension of the act to employees of such authorities established under the Commonwealth as are prescribed by regulation. The bill can thus be made applicable to such an authority as the Commonwealth Bank and the authority will, unless otherwise prescribed,, be responsible for the payment of compensation in accordance with the provisions of- the act. Under the present act the compensation to dependants, wholly dependent, is a sum equal to three years' earnings, subject to a minimum of £200 and a maximum of £500. Under similar conditions the bill provides for payment of a sum equal to one hundred and fiftysix times the weekly pay at the time of injury, subject to a minimum of £400 and a maximum of £700. The present act provides for a weekly payment not exceeding 50 per cent, of average weekly earnings and subject to a maximum of £2. The bill provides for payment not exceeding two-thirds of weekly pay at time of injury, and the maximum is increased to £3. In addition, allowance for child endowment, if any, is to be continued in full during total incapacity. Provision has also been made for increased payments to minors. 
The present act does not prescribe payments for specific injuries. The absence of this provision, makes it necessary to arrive at an agreement in each instance or go to the court. Modern compensation laws, including State acts, contain a schedule of fixed payments for specific injuries. The bill accordingly contains a schedule in keeping with modern requirements. In this schedule the payments vary from £600 downwards according to the nature of the injury. The present act contains no provision for payment of medical benefits to injured employees. The trend of modern legislation is to provide for such benefits. Provision has accordingly been made in the bill for payment of medical, surgical, and hospital treatment up to £100. This payment is in addition to compensation otherwise provided in the bill. 
The bill provides that the liability of the Commonwealth shall be limited to £700 plus medical expenses, except in the case of permanent total incapacity. It is felt that this limit should not apply in the case of an employee who has received injuries which render him totally incapable of doing any further work. It is considered that the best way to assist such an employee is by a permanent weekly payment instead of lump sum compensation. The bill accordingly provides for a weekly payment of two-thirds of his pay subject to a maximum of £3, without any limitation as to period and total liability. 
When the Workmen's Compensation Act was passed in 1912 there was no Superannuation Act in existence. The principle was laid down, however,that an employee should not be entitled to receive compensation or payment from the Commonwealth in respect of an accident both independently of and also under the Compensation Act. The Superannuation Act was passed in 1922, and provision was made for pensions to be paid from joint contributions by the employees and the Commonwealth. Where an employee receives an injury resulting in permanent and total disablement, that employee, if a contributor to the superannuation fund, is entitled to a pension. If death results, his widow will receive a pension of half the amount that would have been payable to the employee. In both cases a pension will also be paid in respect of children under sixteen years of age. As the Commonwealth provides half of these pensions - for the majority of the present employees the Commonwealth contribution exceeds half - the Government has carefully considered the question as to what additional payments shall be made in such cases as compensation under this bill. As a result, the provisions which the Government deem equitable have been set out in clause 17 of the bill. Briefly stated, the effects of that clause is this - 
The widow, in addition to the pension under the Superannuation Act, will receive a lump sum compensation, less the capitalized value of half the pension. 
There is a saving clause that a minimum payment equal to half the compensation will be paid to the widow. 
Where the employee leaves a widow and other dependants, such as a mother, the mother will be entitled to her full share of compensation, and the widow's share will be reduced as already indicated, subject, however, to a minimum payment of half that share being made. 
In the case of permanent and total incapacity, the maximum amount which the employee could get under the Compensation Act is to be reduced by the amount of any pension payable to him under the Superannuation Act. Honorable senators will see that there is a limit to the amount to be paid to an employee in the event of permanent and total incapacity. 
This bill includes very comprehensive provision for compensation in respect of injuries sustained by all civil employees of the Commonwealth. These provisions are in keeping with the trend of modern legislation, and are very much more liberal than those of the existing act, and the Government considers that these provisions should apply uniformly to all civil employees. It is therefore proposed that the power to make provision for compensation for injuries to civil employees under any other laws of the Commonwealth shall be abolished. The bill accordingly provides that such a power shall be taken away from the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator, and that the existing awards shall be non-effective. That provision makes it possible to maintain an orderly system, which was difficult when the Public Service Arbitrator had to fix compensation for injuries. This provision is incorporated in the bill as it is desirable that compensation shall be controlled by one Government ordinance. The bill also provides for compensation to be paid to employees who are not covered by the Public Service Regulations also for employees who come under the Defence Act. Previously, when applications were made to the courts, there was no definite principle by which the Government could be guided and there was always the possibility that the Minister controlling the department might be inconsistent when awarding compensation, and that he might even dispense varying degrees of justice to persons suffering from the same injuries. I have enumerated the salient features of the measure and I commend it to honorable senators as a genuine attempt to regularize the laws regarding compensation. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham),  adjourned. 
It is not my intention to occupy the time of the Senate at any length since the subject was thoroughly ventilated when the original measure, which this bill amends, was before us. During the last election campaign the right honorable the Prime Minister, in announcing the policy of the Government stated among other things that it was intended to introduce an extensive and liberal housing scheme. In fulfilment of that promise a bill was brought down and enacted, incorporating most liberal terms for the acquirement of homes by the thrifty. I consider that more liberal have never been granted. In order to encourage people to build and own their own homes 90 per cent, of the cost of a home is advanced to the applicant. The bill affords industrialists an opportunity to acquire their own homes, to be free oflandlords, and to have a sense of security and independence. It is particularly desirable that people as they reach the winter of their lives, should have the comforting knowledge that they own the roof which is over their heads. The different States of Australia have housing schemes in operation, but it is my opinion that eventually all of them will be merged in one huge scheme controlled by the Commonwealth Government. The State schemes are not nearly so generous as that which is now before us. Under some of them only 66 to 75 per cent, of the cost of the home is advanced. Most of those schemes are very conservative, and a person needs to be comparatively well off to avail himself of their provisions. In the circumstances this Commonwealth legislation fills a long felt want. The amending bill liberalizes the principal act. It was .found, through consultation between the Commonwealth and State Savings Bank officials, that anomalies existed. Those anomalies will be rectified by this measure and the machinery of the principal act will be made easily workable. The bill also extends the benefits of the act. Originally a person could not obtain any additional advance should he by reason of an in'crease in family or any other s&gt;uch contingency, desire to make additions to his home. That is a very wise and necessary provision. Furthermore, it provides that should a person sell his home, remove to another locality and again desire to build or purchase, he may do so. That also is a necessary provision. The bill provides, too, that repaid money, instead of lying idle as previously, shall earn interest, which is desirable. 
Many countries have recognized the necessity for housing schemes. Since the war  Great Britain has constructed  1,000,060 homes under housing schemes, and France, Belgium, and Germany are also active in the same direction. Generally such schemes are operative through municipalities and other local organizations, local control being considered mostdesirable. The Commonwealth law wisely provides that loans shall be made through State authorities, and no. doubt in future municipalities, particularly in the capital cities, will freely avail themselves of its provisions. In industrial centres where suburbs are extending this . will be a magnificent scheme to enable the workers to obtain homes of their own. I think that the amendment is necessary and wise. It liberalizes the act, and will confer great benefits upon those who avail themselves of the scheme. 
It is perfectly true that the Government did, at the last election, proclaim that it would, if the people of Australia gave it a further lease of life, proceed with a £20,000,000 housing scheme - one that was to be bigger and better than any housing scheme undertaken by any State Authority. Two and a half years passed, and not a brick was laid, and it follows that if you do not lay foundations, you do not build houses. It was a jerrybuilt scheme of the worst kind. Then the Housing Bill was brought down, accompanied by another bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act, by separating the general banking business of the Commonwealth Bank from the Savings Bank branch. It provided for the appointment of three commissioners to undertake the administration of the housing scheme. "We were told many times during the debate on that measure that the Treasurer of the present administration had had frequent consultations with the directors of the Commonwealth Bank and with the State authorities in respect of the housing scheme. The Labour party pointed out the absurity of appointing three commissioners simplyto advance money to authorities which would afterwards be created. Largely because of our opposition to the appointment of the commissioners, as expressed both in this Chamber and in another place, S.O.S. messages were sent to some of the directors of the Commonwealth) Bank, and they immediately hastened to Canberra. The Treasurer realized, after consulting with them, that the opposition of the Labour party was justified, and that it was quite unnecessary to appoint special commissioners. 
The Treasurer could not have been very clear as to what the Government really wanted, or else he could not have made his wishes clear to the directors of the Commonwealth Bank. If he had done so, the directors would have agreed in the firstplace, to the proposals which they subsequently accepted when they came to Canberra. 
We were told that the scheme had been worked out in consultation with the State authorities. Now we are informed that, as a result of later consultations with the States, it has been, found necessary to introduce this amending bill. If ever there was a band of muddlers and unbusinesslike men carrying on the business of government in any country, it is those who compose the BrucePage administration. Most of the time of this Parliament is occupied in amending bills which have been introduced, and put through Parliament by this Government. This "business-like" Government introduced a housing scheme before it had made any serious attempt to ascertain the views of the State authorities. It introduced an amending banking bill before it had ascertained the views of the directors of the Commonwealth Bank. The result has been that we have had three or four attempts to get the act into operation. 
SenatorReid.  -  Do not exaggerate. This is only the second attempt. 
SenatorFINDLEY. - It is the fourth attempt, and I ask myself is this the final . one. This Government went to the people at the last election with the cry of " Houses for those who are houseless, and homes for those who are homeless. " Many votes were captured by that cry, but it was a cruel deception. Many people who were without homes voted for the Government in the hope that they would get what the Government promised them. When I heard  Senator Andrew  say that this was the most liberal housing scheme ever introduced, I wondered if he was f amiliar with  conditions in his own State. Does he really know anything at all about the housing scheme undertaken by the State Government of Victoria? If he does, he must know that this Commonwealth Housing Scheme is a most illiberal one as compared with the Victorian scheme. I shall endeavour to show the honorable senator how ignorant he is of the Victorian housing system. There the State Savings Bank has been created a State authority for the building of houses, and it operates one of the most liberal housing schemes in the world. 
A man desiring to build a house costing £1,000 pays a deposit of £50 if he has no family. If he has a family, £5 is deducted for each member of it up to five. Therefore, a man with a family of five can, under the State Savings Bank housing scheme, build a wooden house costing £1,000, or a brick house costing £1,300, for a deposit of £25. and his whole liability would be discharged in 26^ years. Under the Commonwealth scheme, which  Senator Andrew  has called one of the most liberal ever introduced in any country, an applicant is required to pay a deposit of 10 per cent., which would be £100 on a £1,000 house, and £200 on a £2,000 house. 
Six and » quarter per cent. 
Not a single house has been built up to the present time under the Commonwealth scheme. No workman in Victoria, nor any one but those desiring to build houses at a cost of £1,800 or £2,000, would wish to come under the Commonwealth scheme. For houses costing up to £1,300 much better terms can be obtained from the Victorian State Savings Bank. I do not know why the Commonwealth Government ever came into the business at all, at least, as far as Victoria is concerned. 
I agree that South Australia has a very liberal scheme, one of the best, in fact, in Australia. No one in that State would desire to come under the Commonwealth scheme as far as certain classes of houses are concerned. 
The Commonwealth Government introduced its housing scheme when there was not an acute shortage of houses. If building operations in Victoria have been more or less stationary it is due largely to the fact that there are many men out of employment, who, whatever schemes were provided, would be unable to undertake the financial responsibilities associated with house-building. 
There are a number of houses for sale and to let in Melbourne suburbs; yet in some suburbs two or more families are living under the one roof, and there are also numerous married couples living in apartments. Many -of these persons desire houses of their own, but are unable to undertake the financial responsibility involved in home building. I criticized the Government when the first measure was submitted, and I have not hesitated to offer my strong opposition to the amending bills. If there ever was a time when the Government deserved criticism for incompetence and incapacity it is now. The time of Parliament should not be occupied in diseasing amending legislation necessitated by the incapacity and incompetence of Ministers. 
We are in opposition. 
Not necessarily. I do not know of any good work which this Government has performed. It would be interesting to know the time occupied and the cost incurred by the bank and other officials who have made numerous trips to Canberra to discuss this matter with the Government. 
Will any honorable senator opposite say that there was any justification for the introduction of the bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act by providing for the appointment of three commissioners merely to hand over money to certain State authorities to assist in a housing scheme? 
When  the people were told that this Government intended to introduce a housing scheme, in their innocence, they believed that a liberal and progressive system of house construction would be undertaken. But that has not been done. The Government can not control the construction of houses except in the territories under its control, without permission of State 'authorities. Why did not the Government put its scheme clearly before those authorities at the outset. There was nothing concrete in its proposal, and it was made merely for the purpose of catching votes. The Government supporters got the votes and the people are still waiting for houses. Under this scheme those who apply for a home will have to provide 10 per cent, of its capital value by way of deposit. 
A responsible Minister said that the Government proposed to advance up to 90 per cent, of the cost of houses. 
It is to be found in the original act. Will the honorable Minister say that it is proposed to liberalize this measure in such a way that it will be acceptable to those who desire to build homes as is the Victorian State Savings Bank scheme? If it is to be as liberal, there is no justification for a Commonwealth scheme. 
The only difference is that persons desirous of building houses costing from £1,800 to £2,000 can be financially assisted under it, whereas the maximum under the Victorian act is £1,300, but, generally speaking, such persons can make their own financial arrangements. 
A very substantial house can be erected for that amount. The number of persons desiring to live in costly homes is L mi ted and those who do can usually make their own financial arrangements. The apparent listlessness of some Ministers suggests that they are overworked and unable to devote sufficient time to the responsible duties devolving upon them. If they are as inattentive at Cabinet meetings as some of them are to the proceedings in this Chamber, I can understand why the Government finds it difficult to carry out its obligations to the people. It is reducing responsible government to a farce. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill. 
I was merely showing that there would not be any necessity for this amending bill if the Government conducted its work, in a businesslike way, and gave thoughtful consideration to the many important matters with which it has to deal. The people have been cruelly deceived. We have heard of a go-slow policy and of certain persons falling down on the job. That is exactly what this Government is doing. I trust the electors will awaken to that fact and at the next election will be sufficiently alert to see that a government which practises such deception is not returned to power. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in accusing the Government of deception. 
.- The boisterous weather of the last few days has evidently had the effect of vitalizing  Senator Findley  and rousing him from his sluggishness. He has had quite a lot to say about the business ability of the Government, but he has missed the whole point in the bill now before the Senate. He knows as well as. I do that the main object of this legislation is to afford help to members of the community who are not at present helped by any State housing scheme. For instance, the limit of the advance under the Victorian housing scheme is under £1,000. 
I accept the honorable member's word that the limit is now £1,300; the Victorian act must have recently been amended  by the present State Government, but the Commonwealth scheme permits of advances up to £1,800 being made to persons whose salaries are higher than those provided for in the various State acts. There are many people with salaries in excess of £600 a year who, in the matter of securing homes, wish to be put on the same footing as people with lower salaries. They have been unable to get advances under any State scheme, either because their salaries have exceeded the limit fixed in the State acts or because the amount of the advance available under State legislation is too low. 
Because of the change that has come about in industrial conditions, and because of awards made by Arbitration Courts, the wages of many mechanics' have reached what was previously regarded as the general professional or clerical standard, but no State housing legislation makes provision for persons who earn more than £600 a year. In Victoria the salary limit is a little over £400, and when the Commonwealth Housing Bill was introduced that State would not advance more than £800 on a wooden house or £950 on a brick house. Contrary to what  Senator Findley  has Stated, the Commonwealth Government has not set out to deceive any one. Its purpose in passing this housing legislation was not to provide homes foi" the homeless. State legislation already catered for the homeless, and the appeal made by  Senator Findley  for the homeless was consequently a little overdrawn. Under the Commonwealth scheme a person who is paying 8, 9 or 10 per cent, on mortgage to some home building organization -will be enabled to obtain an advance from a State authority. 
I understand that it cannot be done under some of them. But the feature of the Commonwealth legislation is that an advance can be made up to an amount for which no State scheme will provide. 
Another feature, of the Commonwealth scheme is that it will be administered by the State authorities. Of course, if the State of Victoria is as well off as  Senator Findley  has said it is, it will not need to take advantage of the Commonwealth scheme, but several of the other States are in a very bad financial position. For instance, Queeusland, owing to the way in which money has been wasted on wild socialistic schemes of the class favoured by  Senator Findley,  finds now that it has no money to advance for the erection of workmen's dwellings. The people of that State are just as anxious to own their own homes as are the people in other States, and they will be accommodated by the Commonwealth scheme. Victoria, about which  Senator Findley  makes a great deal of fuss, is only a small portion of Australia. 
I did not say that it is unimportant, but other States are equally important. South Australia is in financial difficulties and may find it hard to carry on its home-building scheme which, as I know from personal inspection, is one of the best we have in Australia. By means of the advances to be obtained . under the Commonwealth scheme that State will be enabled to con tinue its system of finding houses for I he class of people who, according tn  Senator Findley,  are being provided with homes in Victoria. All the honorable senator's talk about the Commonwealth Government not having laid a single brick was beside the question. The actual work of building houses is done by the State building authorities. 
 We know that the money will be spent by the State authorities with the experience they have gained in home building, and we have, therefore, a guarantee that it will be well spent. 

 Senator Findley was not quite correct in his description of the position in Victoria. That State will have a deficit this year and will consequently find it difficult to provide money for the erection of workmen's dwellings. The honorable senator's constituents will probably find it convenient to make use of the money made available by the Commonwealth Government for the purpose. As a matter of fact, Victoria has already entered into an agreement to carry out the Commonwealth housing scheme, and in this instance also,  Senator Findley's  talk was all so much gallery play. As the boisterous weather of a few clays ago has passed away and has been succeeded by calm beautiful days, so it will be with the Commonwealth housing scheme; when the State authorities get into swing and advances are being made to those who require homes, everything will settle down and no doubt the constituents of  Senator Findley  will derive much benefit. 
In a complicated measure providing for the erection of houses through the activities of local authorities and for making advances through the Commonwealth Savings Bank to State authorities, it was to be expected that amendments would be found necessary. Full effect cannot be given to the intentions of Parliament until its legislation is put into operation. The Housing Bill which this Parliament passed has been put into operation and in administering it difficulties have been discovered, which the Government has been wise enough to have rectified at once.  Senator Findley  took good care not to refer to the amendments contained in the bill before us.  His  speech was simply a tirade against the provisions of the original measure. He could not raise objection to a proposal to make the Housing Act more workable and better for the people whom it was intended to benefit. To my mind it is one of the best steps the Commonwealth Government has ever taken to find homes for the middle class in the community who are to-day suffering from the effects of economic pressure. Men in professional and clerical circles have to maintain a certain standard of living, on proportionately lower incomes than they enjoyed in the past, but in the matter of securing homes for themselves they have not been given help by the State Governments. The Commonwealth Government has taken steps to help them. I have always been enthusiastic about aiding people to get their own homes. It is one of the best antidotes the nation can have against the actions of extremists. In Australia to-day, we have the spectacle of extremists who are not only seeking to injure Australia, but also are ruining the party to which  Senator Findley  belongs. They stir up feelings of discontent among people who are suffering from grievances of, perhaps, only a minor character. But when a man owns his own home he has a stake in the country, he has something to lose, and something to stand by. If the people of the middle class who are now squeezed economically, can by acquiring homes of their own, be made more contented than they are to-day, they will become again the stable factor they have always been in Australia, holding as they do the balance as between the extremists on either side. Extreme conservatives are just as dangerous to the community as the bolsheviks, who have been causing such an upset in  Senator Findley's  party during the last three days that caucus has been scratching its head, not knowing where it stands.  Senator Findley  is not a Bolshevik, but unfortunately he is sometimes driven by the extreme section of his party to do things which he would not otherwise do. The Ministerial party, which is not conservative, is sometimes hindered by the activities of extreme conservatives, who object to housing schemes or any thing that will afford help to the people. 
The action of the Government has been dictated not by the ultra conservatives, but by common sense, with the idea of getting a contented people in Australia. For that reason I support the bill. 
The bill before us is designed amongst other things to enable advances to be made for the extension of houses. I differ from  Senator Andrew,  who described extensions as improvements. If I own a home and set to work to paint it and make it ornate I am improving it, but not extending it. Extensions are simply additions. I differ from  Senator Findley,  who claims that the alteration in the administrative provisions of the original bill which was effected by the Government last year and consented to by Parliament, was made at the instigation of the Labour party. I remind the honorable senator that when the Housing Bill was before the Senate I drew attention to the desirability of the directors of the Commonwealth Bank administering the housing scheme and urged that there was no  need for appointing special savings hank commissioners. I went so far as to move an amendment to carry out my idea, but, as my proposal was not then acceptable to the Government, I let the matter go on the voices. Fortunately, later on, the Government saw its way to agree to my suggestion. I do not think, therefore, that the alteration can be said to have been made at the behest of the Labour party. "While I agree that extensions of houses should be encouraged, I think that the Housing Act should have been functioning and that a bill for permitting advances for extensions could have been brought down later on. In Queensland quite a number of people of the middle class referred to by  Senator Reid  are waiting for the act to come into operation,- so that they may make application for advances and proceed with the building of homes. In this way the public have suffered a great deal more inconvenience than would have been caused if the act had been allowed to function. The amendments could have been made later. 1 welcome the measure, but regret that the act which was passed last year was not brought into operation at once. 
I feel that a few words from me are necessary in reply to the criticisms, and particularly the electioneering speeches made by honorable senators opposite.  Senator Reid  aptly described them as " mostly wind ", and it has occurred to me that in relation to  Senator Findley's  remarks I may appropriately paraphrase certain well-known lines by saying - 
There is no terror, Findley, in your threats, For I am  arm'd  so strong in honesty That they pass by mc as the idle wind, Which I respect not. 
The point which the honorable senator endeavoured to make was that the Commonwealth Government was about to become actively engaged in house building. Actually, we are not doing that at all. Our purpose is to furnish the necessary money to the various State .instrumentalities, so that they may expand their house building schemes. This amending measure is the result of representations made to the Government by officials connected with the several State house building authorities in order that it may not be necessary to alter materially State legislation. 
The position is not quite as  Senator Thompson  has put it. The act last year is functioning, but before advances can be made to any State authority, the provisions of the several State schemes must be brought into line with the Common wealth law. 
No application will be made to the Commonwealth Government, in the way suggested by the honorable senator. After the various State authorities have brought their schemes into line with- this measure they will get in touch with the Commonwealth Savings Bank authorities to obtain money for can extension of their present activities. The fact that they have asked for certain slight alterations to the Commonwealth Act is evidence that the measure is attracting attention and is desired by the States. I ask honorable senators to endeavour to appreciate all the difficulties in the launching of such a scheme as this. It cannot be done iri five minutes. An officer of the Commonwealth Savings Bank visited all the States to inquire into the State schemes, and ascertain how they could be brought into harmony with the proposals of the Commonwealth. It has been suggested that in submitting the original measure last year, the Government was lacking in foresight or business acumen, because it did not foresee all the obstacles in the way; but, as I have said, these could only be ascertained after an officer of the Commonwealth Savings Bank had visited the . different States and had had consultations with responsible State officersThe Commonwealth housing scheme in its original form would have limited the operations of many State authorities. I think I am safe in saying that the whole of the amendments included in this bill have been made at the instigation of the State authorities. 

 Senator Needham took exception to the provision authorizing, in certain circumstances, a second advance to an applicant who already had received assistance under one or other of the house building schemes in the States. I see no reason why an applicant, who may have moved to another part of the Commonwealth, should be denied a privilege enjoyed by other citizens, because it is specifically provided that an advance may only be made to an applicant who has paid off his previous loan, presumably by the sale of his house, and desires to build or acquire another home. To my mind this provision should be an incentive to thrift. 
No, and that is not the Government's intention. The Housing Act provides, in section 9, that no loan may be made to- any person who already owns a house except for the purpose of discharging a mortgage upon one dwelling house of which he is the owner. Our object is- to assist citizens of the Commonwealth to acquire their own homes, and I see no objection to that provision in the act. 
That, I suggest, is a matter for the State authorities to determine. The provisions of this bill will enable State authorities to liberalize their schemes. 
It has also been complained that the Government has not itself entered into the business of house building for the people. On that point I venture the opinion that the Government proposal to provide finance for the State authorities is a much more satisfactory arrangement. These amendments will make it possible for the Government  to assist the State authorities to liberalize and enlarge their building operations. The Leader of theOpposition  (Senator Needham)  suggested that the Government, under the Housing Act, was in the position of a money lender. That is exactly the function which the Government will discharge. Through the Commonwealth Savings Bank it will provide £20,000,000 for the use of the several State authorities, and will thus provide for the enlargement of their schemes. 
I have no desire at present to discuss that interesting phase of the Government's constitutional powers. May be the honorable senator is right, though no doubt the Government could embark upon such a project through the Commonwealth Bank. We have, however, considered that the best course is to subsidize the several State authorities. 
I agree with the. honorable senator. 

 Senator Findley also made an electioneering speech in dealing with what happened during the passage of the Commonwealth Bank Bill last year..  His  remarks under that head have as much to do with this proposal as have the flowers that bloom in the spring, and the honorable senator is welcome to all the credit that he can get out of them. It has been suggested further, that while we propose to assist the States financially to liberalize their house building schemes, 'we have been neglecting or falling down on the job in connexion with providing war service homes for returned soldiers. That actually was the only real indictment made by honorable senators opposite. All that it is necessary to say in that connexion is that during the present year we have already built 1,455 war service homes, and 704 more will be completed during the year. 
My friend opposite is either purposely or unconsciously obtuse. I prefer to think thathe is not purposely so. The indictment levelled against us was that we had fallen down on our job over the war service homes, and that we were not fulfilling our promises. In answer to that I have pointed out that we have already constructed 1,455 war service" homes, and that another 704 will be completed this year. Surely that is a satisfactory contribution to the housing requirements of the people by the War Service Homes Department. The average annual amount spent during the last five years by that department has been from £1,700,000 to £1,800,000. This year it is proposed to spend £1,748,000.' While there may have been, some small delays, they have not been due to any slackening or slowing down on the part of the War Service Homes Department. There have been many reasons for the delay, including the fact that some of the work has been held in abeyance by the applicants themselves, and in other cases the plans were not approved of. I maintain that the position in regard to war service homes is entirely satisfactory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Conditions precedent to any advance). 
. -While this clause is under consideration I wish to draw attention to a matter about which I spoke during another stage of the proceedings. I think that we ought to be better informed as to what advances are to be made to those who come under this scheme. During the course of my second-reading speech I said that only 90 per cent, of cost of a home would be advanced under the Commonwealth scheme. That statement was challenged by the Minister  (Senator McLachlan),  and he asked me to point to any act that had, so far been passed wherein such a provision existed. I said that it was in the original act, find he again denied it. I now wish to draw his attention to the fact that, in section 9 of the original act the powers of existing authorities are extended- - 
By providing for the purchase of dwelling houses; 
by providing thatthe maximum amount which may he lent by the Authority to any one person shall be One thousand eight hundred pounds, and shall be ninety per centum of the valuation made, by or on behalf of the Authority,  of  the property in respect of which the loan is made. 
That is perfectly clear; there is no ambiguity about it. 
What is the use of the Minister trying to quibble in this way? It is laid down in the act that advances up to 90 per cent, only will he made. 
Does not that prove what I have said? Under this scheme provision is made for advancing up to 90 per cent, of the value of a house costing up to £1,800, so that a person desiring to erect such a house under the scheme will have to find 10 per cent, of its value as a deposit. I made a comparison between this scheme and the housing scheme administered by the State authorities in Victoria, and I have been proved to be right. The Minister was wrong when he challenged my statement. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 Sitting suspended from12.42 to 2.15 p.m. 

I have perused the bill and find that it is merely to provide for the attendance of any prisoner whose evidence may be required before courts of law in any State. In these circumstances I do not offer any objection to its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
This is also a machinery measure to provide for placing the territories of the Commonwealth in a similar position to that of the States in regard to the proof of documents issued in the various territories. It does not contain anything of a contentious nature, and I therefore do not oppose the secondreading. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee. 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 
The clause reads - 
Section two of the principal act is amended by omitting the definitions of " court " and " court within the Commonwealth " and inserting in their stead the following definitions: - " ' Court ' includes the High Court and all Federal Courts and courts exercising Federal jurisdiction, the interstate commission when sitting as a court for the hearing or determination of any matter. 
I should like to ask the Minister why the interstate commission has been included in this clause. I understand that the act under which it was appointed was held by the High Court to be invalid in certain respects, and that the commission is not in existence to-day, at least' as originally constituted. 
.-- The High Court held that the Interstate Commission Act was invalid in so far as it attempted to give judical powers to the interstate commission. One of the grounds of the decision was that its members had not a life tenure of office, but as it  is  possible that at some future date the interstate commission may be re-constituted in accordance with the provision of the Constitution it has been considered advisable to allow the words in the principal act to remain. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 18 agreed to. 
Clause 19 (Faith and credit to be given to documents properly authenticated). 
.- I should like the Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  to explain whether this provision will cover the disability sometimes experienced in different States in connexion with the witnessing of documents. I have had documents relating to transactions in Queensland which required to be witnessed by a magistrate for that State, and I have found that a magistrate for the State of New South Wales orVictoria could not act instead of a Queensland magistrate. 
 Senator Thompson  will doubtless realize that the authenticity of State documents, such as those relating to real property and such bills of sale, is covered by State laws. This clause provides only for the recognition of certain documents in the courts. The witnessing of documents under State laws is a matter entirely for the States. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 20 agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The bill provides certain comprehensive amendments with the object of improving the principal act. One or two clauses require special consideration. 
Clause 7 repeals section 28 of the principal act, and inserts other sections in its stead, among which are the following :  - 
1 ) A publication may be registered under this act as a newspaper if it is known and recognized as a newspaper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and is printed and published within the Commonwealth for bona fide sale at the advertised price as a business proposition with a view to earning profit and is a publication which - 
consists in substantial part of current news and articles or illustrations relating thereto or to other current topics ; 
is published in numbers at intervals of not more than seven days; and . 
has the full title and date of publication printed at the top of the first page, and the whole or part of the title and the date of publication printed at the top of every subsequent page, and has each page consecutively numbered. 
A publication which is printed ' on paper and issued as a supplement to a newspaper and which - 
consists in substantial part of reading matter other than advertisements, or of engravings, prints or lithographs, and is enclosed in each copy of the relevant issue of the newspaper; 
is enclosed in each posted copy of the newspaper with which it is issued ; 
has the date of publication and title of the newspaper with which it is issued printed on the top of each page, or, when in the form of an engraving, print or lithograph, at the top of each sheet; and 
does not exceed the newspaper itself in size or weight, shall be deemed to be a supplement and to be part of that newspaper. 
A publication designed primarily for advertising purposes or for free circulation or for circulation at nominal rates shall not be deemed to be a newspaper or a supplement to a newspaper within the meaning of this section. 
It is a lengthy clause, but its effect is to increase the rate of postage on certain publications which . are not published within seven days. This may cause an injustice to persons engaged in the publication and sale of journals that do not come exactly within the definition "published in numbers at intervals of not more than seven days," but, in all other respects, come within the definition of a newspaper." For instance,  Golf in Australia  is a weekly, and  Golf  a monthly publication. Both contain similar news. 
I admit that it is difficult to interpret correctly the definition of a newspaper, but I am endeavouring to show that if this bill is passed an injustice will be done to certain people: I am hopeful that when I have compared a number of publications, weekly and monthly, the Minister in charge of the bill will see the advisability of consulting his expert advisors in regard to the need for amending the bill. The  Catholic Press  is a weekly publication, the  Harbinger of Light,  a monthly. They are both religious publications, and convey news to the respective religious bodies for which they cater. The  Advocate, Table Talk,  and the  World's News  are weekly publications;  Life, Stead's,  and  Adam and Eve,  monthly. Will any honorable senator say that  Stead's  does not convey to the reader news of a very important nature? I venture to say that this publication plays a very important part in the life of the people of Australia. I do not think that any Minister or officer of the Minister should be allowed arbitrarily to declare that it is not a conveyor and distributor of news. The  Woman's Budget  and the  Woman's Mirror  are issued weekly; the  Woman's World, the Australian Home J ournal  and  Everylady's J ournal  are issued monthly. They are all similar in character, distributing to the womenfolk of Australia news regarding dresses, fashions, housekeeping hints, and so forth. The  Listener In, Popular Radio Weekly, Mining Standard, Construction,  the  Australian Manufacturer, Pigeon Keeper, Poultry, Photoplayer  and  Hawklet,  are weekly papers.  Radio, Queensland Mining Journal, Building,  the  Sugar J ournal, Young Australia, Power Farming, Musical News,  and  A.N.A.  are monthly publications. 
I suggest that  Young Australia,  which is widely read by the youth of Australia, and contains very fine articles, should not be penalized in comparison with a weekly publication like  Poultry.  The Postmaster-General cannot afford to be dogmatic or arbitrary in such matters. Weekly publications have the benefit of a bulk postage rate of l1/2d. for 20 oz., as compared with a rate of 21/2for 20 oz. for monthly publications. For single copies of weekly publications the postage is1d. for 10 oz., against a rate of1d. for 8 oz. for monthly publications. 
It affects them very seriously because it is a tax which cannot be passed on. The other day we were discussing a proposed increased duty on films, and were well aware of the fact that the people engaged in the industry bad indicated that they would pass the tax on to the patrons of picture theatres. The publishers of monthly publications will not be able to go back to their subscribers and ask them for increased subscriptions to cover the four months of the year already gone ; consequently they will be obliged to bear the increased rate and charges. It is neither just nor equitable to distinguish between weekly and monthly journals which are obviously similar, ' except in the matter of frequency of publication. There is very little difference in their contents, and the Postal Department is fastening on to frequency of publication as the sole means of distinguishing between them. Nearly all these publications, weekly and monthly, cater for the same class of readers. The Melbourne  Herald  publishes  Table Talk  and the  Weekly Times,  and I venture to say that the weeklies contain items that have already appeared in the daily. The  Woman's Budget  and the  Australian Home Journal,  the former a weekly and the latter a monthly publication, contain the same class of information ; they both cater for the same section ofthe community, the same readers, and the only justification the Government has for charging an extra1d. on the  Australian Home Journal  is that there are 30 days instead of seven days between each issue. 
The Minister, said that he could not dogmatize as to the definition of what is a newspaper and what is not. Neither can I do so concerning the definition' of these publications. All I can say is that there is a marked similarity in the information contained in them. 
I can only answer the Minister by asking him if  Poultry-  and the  Hawklet  are regarded as newspapers. 
Many other weekly publications are in the same class, such as  The World's News, The Radio Weekly, Construction, The Australasian Manufacturer,  and  The Pigeon Keeper.  Can the Minister say if these publications come within the definition of a newspaper? It appears to me that the clause has been drafted somewhat hastily, and I suggest that it be further considered. Clause 8 provides in proposed new sub-section 29  b - 
If, in the opinion of the Postmaster -General, any posted copy of a registered newspaper or registered periodical contains profane, blasphemous, indecent, obscene, immoral, offensive, libellous or seditions matter .... he may direct the Deputy Director to remove the newspaper or periodical from the register..... 
I agree that any publication containing such matter should bc penalized, but it seems to me that there is danger of an injustice being done to the proprietors or publishers. I do not suggest that the Postmaster-General would de-register a newspaper for political purposes ; but, in the absence of provision for an appeal from the decision of the PostmasterGeneral, the danger is there. 
The Minister's assurance on this point removes any objection I may have had to the clause in its present form. I again direct attention to the provisions of clause 28, and I suggest that the proposed added impost on magazines as against weekly publications be reconsidered. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Duncan)  adjourned. 
I realize that this measure is a necessary corollary of the Post and Telegraph Bill which has just been under discussion. It will be necessary to pass this measure in order to protect the public revenue. As it contains no debatable matter, I have no Opposition to offer to it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
At the request of my leader I ask honorable senators to come prepared on Wednesday next to finish the discussion on the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.1].-  (By leave.)  - It is with very great regret that I have to inform the Senate of the death of the Honorable Herbert Edward Pratten, Minister of State for Trade and Customs. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable Herbert Edward Pratten, Minister of State for Trade and Customs, places upon record its high appreciation of his meritorious public services, both as a member of the Senate and also of the House of Representatives, and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their great bereavement. 
Honorable senators are aware of the tragic circumstances that surrounded  Mr. -Pratten's  death. The honorable gentleman, while attending a meeting of his constituents on Monday evening last, was suddenly overcome by illness. Partially recovering, he tried, with great courage, to reassure his audience, but was overtaken by a second seizure and passed away.  His  demise has come as a great shock to all of us, and it is with profound sorrow that I submit this motion. 

 Mr. Pratten was first elected to the Senate for New South Wales at the general election in 1917, and ably represented his State in this House until November, 1921.  His  ability was well known to honorable senators. He was strong in debate and held very definite views, but, no matter how keenly he contested any point, he was always courteous and fair. The careful thought and attention he gave to every subject and his complete mastery of detail were also noteworthy features of his career -in the Senate. 
On the resignation of  Sir Joseph  Cook,  Mr. Pratten  successfully contested the consequent election for Parramatta on the 10th December, 1921, and held  that seat in the House of  Representatives  till the expiration of the eighth Parliament in 1922. He was elected unopposed for the new division of Martin at the general election in that year, and was again elected for Martin at the general election in 1925. 

 Mr. Pratten joined the Cabinet ns Minister for Trade and Customs and Minister for Health on 13th June, 1924. He resigned the office of Minister for Health in January, 1925. The portfolio of Trade and Customs has always been regarded as an onerous one, but on accepting it  Mr. Pratten  applied himself with "characteristic energy and ability to the task of obtaining a complete grip of the many services of the department, and throughout he displayed great zeal and industry, in obtaining a thorough knowledge of the various questions with which he had to deal in the course of its administration. 
As Minister for Trade and Customs  Mr. Pratten  piloted three tariff measures through the House of Representatives This involved a very close and prolonged study of the various items in the schedule, and he undoubtedly felt the strain of the heavy task thus imposed upon him. Without thought for himself, however, he continued the administrative work of his department until his death. It may well be said of him that " he died in harness." 
He was a courteous and loyal colleague, and I personally deeply feel his passing. I am sure that all who were associated with him in this Parliament and elsewhere will mourn his loss, and that sincere regret will be felt also by those of the public who knew him only by reputation. 

 Mr. Pratten was a firm believer in the future of Australia as an integral part of the British Empire. All his work in the direction of the expansion of Australian industries and the progress and development of Australia in co-operation with Great Britain was inspired by that belief. He rendered important services to the Commonwealth and his name will go down in history as one of our great nation builders. 
His widow and family have lost a most devoted husband and father, and our sympathies go out to them in their sorrow. We can only hope that the knowledge that the sympathies of this Parliament and the people are extended to them will bc some solace in their grief. 
I rise on behalf of my colleagues and myself to second the motion so feelingly moved by the Acting Leader of the Senate, expressing our sorrow and heartfelt grief at the tragic and sudden demise of the late  Mr. Pratten.  I endorse every word that has fallen from the lips of my honorable friend. When I first met  Mr. Pratten  as a member of the Senate J at once recognized in him a man of outstanding  ability.  His  ability was equalled only by his sincerity and courtesy. He brought to bear on every duty he undertook a capacity for mastering detail, and a matured judgment, which won for him, not only success, but the esteem and admiration of all who knew him. Many and difficult were the problems which he essayed to solve; and his work in the Customs Department will stand for  all time as a monument to his ability, zeal and devotion to duty. Without in any way reflecting on other honorable gentlemen who have held the portfolio of Minister for Trade and Customs, I think we can agree that, not even excepting the right honorable gentleman who first occupied the position,  Mr. Pratten  stands foremost on the list.  His  idea of what should be the fiscal policy of Australia was to him not merely a principle, it was practically a faith, and the work he did when last he was in England, and, later, in New Zealand, bears striking tribute to the cause which lay so near his heart. 

 His sudden and tragic end is another evidence of the heavy toll that is taken of men who devote their lives to public service, and are leaders of public thought. One of the marked characteristics of the honorable gentleman was displayed even on Monday night, when the Grim Reaper  gave his first intimation of the call he was about to make. The determination and tenacity of purpose for which he was always noted were evidenced when, after that first attack, he rose again to reassure his audience, and endeavoured to carry on. 

 His loss to Australia is great, but his loss to his widow and family is greater still. My colleagues and I join with the Acting Leader of the Senate in tendering to them our sincere sympathy. We re-echo the hope expressed by him that the universal regret felt throughout Australia at the death of  Mr. Pratten  may tend to soften the blow to his dear ones, but we recognize that time alone can heal the wound. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing  in  their places. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [3.14].  -  As a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Mr. Pratten,  I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister for Home and Territories been drawn to an item in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 2nd inst. relating to the present prosperity of Norfolk Island due to the export of bananas to New Zealand? 
Is it not a fact that this trade was first originated by Colonel Leane, the former Administrator? 
Is the Minister aware that Colonel Leane is now in a dangerous condition of health? 
Will the Minister take steps to recognize the value of Colonel Leane's service to the public ? 
The Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
No. Bananas have been cultivated at Norfolk Island for many years and a small export trade in that commodity existed prior to the appointment of Colonel Leane as Administrator of the Territory. During the regime of Colonel Leane's predecessor (General Parnell ) , the islanders commenced the building of a schooner for the carriage of bananas and other products of the Territory to New Zealand. The schooner was eventually completed and made one voyage to New Zealand. The Zew Zealand Government subsequently placed a steamer in the trade, and this steamer is still plying between the two countries. The expansion of the banana-growing industry was due, primarily, to the opening up for settlement of the lands formerly held by the Melanesion Mission, which was initiated by General Farnell, and to the efforts of representatives of fruit merchants in Australia, who visited Norfolk Island and urged the islanders to increase the production of bananas for export to Australia and New Zealand. Colonel Leane, whilst Administrator of the Territory, encouraged the efforts of the representatives of the Australian fruit merchants and of the islanders to increase the production of bananas, but it is not correct to state that the trade with New Zealand was originated by him. 
Ithas been learned, with regret, that Colonel Leane is at present in a state of ill health. 
It is not considered that any claim for a special concession to Colonel Leane could justifiably be founded on the nature of his services as Administrator of Norfolk Island. 
.- In January, 1926, T introduced in the Senate a bill to  amend  the Commonwealth "Workmen's Compensation Act. That bill contained clauses which I considered would improve the principal act, and bring it abreast, if not ahead, of State legislation. The Senate rejected that measure on the second reading; but the Leader of the Senate indicated that at a later stage the Government would introduce an amending bill. The main provisions of the bill which I had the honour to introduce were, briefly, as follows: - (a) Increase in total amount of compensation where death occurred from injury, and in the case of total or partial incapacity; (&amp;) compensation to workmen dying from or affected by, certain industrial diseases; (c) compensation for loss or injury to eyes, limbs or parts thereof, and paralysis of limbs or mental powers or total or partial loss of hearing; and  (d)  increase in burial and sickness expenses, and an assurance that 50 per cent, of the weekly wage of the employee would be paid during the period of incapacity. The measure now before the Senate repeals the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act of 1912. That measure, when introduced sixteen years ago, was considered to be up to date, and at the time was, I believe, in line not only with the State legislation, but also with workmen's compensation legislation in operation iti other parts of the world. As the years went on, however, it was found that ' the Commonwealth in this respect was lagging a long way behind, not only the States, but even conservative Britain. I am glad that that fact has at last been recognized, and that amending legislation has been introduced. Workmen's compensation legislation deals with the human element in production, and is aimed at assisting those who suffer casualties on the industrial battlefields. Such casualties arc many, and occur too frequently. 
Workmen's compensation legislation cannot be regarded as controversial. Wu have long passed the time when it  whs  the battledore and shuttlecock of party politics.- Conserva tive Britain recognized the necessity of such legislation as far back as 1897, when its first measure providing for the payment of compensation to workmen was introduced. Any criticisms T may offer concerning the bill will not be of a carping nature, and will not be tinged with any semblance of party politics. Whilst I welcome the bill as an honest attempt to improve workmen's compensation legislation, after a careful perusal of its provisions, I have come to the conclusion that, in some respects, it still lags behind similar legislation in operation in various States. In some directions it is an improvement on the bill which I introduced, but it lacks vital features of that measure. The first improvement I notice is that it increases the minimum amount of compensation payable, in the event of an injury resulting fatally, from £200 to £400, and the maximum from £500 to--£700. In the case of .total or partial incapacity, the weekly rate of payment is to be increased from 50 per cent, of the weekly wage of the employee, with a maximum payment of £2 a week, to two-thirds of the weekly wage of the employee, with a maximum weekly payment of £3 a week'. In addition, up to £100 is allowed for medical expenses. Provision is also made for the payment of the burial expenses of a diseased workman who does not leave any dependents. Clause 12 of the bill fixes al £700 the maximum amount of compensation payable for one accident, which is an increase in the amount now paid under the principal act. Provision is made in the second schedule for compensation for special injuries such as the loss of a limb or part of a limb, or the loss pf an eye, or of both eyes, &amp;c. ; but to this portion of the bill I shall refer later. The measure now being repealed provided, in the case of death resulting from injury, a minimum of £200 and a maximum of £500, which is increased to £700 in the new measure, This bill is, therefore, an improvement in that respect; but in comparing the compensation paid in three of the States, in the case of death resulting from injury, I find that in Queensland and New South Wales the maximum amount payable in the event of death is £750, and in Western Australia a maximum amount of £750 is paid for death or incapacity. For total or partial incapacity the maximum weekly payment in Queensland and Western Australia is £3 10s. Therefore, as compared with the provisions in the three States which I have mentioned, the compensation proposed to be awarded under this bill is £50 less for death and 10s. a week less on weekly rates. In my -opinion, the weekly rate of compensation is a more vital part of a measure of this kind than the maximum amount to be paid in the event of death. We can easily picture to ourselves the sad plight of a family when the bread winner is laid low as a result of accident - when there is a wife, and three, four, or five children, it is easy to realize the hardship involved in trying to make ends meet, and to understand that £3 or even £3 10s. will go a very short distance towards paying rent and maintaining such a family. If the Commonwealth Parliament is not prepared to lead in this matter of compensation, then I claim that it should at least pass legislation which would be equal to the most advanced existing in any of the States. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - To the extent which I mentioned, it is not. It is 10s. a week lower than is provided in Queensland and Western Australia for weekly payments, and is £50 below what is provided in Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia for the maximum payment in the event of death. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - According to my reading of the bill, the maximum here is £700. I am quoting from the figures as they appear in the bill. 
There is another feature of workmen's compensation that' it not dealt with in the bill, and which is included in every workman's compensation act in Australia, with the sole exception of that passed by the State of Tasmania. I refer to the provision in regard to industrial diseases or, as they are more commonly known, occupational diseases. All the States, with the exception of Tasmania have dealt with that phase of compensation, and I included it in the amending measure which I introduced in 1926. In 1924 the Commonwealth Government called a conferenceof representatives of the six States and of its own administration, to consider the subject of industrial hygiene. Among those present at that conference was  Dr. Park,  Acting DirectorGeneral of Health for the Commonwealth, and  Dr. Robertson,  Director of Industrial. Hygiene, who represented the Commonwealth Government. I could not obtain a copy of the report of that body from the Parliamentary Library, nor from our  Clerk  of Records, but I have a copy of a report that was handed to the Minister for Works and Labour in Western Australia by the two gentlemen who represented that State -  Dr. Atkinson,  the Chief Health Officer, and  Mr. Bradshaw  of the Factories Department. In this report they said,  inter alia - 
The last question dealt with was the important one of industrial disease or diseases of occupation, and the control of dangerous and unhealthy industries. It will, no doubt, be of interest to you to know that the Conference unhesitatingly and unanimously passed the following resolutions in regard to occupational disease - 
) That it is desirable that each State of the Commonwealth should have in effective operation legislation controlling occupations dangerous to the health of those employed therein ; and 
That every Australian State should afford compensation for industrial diseases. 
Those were the two resolutions passed by the conference which dealt with the subject of industrial hygiene. This conference was called, not at the requestof the States, but of the Commonwealth Government, and if it was deemed that such a conference was necessary it surely follows, in view of the reportwhich I have quoted, that the Commonwealth Government in its own Employees Compensation Bill should provide for the contingency of ill health and unemployment resulting fromparticipation in  unhealthy work. This report goes on  o  say- 
It was the view of all members of the conference that the worker who loses his life,  or  suffers incapacity as a result of occupational disease, is entitled to compensation equally with him who meets with death or injury by accident. The legislation already in some of the States was reviewed, and a list drawn up of these occupational diseases in regard  to  which it was considered compensation should be payable. This list has already been submitted  to  you. It is possible that only a few of these occupational diseases will concern this State for some time to come, but as industry develops they may become increasingly important. 
I wish to draw special attention to the last few words. The gentlemen who framed that report said that some of the diseases mentioned would not concern Western Australia for some time, but as industry developed they might become important. The honorable Minister in charge of this measure might say that we have no industries under our control in which there is a danger of the employees contracting occupational diseases, or, at any rate, that .there are very few such industries. I contend that there are persons in the employ of the Commonwealth to-day who are engaged in work which renders them liable to  contract any of the occupational diseases outlined in the schedule of the bill which I brought in a couple of years ago. As additional powers are given to the Commonwealth Parliament, so will the control of industries by the Commonwealth increase. That will necessarily mean the employment of a greater number of employees, involving a heavier liability in respect of occupational diseases, which, often involve more misery than is caused by the loss of limbs or injuries to the body. It is true that occasionally an employee is injured, or his life forfeited, because of the carelessness of a fellow-workman, but such cases are few compared with the number of sufferers from occupational diseases. No matter bow careful workmen may be they can save neither their fellows nor themselves from that liability to disease which is inseparable from their occupations. I admit that medical science is doing much to minimize the dread results of occupational diseases. Our health laws are framed to prevent such diseases,, and health inspectors throughout the Commonwealth are doing what they can in the interests of the health of the workers. Nevertheless, it cannot be gainsaid that in the industrial battlefield there are many casualties. I propose later to move for the addition of a third schedule to the bill in order to protect workmen who may suffer from industrial diseases. My proposal is based largely on the schedule approved by the conference on Industrial Hygiene, to which I have already referred, and at which all the States and the Commonwealth were represented. The schedule of diseases incorporated in my bill of 1926 included:- 

<graphic href="118332192805105_3_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192805105_4_1.jpg"></graphic>

Men engaged in departments under the control of the Commonwealth Government are liable to contract these diseases. For instance, in the securing of ballast for our railways numbers of men are engaged in mining or quarrying stone, and in crushing or preparing it. 
The second schedule of the measure which deals with specified injuries is not so liberal as are the schedules to the acts of many of the States. It certainly is not so liberal as is the Western Australian legislation. The schedule before us provides for compensation only for the following injuries: - Loss of one eye, with serious diminution - of the sight of the other; loss of sight of one eye; loss of arm at shoulder; loss of arm at or above elbow ; loss of hand at or above wrist; loss of thumb; loss of index finger; loss of middle finger, ring-finger, or little finger ; loss of leg at hip ; loss of leg at or above knee; loss of foot at or above ankle; los3 of great toe; loss of other toe; loss of hearing; and complete deafness in one ear. For these injuries the compensation varies from £600 to £4:0. Not only does the Western Australian legislation provide for greater sums by way of compensation, but it also embodies a more comprehensive range of specified injuries. In addition to the injuries specified in the second schedule before us, the Western Australian act, which is the latest of its kind in Australia, provides compensation for loss of both eyes, total or incurable loss of mental powers involving inability to work, and total or incurable paralysis of limbs. I have in mind a man who for a long time held a responsible position under the Commonwealth Government, but now, as the result of an injury sustained in the course of his employ, has lost his mental powers to the extent that he is practically unable to work. 
Such a case would be met better in a bill dealing with compensation than otherwise. Under the Western Australian legislation a man who suffers the loss of both eyes, or both hands, or both feet, or hand and a foot, or sustains injury causing the total and incurable loss of mental powers involving inability to work, or the total and incurable paralysis of limbs or mental powers, may receive compensation amounting to £750. In that respect, therefore, the compensation payable is £50 greater than that which is provided for in the schedule to the bill. The following interesting table sets out the number of employees who were .under the control of the Commonwealth Government, the number who suffered injury in the course of their employment, the number whose injuries resulted fatally, and the amounts that were paid by way  of compensation under the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act, 1912, from the 5th February, 1913, to 31st December, 1927 : - 

<graphic href="118332192805105_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that the greatest number of employees injured in any one year was in 1915, when the total was 1,222. In that year also eight employees were killed. The amount paid to the next of kin of those whose injuries resulted fatally, was £3,182, while the compensation which was received by those who sustained injuries during the course of their employment amounted in the aggregate to £6,544. 
I have indicated some of the principal weaknesses of the. measure. It offers a wider scope for consideration in committee, and when we reach that stage 1 shall seek the co-operation of honorable senators with a view to effecting an improvement in certain directions. In the meantime I shall circulate the amendments that I have forecast. I welcome the bill, and hope that it will receive the approval of the Senate. I trust, also, that when it emerges from the committee stage, the schedule, in its relation to the specified injuries, will have been improved, and that honorable senators in their wisdom will have made provision for the payment of compensation on account of injuries suffered as a result of the contraction of occupational diseases. 
I consider this bill to be a very liberal effort to provide compensation for workers who meet with injuries in the Commonwealth service, but I should like to know how the payments are to be financed. It seems to me unsound in principle to draw upon the Consolidated Revenue to pay claims as they arise. Before the Queensland State Insurance Department was given a monopoly of the business attaching to the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Act, the employers of that State made provision for meeting claims for compensation for injuries received by insuring with insurance companies formed for the purpose or by making contributions to a compensation fund established by themselves. For instance when the Mount Morgan Mining Company found that the insurance company which was handling this business for it was not as liberal to the workers as was deemed advisable, it set aside regular contributions which eventually formed a fund that enabled it to be veryliberal to injured workers when occasion arose. It is not my purpose to ask the. Government to be more liberal than is proposed in the bill - I consider the scale of payments set out is very generous - but it seems to me that, instead of meeting claims for compensation out of the Consolidated Revenue, it would be better to allocate each year or each half year, contributions to a compensation fund. 
Of course the Minister may have a perfect reply to what I am suggesting, but if nothing has been done in that direction I commend my proposal to the consideration of the Government. I approve of the measure and intend to give it my support. 
 lt  is true, as  Senator Needham  has said, that the maximum payments provided for in this bill are not as high as those in some of the State legislation to which he has referred, but I can assure the honorable senator that the officers of the department and the draftsmen responsible for the bill have paid regard to the provisions of the workmen's compensation legislation of all the States. As a matter of fact the scale adopted and embodied in the schedule to this bill is the average amount provided for in State legislation. Very few of the workers in the States are as advantageously placed as will be the employees of the Commonwealth when this bill is passed, because in this measure ' we have studiously avoided fixing any limit to the amount which a man who is permanently incapacitated may obtain. That is one reason why we have omitted from our schedule the first few items of the Western Australian schedule to which the hon.orable senator has referred - loss of both eyes, loss of both hands, loss of both feet, or total loss of mental powers involving inability to work. Men who are thus permanently incapacitated will by this bill be placed in the category of those for whom there will be no limit to the duration of the weekly compensation payable. When the measure was first submitted to me I concerned myself considerably about the occupational diseases referred to by the honorable senator. The report to which the honorable senator referred, dealt with industrial occupations such as those which caused anthrax and miners' phthisis. The honorable senator has proposed that these diseases should be included in our schedule, but as a matter of fact anthrax arises from wool washing, or wool sorting, or the handling of hides, skins, hairs, bristles, or carcases; and miners' phthisis arises from mining, quarrying or stone crushing or cutting. 
If so, the employees would fall within the control of their particular department. There is very little if any possibility of an " occupational disease " arising out of any employment covered by Commonwealth activities, and there is, therefore, at present no need for the Commonwealth to embark on the larger field to which the honorable senator has alluded. 
I have noted the suggestion of  Senator Thompson.  At present the money comes out of the Consolidated Revenue, but the department concerned is debited with the expenditure. As yet no attempt has been made to establish an internal reserve fund, but it is quite possible that the Treasury officers might with advantage to the revenue adopt some scheme on the lines suggested by the honorable senator. The matter, however, is quite outside the scope of the measure now before the Senate, and a proposal for the establishment of such a fund would have to be submitted in another place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses  1  to 3 agreed to. 
Clause  4  (Definitions). 
 "Employee" is defined as follows: - 
Any officer who is subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1924 and includes any temporary employee and any officer or employee to whom the Governor-General has declared that that act shall not apply and any person who has entered into or works under a contract of service or apprenticeship with the Commonwealth, whether by way of manual labour, clerical work, or otherwise, and whether the contract is expressed or implied, is oral or in writing, but does not include - 
an outworker; or 
any member of the Naval, Military or Air Forces of the Commonwealth ; 
I want to be assured that this definition is comprehensive enough to cover every employee of the Commonwealth, whether engaged under the provisions of the Public Service Act or engaged in railway construction work or in the General Division. " Outworker " means - 
A person to whom articles or materials are given out to be treated or manufactured in his own home or other premises not under the control or management of the Commonwealth. 
Take the case of a woman who is injured in her home while she is making some garment or drapings for a Commonwealth department, or is injured while proceeding from her home to the department to secure material which she is to make up in her own home for the department, or while she is returning from the department to her home with the material. Will such, a woman be covered by this legislation? 
.- If a department of the Commonwealth decides to supply a woman with material to be made up outside, and she comes into the department to make inquiries as to how the work is tobe done and while on the premises of the department is injured, will she be regarded as having been injured in the performance of a duty, and as such be entitled to compensation under the provisions of this bill? 
A careful perusal of the definition of " employee," complicated though it may seem, shows that it is intended to enlarge its meaning. The Governor-General now declares that the 
Public Service Act shall not apply to certain officers; but this definition brings them within the ambit of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill as well as all other public servants and all temporary employees. Confusion may arise in the minds of honorable senators from the use of the words " that that act shall not apply ". It is the Public Service Act that shall not apply. " Out-worker " is defined as a person to whom articles or materials are given out to be treated or manufactured in his own home or on other premises not under the control or management of the Commonwealth. It has always been the guiding principle in workmen's compensation legislation that compensation shall be paid only to workmen who are performing work on Commonwealth premises under the control of Commonwealth officers. The definition in the principal act is the same as this, although some slight verbal amendments may have been made to improve the language. I notice that in the Western Australian act, to which the Leader of the Opposition referred, an outworker is defined in much the same terms. In reply to the specific point raised by  Senator Findley  as to whether an outworker injured whilst in a Commonwealth building, would be excluded from the benefit of the act, I may say that in such a case an outworker would be protected either by her employer or by an arrangement between herself and an insurance company. The one essential in this connexion is that a person must be under some degree of Commonwealth control. 
No. 
Such a person would have to be protected in some other way. Cases have arisen in England where a person employed in a shop or factory under the control of the operative's employers has been injured whilst crossing a road in the course of his employment. It has always been contemplated that outworkers are not entitled to compensation as they are not actually under government control. If an employee had in the course of his duties, to cross a road to obtain information, he would come within the ambit of the act ; but an ordinary outworker would not. 
 I ask the Minister  (Senator Mclachlan),  if members of the naval, military and air forces are exempt from the provisions of the bill because provision for them is elsewhere made? 
.  -  Such officers are covered by the naval and military regulations issued under the Defence Act. 
 The clause provides that- 
In this act, unless the contrary intention appears, employee means .... but does not include  (a)  an outworker; or (b) any member of the naval, military or air forces of the Commonwealth. 
The definition differs from that in the principal act, which reads : - " Any member of the naval or military forces of the Commonwealth while employed on active service ". Is it the intention of the Government under this definition to exclude from participation in the benefits of compensation, any member of these forces injured during the course of his employment ? A member of the air force engaged in effecting repairs to an aeroplane might lose a limb or be otherwise seriously injured. Would not such a per-' son receive compensation? 
I explained this matter in my secondreading speech, when dealing with the history of previous legislation, and said that when the original bill was submitted in 1912, the members of the Naval and Military Forces when on active service, were excluded, but subsequent amendments were made to bring the members of these forces, whilst not on active service, within the scope of the act. They are now covered by defence regulations which contain comprehensive provision for compensation in respect of injuries to members of the forces which is more liberal than that found under the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act. Of course civil employees in these services come within the scope of the act. 
Yes. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Commissioner). 
 I should like to know if any additional expense will be incurred by reason of the fact that the Secretary of the Treasury is to be  ex officio  commissioner for employees' compensation? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Compensation for certain injuries). 
 This clause reads - 
Where an employee sustains, by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment, any of the injuries specified in the first column of the second schedule to this act, the compensation payable under this act shall, when the injury results in total or partial incapacity, be the amount specified in the second column of that schedule opposite the injury so sustained, less an amount received by the employee under the first schedule to this act during any period of his total incapacity arising from his injury. 
The words "by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment ", are somewhat ambiguous.  There  have been instances where employers in contesting claims have been assisted by the ambiguity of the words I have just quoted. What is meant by " arising out of and in the course of his employment?" I have in mind a case recently heard in Melbourne, where an employee was killed by a piece of stone whilst having lunch in a corrugated iron shed in the vicinity of a quarry where blasting operations were being carried out, but at a spot which was regarded as being beyond the danger zone. The relatives claimed compensation under the Victorian Workmen's Compensation Act, but the claim was not upheld. The legal representative of the next of kin appealed to a higher court which ruled that the employer was not liable. One would think that that man was killed as the result of an accident arising out of and in the course of his employment.  I  should like the Minister to give us his interpretation of those words. 

 Senator MCLACHLAN (South Australia - Honorary Minister'  [4.19]. -  The language employed in this instance is that which has had judicial consideration ever since the first Workmen's Compensation Act was passed in Great Britain, and  I  can assure the honorable senator that the trend of judicial decisions in Great Britain and Australia has been in the direction of widening the interpretation of those words to an extent that probably was little anticipated by those originally responsible for their use. 
I"  can scarcely conceive a case in which any injustice could be done by the employment of the language we have used, and it is important from the point of view of the men whose interests are concerned that we should stick to this language, because they know exactly what it means. Only the other day  I  read an article in the  Argus  on  Workmen's  compensation law, and it included a case such as might occur at any time in the relations between employer and employee. The case is referred to as that of " The Teamster and the Cat," and the article deals with it in the following rather humorous terms - 
A teamster took his horses to the stable for their midday meal, and himself sat clown in the stable, as his habit was, to eat his lunch. While he was pensively enjoying his bread and cheese, a cat flew at him, and bit him on the hand so severely that he had to lose two joints of his finger. Now, the cat was no stranger to the teamster, for its home was the stable, and he had often thrown scraps from his lunch to it, but on this occasion he was not feeding it, nor even teasing it. Nevertheless the cat, though it had not previously exhibited any antipathy to the teamster, or any special ferocity of temper, sprang at him without just cause or excuse, and injured him as stated. Then followed a claim for compensation under the act, and the County Court judge made an award in the teamster's favour.  His  employer, however, did not let the matter rest . there, and before the Court of Appeal his counsel argued that the accident did not arise out of the cause of the teamster's employment. Their lordships, however, thought it did, and that it was a very plain case - for the teamster. He was entitled to be in the stable, which was his proper place.  His  empoyment  took him there, where he knew the stable cat, which might be called the necessary furniture of a stable, was. No one expected that the cat would bite, but the man's duties took him to the place where the cat was, and the accident arose out of his employment. Of course, if the teamster had been shown to have incited the cat, that would have been another matter or if the man had been simply walking along the street, and a cat had bitten him, for that his employer would not be liable. 
This serves to show honorable senators the length to which judicial decision has gone on the interpretation of the words " arising out of. and in the course of his employment." I think that it would be a very dangerous thing indeed for those who have to seek redress under the law to alter the form of words. They are now so well defined that both the courts and the persons concerned know exactly what they mean. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  12 - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, an employee shall not, in respect of one accident, except where the injury results in total and permanent incapacity, be entitled to receive as compensation under this act an amount exceeding seven hundred pounds in addition to such expenses as are awarded to him under section 10 of this act. 
 Clause  12  sets out the maximum amount of compensation to be paid for one accident, and states that it shall be  £700  in addition to such expenses as are awarded under section  10,  which deals with medical expenses.  In  the course of my second reading speech  I  emphasized the point that although this measure was a distinct advance on the original act, it was still, in some respects, behind those of the States.  I  pointed out that in Queensland, New South Wales, and Western Australia the maximum fixed was  £750,  and that in Western Australia was paid either in the case of death or incapacity.  I  think that the committee might favorably consider an amendment designed to increase the amount in this bill to  £750. It  is a reasonable request, and we can better afford to pay it- than the States,' whose compensation laws cover a wider field, and whose purses are not so well filled as is that of the Commonwealth. Again, we must remember that the State law affects, not only the employees of the- 
State Governments, but the employees in all private undertakings as well. Seeing that the Government is making an honest attempt to improve this legislation, I think that it would be justified in raising this amount to £750. I know of no logical reason that can be advanced against it. I have often said that as far as social legislation is concerned, we in this Commonwealth Parliament, should set an example to the States and to other countries, rather than drag behind them. Therefore I move - 
That after the word "hundred," the words "and  fifty,"  line6, be inserted. 
This clause was framed after very careful consideration of the acts in operation in the various States, and, while the Leader of the Opposition has referred to the maximums payable under the various State acts, I suggest that they have no application to this clause by reason of the fact that there is no limit to our liability for total permanent incapacity. Let us take extreme cases by way of example. For the loss of both eyes, compensation in Queensland is £750, Victoria £600, South Australia £700, and Western Australia £750. For the loss of both hands, the figures are exactly the same. In the case of incurable loss of mental powers, causing inability to work, 'we are enlarging on what is done by these States, and the limit is exactly the same as in the case of total incurable paralysis of the limbs. Compensation provided in all the other cases shown in the schedule supplied to me is below the maximum of £700 which we have laid down. The most serious case which I can see is the loss of either arm, or the greater parr thereof. In Victoria the maximum compensation is £480 for a right arm, and £450 for a left. In Queensland the amounts are, respectively, £600 and £562 10s., and in South Australia, £560 and £525. In Western Australia it is £675, but it is appropriated in this way - £475 for. the loss of arm at the shoulder, £400 at the elbow, and £350 at the wrist. Thus the amount payable is still below the limit which we have placed in clause 12. I ask the committee to pass the clause as it stands. 
The Minister has not replied to the argument which I advanced. The schedule which he has quoted has to do with an entirely different category of injuries from those now before us.  His  arguments might apply in part when we are discussing the second schedule to this bill, but we are now on clause 12, which sets out the maximum compensation to an employee in respect of one accident, except where the injury results in total or permanent incapacity. The Minister has said that there is no limitto the compensation to be paid in the case of total and permanent incapacity, but this clause definitely limits the compensation in certain circumstances.I say that that is in direct contradiction to the Minister's assertion that there is no limit, because the bill definitely specifies certain limits. I repeat that we ought not to quibble over a matter of £50; and when other States have set us a good example in this respect we ought to follow it. 
I move - 
That after the words " three pounds," clause 1, sub-clause (5), the words "ten shillings" be inserted. 
Under the bill the maximum amount which may be paid to a person who receives an injury is £3 a week. My proposal, if agreed to, will increase the payment to £3 10s. a week, which in view of the high cost of living, is not too great for a maximum payment. Moreover, in at least two of the States - Western Australia and Queensland - legislation providing for a maximum payment of £3 10s. a week is already in operation. 
, - While it is true that the sum provided in the bill is less than the amount paid in some of the States, it represents the average payment in all the States ; and having regard to the fact that this bill places no limit on the time during which the weekly compensation shall be payable, I regret the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
.  - I am sorry that the Minister has not given more sympathetic consideration to the amendment. A man who sustains an injury may be receiving the basic wage, which is the lowest possible minimum wage and does not provide for more than the bare necessaries of life. Surely when a man is incapacitated, because of an injury, and his expenses consequently are greater, he should not be expected to maintain himself and his dependants on less than the minimum wage. 
If a man is killed in the course of his employment the amount of compensation represents a fairly large sum. We have already admitted the obligation of the Commonwealth Government as employer in respect of compensation for injuries sustained by its employees. 
If we admit the responsibility - which we do - the payment should be adequate. A man's expenses are greater when he is incapacitated than when he is well. It is not right that a man who is injured in the course of his employment should be expected to maintain himself and his family on £3 a week. The additional 10s. a week proposed by  Senator Needham  is' justified. I hope that the Minister will reconsider his decision not to accept the amendment. 
I support the amendment. A man who has been incapacitated and has a wife and family to maintain is indeed in a difficult position if his income is only £3 a week. At such times his needs are greater; he requires nourishing food and medicines which are often expensive. He cannot provide these things for himself, and the necessaries of life for his wife and children out of £3 a week. 
I have lived long enough to realize that employers are neither charitable institutions nor benevolent societies. In legislating for injured employees we should treat them as men. Surely honorable senators do not suggest that when a man is sick he should be starved? 
That is true. His expenses are greater. I appeal to the Minister to accept the amendment. 
I trust that ministerial supporters will not adopt the attitude that they must accept in its entirety the bill as it stands. Those who have played a part in the work-a-day world know that in some occupations workmen are subjected to hazardous conditions. Accidents befall  many of them from time to time, and frequently with serious consequences, especially when the employee happens to be a married man with a family. Before the war the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act provided for the payment of £2 a week to those who were partially incapacitated hy accident. The increase of £1 proposed by the bill is not as large as is warranted by the circumstances of the present time. Every honorable senator must realize that in the intervening period, the cost of living has advanced considerably, and that the purchasing power of £2 before the war was greater than is the purchasing power of £3 to-day. The Government could very well give sympathetic consideration to, and a practical endorsement of, the amendment. 
It would not cost the Government very much ; but even if it did, it would be justifiable expenditure. I hope that those broad-minded senators who sit opposite will not be moved by any plea which the Minister may make in opposition to the amendment. I believe that many of them are desirous of doing the fair thing, particularly to those whose wages, even in the most favorable cases, are small, and in some instances are barely sufficient to enable them to make provision for the necessaries of life. When unemployment or sickness are experienced, many of them cannot avoid getting into debt; and should they meet with an accident which deprives them of the capacity to continue at their occupations, their plight is indeed a sad one. The Government would not be acting over-generously if it agreed to increase the amount by the 10s. stipulated in the amendment. I urge honorable senators to support the proposed increase. 
I thank  Senator Findley  for having referred to honorable senators who sit on this side of the chamber as broad-minded gentlemen. I feel sure that we all desire to approach this matter in a humanitarian, frame of mind; but it is quite erroneous to suppose that employers are not at all times prepared to treat generously those unfortunate men who, through no fault of their own, find themselves incapacitated and unable to follow their occupations. My principal reason for rising, however, was to ask the Minister to outline the provisions in relation to child endowment that are in force at the present time; because the statement has been made by one or two honorable senators who have urged the acceptance of the amendment - which at present I am inclined to support - that a mau with a wife and family should receive more than £3 a week during the period that he is incapacitated from carrying on his ordinary duties. If the provision which is now made for the unfortunate man who meets with an accident is not sufficient to enable him to provide what are essential comforts for his wife and family, I shall support with good grace, and a great deal of pleasure, the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  I have always prided myself upon being a good employer, and .have always endeavoured to treat my employees in the way in which I should like them to treat me if our positions were reversed. 
For the information of honorable senators I shall place before them the amount of compensation which is payable by the different States. In New South Wales the maximum amount allowed is £3 a week. In Victoria it is £2, in Queensland £2 15s., and in Tasmania £2 10s. In South Australia it is 50 per cent, of the weekly earnings, subject to a maximum of £5, inclusive of 7s. 6d. a week for each child under the age of fourteen years. In Western Australia it is 50 per cent, of the weekly earnings, subject to a maximum of £3 10s., inclusive of 7s. 6d. a week for each child under the age of sixteen years. Our officers have endeavoured to make the most generous provision possible. It is only fair for me to say also that New South Wales pays a wife and child allowance. Victoria has no legislation along those lines. In Queensland there is a payment of 5s. in respect of each child, with a maximum amount of 30s. a week. In South Australia, as I have already stated, the child endowment is 7s. 6d. a week in respect of each child under the age of fourteen years, and in Western Australia a similar amount in respect of each child under the age of sixteen years. No payment is made in Tasmania. Although the proposed increase to £3 a week may not, as  Senator Findley  has said, be very great, the Commonwealth pays in addition an endowment of 5s. in respect of every child under the age of sixteen years. I assure the committee that although we do not wish it to appear that we are adopting an adamantine attitude in regard to the amount stipulated in the schedule, the matter has had the closest consideration of the officers of the department whose duty it is to see that the fair thing is done, and we consider that we are giving a very generous increase on the rate which has prevailed in the past. 
According to the figures which I quoted a while ago, the total expenditure by the Commonwealth, since the inception of the Commonwealth Workmen's Compensation Act of 1912, has been in the region of £9,000 a year, which is not a large amount. Did I understand the Minister to say that every employee of the Commonwealth Government is in receipt of a child allowance of 5s. a week? 
Do the men who are engaged on railway constructional work receive that allowance? 
I have been under the impression that it applies only to those persons who are subject to the provisions of the Public Service Act. I think the Minister will find that casual or temporary employees who are engaged in occupations such as railway constructional work, do not receive a child allowance. I want honorable senators to be sure on that point before they record a vote. I know that the Minister would not intentionally mislead  the committee; but  I am sure that he has been wrongly informed if he says that men who are engaged on railway constructional work and other work of a similar nature are in receipt of a child allowance. 
Those who are employed in the general division of the Postal Department receive the allowance, but others who are engaged in rough laboring work do not. Those latter, however, will come within the scope of this legislation. I wish honorable senators to realize that this measure is more comprehensive in regard to those whom it will benefit than is that which is to be repealed. The act at present imposes a limitation in relation to the salary that an employee receives, and in addition it does not embrace every employee of the Government. According to the definition of employee in clause 4, the bill now before us embraces every conceivable occupation and every employee who is engaged in any Commonwealth activity. I venture the opinion that the major portion of those who are employed in railway and other constructional work, are not in receipt of the child endowment to which  Senator Robinson  has referred. 
-- They are the men who need all the protection they can get, because they are on the lowest rung of the ladder and receive no more than the basic wage. I thank those honorable senators who have stated their intention to support the amendment. We are not asking for too much. If the additional amount is conceded, it will not place any appreciable load on the Commonwealth exchequer, because the number of employees who, over a period of fifteen years, have received compensation because of injuries they have sustained in the course of their employment, represent approximately only  li  per cent, of the total number employed. It is not possible to assess human life in terms of money ; we can merely give what is equitable and just to those who are stricken down. I again appeal to the 
Minister to accept the amendment, and. thus allow this legislation to be brought into line with that of the State of Western Australia. I am sure it would be a boon to the bread-winner with a large family dependent upon his weekly earnings. 
I do not think the amendment moved by  Senator Needham  will meet the position. The schedule provides for a maximum payment of £3 per week to all those who are incapacitated. The honorable senator proposes to make the maximum amount £3 10s., but I should be rather inclined to support a proposal to make provision for the payment of 2s. 6d. or 5s. a week for each child in addition to the £3 a week paid to the father, the" total amount payable not to exceed £3 10s. I do not think it is equitable to pay the same amount to a single man and a married man with a family. 
But we can make provision for casual labour in an Employees' Compensation Act. I think my proposal would meet the case very much better than would that of  Senator Needham. 
It is a reasonable suggestion that special provision should be made for a married man with a family. The cost of maintaining a household is always increased at a time of sickness, and I hope that this reasonable request for the payment of additional compensation to a married man will be favorably received by the Government. 
.- Although  Senator Needham  may succeed in getting the amount raised to £3 10s. a week, he will not reach his objective, because there are many men casually employed by the Commonwealth who are not receiving more than £4 or £4 10s. a week. Paragraph  b  provides, in the case df total or partial incapacity, for a weekly payment not exceeding twothirds of the employee's weekly pay. If the honorable senator wishes these lowerpaid men to draw £3 10s. a week, he will need to have that paragraph altered; otherwise, a worker would need to receive a weekly wage of £5 5s. to draw the maximum payment of £3 10s. a week. It seems to be the general desire of the committee to give increased compensation, and, in the circumstances, I think the Minister should postpone this part of the schedule 'for further consideration. I should be satisfied if the payment were made on the basis of £3 a week to the father and so much a week for each child. 
That is so. The position is difficult, and I think the Minister would be wise to hold the matter over for further consideration. 
If the Minister in charge of. the bill acts on the suggestion of  Senator Ogden,  I believe the amendment submitted by  Senator Needham  will lead to good results. To those honorable senators who, in effect, declare that the amendment does not go far enough, I say that it certainly goes some way in the direction they desire, and that if we cannot get all we seek, and all they desire, they should certainly support an increase in. the allowance. 
Many single men have heavy responsibilities. Many men are obliged to remain unmarried because they are burdened with responsibilities. Some of them have to maintain mothers, sisters, or brothers. To differentiate between single men and married men would probably be to do an injustice to many single men. 
Exactly. There are in Australia thousands of men matrimonially inclined, but who, because of the burdens upon them, are not justified in taking on the additional responsibilities attaching to married men. Yet honorable senators would differentiate between them and married men with families. I think that adequate compensation should be paid to a workman whether he is single or married, and if the committee is generous enough to say that.  in addition to a fair amount of compensation for partial or total incapacity, it is prepared to go a step further and give so much for each child, I shall not object. 
I rose not only to say a few words in reply to the statements made by honorable senators, but also to ask the Government to accept the suggestion by  Senator Ogden  that the further consideration of the schedule should be postponed. At least four or five honorable senators supporting the Government have stated their intention of voting for the amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition, and in the circumstances the Government would be well advised to agree to a postponement. I hope that, if it does so, it will give sympathetic consideration to the suggestions that have been put forward and that it will do something practicable in respect to the amendment that has already been moved. 
I hope that the Minister in charge of the bill will agree to a postponement; but I want to make it clear that I cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Needham.  I do not think there is any equity in a proposal that, regardless of the circumstances of those who are incapacitated, increased compensation should be paid. Any increase granted should take the form of an allowance for each child. I hope that the Government will postpone this paragraph and bring down an amendment to make provision for the. payment of an allowance to each child of an injured worker up to a fixed age, so that the maximum payment will not ' exceed £3 10s. a week. 
I have already described this measure as generous; but there is inconsistency in it, inasmuch as only those who are entitled to receive child endowment will benefit under sub-paragraph  c.  If provision were made that all employees should benefit in like manner, the bill would be more consistent than it is at present, and would, I am sure, receive the support of the whole committee. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  for reasons which have been very clearly put by several honorable senators. There is, however, something in the contention that paragraph c is not sufficiently comprehensive. Since replying to a point raised by the Opposition, it has occurred to me that there are some employees who do not receive child endowment. Those working under an award of the Public Service Arbitrator, or some other authority, would probably be protected; but there may be others for whom such provision has not been made. Whilst leaving paragraph  b  in its present form., perhaps paragraph c should be extended. In order to permit of further consideration of the matter, I am willing to report progress. 
Progress reported. 
When the bill was under consideration last week several honorable senators expressed their opposition to one or two of its features, and I hoped that to-day the Minister would inform th, Senate of his intention to adopt at least one or two of the suggestions then submitted. As that is not his intention, I wish to stress several of the- points previously raised. I believed the measure in its present form will have a prejudicial effect upon certain monthly newspapers which are not published for profit, but for disseminating information for the benefit of the members of certain organizations. Under the bill the difficulties of the publishers of some Australian monthly newspapers will be increased, whilst overseas publishers will not be affected. The publishers of monthly newspapers do not ask for benefits which are not to be enjoyed by  weekly  newspapers, but desire that all monthly and weekly newspapers should, in the matter of postage, be placed on  the same basis. The Minister, in his second-reading speech, contended that all monthly publications were not newspapers, whereas weekly publications could be so regarded. The Minister gave a departmental definition of newspapers, but many of the monthly publications, conform as much to the definition he gave as do weekly publications. Monthly papers contain certain extracts from the world's news, and some of them also publish articles upon current world events. They also give information gleaned very often by cablegram or correspondence from other countries, which constitute items of news. If this information is news, the papers in which it appears arc newspapers; but the Government contend that because these papers are pub- .lished monthly, instead of weekly or fortnightly, they cannot be classed as newspapers. There are several monthly publications which give in a sense items of news, but, to a large extent, devote their space to fiction, and therefore cannot be classified as newspapers. There are, however, monthly publications that give to those who purchase them information which they regard as news. It is provided in the bill that in the matter of postage there shall be discrimination between weekly and monthly newspapers to the detriment of the latter. 
Not very much individually, but on the total even a fraction of Id. would amount to a good deal at the end of a year. As there is keen competition between monthly and weekly newspapers the subscription rates are. reduced to a minimum. Moreover, contracts are entered into sometimes for twelve months, and this increased rate,  a3  pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition, cannot be passed on. The publishers of monthly newspapers «will be unfairly treated. 
It has been suggested by those interested that the Government should have given some notice of its intention to increase the rates, so that publishers could, if they so desired, pass on some of the increased cost; but even if that had been done, the publishers of weekly newspapers would have had an advantage over those publishing monthly journals. The Government's proposal has aroused a 'good deal of opposition, and I have received correspondence from reputable publishers who feel that in performing a public service, as they undoubtedly are, they will be severely handicapped. Monthly publications which are extensively read in the outback portions of the Commonwealth, contain news matter in a concrete form from all parts of the world. If the Government proposed to place monthly and weekly newspapers on the one basis in the matter of postage, there would be no objection; but to penalize a section of publishers at a moment's notice is not playing the game. 
If the Minister can give an assurance that there is likely to be a delay of some months before the act becomes operative, publishers will have some time to make adjustments; but that will not meet the objections raised by publishers who have entered into contracts for a period of twelve months. 
Yes; but the Government should give sufficient warning before altering postage rates as now proposed. It would make it easier if the Government would fix a date, even six months ahead, for I do feel that we are not quite playing the game as the bill now stands, though there may be a good deal of justification for increasing the rates. I hope that the Minister will agree to alter the bill in the direction I have indicated. Such an alteration would make the measure more acceptable to everybody, and would dispose of a great deal of the criticism now being levelled at it. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with those in control of the post office in what they are proposing to do in this  measure; but I do not think they will achieve their object even if Parliament gives effect to the bill now before it. The Minister has stated that owing to the very cheap rates at which newspapers may be sent through the 'post-, namely, 20 ounces for lid., it is sometimes possible to send as many as 80 papers in bulk for that sum. In order to overcome that difficulty the Minister proposes to reclassify newspapers so that those publications such as periodicals and magazines which, in the opinion of the department, are not strictly newspapers, will come under a different heading, and be subject to an increased charge. It is proposed to charge a rate of 2£d. for 20 ounces on publications so classified. This does not seem to me to be a very great increase, and in listening to  Senator Duncan  I must confess that I was unable to see where any great injustice was being done, for, after all, it is only an increase of one penny on 20 ounces. 
That difficulty can be overcome by allowing a certain amount of time to elapse before the act comes into operation. I contend, however, that the difference between  1½d.  and 2-£d. on these publications is not really worth the trouble of making the alteration. I would suggest that an amendment to the following effect be made to the act: - 
That all periodicals, whatever their size, weight, contents, or arrangement of matter, or interval of publication, shall be forwarded through the post at newspaper rates. 
If that were put into operation it would matter very little to the post office what the definition of a newspaper might be. In conjunction with this amendment, however, I would make an alteration in the postal rates on newspapers; otherwise the position from the point of view of the post office would be worse than now. Instead of allowing newspapers to be sent in bulk through the post at the rate of l£d. for 20 ounces, I would fix a rate of £d. or a Jd. as decided on for each paper. At the present time, the Deputy Postmaster-Generals in the different centres often have great difficulty in determining whether or not a 'certain publication comes within the definition of a newspaper; but if my amendment were given effect to, that difficulty would be overcome. 
They should go through the post in the same way as letters, which is the practice followed in New Zealand, England and other countries. In New Zealand the charge is £d. for each newspaper, up to 5 oz. in weight, and beyond that the rate is higher. That system seems fair and reasonable, and might, I think, be properly introduced into Australia. The reason for the existing cheap postal rates on newspapers is that at the time of federation newspapers were carried free through the post and on the railways in Queensland and New South Wales. In Victoria there was a charge of  id.  for each separate paper, and there was probably a similar charge ii each of the remaining States. When it came to deciding after federation what the postal rates should be on newspapers, the decision was influenced by the fact that the two States which I have mentioned were not charging anything at all. At that time the representatives of New South Wales thought, as I myself did then, that newspapers should be carried free. 
How would the honorable senator get over the objection raised by  Senator Greene?  Would he require each newspaper to be despatched to newsagents under a separate cover? 
Judging by the manner in which the Minister introduced this bill it would appear that he considers it to be of minor importance. He assured us that it contained no new principle. I do not share that opinion. On the contrary, some of the provisions of this measure I regard as so dangerous that honorable senators should hesitate before agreeing to them. Two matters of supreme importance to every citizen are the health and the education of the people. Thousands of pounds are spent annually in these directions. We should, therefore, pause before we place restrictions upon, or in any way injuriously affect, those periodicals which tend to improve the health or educational standards of the people. Journals which, for 40 or 50 years, have been registered as newspapers will, if this bill becomes law, no longer be so registered. The Minister said that the rates now charged to newspaper proprietors and newsagents for the postage of periodicals published weekly did not pay the Post Office. But is that not true also of the big daily newspapers of Australia, some of which are veritable gold mines to their owners? The profits made by the proprietors of such publications are so great that additional postage charges would scarcely be felt by them; but the proprietors of a number of periodicals which are published monthly or bimonthly, containing articles on health, domestic economy and hygiene, scientific and technical matters, art, literature, music, trade notes from all parts of the Commonwealth - in short, articles dealing with matters of great educational value to the community - are in an entirely different position. Many of them are struggling to make their publications pay. Now the Government proposes to deprive them of the privilege of forwarding their journals through the post at newspaper rates. They are to be penalized to the extent of having to pay 60 per cent, additional postage. This Parliament has not hesitated to protect Australian industries when a good case has been made out for their protection. The printing and publishing of these periodicals might well be regarded as an Australian industry. Moreover, it is an industry which disseminates useful knowledge throughout the country. Yet the Government, merely because the present rates of postage on these publications do not pay the Post Office, now proposes to increase the rates. Among the publications which will be affected by this bill are the following-^. 

 The Coach and Motor Builder for Australia and New Zealand. 


 Tlie Decorator and Painter for Australia and New Zealand. 


 The Australasian Saddler and Harness Maker. 


 Australasian, Footwear. 


 The 
 Australasian 
 Grocer. 


 The Fruit World of Australasia. 


 Seedsman and Florist. 


 Australian Leather Journal, Boot and Shoe Recorder. 


 Australian Brewing and Wine Journal. 


 The Victorian Poultry Journal. 


 The Australasian Insurance and Banking Record. 


 Australian Farm andHome. 


 The Pastoral Review. 


 TheCommonwealth Engineer. 


 Chemical, Engineering and Mining Review- 


 Hardware and Machinery. 


 The Draper of Australasia. 


 Furniture and Furnishings. 


 The Chemist and Druggist of Australasia. 


 The Australian Traveller. 


 The Journal of Commerce of Victoria and Melbourne Prices Current. 

Honorable senators will notice that the list includes  The Pastoral Review.  I hold no brief for that journal, because on numerous occasions it has said very hard things about the party of which I am a member, but for 50 years it has been registered as a newspaper. 
 The Australasian Insurance and Banking Record  has also a large circulation. The readers of these and other journals are now to be penalized to make the Post Office pay. Why have these publications been singled out for special treatment? Can it be said that the big newspapers of Australia pay the Post Office when the rate for them is 11/2d. for 20 oz. ? It is true, as  Senator Thomas  said, that many newspapers are forwarded to their destinations by train as parcels, and not through the Post Office at all. On the other hand, thousands of copies of daily and weekly newspapers are sent by post each week at the rate of l1/2d. for every 20 oz. I am associated with a journal - not affected by this bill - which for nearly 25 years has enjoyed a privilege which now is to be taken away from other publications. 
I am greatly concerned about this matter, although I have no monetary interest in the publication to which I have referred. I am interested in the dissemination of news and information throughout Australia, and whatever I can do to assist in the circulation of journals containing such information, I am prepared to do. I remind honorable senators that Australia is yet a young country, and that probably many of the journals which to-day are published monthly will, in the course of a few years, be issued weekly. 
That journal contains information of value to -persons engaged in the pastoral industry. For 50 years its readers have had it forwarded to them at newspaper rates of postage, but now the Government proposes to discontinue that privilege. I hope that the Senate will hesitate before agreeing to alter the rates of postage on journals published monthly and bi-monthly. 
The provisions in the bill to which I have referred, though important, are not so dangerous as are those contained in proposed new section 29b, which reads - 
If, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General, any posted copy of a registered newspaper or registered periodical contains profane, Blasphemous, indecent, obscene, immoral, offensive, libellous or seditious matter, or if, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General, any registered newspaper or registered periodical is not, by reason of the proportion of. advertisements to other matter therein, or for any other reason, within the description of a newspaper or periodical as provided by section twentyeight or section twenty-eight a (as the case may be) of this act, he may, by notice, call upon the proprietor, printer or publisher of the newspaper or periodical to show cause, within the time specified in the notice, why the newspaper or periodical should not be removed from the register, and if within that time sufficient causehas not, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General, been shown, he may direct the Deputy Director to remove the newspaper or periodical from the register, and upon such removal the newspaper or periodical shall be deemed not to be registered. 
That is an entirely new principle. 
That section mentions only indecent or obscene matter in any publication. 
The honorable senator said that the provisions of the principal act were the same as those in the bill. Now that I have shown that they are altogether different, he is trying to fence the question. The memorandum circulated by the Minister states that the new provisions in the bill are printed in black type. This provision to which I am referring is so printed. I ask  Senator Greene,  seriously, whether he approves of that provision? 
The difference is as great as that between night and day. The word " offensive " does not occur in the principal act. Offensive to whom - the Postmaster-General or themembers of the Cabinet? Let me state a hypothetical case. Supposing that I should decide to start a newspaper, and that the first copy which I submitted for registration contained an article which, in the language of  Sir Neville  Howse at a meeting of Nationalists held in Sydney on Friday, the 31st March,stated that a member of the ministry, or one of its supporters, was a liar, and knew that he was a liar; or, in the language of the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page),  that he had " got away with the loot !" Would that be considered offensive? 
I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories, upon  notice - . 
Whether hehas received a petition from the alluvial miners at. Edie Creek protesting against the granting of large leases of alluvial ground and the policy of levying a bounty upon all goldwon? 
Will the Minister make inquiries regarding these complaints, in order to ascertain whether such a policy is not detrimental to mining development and unfair to the individual alluvial digger? 
Yes. 
Action has already been taken to investigate the complaints of the petitioners. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the average cost per yard of the material used by the Defence Clothing Factory in the manufacture of public service uniforms, and from whom is such material purchased? 
What is the average cost of public service uniforms supplied by the factory? 
I will have inquiries made and furnish the honorable senator with a reply as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister lay on the table of the Senate the report of  Mr. Thos.Hill  on the result of his inquiries  re  road construction in America; and if so, when? 
It is not proposed to lay the report on the table of the Senate, but additional copies will be made available to each senator in the course of a few days. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Hob the attention of the Government  been  drawn to a statement appearing in the  press,  alleged to have been made by  Sir Newton  Moore in the House of Commons, to the effect  that what was designated as " tinned chicken " imported into Great Britain from Australia was in reality " tinned rabbit ? " 
What action does the Government intend to take regarding this statement? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is not considered that  Sir Newton  Moore's remarks were intended to be taken seriously. 
Yesterday I submitted an amendment to increase the amount of weekly compensation payable to partially or totally incapacitated employees from £3 to £3 10s. a week. That would bring our legislation into line with that in operation in Queensland and Western Australia, and the extra 10s. a week would be of considerable assistance to a man who had a family to sustain.  Senator Herbert  Hays said that a single man should not be placed in the same category as a married man, and that he preferred an amendment of the schedule in the nature of additional allowance being made for each child. I had in my possession an amendment which I had not circulated to that effect, but I did not refer to it as I was then dealing only with an increase in the weekly payments. I do not subscribe to the doctrine that a differentiation should be made between single and married men. 
No differentiation is made between single and married men in the awards of industrial courts. 
In compensation matters I do not, and I never shall, because I consider that single men should receive the same as married men. Our industrial courts, when determining the wages of married and single men, do not differentiate, and rightly so, too, because the single man, in common with the married man, has only his labour to offer for the remuneration which he receives. The work of the single man is of equal value to that of the married man, and many single men also have heavy responsibilities. In these circumstances, I cannot see why a single man who sustains injury in the course of his employment should not receive the same compensation as is paid to a married man. If the committee will increase the maximum amount of weekly compensation to the extent I suggest, and also provide an additional amount for each child, I shall support such a proposal. The consideration of the first schedule was postponed yesterday to give the Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  an opportunity to reconsider the matter, and, doubtless, he has now some information to give to the committee. 
I do not think it has ever been suggested that in cases of partial or total incapacity the compensation paid should be equivalent to the wage which an employee receives. Relief afforded by charitable institutions  is  not granted on that basis, and I do not think that any Parliament would attempt to bring compensation up to the level of the standard wage. The Leader of the Opposition did not indicate yesterday that he intended to move an amendment in the direction he now suggests ; but endeavoured to show that we should increase the amount of weekly compensation payable from £3 to £3 10s. a week, regardless of the circumstances of the person to whom it was to be allotted. I stated yesterday that I could not support the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition to increase the amount from £3 to £3 10s.; but said that it would be equitable if,  in  addition to a weekly payment of £3, an extra amount were paid by way of child allowance according to the responsibilities of the incapacitated worker. It is only right that single men should receive the same amount of compensation as married men, and no differentiation is proposed in that respect. Additional assistance should be given in the direction of child endowment; but it is obvious that if single men were paid less wages than married men the former would have preference in the matter of employment. The schedule should be amended so that additional compensation may be paid according to the family responsibilities of the incapacitated worker, and not in the direction suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I intimated to the committee yesterday that I would examine the position in regard to child endowment, which was first raised by  Senator Robinson  and later by  Senator Herbert  Hays, with a view to ascertaining whether all Commonwealth employees were covered by paragraph c. I then indicated that I would probably move an amendment to that paragraph which would make it perfectly clear that all employees of the Commonwealth would be placed in the same category, as suggested by  Senator Herbert  Hays, and that  child  endow ment should be paid at the rate of 5s. a week for each child, in addition to the £3 a week provided for in paragraph  b.  In the Western Australian act to which the Leader of the Opposition referred, the maximum amount payable is £3 10s. a week; but that amount is not increased by any payment in respect of child endowment. The maximum, therefore, received by employees under the Western Australian act is £3 10s., irrespective of whether employees have or have not dependent children. We propose to leave the maximum amount payable at £3 a week; but, in addition, to provide for the payment of 5s. a week in respect of each child dependent upon the employee until he or she reaches the age of fourteen, which will harmonize with the age fixed in other legislation. It is proposed to allow paragraph  b  to stand in its present form and to amend paragraph c in the direction I have indicated. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move - 
That sub-clause (c) of clause 1 be left out with a view to . insert in lieu thereof the following new paragraph: - "(c) Where total incapacity for work results from the injury, there shall be added to any amount payable . under the foregoing provisions of this schedule an amount of five shillings per week in respect of each child totally or mainly dependent upon the employee at the time of the injury who is under the age of fourteen years, and the payment of that amount shall be continued during such incapacity until the child in respect of whom the payment is received attains the age of fourteen years: 
Provided that no payment shall be made under this sub-paragraph in respect of any children of the employee in respect of whom he is receiving any payment by way of child endowment independently of this act." 
The proviso is rendered necessary by the fact that in certain branches of the Public Service child endowment is paid even though a man, on account of injury, may not be actively engaged in his work. He is still an employee of the public service, and is paid accordingly. I commend this amendment to honorable senators because it clears up the position. It is evident that as the clause previously stood, employees governed by State awards, casual employees, and others of that kind, might not be able to receive the benefits of the child endowment provision. By this amendment, it is made clear that every employee entitled to compensation shall receive, in addition, 5s. a week in respect of each child up to the age of 14 years. 
I am very glad that the Minister in charge of the bill has been moved by the efforts of the members of the Opposition to liberalize the measure. If it had not been for the amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition, the bill would have gone through in the form in which it was introduced. 
I give credit where it is due. The credit is due to the Opposition for moving the Government to see the justice of the claims we were making on behalf, of those toiling in the hard, work-a-day world. We endeavoured to get the weekly compensation payment increased from £3 to £3 10s., and we also pointed out that the amount was altogether inadequate for partially incapacitated men who had families to support. When honorable senators supporting the Government asked the Minister in charge of the bill whether it contained a provision for the payment of child endowment to all Commonwealth employees injured while in the discharge of their duties, the Minister replied that it did. But when we on this side pointed out that that was not so the Minister apparently made further inquiries, and learned that what we said was correct. Naturally, it would be very unfair for married men permanently employed in the service to be paid the amount specified in the bill, and also to receive the child endowment allowance, while other married men in the service, but not permanently employed, were denied the endowment. That was what we pointed out to the Minister, and it was because of this that the Senate adjourned so early last night, in order to give the members of the Government an opportunity to consider the matter. I am satisfied that the Government would not have heeded this aspect of the matter at all had it not been for the representations of the members of the Opposition. I am glad that the alteration is to be made. It shows that our efforts have not been in vain, and that the Government in this case recognize that the Opposition is doing its work, and doing it well. 
 In order that my honorable friends opposite may not labour under any misapprehension, I wish to inform the Senate that the officers of the department believed that the position was amply covered by paragraph (c) as it stood. However, the Government desired that there should be no room for doubt, and wished to make it clear that all men employed in the service should be eligible to receive the benefits of child endowment. It was our desire that all employees should be on an even footing, and that was why this alteration was decided upon. 
 I am glad that the Minister has made this explanation, because I do not believe that any action taken by the Opposition was responsible for the amendment proposed by the Government. It is doubtful whether the bill will go any further now than it did before, but this alteration will make the intentions of the Government perfectly clear on the particular point involved. There is one matter, however, upon which I am still in some doubt. I am not quite clear as to what the provision exactly does. I understand that it stipulates that where no payment is being made out of the Public Service child endowment fund, there shall be a payment of 53. in respect of each individual child under this legislation. Supposing, however, the child endowment under the Public Service Regulations should be less than 5s. a week, would the payment under the Compensation Act be made up to 5s. a week ? It is possible that child endowment payments might be less than 5s. a week. 
It is now, but it is possible that in the future payments under the child endowment scheme might be less than 5s. a week. I think that there would be some injustice involved in giving to those not participating in the ordinary Public Service endowment fund, a payment of 5s. a week, under thi3 measure, in respect of each child, and paying less than 5s. a week to those, in receipt of the endowment.  I  suggest that the wording of the paragraph should be such as to make perfectly clear what is "meant. 
We did not contemplate a situation arising in which the child endowment payment would be less than 5s. a week, because, at the present time, the amount is 5s. It is possible, however, that it might be reduced, and if it were I doubt whether the clause, as it at present stands, would enable a man coming under the endowment scheme to receive the full 5s. a week in respect of his children. 
My friend opposite can settle that question to his own satisfaction, and in his own way, but we call it child endowment, and  I  recognize that the provision might operate in the direction of preventing a man receiving the full 5s. a week under the scheme. I shall endeavour to redraft the clause to make it clear that not less than 5s. a week 'shall be paid. 
I regard this amendment as an improvement to the bill, and I welcome it accordingly. I reiterate the statement of  Senator Findley  that the Opposition is entitled to some credit for having this amendment brought forward. The Honorary Minister was emphatic in his statement in reply to questions that all employees of the Commonwealth Government were in receipt of child endowment, but when he was faced with a rebuttal from this side of the chamber, he qualified his statement by saying that he was not sure. Every employee of the Commonwealth Government is not in receipt of child endowment. That is an incontestable fact. The amendment now before the chamber stipulates that any employee of the Commonwealth Government who sustains injury because of his or her employment, shall receive, in addition to a maximum of £3 a. week, a sum of 5s. a week for each child up to a specified age. On the question of age  I  am going to ask the Government to reconsider its own amendment. In the original paragraph (c) of the first schedule, it- is laid down that the child endowment of 5s. a week shall be paid during the period of incapacity in respect of every child up to the age of 16 years. The amendment of the measure, while providing for the payment of the child endowment to every employee of the Commonwealth Government, applies only to children under fourteen years of age, instead of sixteen years, as at present. Surely it is not contended that a boy or a girl sixteen years of age can maintain himself or herself. A child that age is mainly dependent on its parents. I have in my mind a youth sixteen years of age, who has just commenced to serve his apprenticeship to a trade. 
That is so ; but in some trades apprenticeship cannot commence until a youth is sixteen years of age. The lad I have in mind receives 15s. a week, which is not sufficient to support him.  Senator Greene  raised another point. 
I agree. Surely no one would have the hardihood to attempt to reduce the child endowment below 5s. a week. I hope, however, that the Minister will agree to make the age sixteen years. 

 Senator MCLACHLAN  (South Australia - Honorary Minister [11.33]. - My amendment provides for childendowment in terms of the Public Service Regulations of the Commonwealth. By an inadvertence the bill as originally drafted stipulated sixteen years, it being thought at the time that child endowment was paid in respect of children sixteen years of age. Investigation this morning, however, showed that it applies only to children up to fourteen years of age. Accordingly, the paragraph has been made to harmonize with the Public Service Regulations. Should the unlikely happen, and the child endowment be reduced below 5s., the legislation with which we are now dealing, would probably have to be amended. Similarly, if the child endowment were increased, an alteration of this legislation would probably be justified. I ask honorable senators to agree to the amendment  as  submitted. These problematical situations can be met when they arise. I regret that I cannot accept the suggestion that the age be increased to sixteen years; the paragraph must be in harmony . with the existing regulations. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 I move- 
That the words  " not  to exceed " clause 1, sub-clause (b) be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words "not to be less than. " 
I cannot accept the honorable senator's amendment seeing that the committee has already dealt with paragraph (b). 
.  -  Yesterday I gave  Senator Needham  the assurance that I would not oppose the recommittal of the bill to enable him to move in a certain direction. I see no reason why the bill should not be recommitted to enable him to move the amendment to paragraph  (b)  that he has indicated to-day. 
First Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Second Schedule - 

<graphic href="118332192805116_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

 I move - 
That the Second Schedule be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following schedule - 

<graphic href="118332192805116_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

Yesterday, in my second-reading speech, I dealt fully with this matter, so that it is not necessary to repeat my remarks at this stage. I agree that the schedule to the bill is an advance on the existing legislation, but it is not so liberal as is the legislation of some of the States. The amended schedule I have submitted is much more comprehensive. 
In some instances the amount is increased by  £150.  The honorable senator will see that for the first six injuries set out in the schedule I have proposed the compensation shall be  £750. 
Some such injuries are not included in the second schedule to the bill. A comparison of the schedules will show that the one which I am submitting is more comprehensive in scope than the 
Government's proposal, and provides for certain specified injuries on a more liberal scale. 
I indicated yesterday that the schedule was prepared after the most careful investigation of the provisions made in the various State acts. The reason for the omission -of the first half-dozen items in the schedule submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  is that the Government considers that cases of total incapacity should be compensated for by weekly payments. A man who loses both eyes certainly is totally incapacitated, as is also a man who suffers the total loss of his mental powers. Under the Government's proposal for weekly payments there is no limit to the time during which compensation shall be payable. I think we may therefore ignore that portion of the honorable senator's schedule for the time being because, as I have stated, we are providing for such cases on a more generous scale. It is true that some States provide larger sums than we have set down in the schedule. It is equally true that for certain cases the provision made by the States is less than is contemplated under this measure. I stated yesterday that officers of the department had fixed compensation to be provided for injuries in certain categories by taking the mean of the amounts provided under the State laws. I recognize that this is and always will be a highly controversial matter. It has been suggested by some that the loss of the fourth finger is more important than the loss of the index finger. This is a matter for experts to determine. The schedule having been prepared as the result of the best surgical advice, it may be said to represent the last word in the matter. The Commonwealth cannot constantly be setting the pace for the various States. Under  Senator Needham's  amendment the compensation payable for the loss of either arm at or above the elbow is £600. Under the bill the amount is fixed at £550. The various State laws make slightly different provision for this kind of injury. Victoria pays £420 for the loss of a right arm and £390 for the loss of a left arm; Queensland pays £525 and £487 10s. respectively; South Australia pays £490 and £455, and Western Australia pays up to £600 allocated thus- £475 for the loss of arm at the shoulder, £400 at the elbow, and £350 for amputation at the wrist. The amounts should really be matters for the decision of the Commissioner. It is impossible for the committee to fix with any degree of rigidity and in considerable detail a schedule to provide for all categories of injury, for which the Commonwealth is liable to pay compensation. The Government has done what it believes to be right in the light of existing legislation in the various States, and on the advice of the best surgical opinion. The mere fact that in some States a particular injury is regarded more seriously than in another is not an argument why the committee should alter the schedule. I agree that there is room for a difference of opinion in this matter, but we have to decide upon some line of demarcation, and I suggest that we have done the fair thing in providing for the average of the compensation paid by the States. 
That is so. In only' a few instances is it slightly lower. Since the Commonwealth is making ample provision for the first half-dozen cases included in  Senator Needham's  amendment, the honorable senator would be well advised not to press it. Whether the schedule to the bill is absolutely perfect remains to be seen ; but it can always be amended if necessary. I can assure honorable senators that it is the result of careful thought and investigation, and represents what the Government believes to be a fair thing as between the Commonwealth and its employees. 
The amended schedule submitted by  Senator Needham  increases the total amount payable in cases of total incapacity to £750 and provides for certain classes of injury not mentioned in the schedule to the bill. I would agree to the inclusion of those cases but for the fact that there is provision in the first schedule for cases of total incapacity. A person 30 injured will be entitled to specified weekly payments. 
I can imagine certain totally incapacitated public servants preferring to draw a lump sum in lieu of the weekly payments. Does the bill contain provision under which they may be bought out by the payment of a lump sum? 
This provision for a lump sum payment is contained in most of the State acts. 
Possibly the Leader of the Senate is right. Since the Go-' vernment has decided that weekly payments shall be made to totally incapacitated persons, I can see no advantage in  Senator Needham's  amendment.  His  schedule increases the total amount payable in certain cases to £750; but, as the Senate has decided that the amount shall not be increased, the honorable senator would be well advised not to press his amendment. As far as I can see, there is no danger of an injustice being done to any one under this schedule to the bill. 
I move - 
That the following new sub-clauses be added - 
Where- 
an employee is suffering from any of the diseases mentioned in the first column of the Third Schedule to this Act and is thereby totally or partially incapacitated for work : or 
the death of an employee is caused by any of the diseases mentioned in the first column of the Third Schedule to this Act, and the disease is or was due to the nature of his employment, the employee, or in the case of death his dependants, shall be entitled to compensation is accordance with this Act as if the disease were a personal injury by accident arising out of and in the course of his employment within the meaning of section nine, and the provisions of this Act shall apply thereto accordingly, subject, however, to the provisions of this section. 
If it is proved that the employee has at the time of entering the employment of the Commonwealth wilfully and falsely represented himself in writing as not having previously suffered from the disease, compensation shall not be payable. 
An employee or dependant claiming under this section shall satisfy the Commissioner that the employee was employed in a process mentioned in the second column of the Third Schedule to this Act and that the disease contracted is the disease or one of the diseases in the first column set opposite the description of the process. 
The Governor-General may, by regulation published in the  Gazette,  declare that any other disease or disease and process shall be included in the Third Schedule to this Act. 
Every such regulation shall on the expiration of three months from the date of such publication, or while in force, have the same effect as if the disease or disease and process named therein were inserted in the said Schedule and this section of this Act shall be read and construed accordingly. 
If my amendment is agreed to it is my intention to move to insert the following new schedule: - 

<graphic href="118332192805116_8_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192805116_8_3.jpg"></graphic>

The only argument the 'Minister has advanced in opposition to my proposal is that Commonwealth employees are not engaged in occupations in which the diseases included in this proposed new schedule can be contracted. I think the Minister is mistaken. Anthrax may easily be contracted by quarantine inspectors in the examination of stock. Zymotic diseases may be contracted by medical officers, nurses, orderlies, or other persons employed in hospitals or quarantine stations, and poisoning by benzol, carbon-monoxide, or nitrous fumes, may be incurred by employees engaged in the manufacture of munitions. In the Federal Capital Territory we have men engaged in the construction of sewers. That is a class of mining work. 
No, because the bill makes no mention of occupational diseases. It is my desire to bring the measure into line with other workmen's compensation acts in Australia. No one can say that Commonwealth employees will not be liable to contract any of the diseases I have mentioned in the different  callings they are following; and knowing of this danger and that it is provided for in all modern workmen's compensation laws, I ask the Minister and the Committee to accept an amendment which will make the required provision in our legislation. 
 This measure is to provide compensation for Commonwealth employees alone. The subject of occupational diseases was brought under the notice of the Senate in  1926,  when the present Leader of the Opposition, who was then occupying a similar position, brought in a bill to amend the Workmen's Compensation Act on practically the same lines as he has submitted to-day. The matter was investigated by officers of the Department of Health to see if there was any need for provision to be made in the direction he then suggested, and in a most exhaustive report which was furnished, it was stated that - 
Provision in the bill for certain occupational diseases is of little moment, because there are practically no Commonwealth employees subject to such diseases. The only branch where such disease might occur is the serum laboratory, and the only instance which appears to have arisen is in connexion with some cases of pneumonic influenza during the 1919 epidemic. 
No case of occupational disease has occurred in that department. I have also discussed the subject with the Minister for Health,  (Sir Neville Howse)  who is of the opinion that there is no justification for the inclusion of a schedule such as the Leader of the Opposition suggests. There is no occasion for providing for cases which are not likely to arise, and even if they did, I think it would be found that the Commonwealth would treat its employees generously as it has done in other instances where there is no legislation to protect them. I ask honorable senators not to load the measure with matter which may be of little or no use. Consideration was given to the subject of occupational diseases before the bill was introduced, because the Government had in mind the efforts made by the Leader of the Opposition in  1926,  to incorporate a similar amendment in our legislation. In view of the information which the Government has received, I ask the committee to reject the amendments 
 The amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  goes far beyond the necessities of the case ; but there are one or two occupations which occur to me, and which I do not think the bill covers. I refer more particularly to the veterinary officers engaged in the meat inspection department,, who may come in contact with carcassesaffected by anthrax, and who may possibly die as the result of contracting that: disease. So far as I can see, no provision! is made in the bill for cases of that character, which, of course, are unlikely, but still may arise. 
It may be contracted from the carcass, wool or hair of an animal. A person, for instance, may contract anthrax from a shaving brush, the bristles of which may have been through a number .of disinfecting processes. That is a specific instance which occurs to me. 
I am not sure, but it is quite possible that in the performance of their duties they may contract this virulent disease, and the Commonwealth might lose a number of its employees.- I trust that such circumstances will not arise ; but, so far as I can see, the bill makes no provision in that direction. Personally, I shall be satisfied if the Minister will give an assurancethat this aspect of the matter will be carefully considered before the bill is debated in another place, and that if necessary the Government will frame an amendment to cover it. 
I am in sympathy with the object of the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  which I shall support if he calls for a division. The number of employees who are not covered by the bill may be small, but all  should be protected. It is easy for employees engaged in sewer, work to suffer as a result of their employment. Accidents sometimes occur as a result of the accumulation of carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide, the former often caused by fire in ill-ventilated places and being especially fatal to human life. As an old miner, I can appreciate the sad experience of many families "when the breadwinner has been smitten down by miners' phthisis. I recall the disaster which occurred a few years ago at the Mount Lyell mine, where an accumulation of carbon monoxide was ^responsible for the death of 40 or 50 men. Something of a similar nature might possibly happen to men engaged in sewer work in the Federal Capital Territory. 
That may be so, but the Commonwealth has some responsibility. 
Employees in munition factories, who have to handle nitric acid, are also susceptible to certain diseases. I agree with  Senator Greene,  and if the Government will promise to look into the matter and endeavour to overcome the difficulties and dangers which, although they may be few, are still likely to arise, I shall not offer any opposition, but if the Leader of the Opposition presses his amendment to a division, I shall support him, because it involves a principle embodied in most Workmen's Compensation legislation. 
By way of interjection, the Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  said that the Government has nothing to do with men employed in the Federal Capital Territory. I differ from him in that respect, because I notice that the definition clause provides that " Commonwealth " includes any territory which is part of the Commonwealth. Is not the Federal Capital Territory part of the Commonwealth ? 
That may be so, but we have not altogether shed our responsibilities. Those employees are paid by the Commonwealth through the Commission, and the bill is to provide compensation for Commonwealth employees. There are Commonwealth employees in several branches of Commonwealth activities who are liable to contract occupational diseases, and who should be covered by an amendment such as I have proposed. Although  Senator Greene  said that the cases may be few, provision should, nevertheless, be made for them. 
The position has not altered so far as I am aware since 1926; but possibly some inquiry should be made as suggested by  Senator Greene,  concerning officers in the meat inspection branch and in the serum laboratories. Meat inspectors are in most cases fairly highly paid public servants, who receive the benefits of other legislation. I shall, however, ask the Minister for Health  (Sir Neville Howse)  to have inquiries made regarding the possibility of officers contracting anthrax and other such diseases, and also if there are any other occupational diseases which should be covered. I indicated during my second-reading speech that employees of the Federal Capital Commission are controlled by an ordinance, as is the practice in other territories under Commonwealth control, where ordinances take the place of legislation. I assure honorable senators that we shall have the matter investigated by officers of the Health Department to see whether there is occasion for any amendment of the measure - not to the full extent asked for by the Leader of the Opposition, but in respect to such employees as quarantine, laboratory, and munition workers. If there is any change in the position, it will be dealt with when the measure is passing through another place. In the meantime, I ask the honorable senator to withdraw his amendment. If he will not do that, I must ask honorable senators to oppose it, and accept my assurance that, if necessary, the matter will be dealt with in another place. 
When I was speaking on this bill last evening I pointed out to the Senate the very great difference between its provisions and those of the act which it proposes to amend. The act sets out that the  Deputy  Postmaster-General may call on the proprietor, printer, or publisher of any publication, a copy of which contains indecent or obscene matter, to show cause why such publication should not be removed from the register; and if such cause is not shown, he may remove it accordingly. But the provisions in this bill go much further and are drastic and dangerous in the extreme. Under them the Postmaster-General would have power to -de-register any newspaper in Australia. He is clothed with despotic power - power too great, and too dangerous, to be permitted in any democratic community. For instance, it is laid down here that any journal which contains "offensive" matter may be de-registered. Last night I put a hypothetical case before the Senate, and in -order that honorable senators may follow my argument, I propose to re-state it. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator will not be in order in re-stating his case. He may not use language in putting  a  hypothetical ease which he would not be permitted to use in a direct statement. 
Do you rule, sir, that I may not in this chamber use the language employed by  Sir Neville  Howse at a recent meeting in Sydney?  His  words were published in all the leading newspapers throughout Australia, and they could not be understood to be anything other than offensive if we are to accept the ordinary meaning of words. Under the provisions of this bill, a newspaper publishing an article containing the words used by  Sir Neville  Howse at that meeting could be de-registered on the authority of the Postmaster-General. If a paper, by means of good business methods and the excellence of its news service, had built up a wide circulation and secured large advertising space, it could, if it published something that, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General, was offensive according. to the meaning of this bill, be de-registered, and once it was de-registered the proprietor would have no redress as far as this bill goes. 
He would have no such right under this bill. The Minister has intimated that an amendment will be submitted later giving a proprietor who might be dealt with in that way power to appeal to a court, but as the bill stands at present there is no such provision. 

 Sitting suspended from 1$).£5 to 2.15 p.m. 

It would be well for honorable senators to consider carefully the serious nature of the provisions in this bill relating to newspapers containing articles which, in the opinion of the Minister, are offensive. A dictionary definition of the word " offensive " is " anything that is hurtful, harmful, or injurious, or of a nature to give offence; displeasing, annoying, or insulting." Bearing in mind that definition, honorable senators will see that any newspaper containing an article which, in the opinion of the Postmaster-General is harmful to his administration, or the  administration of the Government generally, may be regarded as 'offensive and thus be liable to deregistration. Under this provision, a newspaper could be 'debarred from criticizing in any way the administration of the Government. 
I am dealing with this matter not from a party standpoint, but in the interests of the community generally. The Government that is in power to-day may be in opposition to-morrow. Free and candid criticism by the press makes for good government. The readers of newspapers do npt want insipid, indigestible matter served up to them, but meaty articles, both appetising and stimulating. 
Honorable senators who support this bill will be . guilty of assisting to place on the statute-book a measure inimical to the best interests of the people of Australia. The .proposed new section 29b also refers  to  articles which ar.e regarded, by the PostmasterGeneral as libellous. Honorable senators are well aware that even the most reputable journals in Australia, which have been in existence . for many years, have at times been successfully- sued for libel. Under this bill a Postmaster-General with little or no legal training, or knowledge of the law of libel, is to judge whether an article is libellous. 
Assuming that he could do so, are we to understand that yet another board is to be set. up for the purpose of perusing the columns of all newspapers with a view to ascertaining whether they contain articles which might be regarded as offensive or libellous so that they can be deregistered? Are the big daily newspapers of Australia, .some of which have been guilty of publishing libellous statements, to be liable to deregistration almost at the whim of the Postmaster-General ? Under this bill there is no appeal from the decision of the Postmaster-General; his decision is to have the effect of law. 
No provision for appeal is contained in the bill. It would appear that so soon as the PostmasterGeneral decides that a certain publication contains offensive or libellous articles, it will be deregistered and will not be permitted to go through the post until the appeal is heard and determined by the court. If honorable senators will reflect . on the millions of pounds invested in the printing industry in Australia, they will realize how serious will be the position if this bill becomes law. I never expected to see so drastic a measure introduced into an Australian Parliament. Yet, honorable senators opposite were prepared to accept the Minister's assurance that the bill contained no new principle. I agree  with  the writer of  an article in the  Sunday Times,  published in Sydney, wherein he states that - 
A trammelled press is of as much use as are smelling salts to a corpse, and that this bill is the most iniquitous attempt ever made outside Russia in recent years to muzzle the watch-dog of the people - a free press. 
There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that this bill is an attempt on the part of the Government to muzzle the press of Australia. . 
This provision will apply not only to that publication, but also to every newspaper in Australia. Should an article in any newspaper published in Australia be regarded by the Postmaster-General as offensive or libellous, the journal may be de-registered, and its publication stopped. 
It amounts almost to the same thing. It is true that the bill does not specifically state that publication will be stopped ; but the withdrawal of postal privileges and facilities previously enjoyed by the journal, would have a very damaging effect. 
I agree that many thousands of newspapers are forwarded in bulk by rail, and not through the post office; but many of them are  afterwards taken from the railway station in mail vans or coaches which are under contract to the Postal Department. Those newspapers would, I believe, bc also affected by this legislation. 
The power previously vested in the Postmaster-General was that he could call upon the proprietors of journals containing what he regarded as indecent or obscene articles to show cause why they should not be prevented from passing through the post. If the Postmaster-General was not satisfied with the explanation given he had power to stop the passing of an issue through the Post Office, but not to deregister the publication. Those provisions applied only to indecent or obscene articles. The provisions of this bill are of a drag-net character; they are so drastic that it will be almost impossible for any journal strictly to comply with them. For the reasons that I have advanced, I shall oppose the bill, and I hope that honorable senators, realizing the dangerous nature of its provisions, will not agree to it in its present form. 
 I. think  Senator Findley  has unduly stressed the danger of doing what the Government proposes, particularly in view of the fact that the right of appeal to a court is to be given so that in the event of de-registration being wrongly ordered by the Postmaster-General the wrong may be righted on appeal. "While I feel confident that, on the whole,' the provisions to which  Senator Findley  has taken exception will not cause any of the untoward eventualities mentioned by him, I am inclined to agree with him that they go considerably further than the necessities of the case require. On my present information, at all events, it appears to me that the inclusion of the words "offensive and libellous", are unnecessary. I agree that there may be good reason for tightening up the law in many respects. A case that came before the courts recently was not decided in accordance with general expectations. I should prefer the Minister to give definite illustrations of the. need for the inclusion of the words " offensive and libellous." We may assume that these provisions will apply only to newspapers which habitually publish matter that might come within this definition, and that de-registration by the PostmasterGeneral will not be applied in the case of a newspaper publishing offensive matter say, only once. The law, I take it, will only be applied to newspapers continuously offending in this direction. I should l be prepared to agree to the inclusion of the words " profane " and " blasphemous ", and I should have no objection to the words, " immoral " or "seditious. " However, my principal object in rising to take part in the debate was to direct attention to the classification of newspapers. I am afraid that, in this respect, the bill will do more harm than good. The Government proposes to take a large number of periodicals out of the definition of newspapers, and to increase the bulk postage rate on them from 1½d. to  2£d.  for  20  ounces. Is it worth while, for the trifling increase in revenue that will be obtained by this change to upset existing arrangements? I doubt if it is. Furthermore, the alteration will do a distinct injustice to a certain section of the community. There are a number of useful publications, some of which  Senator Findley  referred to yesterday, which are issued monthly. These will be unfairly penalized by the new classification. There are, for example, a number of publications dealing with wireless. The  Listener-in  is published once a week, and the  Radio,  containing the same class of matter, is published once a month. The first-named is classified as a newspaper, the bulk postage on which is l$d. for  20  ounces, while  Radio,  being classed as a periodical, will pay bulk postage at the rate of  2£d.  for  20  ounces. This is not an isolated instance. There are many other publications of a similar nature, some published weekly and some monthly, and the same differentiation is made between them as regards postage. It seems anomalous that while the weekly publications impose the bigger burden on the Postal Department, they enjoy the lower rate of postage. If the new classification really accomplished something worth while, one might even put up with that manifest injustice; but seeing that it does not, I suggest that the Postmaster-General should consider whether it is really worth while disturbing the present arrangements, seeing that the proposed alteration will give a certain section of the community, represented by the newspapers referred to, a definite grievance. Many church papers, I understand, will not fall within the definition of newspapers, and I believe that the Postmaster-General desires to exclude from that definition many others which at present come within it. All honorable senators are aware that the churches, depending  a3  they do for their finance upon voluntary contributions from parishioners, experience ' considerable difficulty in connexion with the publication of their papers. I think, therefore, that the Postmaster-General might very well provide for  their inclusion in  the definition of newspapers. To the department this is a small matter, but to the churches it represents a considerable sum in the aggregate. The churches are purely voluntary organizations, and are deserving of all the assistance which the Government can give to them. While I appreciate fully what the Government is endeavouring to do in the way of tightening up the present law as regards certain aspects of the social life of the people, I appeal to the Ministry to do what is possible to assist the churches in. the way I have indicated. 
, -  There have been several very cogent and well-expressed views in opposition to certain portions of the bill; but, in my opinion, they are not sufficient to justify its rejection on the second reading. I am in thorough accord with certain of the objections that have been stated; but I do not propose, for that reason, to take any action to jeopardize the passage of the measure. Up to the present we have not had much information as to the necessity for the measure itself; but it has been brought before us, and I presume that the underlying principle in these hard times is a pecuniary one. I assume that the Postmaster-General considers it necessary to do what is possible to improve the finances of his department, and on the principle that " every mickle makes a muckle," he is giving attention to very small, and, indeed, extremely insignificant details, including even church publications. The principal objection, and it was well taken by  Senator Findley  up to a certain point, is in regard to the power of the PostmasterGeneral to de-register certain publications adjudged by the Postmaster-General to be guilty of publishing matter described by a long string of adjectives; but not, apparently, of the class which honorable senators have in mind. After all, adjectives are not in every case definite, and they are open to varying interpretations or misinterpretations. Some adjectives may be described not only as indefinite, but as contingent. One of these, the adjective "libellous," has been objected to by  Senator Findley.  A statement published by a newspaper is libellous only when it nas been proved to be so, and the authority to determine its character is not the Postmaster-General, but a court of  law.  Any paper adjudged guilty of publishing libellous statements is usually penalized not by deregistration, but by being required to hand over a stated sum in coin of the realm both as damages and costs. I think we could very well leave it at that. We ought not to throw on the Postmaster-General the onus of deciding whether statements in newspapers, that it is his pleasure and profit to carry, are libellous. 
I have no doubt the Postmaster-General will also try to make that good. But if the honorable senator descends to that view of the subject, he might contend that the PostmasterGeneral is not likely to deregister newspapers and thereby diminish the volume of his postal trade. The word " offensive " is again a contingent adjective. It must first of all be decided to whom a statement is offensive, and the decision does not rightly come within the jurisdiction of the Postmaster-General. In these circumstances I see a great deal of reason in the objections which have been raised, and I hope that this necklace of adjectives will be robbed of a few of its links before the bill gets through the committee. I object also, to a clause .of the bill which tends to restrict the distribution of newspapers. I suppose that the greater proportion of the newspapers that reach the settlers of Western Australia are carried by post. So far postal matters and honorable senators' opinions thereon have been on a purely city basis. I now draw attention to the greater needs of settlers, especially those in remote parts - a class of people who have a greater value per individual to the community at large than those who dwell in cities. It is most important that every facility should be given even, if necessary, at some pecuniary loss, to provide settlers with up-to-date information of what is happening in the world, not to whet their curiosity but to let them know how best they can dispose of the products they are sending -to the markets of the world. I endorse the remarks of  Senator Greene  in regard to church periodicals and those published by societies of people banded together for the purpose of disseminating knowledge and cultivating the arts and sciences. Such periodicals should receive most generous consideration. The objections I have raised may be grave, but they are not sufficient to justify my opposition to the second reading. I look forward to the progress of the bill through committee with a certain amount of hope that the demands now made by  Senator McLachlan  on behalf of the PostmasterGeneral will be considerably modified. 
.- The only matter of importance that has struck me in connexion with this bill is that which has been brought under the notice of honorable senators by  Senator Thomas  - that at present, under the bulk system of postage, as many as 80 separate copies of a publication may be posted for the total cost of11/2d. It is ridiculous to expect the postal department to carry so many periodicals for that small amount, but it does not seem that any material advantage would be gained by increasing the rate to 21/2d. It seems hardly worth while amending the bill to do so. There is, possibly, as much work entailed in handling small publications as there is in sorting and delivering larger and bulkier periodicals, and I suggest that a more equitable basis of charging postage would be to fix the rate at so much per dozen. 
It is rather late in the day for honorable senators to criticize the use of the words " offensive " and *' libellous ", because those words have been in use in the principal act for a considerable time. For instance, section 43 provides: - 
The Postmaster-General or any  deputy  Postmaster-General may at any time cause any postal article having anything profane blasphemous indecent obscene offensive or libellous written or drawn on the outside thereof or any obscene enclosure in any postal article to be destroyed. 
The power to destroy publications is greater than the power of deregistration which is now proposed to be given. Again, section 107 provides - 
Any person who knowingly sends or attempts to send by post any postal article which - (a)..... 
encloses an indecent or obscene print painting photograph lithograph engraving book card or article; or 
has thereon or therein or on the envelope or cover thereof any words marks or designs of an indecent obscene blasphemous libellous or grossly offensive character, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding One hundred pounds or to imprisonment with or without hard labour for a termnot exceeding two years. 
I admit that the use of the word " offensive " lends itself to some of the criticism which has been offered, but I do not think that the word "libellous" should have been interpreted as it has been by honorable senators. 
I would suggest that it means something in the nature of criminal libel, whereas the honorable senator seems to think that it may be made to cover accounts of some of the squalid rows that from time to time occur in certain political circles. It refers to something in the nature of a criminal libel that will be prosecuted in the criminal and not in the civil court. The proposed provision in regard to deregistration is built upon the power the PostmasterGeneral already has to destroy certain postal matter. 
The business of a de-registered newspaper need not necessarily be destroyed. The proprietor has every opportunity to appeal from the decision of the Postmaster-General, and when an appeal is lodged the newspaper may continue to be carried pending the decision of the tribunal which hears the appeal. I have known of cases in which the Postmaster-General has taken action and an  appeal has been lodged. In the meanwhile the newspaper has continued. I have no desire to be too rigid in my adherence to the language used in the bill. The powers of the department certainly need tightening up, but if honorable senators think that the language used ought to be modified I shall be quite easy on the matter. The chief reasons actuating the department in submitting this amendment of the act are met by the other and perhaps more appropriate language used in the clause. 
Although it is not the desire of the Government to interfere with the rates which have been in operation for some time, it is absolutely necessary that there should be a re-classification under which newspapers are more clearly defined.  Senator Findley  referred to one publication - the  Pastoral Review  - which is registered as a newspaper. 
-Possibly so; but I do not think any honorable senator will contend that that publication is a newspaper. Although it is not the desire of the department to impose a heavy burden upon publishers who have enjoyed the low rates which have been in operation in the past or to prejudice them in respect of contracts into which they have entered, its work has become so heavy and unremunerative that an alteration is necessary. I cannot favorably consider  Senator Thomas'  suggestion that we should make an all-round increase in the rates, as the dominant feature of postal legislation throughout the Empire is to transmit daily and weekly newspapers at low rates which are not applicable to magazines or periodicals. It is not a pleasant duty for me to assist in placing further burdens upon publishers of excellent magazines produced in Australia - copies, of which have been courteously supplied to me during the last, few weeks - who claim they will suffer in consequence of the high rates of postage proposed. I have already shown honorable senators that the increased rate is only small; but it is essential to draw a real distinction between newspapers and magazines, hitherto registered' as newspapers, but which are really periodicals. 
The point has been stressed that the proposed amendments to the act will bear harshly on the proprietors of journals which, in consequence of the amendments, will lose their classification as newspapers. It is necessary, in the firstplace, to point out that the publications in question are not newspapers in the generally accepted sense of the word, and it is only the wide definition of a newspaper contained in the present act, and a very liberal interpretation of that definition, which has enabled them to secure registration as newspapers. The proposed amendments to the act will place these publications in a class to which they properly belong, and in which they would be included by any of the other large postal' administrations of the world, which extend concessionary rates of postage to newspapers. Their removal from the newspaper class will not deprive them of the advantages of a bulk rate of postage. They will continue to enjoy this concession, and although their new rate of postage will be higher than the present rate, the increase, under the circumstances which exist, is not excessive and will not, it is claimed, be sufficient to cover the loss the department at present sustains on this class of mail matter. In no other country in 'the world except the United States do publications coming within the proposed definition of a periodical enjoy the advantages of a bulk rate of postage. The publisher has to pay postage at the same rate as the general public, and in most countries, in comparison with publishers in Australia, he is placed under two disadvantages, firstly, that he has no concession in regard to postage, and, secondly, that he has to pay separate postage on each separate package instead of the postage being calculated on the total weight of the consignment of journals posted at the one time. To show conclusively how reasonable are the proposed new rates, I give the following comparisons of the rates of postage which apply in the countries mentioned to periodical publications which do not comply with the definition of a newspaper - 
Australia (proposed rate). - 21/2d. per 20 oz. calculated on the aggregate weight of the copies posted at the one time. 
Great Britain. -1/2d. per 2 oz. per packet. 
New Zealand. -1d. per 8 oz. per packet. 
Canada. -1/2d. per 2 oz. per packet. 
South Africa. -1/2d. per 2 oz. per packet. 
In the United States of America publications such as those in question are charged postage on the basis of a separate rate for the ordinary letter press and a separate rate for the advertising matter contained in the publication - the former is at the rate of3/4d. per1b., and the latter ranges from1d. to per1b., according to the distance the publication is conveyed. There is no doubt that on the average this rate is considerably in excess of the proposed new rate for periodicals, as the latter is only 2d. per lb., irrespective of the distance the publication has to be conveyed. Certain publications issued weekly in Great Britain and registered as newspapers in that country, are of a similar character to certain publications issued monthly in Australia. The latter under the proposed amendments to the act will be classified as periodicals, and in consequence postings by the publishers will be subject to postage at the rate of 21/2d. per 20 oz. In the circumstances, it is pertinent to point out that even under the increased rate publishers of such publications in Australia will still enjoy a lower rate of postage than do their contemporaries in Great Britain, as the rate in Australia will be 21/2d. per 20 oz. calculated on the aggregate weight of the publications posted at the one time, while in Great Britain the rate is1d. per 6 oz., calculated on each posted copy . of the publication. There is ample justification for the proposed amendments to the act. The publications in question are not newspapers in the generally accepted sense of the term, and their transmission at the most unremunerative rate of postage prescribed for newspapers imposes a serious financial burden on the department. The packages of these publications, whether they contain one or more copies, have each to be separately sorted for despatch and delivery in the same manner as a letter or a packet, and the return received in postage is quite insufficient in many cases to even cover the cost of conveyance from the posting to the delivering point, irrespective of the additional heavy cost incurred in connexion with the treatment of the packages during transmission through the post. It is necessary also to point out that while the postage on certain periodicals will be increased, the postage on periodicals which are now transmitted at magazine rates will, so far as the publishers are concerned, be considerably reduced. At present the postage on the latter is at the rate of1d. per 8 oz. on each copy posted, whereas under the new conditions the postage would be 21/2d. per 20 oz. on the aggregate weight of the number posted at the one time. For example, the postage on twenty copies of a publication weighing 9 oz. is at present 3s. 4d., but under the new rate it would be 1s. 101/2d. 
No. The size of certain publications has reached such dimensions as to place a heavy burden upon the department. 
On magazines ; but an advantage will be gained in other directions. The department now desires to place the whole matter on a proper basis without doing an injustice to the publishers of periodicals and magazines. 
Representations on behalf of publishers have been made in this chamber, by letter and telegram, and will later be made by a deputation, and these, as well as the point raised by  Senator Foll,  which has been under the consideration of the. department, will receive attention before the more important clauses of the bill are considered in committee. 
It will receive less revenue on some postal articles, and more on others. I am informed that comparatively few journals are transmitted at magazine rates owing chiefly to the fact that a large number are registered as newspapers; but I shall give honorable senators more information on that and other matters at a later stage. I endeavored to answer by interjection a statement to the effect that if this measure is passed it will interfere with a number of contracts into which the publishers of certain journals have entered. Honorable senators have noticed that this bill is not to come into operation until a date to be fixed by proclamation. I am assured by the department that the rearrangement of its affairs consequent upon the re-classification of newspapers and magazines will take a time sufficiently long to enable all current contracts to expire, and publishers, if they see fit, will be able to re-adjust their prices to meet the added postal charges provided for in this measure. As for church periodicals, that aspect of the matter can, I think, be better discussed in Committee. I can assure  Senator Greene  that no hardship will be imposed by the increase in the rates. The increases, in view of the weight of matter which can be carried, are really infinitesmal. The total amount of the increases are, I have been informed, in the vicinity of one-  fortieth of a penny for each article posted. I ask the Senate to agree to the second reading so that we may go into committee, report progress, and obtain the opinion of those in the trade before the Senate meets again. 
[3.22].  -  I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
When we re-assemble we shall have the Dried Fruits Export Bill and the Wine Bounty Bill for consideration, besides the Post and Telegraph Bill, which we have just been considering. 
 I should like to obtain some further information about the Post and Telegraph Bill. I understood from the Minister that a deputation would wait on the Government, and that the bill would not be proceeded with until that deputation had been received. If that is so, will the Minister inform the Senate when and where the deputation will be heard, and when the bill will again come before the Senate ? 

 Senator McLACHLAN (South Australia - Honorary Minister [3.24].  -  A definite date has not been fixed, but the deputation will probably be received by the Postmaster-General on Monday or Tuesday of next week, so that the necessary information will be available when we re-assemble on Wednesday. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Whether he has noticed a statement in the press made by  Mr. Lambert,  M.H.R., to the effect that an offer of £8,000 was made to him to vacate his seat (West Sydney) in favour of  Mr. Theodore. 
Is there any constitutional method of endeavouring to ascertain the correctness or otherwise of this statement, and, if the facts stated can be established,  whether  action can be taken to vindicate the honour nf Parliament a.nd protect our Parliamentary system from such a practice. 
[3.8]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
As honorable senators will see, the Senate should be able to get through all the business on the notice-paper this week. It is, therefore, proposed that at the end of the week we should adjourn until such time as we are called together again by  Mr. President,  after the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill has passed another place. I am moving this motion now so that the bill, which has just come to us from another place, may be finished this week. It will enable the Minister to move the second reading to-day, and then the debate can be resumed to-morrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Crawford)  read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Wine Bounty Act of 1924 provided for a bounty of 4s. per gallon "on fortified wine exported from the Commonwealth. Through the bounty a large trade was opened up in Great Britain for our fortified wines. In April, 1927, after the whole question of wine bounty had been thoroughly investigated, the Minister for Trade and Customs introduced a measure for the amendment of the act providing that the bounty should be ls. 9d. per gallon, together with the payment of ls. 3d. per gallon drawback of duty paid on fortifying spirits contained in the wine. This made a total payment of 3s. per gallon to exporters. When this reduction was made, the Minister made it clear that the Government reserved the right to re-open the question of bounty payment in the- event of the British Government giving increased preference for Empire wines'. The exact words used by the  Minister  on that occasion were as follows: - 
It is to be distinctly understood that ii, during the term of the bounty, the British Government gives additional preference to Australian sweet wines, the Government reserves the right to submit to this House thai the bounty now proposed be reduced by the amount of the additional preference given. 
At that time the British preference, on paper, was 4s. per gallon. The actual preference, however, was only 6d. per gallon, because our fortified wines of a strength of 34 per cent, of proof spirit which paid, duty at the rate of 2s. per gallon were in competition with foreign wines at a strength of 29 per cent, dutiable at the -rate of 2s. 6d. per gallon. About one month after the bounty was reduced to ls. 9d., plus ls. 3d. drawback, the British budget was introduced which gave a much higher preference to Empire wines. Tha duty on the foreign wines against which we competed was fixed at 8s. per gallon, and the duty on Empire wines at 4s. per gallon. This gave Empire wines of this description an effective preference of 4s.  per  gallon, as against 6d. when the reduction in the bounty took place. The Government would have been justified in introducing a measure to provide for a further' decrease as soon as the increased 
British wine preference duties came into force. However, it was considered that it would be more satisfactory to postpone such action until there was no doubt as to the effectiveness of the new preference. During the twelve months that have elapsed, attempts have been made by British importers of foreign wines to reduce the effectiveness of the British preference by importing lowstrength foreign wines at the lower rate of duty, and blendingthem with foreign wines of a high strength at the higher rate of duty. Though this has been attempted, the resulting blends have not been very successful, and have not done much damage to our trade in fortified wines. The Government has closely watched the position, and, after close investigation, has decided that the proposed reduction is justifiable. . 
The Government has taken into consideration the question of contracts made by wine exporters prior to 8th March, when the present reduction was introduced. It has concluded that these contracts should be honored, and has provided that, where the Minister is satisfied that contracts were properly entered into before that date and that they are still existing, the reduced rate shall not apply. Wines shipped according to these contracts will be entitled to1s. 9d. per gallon bounty. The quantity of wine sold under the contracts alluded to is about 570,000 gallons. Some wine exporters gave notice of intention to export wine just prior to the 9th March and their wine was either on its way to the ship or was on the wharf ready to be shipped. In some cases, the wine was actually on the ship. These wines left the Commonwealth after the reduction in the bounty was announced. It was considered fair and reasonable to allow bounty on these wines at1s. 9d. per gallon. The quantity involved is approximately 48,500 gallons. A trade with Canada is being established for our sweet fortified wines and there is promise of a big increase. As there are no effective preference duties there for our wines as against foreign wines, it has been decided to allow fortified wines shipped to Canada to enjoy the old rate of1s. 9d. per gallon. The bill is recommended to the Senate as a carefully studied measure, the. Government being sure that the suggested reduction to1s., plus1s. 3d. drawback of the duty paid on the fortifying spirit used in the wine, is quite sufficient assistance to further develop the wine export trade. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham),  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill was framed in order to meet the wishes of the Governments of the States in which dried fruits are produced, and of the industry generally. Its main object is to provide that no grower shall receive more than a fair share of the advantages and disadvantages in regard to the sale of his dried fruits within the Commonwealth and overseas. It frequently happens that the overseas market is unprofitable, whereas the fixed prices in Australia enable the grower to receive a satisfactory return in respect of the proportion of his fruit marketed in thiscountry. Without some measure of control, it would be possible for some growers to take advantage of the better Australian market to the detriment of others, who would be compelled to export overseas more than a. fair share of their fruit. In 1924 growers decided by a very large majority at a poll taken throughout the Commonwealth in favour of a measure passed by Parliament for the establishment of an export control board. The function of this board is to lay down a general marketing policy in respect of the sale of dried fruits overseas. It has no power to determine the proportion of fruit which must be marketed in Australia or sold abroad. The Governments of Victoria and South Australia, which are vitally interested in this industry, passed legislation later in the same year, and more recently the Governments of New South Wales and Western Australia passed similar legislation to enable boards to be established in those States. The function of these boards was to determine the proportion of fruit which must be exported, and in each State the growers by a substantial majority affirmed the principle of the establishment of State boards  in order that the industry might become properly organized. Little or no difficulty was experienced by the State boards in regard to the fixation of the export quotas until some months ago, when the Government of South Australia was involved in litigation which sought to defeat the system of legislative control in force in all the dried fruit-producing States. The South Australian board, acting under its legislative powers, compulsorily acquired a quantity of fruit held by a packer and dealer which he had failed to export in accordance with the determination of the board. It was held by the High Court that the Dried Fruits Act of South Australia was unconstitutional in so far as it prescribed the quantity of fruit which must be marketed outside the Commonwealth. The High Court took the view that the State act was an interference with the freedom of trade between the States, and, therefore, contravened section 92 of the Constitution. The Dried Fruits Acts of the other States contain a similar provision. The State Parliaments of Victoria and South Australia have amended their acts by providing, in effect, that the enforcement of the provision relating to the marketing of a proportion of the fruit outside Australia shall not operate so as to interfere with the freedom of trade and commerce between the States unless and until enabling legislation to that effect is passed by the Commonwealth Parliament. It is understood that similar legislation to that passed by the Victorian and South Australian Parliaments will shortly be introduced into the New South Wales and Western Australian Parliaments, so that the position will be uniform throughout the Commonwealth. The Government does not propose to delegate its power to the States, but to make use of prescribed authorities, which will probably be the State boards, to act on behalf of the Commonwealth in carrying out Commonwealth powers in connexion with the marketing of dried vine fruits. 
It was that the South Australian legislation was unconstitutional. It prescribed the quantity of fruit which could be sold outside the Commonwealth. 
That is what I have already said. It is provided in the bill that packers in those States in which there is a production greater than can be consumed within the State may engage in interstate trade only under licence issued by the prescribed authority. It will probably be a condition of the licence that before interstate trade can be undertaken the packer will he required to satisfy the prescribed authority that he has complied with the export quota conditions. The power delegated to the various State boards will enable the effective work of those boards to be carried on under the supervision of the Commonwealth in the interests of growers, and, with their full concurrence, I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
.  - The Journals of the Senate show that when the bill was in committee  Senator Needham  moved an amendment to the first schedule, that that amendment was rejected, and that the schedule was passed. I am quite unaware of the object of the honorable senator in now moving for the recommittal of the bill, and I am sure that other honorable senators also are in the dark. He should indicate his reason for wishing to have the first schedule reconsidered. 
 I was under the impression that the Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  and other honorable senators were well aware of my object in asking for the recommittal of the bill. It will be remembered that during the discussion of the first schedule in committee, the Minister moved an amendment to paragraph c of Clause 1. I had intended to move an amendment toparagraph  b,  but after the Minister's amendment had been disposed of, the  Chairman  of Committees ruled that I could not do so. The Minister then agreed to my having an opportunity to recommit the bill for the purpose of submitting my amendment. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  also agreed to such a course being adopted. In conformity with that agreement, I have today moved for the recommittal of the measure. Honorable senators will notice that paragraph  b  provides that the compensation payable shall be - 
Where total or partial incapacity for work results from the injury a weekly payment during the incapacity not exceeding twothirds of the employee's weekly pay at the time of the injury, such weekly payment not to exceed three pounds. 
I desire to move that the word " exceed " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " be less than." 
.- I trust the committee will support toe in my effort to secure the rejection of this clause which sets out the definition of a newspaper. If the deletion of the clause is agreed to, I shall move for the insertion in lieu thereof of the words contained in section 28 of the principal act which reads :  - 
For the purposes of this act a newspaper shall mean any publication known and recognized as a newspaper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and printed and published within the Commonwealth for sale, if - 
it consists in substantial part of news and articlesrelating to current topics, or of religious, technical or practical information; and 
it is published in numbers at in tervals of not more than one month ; and 
the full title and date of publication are printed at the top of the first page, and the whole or part of the title and the date of publication are printed  at  the top of every  subsequent page. . . . 
Under this section journals or periodicals which are published at intervals of more than seven days, come within the definition of newspapers and are registered as such. For many years they have had the benefit and privilege of the postal rates which, if this measure becomes law, will apply only to daily and weekly newspapers. I ask the committee to realize that the action which the Government is taking will seriously penalize the proprietors and publishers of journals which are of the highest educational value to the community. Printing  is an important Australian industry, and should receive the same measure of protection that is given to hundreds of. other industries. Merely to obtain additional revenue for the Post Office, the Government proposes to increase by 66 per cent. the postage rates on journals which are published at intervals of more than seven days. 
The present rate for newspapers is l½d. for 20 ounces. This bill proposes to make it 2½d. for 20 ounces for journals published at intervals of more" than one week. That -additional tax is an unfair imposition on the proprietors or publishers of journals issued monthly or bi-monthly. Many of the publications which will be affected by this bill have enjoyed newspaper rates of postage for periods varying from ten to 50 years.  The Pastoral Review,  formerly known as  The Pastoralists Review,  was registered as a newspaper long before the foundation of the Commonwealth. It has always enjoyed the privilege of newspaper rates of postage. But under the new definition of" newspaper " that journal, with dozens of other publications, will have to pay additional postage- rates. Have honorable senators considered the effect that the passing of this bill will have on the printing trade and those associated with it ? Do they realize that it will mean less employment among printers, journalists, magazine writers and others ? 
SenatorReid. - The honorable senator is making a mountain out of a mole hill. 
I am not. The definition of "newspaper" in this bill is manifestly unfair. A periodical published weekly will still be regarded as a newspaper, whereas a similar periodical published monthly will not be so regarded.  Everylady's Journal-  a well established journal which is attractively set up, well edited and contains much that is not only extremely interesting and informative but, also, of high educational value to thousands of women throughout Australia - merely because it is published monthly will, after the passing of this legislation, no longer enjoy newspaper rates of postage. Yet  The Mirror  and  The Woman's Budget,  which cater for the same class, of reader and contain, in the main, articles and information of the same nature will, because they are. published weekly, come under the definition of "newspaper" and continue to enjoy the benefits of newspaper rates of postage. 
SenatorFINDLEY.- That is doubtful. If the Minister will peruse his second reading speech on this bill, he will see that he distinctly stated that journals published within seven days and registeredas newspapers would not be affected by this legislation.  The Mirror  and  The Woman's Budget  are registered as newspapers and, because they are published weekly, they will, according to the Minister's own statement, continue to go through the post at newspaper rates. Another monthly publication,  Life,  contains an epitomized review of world affairs written specially for busy men. That journal, whose many readers throughout Australasia look forward to receiving it month by month, will be penalized under this bill. 
SenatorFINDLEY. -  Life,  merely because it is published monthly will, after the passing of this legislation, no longer be recognized as a newspaper; yet journals like  The Bulletin, Smith's Weekly, Truth  and  Beckett's Budget,  which are published weekly, will continue to go through the post as newspapers. 
SenatorFINDLEY. - That power exists under the principal act. I am now dealing with the proposed increased postage rates which will have to be borne by the proprietors or publishers of journals published monthly or bi-monthly. Apparently the only object of this amending legislation is to obtain a little additional revenue for the Postal Department. 
SenatorReid. - In that case, what is the necessity for so great a protest ? 
The proposed additional rates of postage will inconvenience the community in many ways. Many public utilities established for the benefit of ' the community do not pay directly, although they pay indirectly. Is it not a fact that the proprietors of the great daily newspapers of Australia get their telegrams and cablegrams at cheap rates, because their publications are supposed to have an educational value to the community? Monthly publications also have ' an educational value to the community. If this bill goes through in its present form, many readers of monthly publications will not be in a position to buy them. 
The proprietors of these publications, who have built up big circulations through the post,- and thus brought additional revenue1 to 'the Postal Department, will be called upon to pay 66$ per cent, extra postage. I ask the committee to hesitate before passing the bill in its present form, and to support the amendment I have outlined. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
 "When we were last considering this bill, the Minister in charge  (Senator McLachlan)  intimated that during the week-end a deputation, representative of the various interests concerned, would wait on him or the PostmasterGeneral and that by the time' we re-assembled he would have a statement to make. He has . not made that statement, and in the absence of it, we resume the discussion of the bill in the position in which we found ourselves on Friday last. According to this clause a publication may be registered as a newspaper, if it is " a publication  which  is published in numbers at intervals of not more than seven days." The basis for the amendment  of the act is the difference set up between seven and thirty days. The  Minister  contends that a magazine giving information on technical matters is not a newspaper. I do not agree with that. I propose to. mention a  few  publications which are likely to be affected by the bill and to- ask  whether  they should not be treated as newspapers inasmuch' as they contain not only news, bat also 'information which is very valuable' to the community'. "Can such' weekly publications as the  Mining Standard, Golf in Australia, Wireless Weekly, ' Construction,  and  Australian Manufacturer,  by the widest stretch of imagination .be classed ' more as news'papers than such monthly publications as  Golf, Stead's, Woman's World, A.N.A., Life, The Pastoral Review,  and  the .Commonwealth Engineer?  What is the difference between  Golf,  the monthly publication,, and  Golf in Australia,  which is issued weekly? Can it be. said that  Stead's  does not convey tu the people of Australia important news, and news of an educational value? Will' the Minister deny that the  Pastoral Review  and the .  Commonwealth Engineer  are educational publications, containing news of vast importance to the people of the Commonwealth? I think they are. entitled to be classed as newspapers, just as much as those weekly publications I have named. The Minister claims that the Government has a precedent for its present proposal in the fact that Great -Britain and the United States of America have adopted the principle of a seven days' interval; but I remind- him of the vast disparity between the population of those countries and that of Australia. We have approximately only 6,000,000 people in Australia, and consequently many Aus. tralian publishers cannot publish more than once a month. There is practically no difference between many of the weekly publications and some of the monthly publications I have mentioned. They contain the same class of news . The Minister appears to lay emphasis on the fact that the additional rates of postage will not amount to more than fd. per lb. It may seem a small increase ; nevertheless it amounts to a 40 per cent, increase on the parcels postage in bulk. It will cost in the case of the  Pastoral Review,  for instance, an extra penny to post a single copy.  Senator Findley  has already referred to the privileges which, are enjoyed by proprietors of newspapers. These privileges are cheaper telegrams and cablegrams and cheaper railway fares to the proprietors or members of their staffs when travelling interstate.  I.n the event of the clause being agreed to, thus depriving monthly publications of the right to be classified as newspapers, I want to know how these proprietors will be affected in respect of the concessions which they now enjoy. So far as I can see the bill will certainly inflict an injustice on many people in Australia, there will be an entirely new definition of a newspaper, the transmission through the post of certain periodicals which to-day are read by many people in Australia will be rendered more difficult, and an unjust tax will be imposed on those persons engaged in the business of publishing periodicals. In the circumstances I hope that the Minister will realize that a mistake is being made. 
As it is the wish of  Senator Findley  to retain the provisions of section 28 of the principal act, he can best achieve his object by voting against clause 7 which seeks to repeal that section. The period between the issues of a publication is not, as  Senator Needham  would have the committee believe, the sole determining factor in defining what is a newspaper. Under the proposed new section 28, a publication may be registered as a newspaper if  it is known and recognized as a news paper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and is printed and published within the Commonwealth for bona fide sale at the advertised price as a business proposition with a view to earning profit and is a publication which - 
consists in substantial part of current news and articles or illustrations relating thereto or to other current topics ; 
is published in numbers at intervals of not more than seven days; and 
has the full title and date of publica tion printed at the top of the first page, and the whole or part of the title and the date of publication printed at the top of every subsequent page, and has each page consecutively numbered. 
A weekly publication is not necessarily a newspaper unless it complies with all the requirements of the proposed new section. A publication is either a newspaper or not a newspaper; it does not automatically become one because it comes out once a week. 
SenatorFindley. - Did not the Minister say on the second reading that publications issued once a week and at present registered as newspapers would not be affected by the bill? 
I do not think I said so. Clearly it could not be the case with many of the magazines and journals which have been referred to by my honorable friends opposite, but wjiich cannot by any stretch of ' imagination be classed as newspapers. The proprietors of such publications have enjoyed this benefit for so long that naturally they wish it to be continued. Actually the Postal Department, in its concessions to such publications, is granting a substantial bounty to a certain section of the community. 
I shall deal with the point raised by the honorable senator as I proceed. Unless a publication complies with the requirements of paragraphs  a  and  b  of the clause which I have just quoted, it will not come within the definition of a newspaper, whether it is issued once a week or once a month. 
The PostmasterGeneral. 
No, unless we insert in the bill a provision for the right of appeal. But I put it to honorable senators that if we do this, the last position of the people who are using the post office for the conveyance of this class of mail matter may be worse than the first. If the Postmaster-General exercised his power to deregister certain publications very few of them would again be included in the classification. The Government's proposal is really intended to regularize the position and to correct what is generally regarded as an anomaly. 
It is one of the bases that has been universally adopted.  Senator Findley  directed attention to the position of  Everylady's Journal, The Mirror  and  The Woman's Budget.  I understand that in future they will be in the category of periodicals and the proprietors will be required to pay postage on them at the rate of 2½d. per 20 ounces. The honorable senator has correctly described  Life  as a periodical. It can in no sense of the term be regarded as a newspaper.  The Bulletin, Smith's Weekly  and many other similar publication's are clearly newspapers within the generally accepted meaning of the term and will continue to be classed as such. As  Senator Duncan  has stated, if they ceased to be published weekly, and instead, appeared at intervals of a fortnight, they might still contain news, but would not fall within the classification of newspapers. The press telegraphic rates, I understand, will remain as at present, so the various publications will not be affected in that respect by this measure. 
Can the honorable senator say that they have the benefit of the newspaper rates to-day? 
-At all events I am instructed that the press rates for telegrams will remain as hitherto. The Government's proposal is to put in one category, newspapers which are newspapers in the true sense of the term, in that they publish current news from day to day or week to week, but at no longer intervals than seven days. I cannot say how often  The Industrial Australian and Mining Standard  and that other estimable publication mentioned by  Senator Thomas,  Golf,  are issued, but by no stretch of imagination can they be classified as newspapers. Therefore they are not entitled to inclusion in the category of such publications and enjoy the postage rates applicable to newspapers. 
No.  Senator Needham  made some reference to the tremendous population in Great Britain and the United States of America, and reminded us of what is being done by the postal authorities in those countries. I venture to suggest that is one of the reasons why we should adopt the provisions in this bill. The Commonwealth Post Office has to carry mail matter over tremendous distances and, as we have discovered, at a conaider able financial loss. At my suggestion the departmental officials were good enough to prepare certain interesting information bearing on this point. This shows that a magazine classed as a newspaper, 1 lb. in weight, is carried by the post office for many hundreds of miles for l½d., and actually it costs the taxpayers of this country 6½d., the cost of railage, apart altogether from the service which the post office renders by handling and distributing this class of mail matter. This is the burden which is thrown upon the postal department by publications such as  The Pastoral Review  and others which, at present, are classed as newspapers. 
Speaking for myself I should say it has been going on far too long. The concessions given in this way by the Postal Department represent a bounty to a certain section of the community. For the transmission of magazines 2 lbs. in weight, the postal department receives 3d., and the cost to the country is 6½d. The rates show a loss until we reach the weight of 15 lbs., when the department receives 1½d. more than the actual cost for the carriage of suchmail matter. Having regard to the position it is only right that we should take steps to remedy it. W. should not expect the Postal Department to incur a direct monetary loss on the conveyance of mail matter. 
On the contrary. I understand that the loss on the handling of that class of mail is between £200,000 and £300,000 per annum. 
They include everything. 
I should say it does not. 
It is diffi- cult to say, but we may be sure that there will be some increase in revenue. 
 I regret that I was not present to take part in the second-reading debate on this measure. The amendments of the principal act proposed by the Government appear to be somewhat drastic and the people concerned, now that they realize what is being attempted, are displaying keen resentment. I do not think, however, that there is any need to delete, as proposed by  Senator Findley,  the whole of this clause which is a vital part of the bill itself. A slight amendment should meet the situation. Sub-section 1, of section 28, which clause 7 proposes to delete, reads as follows: - 
For the purposes of this act a newspaper shall mean anypublication known and recognized as a newspaper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and printed and published within the Commonwealth for sale, if- 
it consists in substantial part of news andarticles relatingto current topics, or of religious, technical, or practical information; 
The vital words appear to me to be "consists in substantial 'part of news and articles relating to current topics ". I should like honorable senators to note that the words " or of religious, technical or practical information", which appear in the principal act, have been omitted from this bill. I regret thatvery much. Information in relation to those subjects is much more important than a lot of other news which is printed, such as that published recently in relation to an outrage in Sydney, which it would have been far better not to have published because, in addition to its being uneducational, it was rather degrading. I propose to move for the reinsertion of the words " or of religious, technical or practical information ". The clause would then read - . 
Consists in substantial part of current news and articles, or illustrations relating thereto or to other current topics, or of religious, technical or practical information. 
I intend also to move that the words " seven days " in paragraph  b  be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " one month ", and thus restore the provision to the form in which it appears in the principal act. There is a further slight omission in the bill in regard to supplements. The principal act provides that - 
A publication printed on paper and issued as a supplement to a newspaper shall be deemed to be a supplement and to be part of the newspaper if - 
it consists in substantial part of reading matter other than advertisements, or of ' engravings, prints. lithographs, or coloured supplements. 
The words " or coloured supplements " do not appear in this bill, and I cannot understand the reason for their omission. I have had conversations with the trade regarding the matter, and have been informed that there is practically no difference between, a lithograph and a coloured supplement ; one is printed from metal and the otherfrom stone. It has beensaid that only a few journals are concerned in this proposed amendment of the law; but otherhonorable senators have shown that quite a number will be affected. Since the nature of the alterations has become known,I have received many protests. The following telegram has been sent tome from Adelaide - 
Publishers monthly periodicalspublished in commercial andagricultural interests here unanimously opposed excessive increase in postage. Will undoubtedly prove detrimental to' publishers printing trades and readers. Sincerely hope you will use endeavours and influence to reject from the publishers controlling  Storekeepers' . and Grocers' Journal, South Australian Motor, Farm, Stock and Station Journal, National Roads Association, Railway Officers' Journal, South Australian Freemasons, Garden and Field, Adelaide Church Guardian,  and other similar publications. 
That will be the effect if the words " religious, technical or practical information " are not included and " monthly " is altered to " weekly." The South Australia Farmers' Union have sent me a letter along similar lines, which I shall read because it shows the likely effect upon the co-operative movement, which the Government is doing its best to foster. The people in the country want to be supplied with information that will assist them in their operations, and their particular needs are catered for by agricultural journals. The letter reads - 
In the event of the bill being passed as drafted, there is no doubt that co-operative companies will be placed in a very unpleasant position. It is essential that the co-operative view-point should be kept before members, and the most convenient way in which this can be done is by means of a periodical. If monthly papers, however, are eliminated from cheaper rates by legislation, the expense in this direction will be seriously increased, and very great inconvenience will be caused to this union, representing as it does nearly 16,000 members - mostly primary producers. Such a paper as  The Farm  unquestionably benefits the farmer by keeping him in touch with topical news, and also in introducing to his notice different articles used in farm operations. 
Reference has been made on a number of occasions to the Pastoral  Review.  When I was in Sydney recently, I got into touch with that newspaper, and I now have one of its issues in which 105 pages are devoted to reading matter and 106 pages to advertisements. They have written to me in the following terms: - 
I see by this morning's paper that a bill is before the Senate dealing with the classification and postage rates of newspapers and periodicals, from which I gather that the classification of a newspaper is a publication which publishes once in seven days. This cuts out all monthly publications such as  The Pastoral Review, Insurance and Banking Record,  and the numerous trade journals, religious monthlies, &amp;c, which up till now have enjoyed the status and privileges of a newspaper, which latter include postage and cable rates. The scattered country population of Australia depends largely upon the monthly newspapers for its knowledge of current happenings. In classifying monthly publications as journals the cost of distribution is very considerably increased, and this we regard as a class tax on publications that could not economically be brought out at more frequent intervals, and which are of as great value as news distributors in the country as the weeklies. .We have a Monthly Newspapers' Association in .Melbourne which will meet early next week and ' consider what action should be taken to combat the. bill. .' ' 
On the question of cable and telegraphic rates, I' have received from the same source a further letter which' reads - 
A further injustice would be. done to this paper if it were removed from the list of news papers. We should lose the privileges of press, cable, and telegraph rates. Our cables from abroad, London, and Argentina, giving shipments and prices of wheat, wool, and. grain, for instance. Our cables from New Zealand and Africa giving results of particulars: of show-ring prizes. Also bur press railwayprivileges would be lost. At present in alf countries we receive press rates when travelling on the railways, and this has been our privilege since 1891. You will see by this what a serious handicap will be placed on  The Pastoral. Revieu)  if its status is lowered. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired:. 
I am assured that the question qf cable and telegraphic rates need not engage ourconsideration. The privileges of such, publications as the  Pastoral Review  willi be preserved. 
I am instructed that they are entitled to the benefit of press rates in regard to tele grams and cables. The  Pastoral Review  is a monthly publication which, at present, is registered as a newspaper at the General Post Office, Melbourne. I suggest that it is not a newspaper in the general acceptance of the term. It contains little that can be classed as news, such as that which is published in a daily newspaper. In short, it is exactly what it styles itself - a review - and, therefore, it comes under the postal classification relating to magazines, reviews and similar publications, with respect to which the rate of postage is Id. for 8 ounces. An examination of the issue of 28th February last, shows that it is a bulky publication. The weight of that issue was 16 ounces.. It contained 174 pages, of which 87 pageswere devoted wholly to advertisements^. Other pages also contained advertisements. It will be seen that at- least 50 percent, is devoted to advertisements. Of the 87 pages of letterpress and illustrations 24 are devoted to a description of: certain pastoral properties, &amp;c. Thesearticles, and illustrations are printed on a, good class of heavy paper which- adds*  considerably to the weight of the publication. The remaining pages of letterpress consist of articles such as generally appear in reviews. It is necessary only to refer to. the table of contents on page 27 to see that such is the case. Publications of this nature are not newspapers, and it is only the wide definition of a newspaper contained in the present act, and also a liberal interpretation of that definition which has enabled them to secure registration as newspapers. The time has long since arrived for publications such as the  Pastoral Review  to be placed in the postal classification to which they properly belong, and in the main, the amendments to the act which are now proposed are to this end. The effect of the.. proposed alterations to the act is, so far as the  Pastoral Review  is concerned, that it will be transferred from the register of newspapers to the register of periodicals, and the rate of postage will be increased from l½d. per 20 ounces to 2½d. per 20 ounces, an increase of four-fifths of a penny per lb. The effect so far as the general public is concerned, that is as regards the posting of a copy of the journal by one individual to another, is nil, as a periodical weighing 16 ounces will require the same amount of postage, namely, 2d., as a newspaper of that weight does to-day. As regards weekly and monthly publications of a similar character I may say that the frequency of issue of a publication is not in itself the determining factor in deciding whether a publication is a " newspaper," or a "periodical." To be eligible for classification as a newspaper, a publication, in addition to being issued not less than once a week, must consist in substantial part of current news and articles or illustrations relating thereto, or to other current topics. At present certain publications of a similar character are issued weekly and monthly, respectively, but this of itself will not necessarily result in the former being classified as " newspapers " and the latter as " periodicals." If a weekly publication does not comply with the provisions of the bill in regardto news, it will be placed in the same class as a monthly publication, and each will be charged  the same rate of postage. Particular care will be taken by the department to prevent the weekly journal obtaining an advantage over the monthly publication simply by reason of its more frequent issue. 
I intimated to the committee when this measure was last under consideration that it was expected that a deputation would wait upon the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Gibson)  at Canberra. The department communicated with the New SouthWales Master Printers and Commercial Traders' Association, asking it to fix a day. This it did not do, but its representative courteously sent me a communication, in which he stated that any respresentations in addition to those already made to the Postmaster-General and his officers would doubtless be of little use. He concluded - 
In the circumstances of your definite reply it is concluded that a deputation could not alter your decision; but the members of my association respectfully ask that a clause be inserted in the amending bill clearly setting out the definition of a newspaper. 
The association is anxious that a clear line of demarcation shall be drawn, as I think has already been done, between newspapers and other publications. As that has been provided, there should be little ground for complaint.  Senator Chapman  seems to think that paragraph  a  of subclause . 2 of proposed new section 28, which relates to supplements, alters the original provision in such a way as to provide a different effect in regard to supplements. Paragraph  a  of subsection 2 of section 28 of the principal act reads - 
A publication printed on paper and issued as a supplement to a newspaper shall be deemed to be a supplement and to be part of the newspaper if - 
it consists in . substantial part of reading matter other than advertisements, or of engravings, prints, lithographs or coloured supplements. 
The department in endeavouring to clarify the position proposes in this bill the following amended definition: - 
A publication which is printed on paper and issued as a supplement to a newspaper, and which - 
consists in substantial part of reading matter other than advertisements, or of engravings, prints or lithographs, and is enclosed in each copy of the relevant issue of the newspaper. . . . shall be deemed to be a supplement and to be part of that newspaper. "A supplement is thus clearly defined, and I do not think that  Senator Chapman  need he under any misapprehension concerning coloured supplements. If the amendment which  Senator Chapman  has outlined were carried it would have the effect of vitiating the clause. 
That is not the responsibility of the department. 
That is a matter for the department to determine. 
All that Parliament can do is to frame legislation under which the newspapers published in Australia will in the matter of postage be treated as in other countries. We cannot determine what these newspapers shall print, and in that sense act as censors. The Government cannot be responsible for the moral effect of the publications to which  Senator Chapman  referred. If  Senator Chapman's  amendment were adopted it would not remove the anomalies which at present exist. 
It seems to me that this proposed departure from a system which has been in force for many years is not justified, particularly as the amount of revenue to be gained as a result of the amended legislation will make little, if any, impression on the £172,080 which the department lost last year. It will, however, have the effect of interferingwith the custom which has prevailed for a number of years of allowing certain publications to be registered as newspapers. 
There is no reason why we should disturb the present arrangement if the change will be of no benefit to the department. 
I differ from the honorable senator. I regard this as a retrograde step, and one which no business firm would adopt. I shall be quite content if paragraph  b  of sub-clause 1 of proposed new section 28 is amended by leaving out the words " seven days " and inserting in lieu thereof the words " one month." The provision would then read - 
A publication may be registered under this act as a newspaper if it is known and recognized as a newspaper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and is printed and published within the Commonwealth for bona fide sale at the advertised price as a business proposition with a view to earning profit, and is a publication which - 
is published in numbers' at intervals of not more than one month. 
I suggest such an amendment in the interests of several publications circulated in Queensland, and with which no doubt  Senator Reid  is familiar. For instance, the  Queensland Mining Journal  is in every respect a newspaper. It is published monthly, and contains news concerning the mining industry, which is read by many persons interested in the industry, but is not published in the daily newspapers because they cannot afford the necessary space. The same could be said concerning the  Queensland Sugar Journal,  which the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  mentioned, and which contains a good deal of information useful to the sugar-growers and others interested in the sugar industry. That journal contains information of a character that daily newspapers ought to, but cannot find space to publish. There is also a publication issued in New South Wales entitled  Harbour,  containing information of great value to those engaged in the shipping business and to others. It contains news of a character that is eagerly looked for every month in the shipping world, but which owing to the pressure on space is not published in the daily newspapers. There is also the  Australasian J ournal of Pharmacy,  which meets the requirements of chemists, and contains a good deal of information which is useful to not only those engaged in the profession, but to the general public. There are other similar publications, which give valuable information concerning industries and professions; and which although not published weekly, should properly be regarded as newspapers, will be affected, I will not say seriously, by this clause. I ask the Minister to seriously consider an amendment such as I have suggested. If the period is extended from seven days to one month I shall support the clause. 
At an earlier stage I intimated my intention to move in a certain direction, but I can achieve the same result by voting against clause 7 as it stands. That I propose to do, and I ask honorable senators to support me. If successful, we shall thenrevert to the provisions of the original act, section 28 (1), of which reads - 
For the purposes of this act a newspaper shall mean any publication known and recognized as a newspaper in the generally accepted sense of the word, and printed and published within the Commonwealth for sale, if - 
it consists in substantial part of news and articles relating to current topics, or of religious technical or  practical information; and 
it is published in numbers at intervals of not more than one month; and 
the full title and date of publication are printed at the top of the first page, and the whole or part of the title and the date of publication are printed at the top of every subsequent page. 
That section is in operation to-day and has been in operation for many years. The proprietors and publishers of every newspaper and magazine published in Australia are aware of its provisions, to which they have taken no exception. The Government has acted unwisely in introducing this bill which contains such drastic provisions. Apparently the Minister has not given full consideration to the measure which he has introduced. If he had done so, he would not have baulked at so many hurdles. 
That is true, but he is a gentleman with legal training. The statements made by the Minister when introducing the bill, are atvariance with those he has made here to-day. In his second reading speech he said - 
Before going on to explain the effect of these alterations as regards publications which will thereby be removed from the newspaper class, I wish to stress the point that no publication which is at present registered as a newspaper and is issued daily or at intervals not exceeding one week will be in any way affected. Such publications will remain in the newspaper class and continue to be transmitted at the existing rates of postage. 
That speech was made only a fortnight ago. To-day the Minister's statements are totally different. He says now that journals which are published at intervals of more than one week and are now registered as newspapers will, under this legislation, be classed as magazines or periodicals for which the rates of postage will be 2½d. for every 20 oz., instead of 1½d. for every 20 oz. 
When I asked the Minister the meaning of "newspaper " or " current news ", he replied that the definitions would rest with the Postmaster-General. 
Yes, under the principal act, but such definitions will not have general  application under this bill. 
We may well ask what constitutes current news. I have here  The Pastoral Review,  a somewhat bulky publication, which contains information regarding the wool and frozen meat markets in the different countries of the world as well as special articles relating to industries of great importance to Australia. Wool is our staple industry; a good wool clip means a great deal to Australia.  The Pastoral Review  contains much valuable information which is not obtainable from other journals. It caters specially for pastoralists; other journals cater for other sections of the community. I am hot pleading solely for  The Pastoral Review,  1  merely instance it as typical of the journals which are published monthly. If the bill is passed in its present form, endless worry and anxiety will be caused to proprietors and publishers of various periodicals throughout Australia. I am greatly concerned about this bill. I was born and reared in the work-a-day world and spent many years in the printing business. I know that to-day many men who have served their apprenticeship to the printing trade, or are connected with the printing industry in various ways, are out of work. In a communication received recently from the proprietor of a journal published in Melbourne, which will be affected by this legislation, the writer stated that in response to a recent advertisement notifying a vacancy on his staff,  50 men  applied for the position. The passing of this legislationwill throw more men out of employment. Some of the publications which will be affected by it have been struggling for a long time to get on their feet. The persons whom this bill will affect are now rendering valuable service to the community by supplying them not only with general news but also information of technical and scientific value. Any thing that will raise the educational standard of the people will receive my support. Are honorable senators supporting the Government not concerned about an industry of great value to Australia? Are they not concerned about the readers of the journals which will be affected by this bill? Those who are scientifically minded and wish to increase their knowledge of technical matters, or desire to be conversant with the conditions existing in industry; as well as women who read with avidity the journals published in their interests - journals containing patterns of clothing, and articles of domestic economy and hygiene - will all be affected by this bill. Some of the publications which will be required to pay increased rates of postage have been registered as newspapersfor half a century; others for  25,  fifteen or ten years. Now, merely because the existing rates of postage on those journals do not pay the post office, the Government proposes to raise those rates by  66  per cent. 
Yet, the proprietors of daily and weekly newspapers, some of whom are rich beyond the dreams of avarice, are not to be interfered with; they are to continue to enjoy the existing privileges of cheap postage rate. Honorable senators should not lose sight of the fact that with an increased population many of the journals now published monthly or bimonthly would probably circulate weekly. The Post Office is not more seriously affected by the rates of postage on those journals, than it is by the rates charged in respect of newspapers published daily or weekly. While not advocating increased rates of postage on daily and weekly newspapers, I wish to repeat that if any section of newspaper proprietors is in a position to meet increased postage rates, it is that section which controls the big daily newspapers of Australia. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
 Senator Findley  is entitled to all the comfort he can obtain from his reference to my second-reading speech; but I trust thathe will allow me to observe that when words are torn from their context they convey quite a different impression of what has been said. It is quite plain from the  Hansard  record of my second-reading speech that I indicated in the clearest possible language the" distinction to be drawn between magazines and newspapers. Before I made use of the words quoted by my honorable friend, I said :  - 
The amendments to section 28 of the act are designed to place this matter on a satisfactory basis and to define as, a newspaper only those publications which are newspapers in the generally accepted sense of the term; are issued at intervals of not more than seven days and consist in substantial part of current news and articles, or illustrations relating thereto, or to other current topics. 
Then I proceeded to discuss the provision . and used the words referred to by  Senator Findley.  The language of the clause is plain. The object is to place newspapers and periodicals in two different categories. The present position is not satisfactory to the Postal Department in as much as these publications are being, carried on at a loss. Although we may be quite sympathetic with the proprietors of periodicals and may have no desire to impose an additional burden on them, the position calls aloud for some alteration. Everywhere a distinction is drawn between daily or weekly newspapers and magazines which specialize in giving certain information. I have every reason to admire the  Pastoral Review,  which provides great facilities for its subscribers, but 87 out of 174 pages in one issue are devoted to advertising and 24 to illustrations of pastoral properties. Can the  Pastoral Review  be placed on the same footing as a daily newspaper? I suggest that neither branch of this Parliament ever intended that publications of that character or those that contain reviews of literature should be classed  a3  newspapers and have the benefit of the exceedingly cheap postage rates that apply to newspapers. The distinction to which *I have referred is drawn in other countries, and I see- no good reason why the committee should baulk at passing this provision which will help to systematize the matter and put it on a better footing while doing no injustice to one class of publication as against another. 
If the bill is passed in its present form it will be a great blow to a big industry. I am informed that some publications will not be able to carry on. 
I can give the name of my informant. I cannot understand why the bill should make a direct attack on monthly publications which convey very valuable information to outback people particularly concerning the position of markets overseas, information of a sort which is of the utmost importance to people outback. 
It may do so when proper relay stations are established, but the statics are too bad at present to enable remote listeners-in to take advantage of radio. I have received a communication informing me that the  Australasian Insurance and Banking Record,  the  Pastoral Review  and the  Victorian Producer,  issue 21,000 copies a month and pay £70 a month in postage. If this bill is carried the cost of distributing these valuable periodicals will be increased by 40 per cent., representing £336 a year. It is questionable whether the publishers of these papers will be able to stand the extra impost, and if they are compelled to cease publishing their subscribers will be deprived of very valuable information. For instance it is of untold value to the pastoralist to know how the wool market stands at any time and when it is best for him to export his wool, and he may be deprived of that information if the  Pastoral Review  is compelled to go out of circulation. I have a letter from Fitchett Brothers, publishers. They state that this bill will penalize them to the extent of 66  J  per cent, of their present circulation. They have been publishing for the last 30 years and during that period have spent £40,000 in postage and have received £150,000 through the post in connexion with other business associated with their papers. Thus there is another side to the question. People advertise in periodicals with a view to bringing in business, and in that way extra business is brought to the Postal Department. For instance, mail orders are sent by post. It is questionable if the extra business gained by way of additional postage and money orders in that way does not make up for the small loss which the department declares it suffers through carrying periodicals at the present newspaper rates. I think the Minister might accept the suggestion to make the period one month instead of one week. Provision is made in the bill by which the proprietor of a periodical who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Postmaster-General may appeal  to  the High Court. The man who thinks about applying to the High Court had better see first where his fortune is - if he has any - because if he does so the possibility is that in the end he will have very little of it left. I have had my experience of the law. The case in which I was 'concerned did not last for more than five days but it was sufficient to cause me to realize that when one goes to law one is out of pocket. The time it would take to secure finality would be fatal to a publisher's business in many cases. Many publishers may not be able to afford to appeal to the High Court, if their publications are not classed as newspapers, and they will simply have to go out of business. If there is to be an appeal it should be made a less cumbersome and less costly process. I have received quite a number of letters protesting against this bill, and it seems to me from perusing, them that the only effect of the measure will be to disorganize a big industry and possibly cause a considerable amount of unemployment. Last week the Minister said that he did not think the bill would make much difference to the revenue of the department, but now he tells us that the retention of the existing section will entail a loss on the department* That loss is unimportant seeing that this great industry is serving Australia in an educational way and conferring considerable benefit upon outback people by supplying them with information which they would not otherwise be able to obtain. The Government would be well advised to reconsider the clause. 
As I said on the second reading I have the greatest possible sympathy with the Postal Department in its desire to amend the act. I quite agree with the Minister that the present rates for the carriage of newspapers and other publications are such as to " show up " the post office in many respects, and that something should be .done to remedy this state of affairs, but I cannot see how this bill will do it. The Minister has told us that at present as many as 80 newspapers can be sent through the post to addresses all over Australia for ltd. It appears that if this bill goes through these 80 newspapers will be carried for 2½d. The department thus will gain Id. more if 80 newspapers are carried, lOd. more if SOO are carried, and 8s. 4d. more if 8000 are carried. It does not seem to me that the amendment will improve the revenue of the department to any great extent. Of course the Minister might ask why honorable senators should bother about such a trifling extra impost. I am ready to advocate anything that I think is worth while even if it may be unpopular : but I cannot understand why the Government should advocate something that is unpopular when material gain is to be secured by doing so. I do not regard this measure as drastic. The departmental view is that it represents a reform; but in my judgment the reforms to be achieved by it are so slight that they are not worth troubling about. If the Government proposed to adopt rates such as those obtaining in New Zealand or England, where the charge is so much for every copy posted, the reform might be worth while. 
At all events it would achieve something. It is to be regretted that the Minister is not in a position to state the estimated additional revenue expected to accrue from this reform. Such an answer to a question seeking that information may be accepted in the Senate, but I imagine that if the Postmaster-General in another place furnished such an indefinite reply he would have a few unpleasant minutes. at the hands of honorable members. Are we to believe that the department does not know what increase in revenue will result from this so-called reform - whether it will be £5, £5,000 or £50,000? I understand, that under the new rates periodicals may be posted in bulk. Can the Minister say how this will affect the revenue ? 
I believe that is so, but the point I wish to make is that under this bill they may be handled under the bulk rate of postage. I listened attentively to the speech of  Senator Findley,  and I understand from the Minister's reply that if newspapers are published at intervals of not more than seven days, they will remain in their present classification. This will unfairly affect a number of publications. I have two in mind  - Grit,  published once a week, and another called  Liberator  or  Victory,  which is published once a month. Both are  temperance newspapers. What I now wish to know is whether  Grit  will be classified as a newspaper, and the other publication "be designated a periodical ? 
We are to understand then that certain publications which have been registered as newspapers for many years will, under this bill, be classified as magazines or periodicals ? 
I presume, .then, that the bill will affect church papers such as  The Methodist,  which has been registered as a newspaper, I suppose, for about 40 years. It is published once a week. Another in the same class, called  The Men's Own Paper,  is published Ones a month. I imagine that church authorities who are responsible ' for- such publications are not thoroughly alive to what is going to happen to their publications under this bill. 
I shall certainly support  Senator Findley,  because I doubt if the bill will lead' to much in the' way of reform. We are completely in the dark concerning the financial side of the measure. The Minister is unable to give us any idea of the probable increase iu revenue. All he can say is that the department expects there will be an increase. The Minister's explanation does not seem to me to be satisfactory. I shall therefore support  Senator Findley. 

 .- Senator Thomas has just  said that, according to a departmental view, the bill represents a reform. I regard it as a reactionary measure. , We have spent the best part of . three days in endeavouring to ascertain, from the Minister in charge what will be the probable increase in revenue, and he is unable to inform us. I could understand this lack of information if the bill were being disposed of hastily; but, in the circumstances, the Minister's admission is most unsatisfactory  Senator Chapman  has indicated that he proposes, to submit an amendment to reinsert sub-paragraph  a  of section 28. It defines a newspaper, as a publication consisting - in substantial part of news and articles reluting to current topics, or of religious, technical, or practical information. 
The Minister did not state whether the Government would accept the suggested amendment. Are we to understand that the Ministry proposes to penalize religious publications, some . of which are issued free? Does the Government propose to place them on the same footing as newspapers which are earning a substantial profit for their proprietors? Surely this is not the intention of Parliament. Unless the clause is amended, as suggested by  Senator Chapman,  an injustice will be done to a considerable section of the community that is interested in the publication of such papers. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) [5.33 1 . - I do not think that the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McLachlan).  suggested, in his second-reading speech", that the adoption of the proposed amendments to the act would lead to a marked increase in revenue, though he indicated that in all probability there would be a slight increase.  I gathered from his remarks that' the Postmaster-General was reviewing the classification of a number of publications, some of. which are,. in his opinion, improperly registered for transmission through the post as newspapers, ^understand that the Minister has the power under , the existing act  to either  agree or refuse to register as a newspaper any. publication. . The way is, therefore, clear for the department to rid itself qf the objection which attaches to the carriage of publications of a bulky nature. I trust that when the bill becomes law the department will give the widest possible interpretation . to the definition of " newspaper ". Replying to  Senator Findley,  the Minister said that the department has been carrying many publications at a considerable loss, and he cited an extreme case to justify his. contention. He referred to the long distances covered, but ignored the fact that bulk postage is. paid in the majority of cases, and that such publications are distributed mostly in the larger centres of population. We should endeavour to popularize the distribution of magazines and other periodicals in the outlying districts, where the population is sparse, and the people do not enjoy the amenities of the cities and towns. The Minister also referred to the bulky nature of much of the postal matter that the postmen have to handle. That argument does not apply to the small, outlying districts, because in those centres the residents have to call at the post offices to collect their mail matter. 

 - Senator Findley argued that the existing provisions have been in operation for 50 years, and that, therefore, they should not be interfered with. I consider, however, that the Postmaster-General is justified in re-organizing his business in the light of the experience which has been gained, if that re-organization does not mean the raising of additional revenue.  I  should not support this measure if it were intended to use it as a means to increase the revenue. The Postal Department is now returning a surplus. 
I accept the statement of the Minister that the object is to re-organize the department. 
The post office should not be used as a taxgathering machine to obtain more revenue than is necessary to enable it to carry on its operations. I intend to move at the appropriate stage, that all newspapers, magazines, and other publications which are donated to public hospitals and other charitable institutions shall be carried free of postage. I shall be glad if the Minister will indicate the clause in which that provision can be inserted. It would be a step in the right direction, and should receive the favorable consideration of all honorable senators. Many persons are actively engaged to-day in hospital and other charitable work, a portion qf which consists in collecting and sending to the inmates, newspapers and other reading matter. This country should encourage those efforts, and be generous enough to carry such reading matter free , of charge through the post. 
Earlier in the debate I indicated that I intended to move two amendments. I now move - 
That after the words " current topics " proposed new section 28, sub-section 1,  paragraph  (b), the words "or of religious or technical information " be inserted. 
Some members of the committee appear to think that the provision would be too wide if the word " practical " which appears in the principal act were also added; therefore, I have not included it in my amendment. The whole of the administration seems to depend upon the proportion of advertisements to news matter. According to the definition in the bill, for the purpose of registration a publication is to be regarded as a newspaper " if it consists in substantial part of current news and articles or illustrations relating thereto, or to other current topics." Apparently technical and religious information is not to be regarded as news, although up to the present it has been so regarded, and has warranted the registration of the publication in which it has appeared. An issue of the  Pastoral Review  that I have received contains no fewer than 105 pages of news matter; yet, under the proposed definition, it . is not to be regarded as a newspaper and thus will be denied registration. If honorable senators will study many of the daily newspapers they will find that the volume of advertisements is three times as great as that of news. 
After all, " what's in a name " ? This publication provides a better class of news for a large section of the community. The issue that I have contains articles on the close of the wool sales, country wool-selling, and other subjects that are of interest to the pastoralists. 
They are not. This is specialized information, which those who subscribe to this journal cannot obtain from the daily newspapers. The information iri relation to Australian wool shipments, stud sheep and other matters is given ' in greater detail than in a daily newspaper.' But, because the  Pastoral Review  commits the sin of publishing only once a month, it is proposed to refuse it registration as a newspaper. Honorable senators probably have seen in some newspapers as much as two pages of advertising matter supplied by one firm. I am informed that firms who advertise on such a scale purchase large numbers of the issue for advertising purposes, because they are allowed to send a certain number through the post without paying anything more than bulk postage on them. The periodicals upon whose behalf  1  &amp;m  pleading publish a good class of reading matter upon technical, educational and art subjects; yet, according to the definition in the bill, if it is not current news they cannot be registered as a newspaper. Information such as that published in the press the other day concerning an outrage in Sydney is regarded as news, but that of an educational character, unless "current," is not. I trust that my amendment will be carried so that religions or technical information will be regarded as news. I also trust that publications such as the  Pastoral Review  will not be removed from the list of registered newspapers merely because they are published monthly. 
Earlier in the discussion, I expressed my intention to move in a certain direction for the specific purpose which  Senator Chapman  is now endeavouring to accomplish. 
I did, so that we should revert to the position under section 28 of the principal act. If the honorable senator will peruse that section he will see that one of the amendments he has moved, and another which he has indicated his intention of moving, would practically have that effect. 
Yes. Throughout the debate I have urged that we should strike out the whole clause and so retain that provision in the principal act. The Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  referred to the  Pastoral Review,  to which I understand he subscribes, as a bulky publication. From the information which he gave, he has apparently had some one busily at work to ascertain the number of pages in that journal which are devoted to news and to advertising matter. He endeavoured to prove that it was not even on a " fifty-fifty basis, and advanced that as a reason why it should not be classed as a newspaper. I have gone to the trouble to ascertain the quantity of space devoted to news and advertising matter in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which is one of the oldest established daily newspapers in Australia. Last Saturday's issue of that newspaper consisted of 30 pages and 240 columns, 71£ of which comprised illustrations, sporting, commercial and general information which can be regarded as news, and 167£ columns comprised advertisements. That is considerably over the " fifty-fifty " basis mentioned by the Minister, and I think we can say that a similar proportion of the space in many other journals published in the capital cities, particularly in the case of Saturday issues, is devoted to advertising matter. 
Yes, the number of advertisements is evidence of the value of the paper not merely to readers but to the advertisers. Trade follows the flag, and it is true, also, that advertisements follow the circulation of a newspaper. Newspapers which receive the greatest number of advertisements have the largest circulation and are newspapers within the meaning of the act. It has been said that the pen is mightier than the sword. We know what the world owes to those who, as a result of their writings, have been instrumental in bringing ab&amp;ut reforms highly beneficial to the community. As the Minister has said that the object of this amending measure is mainly to secure additional revenue, I am justified 'n asking if we are to measure every proposition from a financial viewpoint. In Victoria the railways commissioners have, at the expense of the community, equipped a costly train known as the Better Farming train. This train carries experts on different subjects, who instruct farmers in the best methods to employ in cultivating the  soil and in breeding stock. It also carries nurses who instruct mothers in the care of children, and women lecturers who speak on domestic economy and hygiene. There is no direct return from such services, but they are of wonderful educational value to the community. The great White Train in New South Wales which tours the whole State does not pay, but is of undoubted indirect benefit to the people. In these circumstances we are justified in contending that it will pay the Postal Department to carry journals which it does not regard as newspapers, at the existing rate as the knowledge thus disseminated will make for higher education and a healthier community. I ask honorable senators who usually support the Government not to be induced to agree to this clause merely because it is necessary to raise a little more revenue. Our education system is not expected to pay, neither should our telegraphic and telephonic services be expected to show a profit. Just as the losses on some services ' are borne, not by those who  receive the direct benefit, but by the whole community, so the loss, if any, incurred in carrying periodicals at the newspaper rate should he shared by the people. We must also consider the effect of this amending legislation upon those who are engaged in the printing and publishing business, and the extent to which the efforts of Australian writers and artists may be discouraged. I know men in the journalistic world - " free-lances " - who obtain their livelihood by writing special articles for journals which will he affected by this bill. If the proprietors or publishers of such journals are penalized to the extent of 66$ per cent, in respect of postal rates an unfair burden will be placed upon them. If this measure becomes law the size of some of the journals may be reduced and others will probably cease publication. This would have the effect of throwing men out of employment. If the Government will not agree to the amendment I have outlined', it is my intention to support  Senator Chapman's  proposal. I have risen several times during this discussion because I am firmly of the opinion that this provision will be harmful not only to the publishers but to the general community. I earnestly appeal to the Minister to consider the facts I have placed before him. 
 In order to ascertain the additional revenue likely to be derived under this proposal itwould be necessary to analyse the postage paid on each publication now registered as a newspaper and also to closely scrutinize the figures in respect of each journal published weekly or less frequently. The Postal Department is apprehensive concerning the ever increasing number of magazines and periodicals being registered, and as it has permitted certain publications to be registered as newspapers it is difficult in the absence of amending legislation to deny that right to the publishers of similar journals. The volume of work is becoming so great that the department has felt it necessary to suggest an amendment in this direction. 
I intimated earlier that there has been a considerable  loss on the carriage of these publications. A complete analysis of the position would occupy weeks, but I suggest that as the financial aspect is not of major importance it should not be given undue prominence. From the figures I have quoted it will he seen that as service is being rendered at a loss the department is compelled to institute a change.  Senator Findley  painted a very striking picture of the services rendered to certain sections, the cost of which is met by the whole community. As a Scotsman I prefer to see the hard cash every time. The suggested benefits are all mythical; we cannot lay our hands on these things. In this case the revenue of the post office will be, to an extent, safeguarded. I ask honorable senators not to reject the clause. 

 Senator KINGSMILL (Western Australia [6.6]. - I was sorry to hear the Minister's speech. If considerations of cash alone are to guide the actions of any government, we shall fall far below our ideals - if, indeed, ideals are to be contemplated, which would not appear to be  the case from the Minister's speech. Apparently he would not support legislation to extend educational facilities through out the country, because the benefit would Be merely mythical, and we could not lay our hands upon them. 
Education is of real value. 
The matter before us is not so much the amount of the additional postage, but the benefit which the journals which will be affected by this legislation confer on the community. The rate which shall be charged for transmitting these journals through the post is to be determined on a nonsensical basis - whether they are published once a week or once a month. Western Australia will probably be the State most affected by this legislation, because of the remoteness from the centres of population of many of its people. Many of those dwellers outback depend largely for their instruction and enjoyment on the articles contained in magazines published monthly. I am desirous that they shall continue to enjoy the privileges, which are still to be enjoyed by newspapers published daily or weekly. I remind honorable senators that these people are doing a great deal more to develop Australia and increase her prosperity than are many of the individuals who receive their daily newspaper otherwise than through the post office. Rather than that this clause should be agreed to, I should prefer that things remain as they are. The principal act makes special provision for publications which are of a religious, technical or practical nature. Journals of that description should not be prevented from reaching' the outlying portions of the Commonwealth through the post. My concern is chiefly for the peopleoutback. The Minister said that considerations of cash were practically the only reason for this new provision. 
-The post office could well lose a little in such a good cause - I referto the educational value of many of these journals.Probably the journals which are published monthly are of greater educational value to the community than are the daily and weekly newspapers. Most of them deal with technical, religious, and other subjects of considerable value to the people for whom they are written. 
-No ; but many publications which now enjoy newspaper rates of postage will, under this bill, have to pay the rates applicable to periodicals. 
This legislation will probably force a number of journals to cease publication. I can see no other justification for the bill than the cash consideration, which the Minister has admitted is not great. In a matter of such importance to the community cash considerations should not weigh too heavily. 
Progress reported. 
[6.14]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Our object in adjourning now is to enable the Minister in charge of the bill which we have just been considering to confer with his colleague, the Postmaster-General. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Quite recently  Senator Herbert  Hays asked the following question of the PostmasterGeneral - 
Is the department doing anything to establish telephonic communication between Tasmania and the mainland? 
The Postmaster-General has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question - 
Yes. The matter, which is one of considerable magnitude, is still under consideration. 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories whether he could inform the Senate . what route was recommended by the North Australian Commission for a line to connect the Northern Territory railway system with that of Queensland. He replied that the information would soon be available in the report of the commission. That report has since been tabled, and as it contains nothing to indicate the route which the commission recommends, I now ask the Minister if he can make the information available. 
I shall direct the attention of the Minister for Home and Territories to the honorable senator's question, and obtain an answer for him. 
In accordance with theletter which I have forwarded to the  President,  I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 10 a.m. to-morrow. 
It is not without some hesitation that I have taken this unusual course for ' the purpose of calling . attention to the PanPacific Trades Union Congress to be. held in Australia in March next, but it is supremely important that we should have some indication of the attitude the Government proposes to take up in regard to this congress, and, that as far as it is possible to do so, we should let the people of Australia know the purposes, that lie behind the gathering. To some honorable senators it may seem -rather early to draw attention to this congress, and some of the subjects to be considered by it, but I feel that if we are to take a stand in regard to the matter, we should do so at once. I understand that arrangements for the congress are being made, and that delegates from all countries bordering on the Pacific are now being invited to attend. For what I am about to say I propose to quote an authority which I feel sure will be accepted by all honorable senators. My authority is the  Labour Daily  of the12th May, 1928. It is the official organ of the Labour party of New SouthWales, and is published in Sydney. The matter to which I refer  is contained in an open letter to the Japanese trade unionists, written by  Mr. J.  Ryan, a gentleman who is ordinarily secretary or organizer, or, at any rate, a prominent official of the Sydney Labour Research and Information Bureau, and who is now representing the Australian Council of Trade Unions at a trade unions' conference in Shanghai, China. By this conference he has been appointed to carry propaganda to the Japanese trade unions for the purpose of furthering the purposes of a Pan-Pacific secretariat set up by the Shanghai conference. In pursuance of his endeavours to persuade the Japanese trade unions to send delegates to the Pan-Pacific Trades Union Congress to be held in Australia,  Mr. Ryan  requested the Japanese Government to permit him to pay a visit to Japan, and address the trade unionists there. But the Japanese Government, knowing the purpose for which the Shanghai secretariat had been set up - knowing its objective - refused him permission to land in Japan. He thereupon adopted the extreme course of addressing the Japanese trade unions by means of a manifesto dated 26th February, 1928, and issued from Shanghai. This manifesto has been republished in theSydney  Labour Daily.  It is interesting to note that this gentleman, who represents a great Australian trade union organization which claims to be a strong advocate of the White Australia policy, addresses the Japanese trade unionists as "dear comrades." He urges the importance of thecoming congress, and proceeds to make this most extraordinary declaration - 
No Pan-Pacific trade union organization can properly begin the solution of its problems un less it places as a primary item on its programme the support of the struggles" of the oppressed peoples for freedom, the independence movement of China, India, Indonesia. Korea, the Philippine Islands, &amp;c. 
Ill Australia we have our own problems to solve. If we are to make our country what it ought to be we shall have sufficient to do without interfering with the problems of other countries, and perhaps involving ourselves. in a grave conflict with friendly nations. 
Yes, he indicates in the manifesto that it is one of the subjects the congress is to discuss. We must look at this matter with due regard to what is happening in other countries, and to the aspirations of certain people towards India, bearing in -mind always the importance of India to Australia, and what it would mean to us if Great Britan were to lose control of that country. India has often been described as the fairest jewel in the British Crown. One cannot conceive of the British Empire retaining any influence whatever in the East if the control of India is lost, and India secures independence. When we reflect on the damage to British prestige which the loss of India would mean, and on Britain's proposals to more adequately defend Australia and New Zealand and her interests in the East by the construction of a naval base at Singapore, we must set our faces against any attempt to undermine British prestige in India. That the. British Government realizes the importance of maintaining friendly relations with Eastern nations was made clear during the recent visit to Britain of the King of Afghanistan. The British Government spared neither trouble nor expense in entertaining him and in endeavouring to win his friendship and that of the people of Afghanistan. From Britain the King went to Russia, where he was lavishly entertained. He was established in one of Russia's greatest palaces, and every effort was made towards bringing Afghanistan practicaly under the suzerainty of Bussia, so that at an opportune time a deadly blow might be struck at India. The people of Russia know that the loss of India would mean the loss of British prestige in the EastHonorable senators may remember a photograph which was published not long ago showing a number of delegates to the last Pan-Pacific Trade Union Congress. The Australian representatives at that congress, among  whom  was  Mr. "  Jock " Garden, were the only white men present: all the others were Asiatics. Is it. the desire of the people of this country that in March, 1929, there shall meet in Australia a congress - representative of peoples with whom we have nothing in common, despite  Mr. Ryan's  statement ns to the community of interest between Japanese and Australian trade unions - to consider, not problems affecting the workers generally, or matters which ordinarily are associated with trade unions, but the best means of securing the independence of India - matters inimical to tho best interests of Australia and the British Empire as a whole? After a number of statements made allegedly in the interests of peace, but actually in the interests of war - because Britain would not lightly lose India and her other possessions in the East and Australia would become involved in the struggle -  Mr. Ryan  makes a specious plea for peace in the following terms : - 
Perhaps the most pressing problem which has moved the trade unions of the Pacific to establish  the  Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat is danger of war, which grows more menacing every day. The quarrels involved are not between the workers of the various countries, however, but between the capitalists and imperialists, who quarrel over the division of the spoils of imperialism. The trade unions, as the widest and most representative organizations of the working classes, are faced with the foremost duty of organizing for struggle against such imperialistic war. 
He says further - 
The Australian trade unions whom I represent directly are especially desirous of establishing connexions with the Japanese workers, whose problems are closely connected with our Australian trade union problems. 
I have no objection to the Government granting permission to bona fide trade unions to meet in congress in Australia to discuss matters relating to trade unionism generally; but when, in the name of trade unionism, interested individuals desire to act detrimentally to the interests of Australia and of the British Empire generally, and to assist the enemies of Britain, the people of this country should take a stand, and refuse to offer hospitality and protection to any conference which has such an object. The authority for my statements is  Thu Labour Daily.  I take it that that publication would not publish anything of the kind to which I have referred unless it was well authenticated. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to this matter, and to say definitely that no conference, which has for its object the independence of India, or of any other country now under British rule, shall be held in Australia.  The Labour Daily  is the official organ of the Labour party in New South Wales. If the purposes of trade unionism are to be prostituted in this way - if trade unionism is to be used as a cloak by men of this sort, anxious to manufacture ammunition to be used against the British Empire, it is time for the Government to take definite action. 
Y - Yes.  Mr. Ryan  whose remarks I have quoted, holds an official position in Sydney on the Labour Research and Information Bureau - an important and influential position. He claims to speak on behalf of the Australian trade unions. I ask honorable senators opposite whether great trade union organizations, such as the Australian Workers' Union, have as their object the independence of India and China, and other countries with which Australia has little to do industrially. Certainly, from a trade union point of view, Australia has nothing in common with those countries; but if  Mr. Ryan  and his associates are successful in their efforts, the downfall of the British Empire is inevitable. 
[3.20]. - I listened with interest to the speech of the honorable senator, because I had seen in recent issues of various Australian daily newspapers paragraphs stating that an international conference of some kind was to be held in Australia, but giving no indication of its character, or the subjects to be discussed by it. There can be no objection to bodies of trade unionists or any other organizations holding international conferences. It is perfectlyproper for them to confer on questions that may benefit the people generally, and tend to uplift humanity. The more such gatherings can be encouraged the better. But if the purpose pf the proposed PanPacific Congress is to be as indicated by  Senator Duncan,  then an entirely different position arises. I think it will come as a shock to trade unionists in Australia to know that the names of their organizations are being associated with such a movement. I am quite satisfied that the overwhelming majority of them have no 'sympathy whatever with it, and will not willingly lend themselves to or knowingly countenance such a movement.  Senator Duncan  has  Tendered  a service to the public generally, and particularly to trade unionism, by bringing prominently before the country, through the medium of this motion, the statement made by  Mr. Ryan  as to the subjects to be dealt with by this congress. It is obvious that no country could allow itself to be used to promote a revolution in any other country. Apart altogether from the menace to the interests of the British Empire, I would point out that Indonesia, which was particularly mentioned in the statement read by  Senator Duncan,  is under French control. It would be grossly improper to allow any movement to be organized in Australia with the object of aiming a blow at a friendly Power, especially a Power which, in the recent war, was our ally. 
That is so, but Indonesia, which covers French interests and possessions in Indo-China, was particularly mentioned in the open letter read by  Senator Duncan.  I agree with the honorable senator that it would be prostituting the principles of trade unionism to allow the movement to be associated with such a conference as that. No one who stands fdr what trade unionism really means could countenance anything of the kind. I feel sure that if the trade unionists of this country were aware that the name of their organizations, and possibly their funds, were being used for such a purpose, they would take immediate action to put themselves right in the eyes of the people. But if a statement by a Labour leader in New South Wales is correct, the funds for this propaganda are being furnished, not by trade union organizations in Australia, but by the Soviet of Russia. 
 "Who said that? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE Perhaps the honorable senator is right. He stated that there was evidence that money was floating about in Sydney for the promotion of the " red " movement in Australia, particularly for the red-anting of trade unionism, and that in his opinion it was coming from Moscow. 
 The Australian "Workers Union has nothing to do with that. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is only right, I think, that the trade unionists in Australia should be informed if their funds and if their organizations are being used in the way suggested. Apart altogether from the position of trade unionism, I agree with  Senator Duncan  that the Government has a duty in this matter. I had not previously seen the statement which he has just quoted, but now that my attention has been directed to it, I shall certainly bring it before the Government for immediate consideration with a view to ascertain what action can be taken. Any citizen of this country who seeks to make Australia the cauldron of diabolical international revolutionary plots is no friend of Australia. Anything that the Government can do to prevent the Commonwealth from being used in the way indicated will be done. The statement made by  Senator Duncan  touches a very serious matter. He was fully justified in bringing it under the notice of the Government, and I shall certainly see that a report of his speech is submitted to the Prime Minister. 
 I listened with interest to the passionate speech of  Senator Duncan  who, under cover of a motion for the adjournment of the Senate, directed attention to certain statements relating to the Pan-Pacific conference proposed to be held in Australia in March of next year.. To me it appeared as if the honorable senator had one eye on the British Empire and the other on the next election. He stated that the proposed Pan-Pacific conference was to be held for the sinister purpose of undermining  the British Empire by endeavouring to persuade the people in a certain section of it to secede. The honorable senator quoted from a manifesto alleged to have been issued by  Mr. Ryan  setting out the purpose of the proposed conference. In order to correct any wrong impression that may have been made by the honorable senator's speech, let me quote from an official statement of the proceedings of the interstate congress of the Australian Labour Party held in Canberra on the 11th May, 1927. The secretary of that gathering,  Mr. McNamara,  reported that in accordance with the decision of the federal executive at a meeting in September, 1925, he had written to a number of industrial and peace organizations in countries bordering on the Pacific, inviting them to send representatives to a conference proposed to be held in- Honolulu about the third week in November, 1926. That was the first proposal for a Pan-Pacific conference. The report continues - 
The object of the proposed conference was to bring together the representatives of industrial and peace organizations from countries bordering on the Pacific Ocean, with a view to arriving at a better understanding in respect to the future peace of the Pacific. 
Invitations were forwarded to the appropriate industrial and peace organizations in the following countries bordering on the Pacific: - Argentine, Australia, Brazilia, Canada, Chili, Colombo, Dominica, Sutch East Indies, Ecuador, Honolulu, India, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,- Porto Rico, Russia, San Salvador, United States of America, Uraguay. 
In addition to the American Federation of Labour, over 200 trades and labour councils and individual unions were communicated with in the United States of America, Canada and Mexico. 

 Dr. Sydney Strong, of Seattle, United States of America, who visited Australia a few years ago, rendered splendid service amongst the peace organizations in bringing under their notice the importance of the proposed PanPacific conference. 
The object of that Pan-Pacific conference is the same to-day as it was then. It will be noticed that invitations were forwarded to countries that are part and parcel of the British Empire: for example, New Zealand and Canada. 
May I interpolate that the reason why the Australian Labour party considered it a good thing to convene a Pan-Pacific conference was that  Senator Pearce  and other members of the Ministry had so frequently made the statement that the next war would be fought in the Pacific. While the last war was being waged their cry was that it was a war to end war; but no sooner had it terminated than we were told that there would be another one and the cockpit of the next world war would be the Pacific. The Australian Labour party acted wisely when it endeavoured to convene a conference to consider the means that should be employed to maintain the peace of the world, both industrially and in the wider sphere.  Senator Duncan  has fastened upon a statement in a manifesto issued by  Mr. Ryan  with regard to the independence of India. No honorable senator knows better than he does that all sorts of motions are moved at every representative gathering, and that in any fair-minded assembly judgment is always suspended until the final decisions of the congress are published. Apparently his object was to ridicule the proposal and to make it appear that the congress was being convened for the purpose of undermining the British Empire. That is false; but it is characteristic of the honorable senator, with whom it has become a habit to make such innuendoes. It will be time enough for him, or for any other honorable senator who holds similar views, to make definite allegations against the party to which I belong, and on whose behalf I hold a responsible position in this Senate, when that congress commits itself to action along the lines which he has suggested. The honorable senator went on to say, " Are we to invite to our shores members of an enemy nation?" Has he forgotten that during the troublous years of war the very country to which he has referred was an ally of the British Empire ? 
The honorable senator objected to  Mr. Ryan  inviting representatives of Japanese trade unions to visit A.ustralia for the purpose of attending the Pan-Pacific congress. Was not Japan an ally of the British Empire in the last war; and is it not to-day a friendly nation ? 
I do. 
There is nothing in the document I have read which indicates that the conference will evince a desire to sacrifice in the slightest degree the White Australia policy. I fling that assertion back in the teeth of  Senator Duncan  and  Senator Ogden. 
We have witnessed the spectacle of the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  taking exception to the arrival of certain immigrants, and  Sir Neville  Howse calling him a liar. Does that mean that the Nationalist party is favorable to flooding this country with southern Europeans? Surely that inference cannot be drawn from the incident to which I have referred! And so with this case. Time and time again we have entertained Japanese naval and military officers and other foreigners. Why should we not continue to do so? Surely it is not a crime for a congress representative of all the nations bordering on the Pacific to assemble on Australia's shores! If such a congress can help to stave off a recurrence of the shambles of 1914-1918, ought it not to be welcomed? Is there any harm in a congress meeting in Australia with the object of taking action which will tend to improve the working conditions of the workers of the world? 
I understood  Senator Duncan  to object to  Mr. Ryan  inviting representatives of the Japanese trade unions to come to Australia. 
He concentrated his attack upon the statement alleged to have been made by  Mr. Ryan,  that that congress will seek to bring about the secession of certain parts of the British Empire. It would have been fairer and more manly if he had awaited the results of the deliberations of the congress. 
It says  very  little for the Government of which the honorable senator is a supporter if it is not able to. handle such a situation. The document that I have read sets out the object for which the congress has been called. Therefore, it would not be harmful; but, on the contrary, would be of assistance to the British Empire. 
.- I listened very attentively to the speeches delivered by  Senator Duncan,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  The speech of the Leader of the Opposition has, no doubt, cleared the atmosphere considerably, since it has shown that the object of the proposed congress is very different from thatset out by  Senator Duncan.  It is essential that the Government should be very careful in anything it does in connexion with gatherings of an. international character which are held in Australia. I have too high an opinion of the working classes in Australia to think there is any likelihood of the representatives of bolshevism being able to interfere with industrial conditions which at present exist in the Commonwealth. I am as well aware as any one in the Senate that a few men have been endeavouring to " red-ant " industrial unionism in Australia ; but I also know that if any international gathering is held in Australia, the representatives attending it will readily realize the satisfactory conditions which the workmen here enjoy, and will leave Australia with a very favorable impression of it. Various kinds of resolutions, some of a startling nature, are brought forward by individuals at such conferences.  Senator Duncan  referred to a particular portion of the Empire in which I am specially interested, and to the conference discussing the self-government or independence of India. Why should it not do so? I do not know that the Indian people will be influenced by anything that is said, or by the resolutions that may be passed at this proposed gathering, but I can tell  Senator Duncan  and other honorable senators that references such as he has made are more likely to bring about trouble in India, than anything else. He said: "We must hold India." Whom does he mean by " we " ? . 
The British Empire can hold India only with the consent of the Indian people. There we have a white population of only 80,000 in a total population of 230,000,000. 
Control was secured by brute force, and Britain's record in India is not altogether satisfactory. I know what the British race has done for India and I am also well acquainted with the views held by intelligent Indian people at the present day. I keep in close touch with Indian affairs, and I propose later to read to the Senate an extract from a newspaper which I received from India only to-day. This article will give to  Senator Duncan  and other honorable senators the views of the real leaders of Indian thought, who are of the opinion that India must remain within the Empire.  Senator Duncan  and others have said that- "we must hold India." The British Government recently appointed a commission to inquire into the political conditions prevailing in India to see whether they were fitted for a further extension of the powers of selfgovernment, and foolishly neglected to place upon it representatives of the people of India. The commission, of which  Sir John  Simon is  chairman,  knew nothing about the country or the requirements of its people. Its personnel was regarded with such dissatisfaction by the people of India that it was practically ignored. It is true that a few Mohammedans from northern India placed their views before the commission, but they did so only for their own personal aggrandisement. The leaders of the Indian people are united, and are demanding self-government for India as soon as possible. They have drafted a constitution which they intend to submit to the British Parliament. Here is a quotation from a newspaper which, as 
I have already said, I received to-day, and which sets out the views of leaders of Indian thought - 
How then shall we fight for India's freedom? 
Let us fix our thoughts on our goal - a Free United India. It is less necessary now to lay stress on past cases of foreign misrule than to emphasize the need for unity among ourselves, and for the leaders to set the example, by forgetting all real or imagined wrongs, and by making that forgetfulness the path to unity. We must not exaggerate any past or present mistakes of our opponents, or allow our passionate love for India to distort our judgment, or to express itself in any undignified or ungenerous act. We must be firm, but not provocative. We must state facts, but with dispassionate judgment. Let us remember that which we too often forget, that the foreigner here under the great law, the law of equilibrium, imposing suffering for our past sins, making us untouchable as we have made those we conquered untouchable. It was necessary for the paying of the debt we owed to the good law, that the foreigner should be put in the place of apparent, though not real, superiority. 
That is over.  His  work is done. Equal comradeship with him is to begin if he will; let that not be made impossible from our side by acts of enmity. We are claiming our rights. We shall have them. But as every wrong done to us is the outcome of our own past, as every blow we have suffered was the re-bound of our own weapon, let us claim the privilege that belongs alone to the injured, to close the long account of mutual revenges, by pronouncing the magic words, " we forgive." 
New India has been revived to begin India's future work, a work wide as the world, sublime as the star.-studded sky, universal as the brotherhood of all that lives. In this there can be no room for hatred; we cast it behind us into the ocean of forgetfulness. "The Power that makes for righteousness " is behind us; we forgive as we ask for forgiveness. Shall we not say, " Father, forgive us both, for we knew not what we did." Let us meet intolerance with tolerance, injury with pardon, hatred with love. Unless all the lessons of our  Rishis  are false, we must prevail. The charioteer on  Kurukshetra  carried no weapon; but where he was, there was victory. 
That is the latest information published on behalf of the leaders of Indian thought. 
From a publication entitled  New India. 
Individual princes, of course, speak for themselves; but the views expressed in the article I have read are truly representative of the Indian people. The honorable senator is perhaps  referring to those who do not belong to British India, and who enjoy selfgovernment, more or less, in their own districts, but are under British rule. There are only three or four princes behind the British Government. The way to hold India for the Empire, and to prevent any trouble in Asia, is for Australia and other portions of the Empire to recognize the rights and claims of India to self-government under the British flag. 
I am coming to that. It is true that there is a section of people in India who have been voicing bolshevik principles, and who endeavour to bulldose the people as they have been doing here. 
I admit the danger of the bolshevik element. 
I am speaking of the Pan-Pacific conference, as  Senator Ogden  knows. India is to he represented at the. conference. 
Yes; and the decisions of that conference should be of importance to Australia. The bolshevik element is to be found in all countries; and it is because of the neglect of governments, especially in the East and in India, where the poverty is indescribable, and where millions arc starved and down-trodden, that bolsheviks find productive ground for their work. They are working here amongst a certain section, and are more or less a danger to the country. They are, however, a greater danger to our friends opposite than they are to us. One of the best assets we have at election time is the bolshevik propaganda. What will happen if this conference does meet? It will he attended by the representatives of different countries. Have we in Australia anything to hide? 
Then, why have objections been raised? 
These subjects include the independence and liberty of certain nations. 
I know that; but the resolutions passed would not affect India in the least. 
-No. There is no need for honorable senators to become scared. I know something concerning India's trade union movement, and its leaders. With very few exceptions the Indian people are loyal to the Empire. There are only a few amongst the millions of India who can be regarded as disloyal; they are not sufficient in numbers to affect the position. Some of the leaders in India are as keen about keeping India . within the Empire as are the most ardent Britishers in this chamber. By recognizing these facts we can see where we stand. I think it a very good idea to hold this congress. We have already the example of the League of Nations, which is endeavouring to bring about an international labour conference at which all the nations may be represented, including those mentioned by  Senator Needham,  for the purpose of having one international body to better the conditions of all nations. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator's time has expired. 
.- The discussion this afternoon is upon a rather interesting subject, to which honorable senators could with advantage devote a considerable amount of time.  Senator Needham  was rather unfortunate in his reference to the Easter Conference held in Canberra about twelve months ago. The honorable senator claimed that certain formulae were laid down at that conference for the conduct of the proposed Pan-Pacific congress, but he knows, as well as I do, that prominent members of the party have turned their backs on other decisions of the conference. For instance, the conference decided that the Seale executive "was bogus, and that the Conway executive was the constitutional labour authority in New South Wales; but under the guidance of  Mr. Garden  and his band of avowed communists, Labour in New South Wales has disobeyed that decision.  Mr. Lang, Mr. Willis, Mr. Voight,  and others of that ilk spoke with such loud voices that the great leaders of the Federal Labour movement of Australia, including  Mr. Theodore  and  Mr. Charlton,  scuttled away like whipped dogs from the decisions of their supreme authority, and fell in behind the others. It was a pitable spectacle to see some who had avowed allegiance to the Canberra conference, among them  Mr. Theodore  - who came into the Commonwealth Parliament by the back door, seeking the leadership of the great Labour movement - turning their backs on the .decisions of this conference.  Senator Needham  and others supported  Mr. Theodore's  attitude. 
The honorable senator does not. 
Ex-Senator "Jupp" Gardiner stood behind the decisions of the Canberra conference, but where is he to-day? 
The honorable senator as a leader in the Labour movement should have gone into the New South Wales State election campaign and supported the decisions of the conference. That is what " Jupp " Gardiner did, and he has now been left out in the cold. 
 Mr. "Jupp"  Gardiner was in his own State, and had a right to enter the State electoral fight. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John Newlands). -  The honorable senator will not be in order in proceeding on those lines. 
It is well for  Senator Barnes  to remember that I permitted his leader to deal very fully with the conference held at Canberra. I have also permitted  Senator Ogden  to deal with it somewhat fully, but I cannot permit him to indulge in personalities.   Senator OGDEN.  - I intended to connect my remarks with the association of the Australian Labour party with the secretariat of the Pan-Pacific congress. Although  Senator Needham  and others treat the matter lightly there is not the slightest doubt that the men in control of the Pan-Pacific secretariat, which has its head-quarters in China, are closely associated with the Third Internationale of Russia. In fact the men who were associated with the Pan-Pacific conference held at Shanghai were the Marxian disciples who are today controlling the Third Internationale of Russia. I shall not use my own arguments to back my assertion. I shall use those of  Mr. Higgins,  a well-known unionist, who is, or was, an official of the Australian Workers Union, and is a journalist who contributes articles- to the Australian Workers Union journal. Dealing with the declarations of the Canberra conference, to which I have alluded,  Mr. Higgins  said - 
This is no mere party wrangle, no mere bickering over a split of officials. Behind the appeal to the Federal body to take action lies the question of our future as a nation - the policy of a White Australia. 
While it remains to be seen what action the Federal executive will take, it must be noted that if it does not act, it will not be giving effect to the decisions of the interstate conference at Canberra. 
The Federal body, in terms of those decisions, definitely lays down the ruling that no Communist can be a member of the Australian Labour party. 
Communists control the Pan-Pacific secretariat - 
For the first time in history a State executive has openly rebelled against the ruling of the higher authority. 
He goes on to deal with matters to which I have just alluded in the following way :- 
I have no hesitation in declaring that behind this deliberate flouting of the governing body, lie the most sinister influences with which Australia has to contend. 
But what is to be done by the Federal body to combat foreign influence is another matter. 
It is an extraordinary thing that the A.L.P. officials in this State deliberately avoid making any reply to accusations regarding their opposition to a White Australia policy. 
Then follows the extraordinary sentence - 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions is affiliated, through the Pan-Pacific  Secretriat,  whose head-quarters are in China, with the Third Internationale. 
The article proceeds - 
The Conroy Executive makes the direct charge that an attempt is being made to superimpose the Pan-Pacific Secretariat as the supreme Labour body in Australia. 
What has  Senator Needham  to say in regard to that? The real danger is this: To-day the Labour party is a great political force. It commands the support of a huge body of electors, and sometimes a majority of them. But we are told by  Mr. Higgins  - a stalwart member of the Labour movement - that there is a direct attempt by this Pan-Pacific secretariat to gain control of the Labour movement in Australia.  Mr. Higgins  goes on to say - 
Here is some pretty plain evidence. The Australian Council of Trades Unions a few months ago sent  Mr. L.  Ryan, a well-known Communist and minute secretary to the Communist Christmas conference, to represent Australian trades unionism at a conference held in Shanghai. 
It is because of these entangling alliances with Communists in foreign lands that the Conroy executive believes firmly that the White Australia policy is menaced. 
Does  Senator Needham  agree to that, or does he claim that there is no menace to the White Australia policy, such as  Mr. Higgins  fears? The article proceeds - 
The fourth statute of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat provides for the complete abolition of all racial and national barriers between the people of the Pacific. 
We see that there is an attempt by the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat to gain control of the Labour movement. Is there no danger in this to the Labour movement or the people of Australia? To me there is imminent danger to Australia. There is a danger that the revolutionary element will gain control of a movement which ought to possess the confidence of the people of Australia. I do not like to speak in this manner for I am no enemy of the Labour movement. But when the leaders of that movement succumb to a few "Red" revolutionaries it is time for plain speaking. I am sorry that the leaders of the labour movement have so weakly surrendered to that element.  Mr. Higgins  continues - " No one dare deny that Russian and Chinese money is being freely spent to further this end. " The official organ of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat, published in Shanghai, has an Australian edition, of which  Mr. Garden  is editor, and its leading article in the last edition applauded the Chinese conference for its determined effort to remove racial barriers." 
Evidently that article was written by  Mr. Garden.  The other men who signed the certificate of Australian affiliation were  Mr. Duggan,  and  Mr. Croft,  the  president  and the secretary respectively of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I shall not read more, although there are other passages of a like nature. I am glad that Australian Workers Union - one of the. largest and most influential of Australian trade unions - has taken up the cudgels against communism. Whether it will continue the fight remains to be seen; but so far it is the only union which has made any effort to prevent the communists from gaining control of the labour movement "in Australia. Realizing the danger from communists the federal executive of that union carried a resolution that they should not be admitted into the labour movement. But the New South Wales executive of the union recently decided to admit communists. Unfortunately the New South Wales executive to-day has a big influence in the control of the labour movement. 
I do not know why  Senator Duncan  should be so gravely concerned about the welfare of this country merely because an international conference of persons representing the workers of various countries proposes to meet in Australia to discuss matters of mutual interest. Only when bodies representing organized labour desire to meet in conference with the object of solving some of the problems which confront them, and of understanding each other's point of view, do honorable senators opposite become concerned about the interests of the Empire !  Senator Needham  has shown that the object of the proposed conference is to enable the representatives of those countries surrounding the Pacific ocean - in which we are told the next great war will be fought - to consider matters of interest to them in such an event. For them to confer with a view to . deciding what they will do to prevent war, or their action in the event of war, is a commonsense thing for them to do. I do not see why the people of Japan, or of any other country, should not meet in conference with me, or any other Australian, who follows a similar occupation. 
 Representatives  of the commercial and financial interests of this country and of other portions of the British Empire have met at various times in conference with the representatives of other countries. They have discussed not only matters of commercial and industrial importance, but also what action they would take in the event of war. Knowing that, why do honorable senators opposite raise such a storm when representatives of the workers in various countries seek to meet in conference? Is it because their interests are with the commercial and "  boodling  " sections of the community? 
 Senator Duncan  objects strongly to the proposed conference. 
-Then why did the honorable senator bring forward his motion? Has he done so only to provide a further opportunity for making cheap jibes at the expense of the organizations represented by honorable senators on this side? If the honorable senator's object is not to gain some political advantage, what is his purpose?  Senator Duncan  knows that if the proposed conference met in this country and attempted to foment a revolution in Australia, or to injure some other country, the Government would have the power to deal with it, and would be expected to exercise that power. There is no fear of the things which honorable senators have mentioned taking place. I do not suppose that any section of the people of Australia would tolerate any conference starting out on a sort of Guy Fawkes movement. There may be communists in the Labour party, but, if so, I do not know who they are. It is said that  Mr. Ryan  is a communist. I do not know the gentleman. Nor do I know who the representatives of other countries at the conference will be. I do not think that there is any grave danger to this country from the communists in it.  Senator Ogden  said that  Mr. Higgins  accused the communists of getting money from Russia and China. The influence of the communists in Australia was shown at the last Senate election when, in one of the biggest industrial suburbs of Sydney,  Mr. "  Jock " Garden, an alleged communist, polled only 500 votes. Yet honorable senators opposite still raise the old bogy of " Money from Russia." Personally, I believe that the communists receive their funds, not from Russia, but from the capitalist interests in this country, who realize the value of communism as an election cry. At election time the Government has only to raise the cry " ' Jock ' Garden " and the electors become panic striken. They do not know that for ten years the Labour party has been trying to get rid of " Jock " Garden. The usefulness of that gentleman to the Government was made clear recently when it refused him a passport to leave Australia. It is a wonder that  Mr. Ryan  was granted a passport. If " Jock " Garden had wanted to attend the conference, he would not have been permitted to leave Australia. 
Yes; and so would the whole Labour movement. Unfortunately he has been placed on the backs of the Labour movement by its political enemies, and, because he is such an asset to them, they keep him there. 
I am informed that the communists appointed him, but I am not well acquainted with the New SouthWales Trade and Labour Council. I know, however, that many strange things are done in that State. I have no objection to the representatives of trade unions in various countries assembling in Australia to discuss matters of mutual interest. If they attempt the dangerous things' suggested by  Senator Duncan,  the Government should recognize its responsibility to the community, and deal with them. Those who would foster revolution should be dealt with summarily, but I can see no objection to an international conference being held to discuss trade union matters generally. 
At the conference which he attended " Jock " Garden represented Australia in much the same way that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  represented this country at the League of Nations at Geneva. There must be in existence photographs showing  Senator Pearce  in the company of Chinese, Japanese, Hindoos, and men of other nationalities. Such photographs are no reflection on the Minister. Nor is it a reflection on " Jock " Garden that he met in conference with the representatives of coloured peoples, and was photographed with them. Honorable senators may remember that at the opening of this Parliament a native of India - a coloured man - was present, and that during his stay here numbers of photographs were taken showing him in the company of various honorable senators and members of another place.  Senator Duncan  and he were photographed in a group in the King's Hall. Indeed,  Senator Duncan  looked well alongside his coloured friend; and it must be said that " Jock " Garden compared reasonably with those with whom he was associated on the occasion when the photograph to which reference has been made was taken. Honorable senators opposite profess to see in the proposed conference a possible danger to the preservation of a White Australia. I remind them that some years ago it took a lot of effort on the part of the Labour party to convince some of their party of the danger of a coloured invasion. Honorable senators supporting the Government were so concerned a few weeks ago about a White Australia that they agreed to sell the vessels belonging to the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers although they knew that there was no power to prevent Lord Kylsant from manning them with coloured crews ! I pass by the remarks of honorable senators regarding the Australian Workers Union. It is well known that that organization has been one of the greatest influences in this country for peace - not only industrial peace, but also peace in other directions. The Australian Workers Union is not supported by any foreign capital; its income is derived from the membership fees of its members. It has no other source of revenue. 
No. The Australian Council of Trade Unions comprises representatives of various trades hall councils in Australia. The Australian Workers Union is affiliated with the Trades Hall Council in Western Australia, and the Victorian branch is similarly associated with the Melbourne Trades Hall Council. That is the extent of our affiliation with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We have no direct connexion with that body. 
There were various reasons for our refusal, which I do not wish to discuss just now. My union is not in any way associated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in either New South Wales or Queensland. 
In his concluding remarks,  Senator Barnes  practically endorsed the statements made by  Senator Duncan.  At the outset the honorable senator cleverly endeavoured to convey the impression that the object of the mover of the motion and also of those who supported it, was to object to the holding of an international trade union conference in Australia. I drew no such inference from the remarks of either  Senator Duncan  or the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  Both emphasized that there could be no objection to an international conference of trade unions in Australia provided the subjects dealt with at such a gathering were limited to matters directly affecting trade unionism. No one would have the slightest objection to a conference convened to deal with matters affecting the workers of the world generally. 
That is exactly the position.  Senator Barnes  knows very well that he was merely endeavouring to cloud the issue when he suggested that honorable senators on this side were opposed to the holding of an international trade union conference in Australia. Nothing of the sort has been suggested at any time during the debate.  Senator Needham  referred to the number of resolutions passed at the Federal Labour Conference in Canberra last year. Had  Senator Ogden  not exposed the fate of that conference, I had intended to do so myself. It is well known that, so far as the New South Wales Labour party is concerned at all events, the Canberra conference was the joke of the season. The resolutions passed by it were totally ignored by the New South Wales executive.  Senator Needham  invited  Senator Ogden  to explain to the Senate in what way he had gone back on the resolutions of the Canberra Federal Conference. Surely the Leader of the Opposition must know that if he had stood by those resolutions, he would not, at this moment, be sitting side by side with a single representative of the New South Wales Labour party in this chamber. The New South Wales executive declared the conference black. Although the Conroy executive expelled the Lang party, it was .impotent, and could not enforce its will on the recalcitrants. The present executive of the Labour party in New South Wales took no notice whatever of the Canberra resolutions, and if those who attended that gathering had attempted to stand by them, they would not now be in the New South Wales Labour party.  Senator Needham's  references to the resolutions of the Canberra Conference, dealing with the proposed Pan-Pacific Conference, showed clearly that the matters proposed to be discussed were of a character totally different from those mentioned in the agenda drawn up by those who are now convening the congress. There was nothing objectionable in them. But the convening of the conference is now in different hands. It is being engineered by  Mr. Ryan  who went to Shanghai as the accredited representative of the Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales, which, as we know, exercises an important influence on the Labour movement in Australia. That Council has never been repudiated by any Labour members of the Federal or State Parliaments, notwithstanding that it committed the greatest sin in the calendar of the Labour movement by forming a " scab " organization to oppose the Conroy executive, and repudiated the resolutions of the Canberra conference. We can only assume, therefore, that the Trades and Labour Council in New South Wales bulks largely in the eyes of the Labour movement in Australia. 
If he is not the convener, he is the man who is taking the most prominent part in the matter. 
He sits cheek by jowl with men like " Jock " Garden and Donald Grant. The latter occupies a prominent position in the Labour preselection ballot for the Senate in New 
South Wales. In the light of these facts what is the use of  Senator Barnes  or any other member of the Labour par r endeavouring to make us believe that these men are not leaders of the movement? 
They realize only too well how the New South Wales executive is damaging the movement in Australia by disclosing the true objective of Labour in this country. I wish again to emphasize that no honorable senator who has spoken in support of the motion has any objection to an international congress of trade unions to discuss matters legitimately connected with the trade union movement. 
That is the point. The proposed Pan-Pacific conference is being convened to discuss such questions as the move for independence in China, India and the Philippines. In view of the turmoil that has existed in China for some time, it would be a very bad advertisement for Australia if resolutions bearing on such international questions emanated  from a conference held in our largest capital city. And what would the people of America think of the Commonwealth Government if it permitted a conference to deal with matters affecting the administration of the Philippines? 
That is so. In view of the fact that the Labour movement in this country has associated with it certain people of known communistic and bolshevik tendencies, it would be particularly unfortunate if the Government allowed such a conference to be convened by the crowd that is in control of the movement to-day.  Senator Duncan  has rendered a distinct service to Australia by directing attention to this matter. I hope that, as a result of this motion,, action will be taken by the Government to prevent the holding of such ah undesirable conference at which resolutions might be carried involving Australia in grave international complications. 
I think the course of the debate has fully justified my action in bringing this matter before the Senate. It has revealed one or two astonishing features. I was particularly careful, in submitting the motion, not to associate the Labour part; in this Parliament with those who are mainly responsible for the convening of the proposed Pan-Pacific conference. I made no reference to the Labour party as a political body. Nevertheless  Senator Needham  declared that the allegations contained in my speech were directly aimed at the party to which he belongs. I do not believe that any honorable senator who has spoken in this debate linked the political Labour party with the man who attended the Shanghai conference, and is connected with the Third Internationale. But, as I have stated,  Senator Needham  went to a great deal of trouble to prove that his party was responsible for the convening of the first Pan-Pacific trade union conference. He emphasized that it was the political Labour party - not the trade union movement, and not Garden and companythat was responsible for the conference. I remind  Senator Needham,  who evidently is not so familiar with the history of the Labour movement as he ought to be, in view of the position he holds in this chamber, that at the last federal elec tion an attempt was made to associate his party with the people who were responsible for the calling of the last PanPacific conference. A famous photograph of that gathering showed  Mr. Garden  in their midst. All Labour candidates declared, of course, that they had nothing whatever to do with Garden or the last Pan-Pacific congress. They said " Their ways are not our ways, and ours are not theirs." They dissociated themselves entirely from the congress. We were told, in effect, that we did not know what we were talking about when we said that there was an association between the two, slender though it might be. To-day, however,  Senator Needham  has declared openly that we were right in what we then said, that his party is responsible for the calling of this conference, and that it is  prepared to stand behind it no matter what it might do. He has also claimed that no person has the right to challenge the bona fides of that conference. 
I expected that  Senator Needham  would support me not that he would associate himself with the enemies of Australia. I wanted to make sure that a conference which would have before it a proposition such as that to which I have already referred should not be held in Australia. We do not want that class of people in this country.  Senator "Needham  has said "Let us welcome these people from Asiatic countries." During the' course of my speech, I did not speak in derogatory terms of Japan. What I said was that Japan is one of the countries which ha3 been invited to send representatives to a conference to consider, not the betterment of international relations and the peace of the Pacific, but means whereby industrial, political and national ferment may be worked up, with the object of overthrowing existing institutions. This is not a trade union matter at all. I thank  Senator Ogden  for the speech which he delivered. I was already acquainted with the facts to which he referred. He supported up to the hilt everything that I said. 
I ask  Senator Hoare  to remember that I did not refer to the political Labour movement. I challenge him to show where I made any reference to it. I did not believe that that movement had anything to do with the congress.  Senator Needham,  however, has shown that a link exists between the two, and he must take the responsibility before the electors. I had no political end in view when I brought this matter before the Senate. I did not think it would be possible to associate the Labour party with this business; but  Senator Needham  has done so. 
I shall deal now with the remarkable speech of my friend,  Senator Reid. 
One has only to mention India, even though it be in a complimentary way, in the presence of  Senator Reid,  and the effect is similar to that produced by a red rag on a bull. I realize, as every honorable senator must, that in this chamber  Senator Reid  is the authority par excellence upon India and Indian affairs. He has made a life-long study of them. He is acquainted with all the leaders, and knows what their opinons  are upon the problems of not only India itself but also every other country. I have no desire to contest his claim that he is the champion of India in this chamber. When I used the expression " We must hold India," I was placing the matter on the highest plane. India to-day is a part of the British Empire.  Senator Reid  was at great pains to show that it is the most important part, because it is the largest centre of population. The inhabitants of India, being members, of the British Empire, must hold that country. 
During the course of the speech which I made earlier I pointed to an interesting fact in current history. I said that evidently there is one country which is determined to use every means in its power to withdraw India from the British Empire and the British Commonwealth of Nations. Today, Russia is making extravagant overtures to Afghanistan in order that the way may be opened for her to use India to suit her own purposes. Because I pointed out this fact,  Senator Reid  called me an enemy of India and said that I had made sneering remarks regarding her. 
I made no sneering remarks about either India or the Indians. I am aware that the Ghurkas, the Sikhs, and other members of the Indian race have done magnificent work for the Empire. I want to see them remain within the Empire, and to develop until they have obtained self-government under the British flag. 
 Senator Reid  and I are now in the most perfect agreement, and I hope he will do me the justice of saying that he misunderstood the trend of my previous remarks. I feel confident that, underlying this proposal for the holding of a Pan-Pacific congress there is a covert attack upon India and the British Empire. Unless we take a firm stand we may find that, instead of Australia being one of the strong arms of the British Empire in time of trouble, the influences which have been at work in our midst have paralyzed our energies and made it impossible for us to take the stand we ought to take. I ask leave to withdraw the motion. 
Leave granted ; motion withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Repatriation,  upon  notice  - 
What proportion of the £7,500,000 paid annually for war pensions goes to soldiers and dependants, and what is the cost of administration ? 
What is the average number of deaths daily of returned soldiers for the year ended 31st December, 1927? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
The whole. (The amount actually paid to soldiers and their dependants by way of war pensions for the year ended 30th June, 1927, was £7,558,559.) The cost of administration for the same period was £180,610. 
The number of deaths of ex-soldiers in repatriation institutions during the year ended 31st December, 1927, was 274, being a daily average of .75. No records are available of deaths outside these institutions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the number of cases of apples exported to all Eastern markets, including Singapore, Sourabaya, Hong Kong, Port Said, Batavia, Manila, Colombo, and Calcutta during the year ended 31st March, 1928? 
The information is being; obtained. 
I move - 
That all the words after "That" be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " the bill be re-committed for the purpose of reconsidering clause 1, paragraph 6, of the first schedule." 
When I moved yesterday that the bill be recommitted for the purpose I have just indicated, I was under the impression that no objection would be offered by either the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McLachlan)  or the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce).  I was somewhat surprised, therefore, in view of what had transpired when the bill was in committee, to find that they declined to meet my wishes. I was further surprised at the statement of the Minister that he did not know why I was asking for the recommittal of the measure. When we were in committee, I moved an amendment to increase the maximum weekly payment from £8 to £3 10s. That amendment was defeated. The question of child allowance was raised, and I intimated that I wished to move an amendment in that direction. A discussion ensued, and the schedule was postponed to allow the Minister to bring in a considered amendment to paragraph c. The committee agreed to that amendment. I then attempted to move an amendment of paragraph  b,  but the  Chairman  ruled that I could not do so at that stage. The Minister, however, indicated that he would have no objection to the recommital of the bill, so that I was amazed at the course which he adopted on 
Friday last. According to  Hansard,  page 4783, he said yesterday - 
Yesterday I gave  Senator Needham  the assurance that I would not oppose the recommittal of the bill to enable him to move in a certain direction. I see no reason why the bill should not be recommitted to enable him to move the amendment to paragraph (b) that he has indicated to-day. 
Inview of that statement, and of the fact that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  suggested to me the procedure to be adopted for the recommittal, I was astounded yesterday when both the Leader of the Senate and the Minister in charge of the measure opposed my motion. Apart from the importance of the subject, the Minister should, in view of his statement and as an act of fair play, have agreed to my proposal. 
On Friday last. During the time I have occupied my present position any arrangements made between Ministers and myself have always been honoured. It is essential at times for Ministers to enter into an arrangement with the Leader of the Opposition in order to facilitate business, and up to the present all such arrangements have been honoured. I cannot, however, understand why, in the circumstances I have mentioned, the Minister should have opposed the recommittal of the bill. Yesterday he stated that he . did not know the object of the amendment I desired to move; but I have already quoted his words. The support I received when I moved my motion is sufficient to show that a number of honorable senators were under the impression that the Minister had agreed to the recommittal. In view of the facts which I have placed before the Senate I trust the Minister will reconsider his decision. 
I regret exceedingly that there has been a misunderstanding between the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and myself, because, however we may differ politically, I am sure he will accept my assurance when I say that I would not intentionally break a promise. The honorable senator will probably recollect that after the,.  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Plain)  had given a ruling, I interposed. If . I had thought I left the impression, as the words which the honorable senator has quoted suggest, that I would not object to the recommittal, I should not have opposed his motion yesterday. I can assure the honorable senator, however, that it was not my intion to support the recommittal. At the time to which he has referred I believe there were two major points upon which the honorable senator wished to recommit the bill; one was in relation to occupational diseases, and the other the amendment of the second schedule. The Leader of the Opposition, prior to the statement which he has quoted, moved - 
That the words " not to exceed ", clause 1, sub-clause (b), be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words "not to be less than ". 
The  Chairman  then said - 
I cannot accept the honorable senator's amendment, seeing that the committee has already dealt with paragraph (b). 
The reply of the Leader of the Opposition was - 
In view of your ruling  Mr. Chairman,  I shall later move for the recommittal of the first schedule in order to enable me to move the amendment I have indicated. 
When I used the words which the Leader of the Opposition has quoted, I was under a misapprehension concerning the finality of the discussion between the Leader of the Opposition and the  Chairman  of Committees. I trust the honorable senator will accept my assurance that I had no intention of breaking a promise. In the circumstances, I shall not oppose the recommittal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 In committee (Recommittal) : 
First schedule - 
The amount of compensation under this act shall 'be - 
where total or partial incapacity for work results from the injury, a weekly payment during the incapacity not exceeding two-thirds of the employee's weekly pay at the time of the injury, such weekly payment not to exceed three pounds. 
Provided that as respects the weekly payments during total incapacity of an employee who is under 21 years of age at the date of the injury, and whose weekly pay is less than 30s., one hundred per centum shall be substituted for two-thirds of his weekly pay, but the weekly payment shall in no case exceed one pound; 
I move - 
That the word "exceed," paragraph (6), be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " be less than ". 
I take this opportunity of assuring the honorable Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  that I gladly accept his explanation; I feel confident he would, not intentionally break a promise. If my amendment is adopted paragraph  b  will read - 
The amount of compensation under this act shall be - 
where total or partial incapacity for work results from the injur)', a weekly payment during the incapacity not exceeding two-thirds of the employee's weekly pay at the time of the injury, such weekly payment not to be less than three pounds. 
I attempted to secure an increase in the maximum weekly payment from £3 to £3 10s. and in doing so pointed out that when a bread winner was totally or partially incapacitated it would be exceedingly difficult for him to maintain his family on less than £3 10s. a week. In many cases the maximum of £3 could not be reached under the provision as it stands because in some of the States the basic wage does not exceed £4 5s., and two-thirds of that amount would not be £3. I venture to say that £3 a week is not 'too much to ask for the sustenance of a married man with a family while he is incapacitated as the result of an accident. In my opinion, the same rate should apply to both married and single men. In many instances single men have serious responsibilities, such as widowed mothers, brothers, sisters, and possibly other relatives who are dependent on them. I seek now to insert this new feature in a bill which, speaking by and large, is certainly a good measure. I have already said that it is a vast improvement on the existing act, and that in many respects it is abreast of State legislation, but I still think that it needs improvement. The committee has already agreed to the payment of child endowment; but I think it would do something more effective if it would agree to my amendment, which fixes the standard amount that an injured employee will receive as his weekly income during the period of his incapacity, total or partial, resulting from an accident that has befallen him while following his occupation. 
As I have already indicated to honorable senators, the Government cannot see its way to agree to increase the weekly payment to £3 in all cases. The committee has supported the Government in its opposition to the honorable senator's former proposal to fix the maximum at £3 10s. a week. But the amendment the honorable senator now seeks to make would place no limit on the amount of compensation to be paid to some injured employees. The proposal is that the injured employee should get two-thirds of his salary, and that the amount must not be less than £3 a week. Thus a worker with a salary of £6 a week would draw compensation amounting to £4 a week, and a man with a lower wage would not get less than £3. As a matter of fact, the compensation payable in some cases would be greater than the £3 10s. a week, which the committee has. already decided should not be paid. The honorable senator is thus asking the committee to reverse its previous decision, which fixed the maximum payment at £3 a week. The honorable senator wants the committee to make the minimum £3 a week. I think the matter has been approached by the Government in a spirit of generosity. The maximum provided for in the schedule is £3 a week, and to that with the consent of the committee the Government has added child endowment payments. I think the provision already made ought to be sufficient, and I therefore ask the committee to reject the amendment. 
Although I do not think there will be much opposition to a measure like this, which is necessary for the protection of a very important Australian industry, it opens up one or two avenues for debate. The first consideration that occurs to one is whether it is within the power of this Parliament to enact this legislation. We are advised by the Attorney-General that he is satisfied that the bill is within the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. Recently the High Court decided in the McArthur case that the true function of section 92 of the Constitution Act was to protect interstate trade against State interference, and was not to affect the legislative powers of the Commonwealth. The Attorney-General having drawn that deduction, I am compelled as an ordinary layman to accept his assurance that for the time being at any rate, the bill is within the four walls of the Constitution. We know that the decisions of the High Court are not like the laws of the Medes and Persians; they are not unalterable; they change as the personnel of the court is changed. But it is not my desire to anticipate any trouble in connexion with this legislation, and I shall content myself with a brief review of its provisions. 
The first principle involved is an interference with private enterprise. A Government that has set up private enterprise as a fetish, and has proclaimed from the housetops that private enterprise must not be interfered with, gives to this bill a little Mussolini touch, inasmuch as the people engaged in the dried fruits business in Australia are told by it that they can go so far and no further, or be penalized. Not long ago we remember  Senator McLachlan  appealing to us not to criticize the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, or say whether its charges for wireless messages were reasonable or unreasonable. Yet to-day the Government, is exercising the legislative machine to regulate, control, and interfere with private enterprise. 
On the contrary, there is both Government and parliamentary interference. 
In the fruit business there is no Lord Kylsant or shipping combine. The fruit-growers of Australia- are not so highly organized as is the shipping combine. The man on the land is now told what he must do with his fruit; he must contribute a certain quota to a pool for export. But what is the position in another primary industry? For a number of years the wheat-growers of Australia have been endeavouring to get a 100 per cent, compulsory pool, but the Government has advanced all sorts of reasons why there should not be such a pool. I wish it to be understood that while I criticize this measure, I am not opposed to it; I am merely pointing out the inconsistency of the Government. While the bill will grant some assistance to the fruit-growers, it does not go far enough. After the termination of the great war, the Government assisted to place a number of returned soldiers on the land to engage in fruit growing. As a result, the production of dried fruits increased considerably. I shall make but passing reference to the manner in which the land settlement policyin connexion with returned soldiers was put into operation - I realize that the object of the various Governments was a laudable one - but in many instances men were placed on land which was not suitable for fruit growing, but for which high prices were charged. 
I am speaking generally. Many returned soldiers are still suffering because of the high prices charged for unsuitable land. In his second-reading speech the Minister said that some time ago Australia consumed 80 per cent, of its fruit production and exported the remainder. To-day the position is reversed. The latest figures I have been able to obtain relate to the year 1925-26, during which the production of raisins in Australia was 495,000 cwt.oand of currants, 244,000 cwt. Those figures show a vast increase on the production during 1918-19 when the figures were - raisins 170,000 cwt. and currants 132,000 cwt. About four years ago, as a result of legislation passed by this Parliament, a Dried Fruits Export Control Board was established. In four of the States dried fruits boards were formed. The duty of those hoards was to fix an export quota. Under the legislation of the States, dried fruits could be compulsorily acquired where considered necessary. That was done to ensure that every grower would place at the disposal of the central board a certain percentage of his crop for export. Naturally, the growers preferred to sell their products in the home market to shipping it overseas. I understand that one grower in South Australia was proceeded against and some of his fruit compulsorily acquired by the State board.  His  appeal to the High Court being upheld the then existing legislation was nullified. The bill before us is the outcome of that decision. In so far as this measure will assist to co-ordinate the activities of those engaged in the fruit industry, it is welcome, but it should go further, and give more practical assistance to them. When this bill was before another place an honorable member with considerable" experience in fruit growing, the accuracy of whose statement I have no reason to doubt, said that it cost £120 to produce fruit to the value of £100. That statement shows that the fruit-growers of Australia are indeed in an unenviable position. Seeing that for many years the Government has scattered bounties right and left, it would be justified in granting a bounty to the fruit-growers. That need not involve the scrapping of this measure ; the two could work together.  The Australian Dried Fruits News  of 15th February, 1927, contains the following statement relating to the payment of an export bounty on dried fruits :  - 
What we now ask is that an export bounty up to£10 per ton be granted on lexias and currants when the return from these fruits fails to give a net return to growers of £30 per ton; that is to say, that the amount of bounty in no case to exceed £10 per ton, but to be paid only when the average net return falls below £30. Then, if the average return is £20 or less the maximum bounty of £10 to be paid; if the average return is over £20 only sufficient bounty to be paid to bring the return up to £30 per ton. 
It is claimed- 
That such a measure would give equal assistance to growers of grapes suitable for drying as the wine bounty does. 
That the too rapid expansion of the wine industry would be avoided and embarrassment both to the winemakers and Government avoided. 
That the bounty could be paid direct to the grower, as the export of dried fruit is generally done by agents on behalf of growers. 
I presume that the fruit-growing industry, like many other industries in Australia, has suffered considerably, and I dare say is suffering to-day, because of the rapacity of the middleman. 
I am aware that this legislation seeks to protect the grower. I was speaking in a general sense. We are all aware that at some time or other growers have suffered at the hands of agents. 
The instance cited by  Senator Hoare  is but one of many that could be mentioned. Legislation of this nature will eliminate the influence of the middlemen; but it will not, of itself, give adequate protection to the producers. It has been shown that, under present' conditions, it costs the grower £120 to produce £100 worth of fruit. Since the Government has been so lavish in granting bounties to many other industries, primary and secondary, it might well consider whether or not the producers of dried fruits should be similarly encouraged. As I stated in my opening remarks, I am not opposing the measure. My purpose in discussing it this afternoon was to refer to the constitutional aspects of the Government's proposals and to express the hope that, if we pass this bill, we shall not have further litigation on the subject in the High Court. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 - 
Where a prescribed authority is satisfied that any person' to whom a licence has been issued under this section has contravened or failed to comply with any term or condition of the licence, the prescribed authority may cancel the licence and the licence shall thereupon cease to be of any force or effect. 
I move - 
That after the word " Where sub-clause 5, the following words be inserted: - "the Minister, on report by:" and that the words " prescribed authority " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " Minister." 
The object is to make the clause conform to similar provisions in the dried fruits, dairy produce, and canned fruits export control acts passed by this Parliament in recent years, in connexion with the issue of licences for the export of the respective products from Australia; It will enable one authority to decide the issue in regard to the cancellation of licences instead of several different authorities, who may differ in opinion as to what constitutes a contravention of the condition of licence. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I paid particular attention to the remarks of the Minister when moving the second reading of this measure and failed to discover in them. anything in the nature of a sound argument to support the Government's proposal to reduce the bounty on the export of wine. In view of  the far-reaching importance of the bill and the interest manifested in it, not only when it was being discussed in another place, but since then in fruit-growing districts, one would have expected the Minister to furnish the Senate with more precise information as to the reasons for its introduction. He simply said, in effect - "Here is the bill. The Government has decided to reduce the bounty. Take it or leave it." This is in keeping with the arrogant spirit displayed by the Government on many occasions, and is typical of its disregard for the considered opinions of the people in the industry and their representatives in this Parliament. The Minister  (Senator Crawford)   is not treating the Senate fairly when he attempts to dispose summarily of a measure of such far-reaching importance to the grape-growers of Australia. South Australia will be affected to the greatest extent, and next in order will be the States of Victoria, Western Australia, and New South Wales. It will thus be seen that four of the States are keenly interested in the growing of grapes and the manufacture and export of wine. During the war the growing of doradillo grapes was a profitable occupation, and subsequently, the Commonwealth Government assisted a number of returned soldiers to go upon the land and engage in that occupation. In 1924, however, a slump occurred, and the- bottom fell out of the market. The price of doradillo grapes dropped substantially.  If I  have  not been wrongly informed, the growers received approximately £3 a ton for their product. 
Those who are acquainted with the production of grapes in Australia know that that price is about 50 per cent, below what the growers ought to receive. I understand that the doradillo grape is used mainly in the production of spirit, and that, apart from that aspect, it is not suitable for the manufacture of wine. With a view to finding a market for the spirit that was produced from the doradillo grape, the Commonwealth Government in 1924 passed the Wine Export Bounty Act, which provided for the payment of an export bounty of 4s. a gallon on wine of a strength of 34 degrees. The act further provided that the bounty should operate for a period of three years. In reality the bounty was equivalent to only 2s. 9d. a gallon, because there was a drawback of ls., 3d. a gallon, representing the duty which had to be paid on the fortifying spirit content of the wine as the Government charged an excise of 5s. a gallon on the spirit derived from doradillo grapes. To arrive at a complete understanding of the position, it is necessary to study the conditions that have operated in Great Britain. / The British, tar iff lays it down that wine with a spirit content of 30 per cent, or less is a dry wine, and that when the spirit content is greater than 30 per cent, it is a sweet wine. 
That is the definition in the British tariff as I understand it. Perhaps the Minister, 'when he is replying,  may be able to give information that he did not vouchsafe when he opened the debate. In 1924 the British duty on dry wine containing '30 per cent, or less of proof spirit, was 2s. 6d. a gallon, and on sweet wine containing more than 30 per cent, of proof spirit, it was 6s. a gallon. The preference given to Empire products was ls. a gallon in the case of dry wine, and 2s. a gallon in the case of sweet wine. Because of the distance that our wine has to travel, and the fact that it must pass through the tropics, it requires a greater amount of fortification than do wines that are made on the continent. It will be seen that the Australian wine had to pay a duty of 4s. a gallon, while continental wine, which contained less than 29 degrees of proof spirit, was charged a duty of only 2s. 6d. a gallon. In 1925 an additional preference of 2s. a gallon on sweet wine was given to Australia, which thus had to pay a duty of 2s. a gallon. As continental wines were dutiable at the rate of 2s. 6d. a gallon, Australia had a preference of 6d. a gallon. That preference, however, together with the bounty of 2s. 9d. a gallon, gave the industry a great impetus, with the result that the volume of wine exported increased considerably. In 1927 a bill was introduced into this Parliament to reduce the rate of bounty from 2s. 9d. to ls. 9d. a gallon, plus the drawback of ls. 3d. a gallon. A revision of the British tariff was made last year, and the duty was increased to 4s. a gallon in the case of Empire wine, and 8s. a gallon in the case of foreign wine. In addition to that tariff, the line of division between high and low strength was made 25 degrees in the case of foreign wine and 27 degrees in the case of Empire wine. That meant that Australia was. given the substantial preference of 4s. a gallon. I have no doubt that honorable senators will say that such a preference justifies the Government in reducing the rate of bounty.  A close examination of the matter is necessary to ascertain whether that is .so. Another element has to be taken into consideration. It is of recent occurrence, and the Government has either. ignored it entirely or is determined to. overlook it. I refer to the manufacture of wine in Great. Britain. 
Its determination to reduce the bounty suggests that it is ignoring it. Grape juice is being imported into Great Britain in an unfermented state, and in consequence no duty has to be paid upon it. I understand that a quantity of that grape juice is made from cheap currants imported from Greece. The British Government in the first place imposed an excise duty of only ls; a gallon on manufactured wines, but I understand that that has been increased lately to ls. 6d. a gallon. This wine will compete very largely with our wine on the British market. 
Undoubtedly. I believe that that class of wine is described in Australia as " pinkie." When this bill was before another place, the Minister who had charge of it referred to exporters on the continent exporting to Britain certain proportions of low and high strength wines. Manufacturers in England blended three gallons of wine of 25 degrees strength, -on which they paid a duty of 3s. a gallon, with one gallon of wine of a strength of 42 degrees, on which they paid a duty of 8s. a gallon. They thus obtained a blended wine of approximately 29 degrees, which is about the strength of the wine with which we had formerly to compete, at an average duty rate of 4s. 3d. a gallon. As a result of this it will be seen that this blended wine which only paid 4s. 3d. a gallon practically nullified our preference of 4s. a gallon. The Minister did not attach much, importance to that phase of the question. 
The Minister said that the blending of certain wines in Britain had not damaged Australia's trade in fortified wines. 
I am coming to that. I emphasize the fact that this aspect of the question has been treated by the Government in a very casual manner. Can the Minister prove the statement he made when introducing the bill that the competition from the wine which is being blended in Great Britain is not injurious to the Australian wine trade ? 
Yes. The Minister has made a bald statement which he has not supported with a tittle of evidence. A Minister in another place said that a wine-maker who had returned from Great Britain had stated that as long as we produced wine of a good quality, at a reasonable price, we had nothing to fear from this source. Probably the Minister based his assertion on the opinion of one authority. 
The statement of the gentleman mentioned by the Minister in another place has not been corroborated. 
This gentleman on whose opinion' the Minister bases his assertion has since written denying the truth of the statement. Can the Minister substantiate the statement that low-priced wine blended in Great Britain is not interfering with Australia's wine trade? The Government should realize that this British blend which, as mentioned by  Senator Hoare  is cheap in comparison with Australian wines, is a dangerous rival. I have read a report published in Great Britain tq the effect that a firm handling the blended wine made a net profit last year of £172,000, and paid a dividend of 30 per cent. That confirms the statement .made by  Senator Robinson.  Notwithstanding that, the Minister says that the product of this company does not enter into competition with Australian wines. The Minister, in another place, practically admitted that it nullifies the preference we should receive. 
Does the Minister admit that it enters into competition with Australian wines? 
That is of no advantage to Australian producers. The sale of this cheap product is affecting the sale of Australian wines in Great Britain. 
No,but we should appreciate the danger resulting from this competition. 
Not by reducing the bounty. The dangers I have pointed out will not be minimized by the passage of this bill. The following telegram recently appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald: - 
I agree with the honorable senator to the extent that the Commonwealth Government does not appreciate the importance of the wine industry to Australia. If it did, this measure, which amounts really to a breach of contract on the part of the Government, would not be before us. 
That is no reason why the Government should break its contract. It induced certain people to undertake grape production on the understanding that a bounty would be paid, and many who are struggling to make a success of their holdings are to be deprived of a large portion of their returns. The Government should have held its hand a few weeks ago when the measure met with such strong opposition in another place. The statement of the Minister of Agriculture in South Australia will be endorsed by the Ministers of Agriculture in Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. Contracts were entered into on the understanding that the bounty would continue at the old rate in the full- period of three years. 
How long ago? 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

I understand that within the last 24 hours, representations have been made to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Markets by a deputation from a cooperative distillery at Berri in South Australia. In this concern there are 520' shareholders, 80 per cent, of whom are returned soldiers, and they have invested approximately £130,000 in the business. The members of the deputation also waited on me yesterday afternoon and put before me what I consider to be a very good case for the payment of the old bounty beyond the date fixed in the bill. I understand that they were granted an interview by the Prime Minister, and, beyond stating that I am entirely in sympathy with the request of the deputation, I shall defer any comments I may have to offer until I have heard the decision of the Government with regard to the representations placed before him. If the Government wishes to assist the wine export trade, it will abandon this bill and revert to the  status quo.  The bill is a repudiation of a contract. No government should lend itself to anything in the nature of repudiation. It is true that since its introduction in another place the bill hasbeen slightly modified, but, nevertheless, it proposes a drastic reduction in thebounty without any direct evidence of that change of conditions in regard to the preferential duties imposed ?by Great Britain which has been put forward as justification for the reduction. No logical or reasonable argument has "been advanced to justify a reduction in the bounty. The Government has clearly broken faith with the wine-growers of Australia; it has repudiated its contract with them. Many people were induced to go into the business of wine-growing as a result of promises of government assistance, and just now when they are hopeful of getting this assistance, it is to be cut off. I regret the action of the Government in bringing forward this bill, and if the measure is not abandoned, I hope the Senate will reject it. 
I look upon it as a great privilege and indeed a great responsibility to be associated with you,  Mr. President,  in the representation of South Australia in the Senate, and I hope that no action of mine inside or outside the Chamber will be such as to cause me to forfeit the confidence reposed in me by the joint sitting of both Houses of the South Australian Parliament on Tuesday last when my appointment by the South Australian Executive to this Senate was ratified. I wish to express my gratitude for all the kindnesses extended to me- since my advent to this Chamber. I sincerely thank honorable senators on both sides for the right hand of fellowship held out to me, an utter stranger coming among them, and I wish also to acknowledge the courtesy and consideration shown to me by the highly organized staff in this Parliament, which reflects such great credit to you,  Mr. President,  as its head. 
Having acknowledged these courtesies and having, I hope, to some extent toned down the atmosphere that has been created by the remarks of  Senator Needham,  I wish if possible to bring before the Senate the attitude of the State of South Australia towards the important bill now under consideration, and the vital effect the measure will have upon the wine-making industry. I hope that honorable senators representing Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia, as well as New South Wales, the wine-growers of which are affected by the bill but not to the same extent as those of South Australia, will approach the matter with an open mind. That I have been a good party man all my life my record, if investigated, will show. On the last occasion when I was selected by my district - for nine years I had had the pleasure of representing a rural community in the South Australian Assembly - I,retired from the election in order that the anti-socialist forces might be consolidated and present a united front to a common enemy. 
I mention these facts because I hope not to be called upon to look at matters from a party aspect now that I am a member of a branch of the Commonwealth legislature which has been set up primarily as a States House, and .might well be expected to review measures not from any party aspect but from the point of view of how they are likely to affect Australia, and the welfare of the respective States. 
I have had an opportunity to become intimately acquainted with the intricacies of the wine industry. As a student at the Roseworthy Agricultural College, I took a course of three years in viticulture under Professor Perkins. Later on, I had an opportunity to represent in the State Parliament my district of Wooroora, in which were situated two of the most renowned wineries of the Southern hemisphere, Seppeltsfield and Springfield. The latter is owned by Buring and Sobels, whose famous  Quelthala  wines have a world-wide reputation. 
They need no recommendation. If all our Australian wines were of the same quality there would be no need for a bill of this sort. Later on, as  chairman  of the South Australian. Railways Standing Committee, it was my function to advise the Government on transport problems in connexion with soldier settlements on the irrigation areas in the Murray river valley. I have thus been able to follow with interest and to appreciate the great difficulties with which this colossal scheme of repatriation has been confronted. Seven years ago I predicted what would happen. The Railways Standing Committee was asked to advise the Government in regard to a proposed railway from Morgan to Renmark. The line was to cost £ 886,000, the idea being to provide transport facilities for the soldiers we were placing on the Murray irrigation areas. The committee was also asked to report upon the advisability of establishing a deep sea port at the mouth of the River Murray. It was estimated that that work was likely to involve an expenditure of about £1,000,000. The committee traversed the Murray and Murrumbidgee valleys, and visited the irrigation areas of New South Wales and Victoria. When it saw the gigantic attempt that the various governments were making to repatriate soldiers by establishing them in the dried fruits areas, it sent a memorandum to the Premier of South Australia. That was seven years ago, but I shall read that memorandum to honorable senators, because it will give them a more intelligent grip than they otherwise can get of the position which confronts them to-day. The memorandum was as follows : -=- 
The existing irrigation areas comprise 25,157 acres. (16,027 acres under Government control and 9,130 acres not under Government control). The Government propose to throw open for settlement additional areas totalling 133,058 acres, which is more than five times the area of the existing settlements, and more than eight times the area of the existing Government settlements. It is proposed to make this large area available for settlement at the rate of 400 or 500 blocks of about 16 acres each per annum. The whole of the new area will thus be settled in about eighteen years. 
The amount of loan money spent on existing irrigation settlements east of Morgan up to 31st December, 1920, is £1,179,127. The total estimated expenditure on the existing settlements is £6,000,000. There are at present 710 settlers on the Government irrigation areas already established, and when the contemplated works are completed it is estimated that homes will be provided for 9,500 families. The loan expenditure per block will be £630, or approximately £40 per acre. 
The production of canned and dried fruits has already reached the limit of Australian consumption, and any additional produce will have to be exported overseas. 
Exceptionally high prices have been obtained on the London market during the last two or three years, and while this has encouraged increased production here, and probably in other countries with which Australia has to compete, it has led to the export of inferior fruits which has damaged the reputation of Australian fruits in England. Some of the witnesses declared that it will take years for Australian canned fruit to re-establish its former good name in England. Possibly this may account for the fact that most of the : canning factories in Australia were unable to dispose of all the fruit that was canned last year. TheNew South Wales' Government factory, at Leeton, had a carry over of 22,000 cases of canned fruits. One of the witnesses representing London firms declared that dried vine fruits were also badly packed and badly graded. 
A Government certificate as to grade and quality is essential, and would be a guarantee . to the consumer, and would tend to re-establish the reputation of Australian canned and dried fruits in England. 
The Committee, therefore, in view of the very great expenditure which is proposed, namely, £6,000,000, to settle 9,500 families, respectfully suggest that the Government should take steps to ascertain definitely whether profitable markets are likely to be available for the produce of the settlements. 
Australian dried fruits have to meet competition from low- wage countries such' as Greece, Turkey, and Asia Minor - countries which before the war were able to place currants on the London market at 3d. per lb. It is true that the early pioneers of this industry in Australia - ' the Chaffey Brothers and others - were able to sell their products at remunerative prices. That was because they were sold in the ' home market and did not have to compete with the products of' low-wage countries. But to-day the position is vastly different. Of the dried fruit produced in Australia, 80 per cent, is exported, and has to compete in the world's markets. The returned soldiers who were forced to plant their holdings with certain kinds of fruit, are now faced with ruin. The only solution of their difficulties is to send their fruit to the wineries and distilleries instead of drying it.For that reason alone, if for no other, the wine bounty of1s. 9d. a gallon should be continued. 
I am not greatly concerned with the wine speculators, whose actions have resulted in the British market being flooded, and who, 'moreover, have not been willing to devote a share of their profits to the advertising of Australian wines in other parts of the world. My concern is for the returned soldiers who have formed themselves into cooperative societies in order to obtain a reasonable return for their industry. In South Australia,, co-operative wineries or distilleries are established at Waikerie, Renmark, and Berri, where about 1,000 returned soldier growers are established.' 

 Senator Needham referred to the Berri Co operative Distilling Company Limited. Honorable senators may not know that that distillery is the biggest pf its kind in the world. Its output in  i?27  was greater than that of the whole of the distilleries in Victoria. During that year it contributed ?237,000 to the revenue of the Commonwealth in excise duty. These are astonishing facts. I remind honorable senators that the wine industry pays its own bonus. On account of the collapse of the dried fruits market, necessitating the sending of currants and lexias to the distilleries, the distillery at Berri had to enlarge its capacity. The returned soldier members obtained all  -the outside financial assistance possible, and, in addition, because their faith in their own industry was so great, they raised ?18,000 among themselves last year to provide the necessary equipment to deal with their surplus lexias and currants. Whereas in 1923 the capacity of their plant was only 3,000 tons, last year it was 20,000 tons. I ask honorable senators to contemplate the position of these co-operative concerns should the reduction of the wine bounty result in the discontinuance of the export of wine. Already ?130,000, besides the ?18,000 provided by the returned soldiers themselves, has been expended in connexion with the Berri distillery. 
The experts connected with these co-operative concerns have exploded the theory that good wine cannot be made from grapes grown on irrigation areas.  Mr. Rump,  the expert connected with the Berri Distillery, recently sent to London six hogsheads of wine, made from grapes grown on irrigation areas. Favorable reports have since been received regarding that wine. The Berri Distillery, with which 530 returned soldier grape-growers are connected, has on hand 300,000 gallons of wine, but because the full bounty is payable only on wine in respect of which contracts were made before the 8th March last, not one gallon of that wine will enjoy the full bounty. The flooding of the London market by speculators in wine will do serious injury to the grape-growers. There being no incentive to export wine to England, wine makers will not need to buy grapes for export. There will, therefore, be no fixation of the price to be paid for the grapes, with the result that the growers will have to accept what they are given. One would think that these difficulties were, in themselves, sufficient for the growers to contend with, but in September last, disastrous frosts along the Murray Valley so affected the grapes that the growers there cannot possibly hope to receive more than 50 per cent, of the normal return for their grape crop. ' The Government of South Australia, with the limited funds at its disposal, has made them drought relief advances. But what the growers gain in that way they lose in another; because their liability in respect of water rates is as great as the amount of the advances. 
At a later stage I propose to move that the House of Representatives be requested to add a new schedule to the bill. Having reviewed this measure carefully, I am of the opinion that the Government started well, but ended badly. Important though they may be, the British preference and the probable Commonwealth deficit at the end of the financial year should not decide the fate of so important an enterprise as the wine industry. I cannot understand why the Government does not state definitely that the wine bounty will be discontinued after a specified date. Ordinarily, I do not believe in bounties. Most of the troubles with which Australia is now confronted are due to legislators having placed political expediency before economic realities. The only two Australian industries which can hold their own against the competition of the world are the wool and the wheat-growing industries. Every other industry in Australia is assisted in some way - by bounties or bonuses, embargos or tariffs. I am not a freetrader, but a moderate tariffist. I should be prepared to assist any industry, whether primary or secondary, in its initial stages. That is all I ask for this industry. 
The standard of living and the cost of production in Australia are so high that Australian wines cannot compete in markets in which wines grown in low wage countries such as South Africa, Portugal, and Spain are already established. They therefore need some protection until they have established a market for themselves. 
Wo. The wine industry is providing its own bounty. It contributes a colossal sum to the revenue annually by way of excise duties. 
Australia is not the principal market for our wines, and it is impossible to protect the industry in other countries. 
My suggestion is that a date should be fixed for the expiration of the wine bounty, and that the bounty payable should be on a sliding scale. Since the growers themselves have not organized to advertise Australian wines in Great Britain, I suggest that the Government should deduct a certain amount per gallon from 'the bounty, and hand this sum to  Mr. Hyland,  the Commonwealth advertising agent in London, to be used in a special campaign to advertise Australian wines in the Mother Country. If we leave out the dry wines, such as burgundy and other similar types, and deal only with the sweet wines, on which the bounty is paid, a levy -of Id. a gallon of 2,400,000 gallons would create an advertising fund of £10,000; 2d. a gallon would realize £20,000, and 3d. a gallon £30,000. Expenditure for advertising during the first year might amount to £25,000. 
Owing to the chaotic state of the industry the adoption of the Government's proposal would be most disastrous. The reduction should be made, as I suggest, on a sliding scale, from vintage to vintage, and if the date were fixed' to coincide with the close of the financial year," no question as to contracts or vintages need arise. For example, the product of the 1928 vintage could not be shipped by the 30th June of the same year. I suggest that a bounty of ls. 9d. a gallon, less the suggested reduction of, say, Id. a gallon for advertising, should be paid in respect of all contracts to export made up to the 8th March of this year, on the understanding that the wine is shipped by the 30th? June ; that for the year 9th March, 1928, to 30th June, 1929, the bounty be ls. 6d, a gallon; that for the year 8th March, 1929, to 30th June, 1930, the bounty be ls. 3d. a gallon; and for the year 8th March, 1930, to 30th June, 1931, the bounty be ls. per gallon. By that time the position of the industry will have been ascertained, and it will then be possible to determine whether the bounty should be discontinued altogether, or renewed on conditions to be determined. This arrangement would place the; British wine merchant in a more satisfactory position. He would know definitely what to expect in the way of price alterations, and what is more important, speculation would be discouraged. The expenditure of a substantial amount on advertising would act as a wonderful stimulus to the industry. It would keep Australian wines prominently before the British public. It would also result in the adoption of a type name for Australian wines, such as "Austral Ruby," or " Austral Tawny," and in this way familiarize the British public with the port type of Australian wines. 
I hope that the proposal which I have indicated will be received favorably by honorable senators. There seems to be some difference of opinion between the Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford)  and  Senator Needham,  as to the advice which the Government has received concerning the danger to the Australian wine industry from the competition of wines produced in low-wage countries. It is generally agreed that those who are exploiting the industry in London, to the detriment of the Australian exporters are in a strong position. It is therefore highly important that the bounty should be continued im order to strengthen our position in London. I urge  Senator Crawford  to give careful heed to the advice tendered by  Mr. Cuthbert  Burgoyne, the head of-a firm that has been a guardian angel to  the Australian wine trade in England for the last half century.  Mr. Burgoyne's  father was so much interested in the industry in Australia, that he made periodical visits to' this country, so as to keep in touch with the situation here.  Mr. Cuthbert  Burgoyne is the same type of man. This is what he is reported to have said in a cable message published in today's newspapers: - 
It does not bear upon the situation.  Mr. Burgoyne  merely says he questions whether the Government will be able to defy the dictatorship of - the Coopers' Union by allowing casks to be used more than once. I do not believe that. I am confident that the Government has sufficient backbone to do the decent thing, and not take up an absurd attitude by making the wineproducers pay duty on returned casks. 
In my opinion it is unreasonable to levy duty on what is a second-hand commodity; I feel sure that the Government does not appreciate the position as regards returned casks. If the Minister were to offer  Mr. Smith,  of Yalumba, £1,000 for some of the casks which he is using, the offer would be refused. Some of the casks have been used in the business by his father and his grandfather before him. The wood is saturated with the type ofwine for which each particular cask is used. Prom the point of view of economy also, it is foolishness to use new casks, because they soak up the wine like a sponge. 
I repeat that I am not very much concerned about the position of those who, up to the present, have been exploiting the wine industry in London. Many of them are merely speculators who have never produced a gallon of wine or grown a bunch of grapes in their lives. But I am perturbed about the position of large numbers of returned soldiers who have been placed on vine-growing lands in the irrigated areas, up and down the Murray at Redcliff, Renmark, Mildura;, Berri, Waikerie, Curlwaa, and Cadell. These young men responded to the call of Empire, and went overseas to fight for the preservation of the privileges which we enjoy as British citizens. A grateful country promised that on their return their interests would be amply safeguarded. I tell the Government in all seriousness that large numbers of these young men are in a perilous position - so perilous, indeed, that two of them, when they heard of the Government's proposal to reduce the bounty, flew from Berri to Adelaide to join the express there, and came on to Canberra to interview the Prime Minister. ' The right honorable gentleman heard all they had to say, and, although he realized how the Government's proposals would affect many of those engaged in the industry, he intimated that he was not in a position to comply with their request. 
I urge members of this Chamber now to . carefully review the situation in the light of information which hitherto has not been available to them. The Senate should request the House of Representatives to review this measure, and see if it is not possible to do the right thing by these young men to whom Australia owes so much. 
.   -  I congratulate  Senator Robinson  upon the able manner in which he has stated the case for the vine-growers in South Australia. Probably honorable senators do not realize the magnitude of  the industry, and what this bill means to the producers in South Australia, as well as in the other States. Approximately £20,000,000 has been expended in bringing the viticultural industry in Australia  up to its present state, and it requires over £1,000,000 annually to maintain and develop it. It contributes over £800,000 a year to the Consolidated Revenue by way of excise. The working cost of the area under wine grapes amounts to between £600,000 and £700,000 per annum and of such cost labour is the biggest item. This great annual expenditure represents vineyard costs alone. In addition, many men are employed by the distilleries and the trade generally. Honorable senators will thus see the value of the industry to Australia. During the course of the debate the question has been raised as-to how much the wine bounty is costing Australia, and there has been an exchange of opinion between  Senator Robinson  and the Minister  (Senator Crawford).  On the 26th March last, a statement was  issued by the Federal Viticultural Council of Australia. It showed that the gross bounty paid to the 12th March, 1928, was £1,150,385, and the drawback of excise totalled £326,929. Therefore, the net bounty paid was £823,456. The official estimate of the amount of the bounty at ls. 9d. a gallon between the 12th March -and the1 30th June, 1928, is £67,000. The total to the latter date on such a basis will, therefore, be £890,456. Let us now consider the additional amount of excise collected as a result of the payment of the bounty. The gross increase to the 30th June, 1928, if the rate of ls. 9d. is maintained, will be £826,000. If we deduct the drawback of excise, £326,929, we have a net increase of £499,071. It will thus be seen that, making allowance for the increase in the revenue, the net expenditure on the bounty up to the 30th June next will be £391,385 if the present rate of ls. 9d. is maintained. Assuming, however, that the rate is reduced to ls. a gallon, the estimated expenditure of £67,000 will not be incurred, and the revenue also will show a considerable falling off. Some honorable senators, and the public generally, have been under the impression that this bounty has cost Australia over £1,000,000. 
I have shown conclusively that the" amount is less than £400,000 for tha, whole term of the bounty. 
I am not counting it twice. I have taken into my reckoning only exported wine. If we take into consideration the excise that has been collected on the whole of the wine produced we find that the total revenue on fortifying spirit derived between 1922 and 1927' amounted to over £3,000,000. 
If the purchasers of our wine in other countries have had to pay it, they must have had to charge so much extra to their customers. Thus Australia has had to compete on unfair terms with other countries. 
I have given the amount of the drawback, and have shown that, after making allowance for it, the amount of bounty paid over a period of years has not exceeded £400,000. 
These figures have been worked out by the Federal Viticultural Council, and I think the honorable senator will find that they are correct. Surely the amount I have named is not a large sum to pay to keep the industry going and prevent our soldier settlers from being ruined! Let' us compare the bounties that have been paid .to other industries. The cottonbounty for one year was £30,000. The amount paid under the Iron and Steel Products Bounty Act for the yearended the 30th June, 1927, was £256,853.. The production of sulphur was assisted tothe extent of £34,339 in one year.. Surely, then, the wine industry is not being given too much ! 
I agree with the honorable senator that it is desirableto impose such a condition, but I do- not.  see how that object can be achieved under this measure. 
The Minister has stated that when the bounty was reduced to ls. 9d. a gallon it was made clear that the Government reserved to itself the right to re-open the question of bounty payments in the event of the British Government giving an increased preference to Empire wine. I admit that the .responsible Minister at the time made that statement; but such a provision was not incorporated in the bill, and many of those who are engaged in the wine industry did not realize that there was a possibility of the bounty being reduced before the three years had expired. They cannot keep themselves closely in touch with the debates that take place in this and another chamber, and there is no doubt that many of them - both winemakers and exporters - believed that the bounty of ls. 9d. would continue to be paid to the end of the term specified in the act. Had they not thought so, they would have sold their stocks instead of holding them, and thus meeting the wish of the Government that a better and more matured wine should be sent to the London market. The consequence is that they still have certain stocks on hand, and will now have to be content with a lower bounty. 
 They exported to the London market every gallon it could take. 
That product is blended with other wines. 
And with the excise it has to pay 2s. a gallon. 
The duty paid on the wine used for blending purposes is 6d. a gallon. 
If the information which the honorable senator possesses is of more value than the official advices which the Government has received, I have nothing further to say. 
I hope you will consider that events have justified my optimism, and that our £170,000 profit for 1927 is more than satisfactory, especially if you will take into consideration that this profit has been effected with the contribution of a portion only of the profits we anticipated to derive from our Colonial business. . .  
On the right-hand side it will be noticed that the items preliminary expenses and underwriting commission of £32,322 are entirely eliminated, having been written off last year, and there is an increase of about £12,300 in the freehold land and buildings due to the extensions and additions made during the year under review. There is also an increase of £2,000 in our plant, vats, and furniture. 
The increase in stock from £75,060 as at December 21, 1926, as against £138,993 at the close of the year under review, is caused by our very largely increased turnover, as a result of which it is necessary for us to hold much larger stocks, which may be still larger in the future. This extra trade is also responsible for the increase in our sundry debtors from £79,138 at December 31, 1926, to £143,355 at December, 1927. . . . 
Our trading profit, after charging all expenses, is £172,025, as against £102,850 last year. . . . 
Turning to the directors' report, you will observe that of the balance of profit available, after deducting the dividend on the preference shares and the interim dividend on the ordinary shares, there remains £125,174 13s. lid. The directors propose to pay a final dividend on the ordinary shares at a rate of 35 per cent, per annum, making a total dividend of 30 per cent, for the year, which will absorb £61,250. 
It will be seen from that statement that this . British company has been making tremendous .profits. There are also other companies operating on a similarly satisfactory basis which makes it difficult to understand why the Minister should say that this competition is negligible. The competition is such that the winegrowers in Australia will find it difficult to combat. The Prime Minister speaking in another place said: - 
The problem now to be considered is whether the alteration in the British preference warrants a reduction of the bounty. 
I agree with the right honorable gentleman that that is the crux of the position. He also stated that the Government reserved the right to reduce the bounty,, and that if the position at present did not warrant a reduction it would not be made. I remind honorable senators that the bounty is paid only on wines exported; but the fact that the bounty is paid compels other buyers to give the fixed price for grapes. If there is no export trade, no one is compelled to pay the fixed price for grapes sold for local manufacturing purposes. If the export trade is destroyed grapes will be sold in Australia at whatever price the buyers wish to offer I have also received a letter from the Waikerie Cooperative Distillery Containing the following cable advice: - 
The Overseas Co-operative Farmers Limited has advised as follows: - 
Wine position Australia, unsatisfactoy due accumulation stocks estimated 3,000,000 gallons London, due heavy shipments following reduction bounty last year, also severe competition from cheap wine produced in England manufactured from grape syrup imported from Spain and Portugal, now being marketed extensively. Duty on latter1s. 6d. per gallon, against 4s. Australian. Demand Australian negligible due nervousness operators. Values 3s. 9d., 4s., but difficult to clear. In view present situation would advise delay, shipping unless above prices profitable. 
It will be noted that the wine shipped in November last has not yet been sold. That is the experience of only one cooperative company. I am also informed that up to last night the Berri Distillery had not sold any of its 1928 vintage which, at present is , in the vicinity of 300,000 gallons. The representative of this distillery states :  - 
In making out our case against the Wine Bounty Bill, as amended, we ask that the clause relating to export of wine for which sales have been made prior to 8th March, 1928, be deleted, and allow wines to be exported till 31st December, irrespective of when sales were made. 
Our reasons for this request is that it will enable the Berri and other co-operative distilleries which have not exported wine in the past, and now desire to do so, to be placed on the same footing as other exporters of wine. The Berri distillery has been built to treat a vintage of 20,000 tons, which is the tonnage we had in 1927, at a cost of approximately £130,000, of which sum the grower in 1927 and 1928 has had to find £18,000. At the present time we have the whole of 1928 vintage on hand, with small prospects of selling same, and it appears that our only avenue of a market is to export, but not having made sales prior to 8th March, we are handicapped by losing the bounty of 9d. per gallon. This distillery is composed of 520 shareholders, all of whom are growers and 85 per cent, soldier settlers. 
The 1928 crop was gathered in February, and prior to the commencement of the vintage a number of winemakers had contracted for the purchase of grapes at a price which was to be fixed by the Government. The price was published on 9th March after the bill had been introduced. These contracts were entered into when a bounty of1s. 9d. a gallon hadbeen operative for . six months, and it was believed it would be continued at the same rate for at least two years. As these buyers complied with the conditions laid down, the Government are morally bound to pay the1s. 9d. rate of bounty which was ruling when the contracts were entered into. The same can be said in connexion with the 1927 vintage. A number of wine makers paid the growers the fixed price laid down by the Government, believing that they would receive the benefit of the full amount of bounty. The- Government further made it clear that they wished' the winemakers to mature their wines before placing them on the London market. Those who sold an immature product got the benefit of the full amount of bounty, whilst those who complied with the Government's request and held their wines in the interest of the trade will lose 9d. a gallon. A good deal of Government money is at stake in this connexion. Honorable senators should realize that if our surplus wine is not exported it will be thrown on the Australian market. Grape buyers will get the fruit not at a fixed price, but at whatever price they like to offer. The Government, in connexion with the payment of the bounty, has fixed a minimum price for grapes for export wine. This was the minimum at which growers could make a living, and if, as the result of this change only a lower price is offered, settlers will be compelled to leave their blocks. They are not likely to remain when their operations are showing a loss. As the great majority of the soldier settlers have been financed up to the hilt by Government money, it will be the Governments that will have to bear the loss if these men are forced to throw up their holdings. Thus the amount involved is very much more than the annual cost of the wine bounty. I am told on fairly good authority that a few men want to see the wine bounty discontinued because it will enable them to buy grapes and sell wines at their own prices. I know that the Government is genuinely anxious to protect the growers, but I warn it of the danger of reducing the winebounty on the advice of men who are likely to benefit by its abolition. 
I agree with  Senator Robinson  that there should be a gradual reduction in the bounty over a period of years. Until one travels through the winegrowing areas of South Australia, from Tanunda to the Murray, one cannot get a proper idea of the magnitude of the industry in the State of South Australia. For all the difficulties in which the winegrowers find themselves to-day the Government is absolutely responsible. The growers have had no option as to what they should grow. The Government decided that their blocks were to be planted with doradilla grapes. 
It was the South Australian Government. . 
The work they undertook should have been done by the Federal' Government. The soldiers had no option as to what they should plant on their blocks. A good deal of the trouble was caused by the high price of grapes' in 1919. The price in that year was £16 per ton.- In 1920 it- dropped to £8 ; in 1921, it fell to £5, and in the next year was as low as £3. The Federal Government then stepped in with its bounty and, of. course, the settlers began to extend their vineyards, thinking, quite reasonably, that the bounty would be continued until the end of the promised term. The decision of the Government to reduce the bounty will- now push them to the wall. It is misleading to describe the bounty as one -of 4s. a gallon. 'It is really, a bounty of 2s. 9d. a gallon, with a drawback p'f ls. 3d.  on excise  duty pa;d. The Minister would have us believe that the growers do -not pay the excise duty. The amount of excise duty collected in 1926-27 was £435,000, and the amount paid in bounties was £442,000. Surely the Minister, can see that the grape-growers, to ,a very great extent, pay their own bounty. 
When the first bounty was paid on the export of wine, it did a certain amount of injury to the growers, because it brought about the enormous surplus of Australian wines on the London market, which, according to Harpers'  Wine and Spirit Journal of Great Britain  amounts to 3,386,000 gallons. That is the quantity in bond there. When the bounty began to operate the grape growers saw that they would get a better price for their grapes by carting them to distilleries than by converting them into dried fruits. That is where  the Government made the blunder. If it had realized that it was useless to give a bounty on wine without, at the same time, 'giving a bounty on the export' of dried fruits, the people who engaged - in growing grapes for dried fruits would have continued utilizing them for that purpose and would not have sold them for the making of wine. 
Senator-.HOARE. - It is our own fault that- the Australian consumption of dried fruits is not greater than" it is.  Mr. Clapp,  the Victorian Commissioner of Railways, has set a splendid example to the various Governments of .Australia. He- has done more than  any  other  person  in the Commonwealth to promote the sale of fruit. For the year ended the 30th June, 1926, the Victorian railways sold £21,250 worth of fresh fruit. In the following year they sold £52,849 worth, and in. 1928 £63,177 worth. Everywhere on the Victorian railways one can see advertisements, which are a credit to the  State,  advising people ,to "Eat more fruit,". " Eat more raisin bread," and so forth. .By advertising in this way  Mr. Clapp  has brought . about in the State of-  Victoria,  the splendid results  which the figures I have quoted indicate ; he- has shown what can he done by advertising. If the various Governments followed the example set by  Mr. Clapp,  the consumption of dried fruits would be enormously increased. In 1926, 21,000 tons of fresh grapes of drying varieties, and in 1927, 25,000 tons were diverted to wineries and distilleries, a total of 46,000 tons for the two years. That quantity of fresh fruit produced 3,680,000 gallons of fortified wine, and the bounty payable upon that, at 4s. per gallon, would amount to £736,000. Deducting the excise amounting to £230,000, there would be a net bounty of £506,000 payable on that 46,000 tons of grapes which, prior to the introduction of the wine bounty, were dried. It is estimated by the grape growers, as I have said, that the quantity of surplus Australian wine in bond in London at the present time is 3,000,000 gallons. Let us consider what  would have been the position if the Government, when it brought in the wine bounty, had simultaneously introduced an export bounty of £10 a ton on dried fruits. That 46,000 tons of grapes would have been converted into dried fruit, and would have produced 13,000 tons of that commodity. A £10 a ton export bounty upon it would have cost the country £130&gt;000; but, by the diversion of that fresh fruit to wineries and distilleries, the bounty cost the taxpayers £506,000, an increase of £376,000. Even if we take the reduced bounty provided for in' this bill, that 46,000 tons would have produced 3,608,000 gallons of wine, the bounty on which would have amounted to £184,000 as against £130,000 on. dried fruit. That is, as I have previously said, where the Government blundered. Had it paid a bounty on the export of dried fruits, it would have saved the taxpayers' money to the extent I have indicated, avoided a surplus of Australian wine on the London market, and done good to the growers in general. Those who were growing grapes for wine only would not have had to compete with growers of grapes originally intended for dried fruits, and consequently there would have been no  over-production  of wine. I am inclined to the belief that a bounty on dried fruits would have been most helpful, and it certainly would not have involved the Commonwealth in such a large expenditure as has been necessary in respect of the payment of a bounty on the export of wine. The Government should have been able to foresee the difficulty that would be brought about by its disinclination to pay a bounty on the export of dried fruits. But the question is - can we find a market for dried fruits if we revert to the position that obtained prior to the payment of a bounty on the export of wine? "When the late Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  was speaking last year, he showed that the quantity of unsold dried fruits on the overseas markets on the 10th November, 1926, was 4,413 tons of currants and 94 tons of lexias ; but that by the 30th April following, which was the end of the selling season, all that remained had been sold. He also showed that on the 10th November, 1927, the quantity of unsold currants was only 10 tons, and of lexias 75 tons, although but half the selling season had passed. Th08e figures indicate clearly enough that we can get rid of our surplus dried fruits overseas.' 
The figures I have given were supplied by the late Minister for Trade and Customs. 
In a speech in another place on the 10th November, 1927. I take it that the Minister was sure of his ground when he made that, statement. Seemingly there is a big market overseas for our dried fruits, if we are prepared to assist the industry by the payment of an export bounty of £10 a ton. That would be less expensive than the wine bounty. 
It pays the growers better to convert their currants into wine than to sell them as dried fruits. 
-They have not attempted to market them as dried fruits, because for the time being it has paid them better to dispose cf their fruit to the distilleries. In 1924 Great Britain imported 58,400 tons of sultanas, and lexias, of which 18,800 tons came from Australia. In the following year, of the 56.300 tons imported, 17,600 tons came from Australia. Out of 58,200 tons imported in 1926, only 11,000 tons came from Australia. That falling off was caused by the Australian producers of dried fruits sending their grapes to the distilleries, because it paid them better at the time to do that than to send them to London as dried fruits. In the long run it would have paid them better to continue to send their product to England as dried fruits, because in that way they would have shown the people in the Old Land that Australia could supply an abundance of dried fruits of good quality. The home market for dried fruits should also be developed. "We should consume more than 20 per cent, of our production. 
What can be done in that direction has been shown by the Railways Commissioners of Victoria. 
That may be so; but the Railways Commissioners of Victoria have also increased the consumption of dried fruits in that State. Speaking in another place, the Minister claimed that the exporters of wine were in a position to meet a reduction in the wine bounty. I cannot follow his reasoning. The reduction of the bounty, including the drawback, from 4s. to 3s. a gallon, and the increase in customs duties in Great Britain by 2s. a gallon, handicap Australian wines to the extent of 3s. a gallon, whereas British wine is handicapped to the extent of only ls. a gallon. If the Government of Great Britain wanted to give Australia absolute preference, why did it treat imported wines in that manner ? 
That is not sufficient.  Senator Chapman  showed the enormous profits that had been made out of the blending of cheap foreign wines in Great Britain. These blended wines are placed on the British market at prices lower than that at which good Australian wines can be sold. Although the Australian wines are superior, many people buy inferior wines because they are cheaper. 
That may be so in the case of those who can afford to pay for good wines; but it does not apply to the toilers of any nation. The cheap wines sold on the London market are probably made largely from chemicals, and are injurious to those who consume them. It is the duty of a government to protect its people from wines of that kind. Wine should be made to conform to a pure foods and drugs act. I am not so much concerned about the winemakers - they are more able to look after themselves - as I am for the growers of the grapes, many of whom, after struggling all the year, receive returns which are less than the basic wage. I hope that the Minister will see his way clear to accept the suggestion of  Senator Robinson.  The growers should know what is necessary. In my opinion the Government should introduce legislation to assist the dried fruits industry by means of an export bounty. We should then have scarcely any surplus production, and there would be no requests for increased bounties on wine. If assistance were given to the dried fruits industry in the direction I have indicated, most of the existing difficulties would soon come to an end, and the growers of fruit would receive a fair return. We should not legislate to drive people off the land. On the contrary, we should follow a policy of decentralization, and endeavour to settle more and yet more people on the land. 
I shall deal only with general principles, because so many figures have already been placed before the Senate that any addition to them would be likely to confuse the minds of honorable senators. When the war broke out, we made certain promises to the men who went overseas to defend us. They were promised that, on their return to Australia, they and their dependants would be looked after. That was a national obligation. In their efforts to honour their promises to the soldiers, the. various governments throughout Australia placed a number of them on the land, and instructed them to plant certain kinds of fruit trees, principally those whose fruits would be suitable for drying. Owing, however, to over-production, dried fruits became a glut on the market. Consequently these men found it necessary to grow other fruit, or swell the ranks of the unemployed. To assist them, the Government agreed to pay a bounty on wine exported. For a time that bounty accomplished the object for which it "was granted ; but its reduction now will have a disastrous effect on those engaged in the grape-growing industry. Some of their holdings will revert to the Crown. 
The obligation of Australia to its soldiers was to provide them with an occupation which would return them a reasonable living. The time is. not yet opportune for a reduction of the wine bounty. Most of the soldier settlers have made good, and the export of their products -has brought new wealth to Australia. The Government's policy is to grant bounties' to deserving industries, and this proposal on behalf of the growers is worthy of favorable consideration. Secondary industries are assisted by means of the tariff, representing a taxation of between  £7  and £8 per head of the population. Economic conditions in Australia are such that it is necessary to protect our secondary industries. The proposal submitted to the Government by those concerned in this case is a reasonable one, and it should receive sympathetic consideration. I urge the Ministry not to destroy- the. good work which it has done -in building up our primary industries. If the bounty must be reduced, the principle of a sliding scale should be adopted. This would give those engaged in the industry an opportunity to adjust themselves to the altered conditions. If, however, the bounty is suddenly reduced, as is proposed under this bill, there is a possibility that many producers will be obliged to give up and compete in the already overstocked labour market, and that land which at present is being put to a profitable use will become idle again. Our objective should be to safeguard the position of those men who took their lives in their hands when they went overseas to fight for this country. If the suggestion made by  Senator Robinson  is accepted by the Government, the obligation as regards the payment. of the bounty will, in the course, of a few years, disappear altogether and at the same time the industry will have been developed on sound lines. 
The scheme, as  Senator Robinson  has indicated, will also help this country in other directions. The wine export trade is exploiting a market with practically unlimited possibilities so far as Australian primary producers are concerned. If, however, by a stroke of the pen, the bounty is substantially reduced, a valuable trade will be lost, and, as I have stated, a considerable number of growers will become competitors in the labour market. I appeal, therefore, to the Ministry to give this proposal  sympathetic  consideration. If the Government adopts it I feel sure that the people of Australia will endorse its action, and that the men engaged in the industry will so. develop . it that in the course of a few years it will be of immense value to the Commonwealth. 
 I am sorry that some of the speakers in opposition to the bill have assumed that the Government did not give this matter that sympathetic consideration to which it was entitled. It cannot be denied that the Ministry has done a great deal for our primary producers and that it has at all times and in every way, been most  solicitous for the welfare of our returned soldiers. One of the arguments advanced in support of the continuance of the present rate of bounty has been that the industry, by means of the excise on spirits used in fortifying sweet -wines, contributes the amount of the bounty to the consolidated revenue. I am sure, however, that upon reflection those who hold this view will admit that the excise on fortifying spirits is paid by the consumer, in just . the same way as the consumer pays the excise on beer and on Australianmade spirits. Up to the present, no honorable senator who has advocated the retention of the existing rate of bounty has stated what the position would be in regard to the export trade in wine, taking into account both the reduced bounty proposed, and the increased preference which Australian wines exported to Great Britain at present enjoy..  Senator Chapman  came very near to doing this, but realizing that he was on thin ice, he very quickly avoided it. When the first wine bounty bill was passed providing for a bounty of 4s. per gallon, or, if ' the excise be taken into account, a net bounty of 2s. 9d. per gallon, the preference enjoyed by Australian wine exported to Great Britain was only 6d. per gallon ; so that with the 2s. 9d. bounty and 6d. preference, the advantage which the Australian wine obtained amounted to 3s. 3d. per gallon. Last year when the bounty was reduced to ls. 9d., the British preference was still only 6d., so that the bounty and preference together amounted to 2s. 3d. per gallon. Under this bill it is proposed to further reduce the bounty from ls. 9d. to ls., because to-day the British preference amounts to '4s. per gallon, and if we combine preference and bounty, the advantage to Australian wine is 5s. per gallon, as against 2s. 3d. per gallon previously. It will be seen, therefore, that notwithstanding the proposed reduction in the bounty, the exporter of Australian wine to Great Britain is 2s. 9d. per gallon better off than he was twelve months ago. In spite of these figures, there are some who suggest that the Government is treating the industry unfairly, and that if its proposals are adopted a number of producers of grapes must inevitably be ruined. I say the position- is the reverse. Exporters, and those growing grapes for sale to the distilleries, will be infinitely better off under this bill than they were twelve months ago. The prosperity of the vignerons will be greatly increased. 
Such a promise was never made. The original bill certainly provided for bounties extending over three years, but it was distinctly stated by the Minister' in charge of the amending bill introduced in March of last year that if there was any increase in the amount of British preference to Australian wines, the Government reserved to itself the right to review the position, and, if necessary, to reduce the bounty by the amount of increased preference granted. Since then, the preference has been increased by 3s. 6d. per gallon, and the Government now proposes to reduce the bounty by 9d. per gallon only. It must be admitted that, at the moment, the position of the wine export trade is somewhat chaotic. This is due largely to heavy  exportations  last year, the object being to send away as much wine as possible before the bounty was reduced. Unfortunately a great deal of that wine exported was not fit for consumption, because it had not been sufficiently -matured. I understand that there are now between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000 gallons of this wine in London. Wo doubt the position will right itself soon because, owing to the visitation of frost to which  Senator Robinson  referred, the vintage this year will be lighter than usual. 
Not at all. The men who held back their wine last year in order to mature it properly, will not be penalized, because they will obtain a much higher price for it than will those who rushed their unmatured wine on to the market before it was fit for consumption. '  It is, I think, about four years since the original act was passed providing for the payment of the bounty, including' drawback, of 4s. per gallon. 
It was then thought that those engaged in the industry would organize the export trade. Unfortunately, nothing has been done. Apparently they relied upon the bounty to make their overseas trade profitable. Recently we had a visit from a keen business man from Great Britain in the person of  Mr. Morris,  the wellknown manufacturer of motor cars. At a luncheon which was tendered to him in the Adelaide town hall, he made certain observations upon the position of the wine trade in Great Britain. 
This is what he said - 
Australian wines were not properly marketed in Great Britain. The work waa carried out in such a manner that everybody supposed that it was cheap wine. It was impossible to ask at any big hotels in England for the best Australian wine, and get it. There must be something wrong with the organization. The wine-growers should get together and find out what was wrong. The Australian wines they were marketing had such dreadful labels that it was enough to put anybody off drinking the wine. 
Surely there is an obligation upon the industry to put its house in order! 
With the object of giving vignerons a greater degree of security, the Government has decided that the bounty of ls. a gallon shall continue without alteration until the 31st August, 1930.  Senator Robinson,  this evening, delivered a speech which I am sure every honorable senator enjoyed, whether they were in agreement with him or not. I, for one, shall look forward with pleasurable anticipation to hearing the honorable senator on many future occasions. 
I do not expect to get it, but I believe in giving credit where credit is due.  Senator Needham,  and other honorable senators, have referred to the visit which has been paid to Canberra by representatives of the vigernons  at Berri, an irrigation settlemen on the Murray. 
Those men waited upon the Prime Minister  (Mr. 
Bruce) and the Minister for Markets  (Mr. Paterson),  and expressed the desire that there should be no reduction in the rate of bounty. That, however, is not their chief trouble. They had a more important and more urgent matter to discuss, but I do not think it would be in their interests that I should disclose it.  Senator Robinson  referred to the duty that is imposed on returned empty wine casks. 
They have made their representations. The Government has given this matter very lengthy consideration. It has viewed it from every aspect, and has had very exhaustive investigations made in Great Britain. The manufacture of wine, so called, in Great Britain, from wine juice or must that is imported from Mediterranean countries, is not a new industry. It has been carried on in Great Britain for some years. The manufactured article was in competition with Australian wine when the latter enjoyed a preference of only 6d. a gallon. That competition cannot now be any more severe than it was two, three or four years ago. I understand that, in reality, it does not compete with Australian wine. Only those persons who are satisfied with something very cheap and nasty will buy it when they have the opportunity to purchase good Australian wine.   Senator Chapman.  - They drink it instead of our wine. 
They probably drink it instead of beer, with which it is more comparable. It has to pay an excise of ls. 6d. a gallon. I understand that it is blended with Australian wine, and that the quantity of our wine which is contained in a gallon of this British product represents a duty of about 6d. ' 
The first report of the Tariff Board upon the wine  industry recommended the payment of a bounty of 4s. a gallon, which included the drawback of excise amounting to 1s. 3d. a gallon. It also stated that the cost of the casks represented1s. a gallon. That was the reason why the bounty was made so high in the first instance.  Senator Greene  . will know that there is in the Customs Act a provision which prevents the Minister from allowing Australian goods to be re-imported duty free unless he is satisfied that their re-introduction will not disorganize an Australian industry. Very strong representations were made to the effect that if these casks were allowed to come in duty free, they would disorganize, to a very material extent, the coopering industry in this country. I believe that if they had been allowed to come in duty free at the time referred to, a good deal of unrest would have been caused among the coopers, and probably the export of wine would have been held up for a considerable time. The duty on these casks is not very great. It is computed not on the cost of new casks in Australia, but on the value of secondhand casks in London. 
That matter is under consideration at the present time. I think that I have dealt with practically every point that was raised during the debate. I merely wish to repeat that the Government has given this matter very careful consideration, and has had due regard to the position of the wine industry, and also the interests of the taxpayers, who have to find the money to pay the bounty. 
[10.19].- The hour is not yet late, and, as honorable senators are aware, it is the general desire that we should not meet next week, I ask the committee to sit a little longer. 
I intend to submit an amendment to this clause, and, if it is accepted, to move - 
That the rate of bounty payable on fortified wines exported on or after the 9th day of March, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight shall be in accordance with the following schedule: - 

<graphic href="118332192805175_40_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that this embodies the views I expressed during my secondreading speech, when I stated that if ,*i sliding scale of bounty were adopted an arrangement would be entered into between the Government and those who would benefit from the bounty, under which a portion of the money paid over would be earmarked and used in advertising Australian wines on the London market. The Minister, in reply to the criticisms levelled at the Government's action, emphasized the point that the bounty had been abused. In order to prove the bona fides of those vitally interested in this matter, they voluntarily propose to allow the Government to spend a portion of the money they would receive in popularizing Australian wines. I am afraid that whatever is said will have little effect upon the Government; but I seriously ask honorable senators representing States which will not be affected by this measure, to take into consideration the unfortunate position in which repatriated men in South Australia, Victoria, and, to a less extent, in New South Wales, will be placed, if the Government's proposal is adopted. 
I intend to support  Senator Robinson  in his effort to amend this clause,- which provides for a reduction in the bounty, and to substitute a provision for the payment of the bounty on a sliding scale: The new schedule which the honorable senator desires to add to the bill provides for a sliding scale, under which the rate of bounty shall during  a  period of six years be decreased each year by 3d. a gallon. This scheme has been suggested by those engaged in the industry, who will be most severely affected if the bounty is reduced as set out in the bill. Surely we should be guided by the opinions and experience of those engaged in the industry, who will suffer severe hardship  as a  result of a premature reduction in the bounty. 
I will answer the Minister's question by asking him what is the effect upon Australian production of the cheap British blended wines now on the London market? The preference of which the Minister has spoken is simply on paper, and the- sale of cheap "pinkie" is operating to the disadvantage of Australian wines. According to the  Wine Trade Review,  a British company known as Vine Products Limited commenced operations a few years ago with a capital of £300,000, but to-day its capital is. £585,000, "practically two-thirds of which is watered. Last year its profits represented 48 per cent, of its earnings, and its output was 2,500,000 gallons. The Minister has treated this aspect of the question too lightly; competition from this source is detrimental to the wine-export trade of Australia. It is not yet too late for the Government to reconsider this matter. It would not be placing itself in ari invidious position by accepting the amendment suggested by  Senator Robinson.  I trust the committee will support the proposal, and thus prevent an injustice being done to a large number of deserving men engaged in the industry. 
.- The Government cannot accept the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Robinson,  which provides for a reduction in the bounty of 3d. in each succeeding year for the next five years, because it will affect the period of the bounty and delete a proviso inserted in the clause in another place and accepted by the Government. That proviso is as follows: - 
Provided that no bounty shall be payable in respect of wine which is not shown, to the satisfaction of the Minister, to be the product of areas planted with vines on or before the thirty-first day of March, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight. 
I do not intend to make a speech at this stage. I should like to hear something in support of the amendment in addition to what has already been said on the second reading. 
Amendment (by  Senator ROBINSON  proposed - 
That the words " One shilling per gallon," proposed new section 5, be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " in accordance with the schedule to this act." 
The Minister in charge of the bill says that the Government cannot accept the amendment because it means too serious an alteration of the bill, but that is no justification for hesitating to alter the bill if honorable senators agree to the case that has been put up by  Senator Robinson,  and others. "We know that there are in this industry people who are struggling to get on their feet. They were induced by different governments in the States to settle on the land. Areas were cleared for them, and they were promised that they would get a fair deal and an adequate return for their labours. But just when they are likely to get on their feet the Government proposes .drastic, alterations in regard to the rate of bounty to be . paid to them. What is to become of these men if they are treated- in this way? . The market overseas is not as good as it was. There is acute competition from continental producers. 
But it is more acute to-day than it was a few years ago.  
That is so. All these things make the position very much worse for the growers and others engaged in the wine industry in Australia. The figures quoted by  Senator Needham  should receive the serious consideration of the Government. This Parliament does not hesitate to give the fullest measure of protection to established industries in Australia. Sugar would be much cheaper for the consumers here if it were not for the almost prohibitive protective duty that has to be paid on sugar brought from outside Australia. We impose that heavy duty because we want to encourage the sugar industry. I want to see the same consideration extended to other industries. Would people engaged in the wine-making business be making special trips to Canberra at great cost and inconvenience to themselves if they had not a good case, and did not feel that they had justice on their side? 
The Minister in charge of the bill may laugh at the honorable senator's interjection, but he would be more serious-minded if he were in the unfortunate position of some of these, grape-growers. As for honorable senators on this side of the chamber - 
No. They are not against the Government on this measure. 
It is not a party question. I daresay that among the growers there are supporters of the Labour party, supporters' of the Country party, and supporters of the Nationalist party. ' We' are not here to discuss this bill from a party viewpoint. 
I do not think any honorable senator has done so, and I hope that Government supporters who regard themselves as loyal party men will not look at the bill from a party viewpoint. Although it affects a small section numerically, it should affect every man in :the community, because the whole community 'owes a duty to these men on the land. I want to see them kept on the land and engaged in this industry, with  profit to themselves. They are not engaged in a profitable industry to-day. Fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind, particularly in times of adversity, and these men are going through a time of adversity. 
After having risked their lives for the citizens of this country they put . their all into this industry in the belief that the Government would stand by them. We heard it said after their return, " We cannot do enough for . these boys ; we must see them well placed ; we shall never see them in want." Yet now, when these boys are asking for a fair deal from the Government, the Government treats their request in a halfhearted way. So far as we on this side of the chamber are concerned, we shall do our level best for them, and if those honorable senators who helped directly or indirectly to place them on the land do their duty, they will help  Senator Robinson  in his efforts to get his amendment carried. I do not wish to say any more just now, but there is a great principle involved in this matter. 
The more fully it is discussed the greater will be the support given to it.  Senator Reid  knows of the trials and troubles inseparable from those engaged in the work-a-day world. If he had been induced by the State Government to engage iti this industry, told what he must plant and what he could expect when his vines came in to full bearing - told, moreover, that a profitable market would be found for his products ; loud would be his protests when he found that the Government had not honoured its promise, and his opposition to the proposal to reduce by 9d. a gallon the bounty on wine exported would be most vigorous. 
The Government should give practical evidence of the sincerity of its professed desire to help these men, and it can do so by accepting  Senator Robinson's  proposal. 
Several attempts have been made to show that this reduction in the wine bounty is a breach of contract on the part of the Government 
Anyone who, having been placed in possession of the facts, says that the Government's action is a breach of contract, is guilty of deliberate misrepresentation 
During the course of the debate I have said nothing whatever regarding the protection enjoyed by the wine industry. 
I said that any one in full possession of the facts, who accused the Government of having committed a breach of contract, made a deliberate mis-statement. If  Senator Needham  considers that the remark applied to him and that it was offensive, I withdraw it; but I ask you,  Mr. Chairman,  to call upon  Senator Needham  to withdraw the charge that the Government has committed a breach of contract. Such a charge is offensive to me personally and I am sure it is equally offensive to my colleagues. 
 Senator Findley  said that the wine industry is as much entitled to protection as is any other Australian industry. With that I agree; but I point out that it enjoys a greater measure of protection than any other Australian industry. The duty on wine is 14s. a gallon. Assuming, that the value of wine is 4s. a gallon, that duty represents a protection of 350 per cent. Wine imported in bottles bears a duty of 18s. a gallon. 
It is sufficient to keep out all wines excepting small quantities of special wines from France, Spain, and Portugal. It enables Australian wine producers to obtain a satisfactory price for so much of their wines as are consumed in Australia. I remind honorable senators that in my second-reading speech I quoted the remarks made- in another place by the late Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  in March of last year, in which he stated definitely that the Government reserved to itself the right to reduce the wine bounty by an amount equivalent to any increase of British preference. That preference has been increased by 3s. 6d. per gallon; and seeing that the Government proposes to reduce the bounty by only Od. a gallon, honorable senators will see that the effective preference is 2s. 9d. a gallon more than it was twelve months ago. 
Wines have been blended from time immemorial. Ever since a bounty on wine exported from this country has been paid, wine has been made in Great Britain from imported must. Prom the remarks of honorable senators one would imagine that only Australian wines are affected by the blending of wines in Great Britain. That is not so. Wines from other countries entering . England are also affected. Had there been a provision in the' original bill, or the amending legislation introduced last year, to the effect that the bounty should be reduced in the same ratio as British preference was increased, honorable senators representing constituencies in which wine is produced would have accepted it. But the Government's proposals do not go so far as that. The reduction of the bounty is less than one-fourth of the amount by which the British preference has been increased. Yet honorable senators allege that an injustice is being done to those engaged in the industry, particularly to those returned soldiers who were placed on the land by the States by means of money advanced by the Commonwealth, and were instructed by the States what they should plant on their holdings. That argument has been advanced chiefly by honorable senators opposite. If any unbiassed person were asked his opinion whether the members of the Opposition or those supporting the Government have rendered the most practical assistance to our soldiers, either while they were abroad or since their return, his verdict would be given in favour of the Government and its supporters. 
Those engaged in the wine industry will be better off with the higher British preference and this lower bounty than they were twelve months ago. 
I had not long been a member of the Senate before I realized that one of my cherished ideals had been shattered. I had hoped that the debates in this chamber would not be conducted in the atmosphere in which we have to-day considered this bill - each party endeavouring to make political capital out of its efforts on behalf of our returned soldiers. 
I am not . blaming the Minister. I do not for one moment believe that either party in this Parliament is more zealous than the other for the welfare of  our returned soldiers. I am charitable enough to believe that whatever our political opinionsmay be, or whatever may be our views as to the merits or demerits of this bill, we are at one in our desire to do the fair thing by the men who went overseas to fight for Australia. The difficulty appears to be to agree upon the method by which this should be done. I can assure the Minister that all the growers on the Murray river irrigation areas regard the Government's proposals as a' repudiation of a definite promise that the bounty would be continued for three years. I. admit that a statement was made last year by the late Minister for Trade and Customs in the terms set out by  Senator Crawford;  but it was probably a merely .casual observation made in much the same way as statementshave been made during this debate. 
Then why was not the intention to further reduce the bounty by 9d. a gallon this year included in the bill of 1927. The growers were clearly under the impression that the bounty would be paid for three years. Accordingly they look upon this measure as a repudiation of a promise. In the circumstances I urge the Government to stay its hand. The Minister in charge of the bill has repeatedly stated that even under the reduced bounty the grape-growers will be better off than .they were under the original proposals. I challenge that statement. The excise on spirit amounts to £9 per ton of grapes crushed, whereas the grower gets only £6 10s, This, surely, is conclusive proof that our returned soldier settlers, for whose welfare I am particularly concerned, are .contributing a considerable portion of the bounty. The hour is now late. It is 11 o'clock. We have had a strenuous day, and as I am a man on the land accustomed to going to bed at an early hour, I suggest that the Minister report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Senate adjourned at 11.6 p.m. 
At the outset I wish to remove an impression which may be in the minds of some honorable senators as a result of a remark of the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  concerning themotive which prompted a delegation from Berri, in. South Australia, to visit Canberra in connexion with this measure. I am sure the ' Minister quite unintentionally created a wrong impression in regard to this aspect of the question, and I can give him a definite assurance that the matter to which he alluded is of primary importance to the delegation which visited' Canberra. It was suggested by the Prime Minister that if, as a result of a reduced . bounty, these men found themselves in such a precarious: position that they could not finance their' Operations, they might get some relief from the rural credits branch of the Commonwealth Bank. That would be only postponing  their difficulties ; it would merely provide them with bread and butter, so to speak, for the time being. What is to happen in connexion with the 300,000 gallons of wine on which they will be debarred from getting the bounty of ls. 9d. a gallon under the bill as it stands. I wish for the information of the Minister and honorable senators to read the following, which appeared in a South Australian newspaper yesterday, showing how this matter is -viewed by those most vitally interested in that State - 
The  viticulturists  in South Australia are disappointed and disgusted with the decision of the Federal Government to reduce the wine bounty to ls. a gallon, according to the  president  of the Viticulturists'  Association,  Mr. Leslie  Salter. 

 Mr. Salter understands the wine business from beginning to end, as he, like myself, was a viticultural student at the Roseworthy College and was also  president  of the Roseworthy Old Students' Association.  Mr. Salter,  who has been appointed by the viticulturists  of South Australia to represent their interests, further stated that the reduction in the bounty will place the export wine trade in jeopardy. The  chairman  of directors of the Renmark Growers' Distillery also deprecated the reduction, which he said has been made in order to reduce the Commonwealth deficit. That is the crux of the whole position. It seems that as &amp; result of lavish expenditure and declining revenue the Government is now looking round for opportunities to cut down, and for its first cut has selected this important industry, regardless of the disastrous results which will follow. The  chairman  of the Renmark Growers' Distillery says that if the Government proposal is adopted the wine industry will receive a great setback, and wine makers will be prevented from making any profit on the export of wine. I again ask honorable senators to view this question with an open mind. The prestige of the Government will not suffer, and it will not be in any way embarrassed if the proposal I have submitted is agreed to and sent to another place for its consideration. I maintain that some important facts of which the Government was not aware when the measure was first introduced, have since been placed before them, and in view of the very unsatisfactory position in which these growers, all of whom are returned soldiers, will be placed, I urge that it is the duty of the Senate to support my amendment. I believe that honorable senators wish to do the right thing. 
Yes ; but only on paper. 
I am sure that  Senator Greene  is anxious to do a fair thing. If, as the result of the increased British preference, Australian wine exporters have been placed in a better position to compete with continental wine, manufacturers in Great Britain, on the other hand are now producing a cheap English wine from imported must. 
The operations of one big company have been so successful that as it recently declared a dividend of 30 per cent. This company has been built up as a result of producing a cheap product, in which chemicals and all sorts of coloring matter are used in order to give it the appearance and flavour !of good Australian wine. This wine is being sold at 5s. 6d. a gallon, whereas good Australian wine cannot be sold at less than 9s. 6d. a gallon. 
No; but we can give our exporters a better opportunity of combating this unfair competition until they get their wines established on the London market. 
The position is exactly as I have stated. Our wines have not been properly established on the London market, and whatever good intentions the Bruce-Page Government may have had in allowing wine to be exported before being properly matured it has really destroyed the sale of Australian wine in London. Men who have never produced a gallon of wine or picked a bunch of grapes have been, to use a colloquialism, getting "their cut" by placing on the London market immature wine in order to benefit by the bounty. Whilst they have been doing this others, who held their wine until it was properly matured, have been penalized. In view of the additional information received by the Government since it introduced this ill-advised measure I trust the committee will support my proposal. 
I should not have intervened in this debate had it not been for some of the attempts that have been made to grossly misrepresent the attitude of the Government towards the producers of grapes used for wine making. If there is any section in the community that ought to be grateful to the Commonwealth Government, it is the grape growers, and I resent altogether the attempt which has been made to make it appear that this Government, which has  acted  not only justly but generously towards these persons, is responsible for their present position. I invite honorable senators to recall the situation which arose some few years ago and which was due not to any action on the part of the Commonwealth Government, but to certain State Governments which encouraged returned soldiers to undertake the growing of grapes for wine-, making. In one State at least, the State Government actually compelled returned soldiers to plant certain areas with doradilla vines, and if the position of these growers became desperate it was due to the action of State Governments and not the Government of the Commonwealth. What has actually happened? The State Governments have not done anything to rescue these people from their unfortunate position. Who came to their aid? The Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Parliament. It was the legislation passed by this Parliament that saved them from economic ruin. In the light of these facts it is ridiculous to speak of these people as being grossly ill treated. It is gross misrepresentation. It is wrong to tell them that they have a grievance against this Parliament or this Government. The action taken by this Government in regard to doradilla grapes used for spirit making in the adjustment of the excise duties saved them from immediate ruin. That was followed by the introduction of the Wine Bounty Bill.  Senator Robinson  has said that the reputation of Australian wine has been destroyed by the action of the Commonwealth Government. 
How ridiculous it is to make such an assertion. One has only to look at the figures to see how the export of Australian wines has increased from an almost negligible quantity until we are now amongst the largest suppliers to Britain. This is due entirely to the operation of the Wine Export Bounty Act introduced by this Government and passed by this Parliament. In view of these facts it is ridiculous to tell these people that they have been badly treated by the Commonwealth Government. Their success is entirely due to the legislation initiated by this Government and passed by this Parliament. When the bounty was agreed to the proposals of the British Government in the direction of preference to Empire wines were not known. When, later, the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced his Budget it was seen that the position of the Australian wine growers was improved considerably by the degree of preference which it embodied. While no one contemplated that the British Government would increase the preference on Empire wines so enormously, the then Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  realizing the possibilities of an increase, made public a statement - it appeared not only in  Ronsard,  but throughout the press of Australia, and was noted by the journals devoted to the wine trade - that if there was an increase of British preference there would be an adjustment of the bounty. In the light of the figures which have been given, it is clear that the bounty was not merely sufficient, but unduly generous. The additional preference to Empire wines gave an additional fillip to an industry already generously treated. In view of the financial position of the Commonwealth, it is the bounden duty of the Government to ensure that in its disbursement of public moneys it is not unduly generous. I freely admit that the Government has kept a very close watch on its expenditure, and that in making its disbursements it has paid special attention to efficiency and economy. But no one who views the facts impartially can deny that, with the increased British preference, the wine industry of Australia to-day, in spite of the reduced bounty, is in a much better position that it was previously. That being so, the Government is not justified in imposing taxes on the community to give to that industry something it does not need. The Government and this Parliament have no reason to be ashamed of their treatment of the grape-growers and the wine industry. When no one else would help the growers this Government came to their rescue and saved from ruin those engaged in the industry. The time has arrived for a readjustment of the bounty. I appeal to honorable senators not to make use of extravagant statements, calculated to create a feeling among the unfortunate growers that they have been badly treated. The facts speak otherwise. I resent the attempt made to belittle the assistance given by the Government to the industry. 
In reply to  Senator Pearce,  I desire to say that I made use of no extravagant statements in my speech, nor did I complain of what had been done in the past to assist the grape growers. On the contrary, I gave the Government credit for what had been done. I said, moreover, that I believed that the Prime Minister was genuinely concerned about the future of the wine industry of Australia. I believe so still. I do not want the speculators in wine to benefit . through the bounty at the expense of the -rest of the community. If I believed that our wines could be marketed successfully, with a reduction of the bounty, I should not be found fighting the Government's proposals. I also agree with the desire of the Government to organize the wine trade and to ensure that more matured wines are placed on the London market. I thought that I had made that plain in my previous speech. When the bill was before another place, the Prime Minister said - 
The problem now to be considered is whether the alteration of the British preference warrants a reduction of the bounty. 
That is the crux of the question. The Minister stated that the effective British preference is 3s. 6d. a gallon more than it was previously. 
It is true that previously the preference was 6d. a gallon, and that it is now 4s. but because of the extent to which wines are blended in England, the effective preference is not 3s. 6d. a gallon. 
We ask for temporary assistance to market our wines. If our surplus wine is not exported; but is thrown on the local market, the result will be calamitous. I remind honorable senators that the Government is financing the returned soldiers engaged in the industry. The Prime Minister admitted that wine blending was being carried out in England. 
It is part of the wine business during' recent years many of the difficulties which were previously associated with the blending of wines have been removed. The Prime Minister admitted that the blending of wines in England had the effect of defeating the British preference. His words were - 
Assuming that a foreign low strength wine, on which a duty of 3s. per gallon was paid, and a foreign high strength wine, on which a duty of 8s. per gallon was paid, were successfully blended in equal proportions, the average duty on the wine would be 5s. 6d. per gallon. The duty on our sweet wine is only 4s. per gallon. Therefore the Australian wine exporter would still be ls. 6d. per gallon better off than when the Wine Export Bounty Bill was introduced last year. 
But the position is worse even than that. Messrs. Martin, Angove, Salter and  Gursansky,  wine experts, who visited England some time ago stated on their return that wine blending is being carried on in England to a very great extent.  Mr. Martin  said that it is now quite easy to blend two parts of wine under 25 per cent, with one part of wine which is under 42 per cent., and that the duty on such foreign blended wine is reduced to 4s. 8d. as against 4s. on Australian wine. 
Honorable senators will see bow, by the blending of wines in England, the objects of Empire preference are being defeated. The position is still worse when we reflect that large quantities of wine are being made in Britain from must. That wine bears  no duty but an excise of only ls. 6d. per gallon. I have already quoted extracts from the balance sheets of the companies which are making wines from must in England and have shown and that their profits and turnover are increasing year by year. The position is so serious that 300,000 gallons of Australian wine belonging to one cooperative distillery now in England cannot find a market. Some months ago another co-operative winery in South Australia sent to London a consignment of wine which is still unsold. I ask honorable senators not to agree to the reduction of the wine bounty at this stage. I remind them that the bounty is paid only in respect of wine which is exported. The buyers of grapes to make export wine force other buyers to pay the fixed price for grapes. If there is no export of wines there is no fixation by the Government of the price to be paid for grapes. Consequently growers must accept whatever price is offered to them. Even the fixed price is not high - it is the lowest price which, in the opinion of the Government will pay the growers. 
To help to market them. It is true that some of the Australian wine in England is being sold, and probably, in time, the whole of that now in bond will be disposed of. But if there is no export of wine, and consequently no fixation of the price to be paid for grapes, the growers will indeed be in an unenviable position. Even under existing conditions their income is not great. Some of them will be unable to carry on for six months, so if this measure passes, in all probability they will be forced off their holdings. 
! - I do not wish to give a silent vote on this matter. It was my intention to cover a great deal of the ground that has just been traversed by  Senator 
Pearce. In my opinion this Parliament has done as much as it can, at the moment at all events, to extricate producers from difficulties for which it was in no way responsible, but I have felt for a long time that the whole of the arrangements in connexion with the wine industry in Australia require serious overhauling. The arguments advanced by those who advocate the retention of the present bounty could be used as long as the industry is conducted on its present basis. There is, however, one thing for which I am satisfied this Parliament was responsible* and which should be put right, though I admit there are many difficulties in the way. I do not know who devised the present system of excise duties, but evidently someone who had an eye on the revenue possibilities decided that the easiest way to levy a tax on the alcoholic contents of wine was to impose a duty on the fortifying spirit. It was an easy method, but experience has shown that it was the worst possible thing that could have been done for the industry, because it encouraged the marketing of wine in an immature condition. While this duty is collected on the fortifying spirit, the winemakers will consider it to be in their own interests to market their product at the earliest possible moment. 
The revenue collected by the Government in this way immediately becomes part of the capital charge on the manufacture of wine, so the longer it is kept for maturing purposes, the greater the charge necessarily becomes. It is obvious, therefore, that the principle of charging excise duty on wine at the point of manufacture is wrong, and, as I have shown, Parliament must accept responsibility for this state of affairs. I admit that many technical difficulties must be cleared away before we can remedy this anomaly, and I suggest that the people who are deeply interested in the business should give it their close attention. The practice of the department is entirely different in the case of whiskey and brandy. Excise, duty is not levied on those spirits until they go into consumption, and the law provides that both whiskey and brandy must be  kept two years in wood. No portion of either product may be sold out of bond until it has been maturing for two years. I think it will be admitted, even by those engaged in the wine industry, that in the present state of the country's finances wine, like every other alcoholic beverage, should be a fair charge against the revenue; that is to say, a certain amount of excise duty should be collected from it. 
I -was about to say that this excise revenue is obtained principally from a small section of the winemakers, and, possibly, one reason why a manifest wrong has not been righted is that vignerons cannot get together to discuss and deal with the matter. Light wines are our principal product, and, no doubt, the maker of that class of wine says to himself : " The other fellow is carrying the baby. I will let him do it as long as I can." 
I am aware of that. I mention it because, in my opinion, it is one of the things in connexion -with the wine industry that should be put right. If it is, I feel sure that the industry will be very materially assisted. I suggest, therefore, that those who have invested their money and are engaged in it should make such representations to the Government as will present a logical case upon -which the Minister can act. If this is done, I believe that the remedy, if applied, will cure many of the evils from which the industry is suffering to-day. To assist the industry when it was in grave difficulties, the Government introduced and passed what I considered was an over-generous bounty system. 
-Why has it been abused ? Every one knows that one of the greatest abuses in connexion with it has been the exportation of immature wines. 
The exportation of immature wine has undoubtedly done incalculable harm to the trade in London. There are so many technical questions involved in the correction of the anomalies to which I have referred that I hesitate to express a definite opinion. I have formed certain conclusions as the result of some study, which I have been  able to give to the subject, but I do not wish to put them forward because, asI have stated, the whole question is surrounded with technical difficulties, with which I am not thoroughly familiar. I believe, however, that it should be possible for the people engaged in the industry to submit proposals which, if adopted, should ultimately remove many of the disabilities from which the industry is suffering to-day. The direct imposition of excise duty on the fortifying spirit at the point of manufacture is not in the interests of the industry. 
SenatorFindley.-Doesthe honorable senator suggest that those concerned should submit proposals after this bill has been passed, or does he advise delaying the passage of the measure,? 
-I do not think we should delay. One has only to look at the figures which have bean presented, dealing, with the growth of the export trade, and to recall facts that have been admitted, to realize that a certain amount of abuse has crept into the trade. 
It is also due to the fact, as  Senator Chapman  knows very well, that the exporters of a few years ago, whose object was to develop the British market with matured wines of good quality and in that way to build up a reputation for the Australian product, have, in recent years, been absolutely swamped by a new class of exporters, whose object, apparently, is to make money out of the over-generous bounty given by the Government. In this way incalculable harm has been done to the wine export trade. In the circumstances, I do not think we should delay the pasage of the bill. It should go through as it stands. J admit that, in all probability, it will create certain new difficulties, but I believe that this is the only way in which we will be able to get the viticulturists who are particularly concerned, and the winemakers, to give their undivided attention to the correction of the anomaly to whch I have referred. I am confident that if this is done we shall ultimately place the wine industry of Australia on a thoroughly sound basis. 
 Senator Greene  has told the committee that he has given some consideration to this matter. I think we can say that he has given very much consideration to it and understands the position as well as, if not better than, most members of the committee, though he is too modest to make that claim. He made out an excellent, case for the postponement of this measure the passing of which, in its present form, he has declared, will multiply the existing difficulties. The Government enlarges upon its generous treatment of those who are engaged in the industry. I admit that the bounty is a substantial one ; but it is also correct to say that the Government has received in revenue probably £2,000,000 or £3,000,000, by way of excise. 
 That is paid by the consumers of the wine. 
 This bill is in the interest of the producers, not the consumers. 
I realize that it is the duty of the Government Whip to assist the Government to have its measures put through; but I point out to  Senator Foll  that this  is not a party measure, and I remind him that he is a returned soldier. At the front he went through the fires of Hades, and I feel sure that his sympathies are with those who, like himself, played a part in that titanic struggle years ago. He knows that many thousands of the men who fought in the war were not as strong, either physically or mentally, upon their return as they were before their departure. I ask him what would be his attitude, if in addition to being a returned soldier, he had engaged in this industry for some time; and, having put in a good deal of hard work to make his venture a success, suddenly found himself denied something that he believed had been definitely promised to him. 
If my acquaintance with  Senator Findley  in this chamber had extended over only two or three weeks I might have been tempted to take some notice of the piteous appeal that he has just made. In the first place, however, I point out" that honorable senators who sit on this side, unlike those who sit opposite, are free at all times to act just as they please. The whip to which  Senator Findley  made so lengthy a reference does not play such a prominent part with us as it does with those in whose political environment the honorable senator has moved for many years. That environment has made him blind to the freedom which exists among members of other parties. 
I can honestly say that during the eleven years that I have represented the State of Queensland I have never sought to make use of the returned soldier for the purpose of catching votes, as the honorable senator has endeavoured to do in the last couple of days. He has grasped this opportunity with both hands, and has played up to a section from which he believes he may gain a few votes. 
I do not wish to be unfair. The record of this Government in regard to its treatment of returned soldiers is very much better than that of the party to which the honorable senator belongs. 
 The Labour Party has not been in office since the war; on what grounds, therefore, does the honorable senator make such a statement? 
 We believe in the voluntary system of enlistment. 
River settlers, but, just as  Senator Findley  would do, if he were a Minister, it must take into consideration the economic conditions of the country at the present time. What has happened recently is one of the curses of the bounty system. A bounty is given to enable an industry to establish itself and gel into a flourishing condition. It is not intended that it shall be paid for all time, but there is always a hard struggle to get it removed. 
I notice with interest that the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate, evidently realizing the precarious position of the Ministry in regard to this measure, has found it necessary to jump in over the head of the Minister in charge of the bill in order to try to save the situation. I regret that the pitch has been spoilt as the result of party bickering across the chamber, the effect of which is to make honorable senators lose sight of the main issue. I am sorry that  Senator Pearce  tried to bring discredit on the Government of South Australia and lead honorable senators to believe that the steps it took to repatriate soldiers got them into a horrible mess, from which they were only saved by the goodness of the Commonwealth Government. If the right honorable gentleman were in the chamber I should ask him what object the South Australian Government had to serve in. forcing the soldiers and settlers to grow doradillo grapes, other than a desire to do the decent thing to the men who had gone away to fight for their country. As a matter of fact, the State Government has received practically no direct revenue from these settlers, whereas the Commonwealth Government has received something like £3,000,000 in excise duty as the result of the establishment of the wine making industry. If a man gives me £100 and a little later asks me for £10, it is an easy matter for me to give him the £10 and I should not consider myself very good natured if subsequently I gave him the other £90. These men had come back from the war; they were clamouring for repatriation, and asking the Government to carry out the promises that had been made to them. The only avenue that those who were then responsible for the administration of the State of South Australia could see open to them was the settlement of these men on irrigation areas. They did place hundreds on re-purchased and subdivided estates in rural districts and even went so far as to buy out established farmers and replace them by inexperienced soldiers, which from an economic point of view was an unfortunate step that did not add to the welfare of the State. The State of South Australia did all it was able to do in the repatriation of these "boys." It saw the huge amount of money that was being spent in connexion with locking the Murray and Darling for irrigation purposes and decided that it was best to settle soldiers on the areas that would be benefited by that expenditure. I understand that this work will cost £14,000,000. In this connexion, I emphasize what has already been said by  Senator Chapman  - that it is Government money that is at stake in the grapegrowing industry. The settlers can walk out to-morrow and accentuate the unemployment trouble already existing in the various States; if this happens the authority to suffer will be the Government which has financed the settlers and developed the irrigation areas on which they have been growing grapes for wine making. I did not want  Senator Pearce  to get away with the impression he sought to make on the chamber that the Commonwealth Government has done magnificent work in coming to the assistance of settlers who have been unfortunately placed as the result of ill-advised action on the part of the Government of South Australia. As a matter of fact, as a result of the work done by the South Australian Government, the Commonwealth revenue has increased by millions of pounds in the shape of excise duty paid by these settlers. All that I ask now is that these settlers shall continue to get something in return for the huge amount of money they have paid into the Commonwealth Treasury. 
After listening for a considerable time to the remarks of honorable senators, I know just as much about the subject as I knew when the debate started. I must, however, congratulate  Senator Robinson  on his maiden speech  in the Senate.- I took note of the appeal he made to honorable senators from other States to help him and those he represents, and I can tell him that I am just as anxious as he is to assist people engaged in any form of primary production. If returned soldiers were the only persons concerned, I would have no hesitation in deciding the course I should follow. It has been admitted, however, that the . men for whom this bounty was primarily . intended have not benefited, but that certain speculators have collected money which was really intended for primary producers. The honorable senator has not convinced me that if the present bounty were continued the same speculators would not still obtain the benefit. 
I fail to see how the speculators, who in the past have received all the benefit, will not continue to do so. 
Is there anything in the bill to prevent the bounty being paid to those people? 
 Senator Robinson  told us yesterday that he would astonish us with some information he had to supply, and I shall now tell him something which I do not think he knows at present. Speaking as a representative of Western Australia, I wish to say that these persons whom he admits have been benefiting at the expense of the growers are now attempting, in Western Australia, to control the home market by obtaining wine licences issued by the State Government and placing their own nominees in establishments licensed for the retailing of wine. That is preventing local growers from finding a market for their product in their own State. 
I am willing to help those in need, and I honestly think that the Government is also anxious to assist in every possible way. I am very glad the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  explained so forcibly the way in which the Commonwealth Government ha3 assisted the growers. I resent the statements made in this chamber that this Government has been ungenerous and even unjust to the growers. I can say without hesitation that during the history of the Commonwealth there has never been a Government in office which has been more generous to the primary producers than the present Administration. I shall go further, and say that during the history of the Commonwealth there has never been a Minister in charge of a department who has been more desirous of assisting the primary producers than the present Minister for Markets  (Mr. Paterson).  If an alteration were made, as suggested by  Senator Greene,  the growers and cooperative companies might be relieved, but the rejection of this provision will not affect the position to which the honorable senator referred. I have heard a good deal concerning the tremendous amount of excise paid. We all know that the excise is not paid on wines exported. It is collected only in respect of wines consumed locally. 
I am glad that at least one honorable senator will admit that. 
No. I charge  Senator Chapman  with actually, if not intentionally, being largely responsible for the position in which the wine makers at present find themselves owing to the English market being flooded with immature Australian wines. 
When a proposal was made last year to reduce the bounty, the Government said that it would not be paid at the full rate on the new wine that was then coming in, and  Senator Chapman  urged the Government not to be false to its pledges. 
The honorable senator said that the Government should permit wine to be exported to enable the producers to get the benefit of the higher rate up to the 1st August. 
The Government weakly yielded, to a certain amount of pressure, with the result that the London market is flooded with a quantity of immature Australian wine which should not have been marketed for several years. 
That may be s.o, but the facts do not bear out the honorable senator's contention. During 19.27, £442,000 was paid in bounty on exported wine, and during the eight months ended March of this year, £452,000 was paid, or £10,000 more in two-thirds of the time. 
No  excise is paid on exported wine. 
During the period in which £452,000 was paid in bounties, £184,000 was allowed in the form of drawback.  Senator- Robinson  has suggested a sliding scale of bounties commencing this year, at ls. 9d. and diminishing by 3d. a gallon each year to 3d. a gallon at the end of the sixth year. He also said that those receiving the bounty are willing to allow the Government t'» allocate a certain portion for advertising Australian wines and placing them on the London market. If Id. a gallon were deducted for this purpose it would be found that at the end of the period named the producers had received, under this sliding scale, only 2d. a gallon more than they would get under the Government proposal, but over a longer period they would be even worse off. The bill provides that no bounty shall be paid in respect of wine which is not shown to. the satisfaction of the Min,ister to be the product of areas planted with vines on or before the 31st March, 1927. Vines planted on that date would not produce for three years, and it would be at least five years before they were in. full bearing. This measure does not provide that the bounty shall be paid for five years, and therefore that provision is of little use. 
This debate has shown that there are already too many vines planted- 
Yes. I direct attention to the fact that the wine producers receive only lOd. a gallon for wine which is sold at 20s. 
The difference in the price of butter is relatively not so great. One cannot purchase port wine of even fair quality for less. than 3s. 6d. a bottle, and better qualities cost at least 5s. 6d. or 6s. a bottle. 
Yes, but if the retailers and bottlers can purchase wine at 10d. a gallon, consumers should not have to pay at the rate of 20s. a gallon. 
Yes, but the honorable senator has been condemning those who  are  blending wines in Great Britain. 

The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I shall do all I can to assist  Senator Robinson  to carry his proposal. I do not like to see persons always in a hurry yet never on time. There is no necessity to travel at express speed when dealing with this measure. If we were to "go slow" for a time a better bill would probably be the result.  Senator Carroll  said that after listening carefully to  Senator Robinson  and other honorable senators who have spoken, he was no better informed as to the purpose of the amendment than he was previously. 
 Senator Carroll,  a man of keen intelligence, who applies himself assidiously  to his duties, has admitted that he does not understand the purpose of the amendment. Is that not a sufficient reason to make lis pause before recording a vote on the amendment? Many of our primary producers are in the grip of middlemen and profiteers. In order to prevent further exploitation, many primary producers have formed co-operative societies which to a great extent eliminate the middlemen and bring the producers and the consumers closer together. To encourage those in the wine industry who have cooperated for their own protection,  Senator Robinson  submitted his amendment. He pointed out that if it is agreed to, a fund will be established by the growers for the purpose of advertising their products. 
It is well known that extensive and judicious advertising increases the sale of the commodities advertised. Even inferior Commodities enjoy for a time a better sale if they are well advertised. But the advantage which advertising brings to commodities of good quality is an enduring one. A person travelling by rail in any of the States cannot fail to see at the stations through which he passes numbers of artistic posters advertising various articles. As one who was for many years in the printing business those posters interest me. I have noticed that in recent years their quality has improved immeasurably. The Minister in charge of the bill also spent some years in the printing business. 
-Those posters have largely increased the sales of Australian wines, which, report says, are of excellent quality. Apparently, the Government does not wish to encourage the formation of co-operative societies among primary producers. It may be that these societies are yet in their infancy; but we all know "the wonderful results that at times have accrued from small beginnings. Some of the most powerful co-operative societies in. the world commenced in a humble way. The well-known Rochdale Corporation, in England, began with a capital of less than £30. The  difficulties  which confronted its promoters appeared to be almost insurmountable. At first their efforts were ridiculed. The palates of the people of England had so long been accustomed to adulterated butter and pepper that when that society offered them pure butter and pepper they hesitated to eat them. But to-day the Rochdale Corporation is a huge institution, almost a State within a State, operating in the interests, not of a few persons, but of its many shareholders. Why cannot we assist the co-operative ' societies to which  Senator Robinson  has referred? The men comprising them have banded together for a common purpose. They are optimistic enough to believe that if the full bounty is retained their future will be assured. What is the prospect before them to-day? Because of an overstocked wine market in England rendering it inadvisable for Australian wine makers to export wine, there may be no fixation of the prices of grapes by the Government, with the result that the growers will be forced to accept whatever is offered to them. It is not sufficient to say now that in the past the Government has treated the growers generously. When these men were placed on the land the intention was that they should become permanent settlers. But if this bill is passed in its present form they will be driven off the land. Some of these unfortunate men, already sick and weary at heart, will have their lives shortened. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 

<graphic href="118332192805186_13_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192805186_13_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="118332192805186_13_0_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question - That the words proposed to. be left . out  (Senator Robinson's amendment)  be left out. 
Ayes . . 9 
Noes . .  . .  . . 11 
Majority . . 2 
Question so resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
 I move - 
That all the words after "shilling," be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words "sixpence per gallon." 

The honorable senator's amendment is not in order. The committee on the division just taken has decided that the word " shilling " shall stand. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[2.23].  -  I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till a day and hour to be fixed by the  President,  which time of meeting shall be notified to each senator by telegram or letter. 
On present appearances, it is probable that the Senate will be called together next Wednesday fortnight. Much, of course, will depend upon the progress made with legislation in another place. It is impossible now to fix the date of our next meeting, and, as the Government does not wish to call honorable senators together until there is business to transact, it has been considered desirable to leave the matter in the hands of the  President. 
 I should like to know if, as has been suggested by the Leader of the Senate, this chamber will re-assemble on Wednesday fortnight, it will be possible to proceed at once with any business that may be then introduced, or if it is contemplated that honorable senators shall be called together again merely for the purpose of transacting the formal stages of legislation and then adjourn until the following week. I know, of course, that it is the duty of all honorable senators to be in their places; but, as some have to travel long distances, it seems to me that if only formal stages of bills will be dealt with when next we meet, the position would be met by simply arranging for the attendance of a quorum. Members from distant States would then be enabled to spend an additional week in their own States. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [2.26].  -  The honorable senator's question is not an easy one to answer. The Standing Orders of the Senate must be observed. It is just as necessary for members to attend to receive messages or legislation from another place and transact the purely formal business as it is for them to be in their places for the serious discussion of legislative proposals. The Government has not authority to set aside the Standing Orders in that regard. All I can say is that honorable senators will be called together again when there is a reasonable prospect of having business to transact. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have further to inform the Senate that I have received a letter from  Mrs. Pratten  expressing her deep appreciation of the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of her husband, the late  Hon.  H. E. Pratten. 
' [3.5] -  (By leave.)  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Senator John  Grant, places upon record its appreciation of hia meritorious public service, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and son in their sad bereavement. 
The late senator was well known personally tome and, I think, to most honorable senators, for many years, and we were at all times impressed by the conscientious manner in which he discharged his public duties. I am sure also that all honorable senators were struck with the wonderful courage which, he displayed during the  last  few months of his life, when, suffering much pain and inconvenience from the dreadful disease with which he was afflicted, he manifested remarkable fortitude in attending, with his customary thoroughness, to his work in this chamber as well as to his many public duties outside. 
This was typical of the man himself.  Senator Grant  came to Australia over 40 years ago and, as a young man, played an important part in the founding of the labour movement in the days when association with it involved a great deal of sacrifice and rendered its leaders liable to a considerable amount of persecution. As one of its pioneers he took an important part in the work of placing it on an enduring foundation, and displayed those sterling qualities of courage and uprightness that were so characteristic a feature of his subsequent public life.  His  ability and high character were quickly recognized by those with whom he was associated. Early in the history of the movement he was placed in responsible positions,' and eventually was returned to the Senate as a representative of the State of New South Wales. 
We all can bear testimony to the able manner in which  Senator Omul  carried out his duties in this chamber. As a . member of several select committees and two royal commissions, he also showed the same assiduity and the same pertinacity of purpose in the public interest. He has left behind him a splendid record. We who knew him feel proud that it was our privilege to be associated with a man who took so deep an interest in the public affairs of this country. The Senate was undoubtedly the richer for his presence. 
We extend to his widow and son our deep sympathy in their sorrow. I happen to know that he was a devoted husband and I am sure that to his widow his death is an irreparable  loss.  Our sympathies go out to her in her loneliness and sorrow, and I can only hope that the carrying of this motion by the Senate as a mark of its appreciation of the life and work of the late honorable senator will be some slight consolation to her. 
 I second the motion so feelingly moved by the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  expressing our regret at the death of  Senator Grant.  On behalf of honorable senators on thin side of the chamber  endorse the sentiments he has expressed with reference  to  our late colleague. My acquaintance with the late honorable gentleman commenced nearly a quarter of a century ago, and very rapidly ripened into a friendship that lasted until his death. 
As has been truly said by the right honorable gentleman,  Senator Grant  was a pioneer of the great Australian Labour movement, and at all times, and under all conditions, was a fearless and sterling advocate of its principles. He was a man of strong convictions, and was dauntless in their expression, but he was at the same time always courteous. Those of us who knew him well could not but admire his zeal, his assiduity, the capacity with which he applied himself' to every work he took in hand, and the constancy of his attendance to his duties in the Senate, as well as to his public duties beyond the parliamentary arena. 
During the last year or. two we noticed with regret the honorable senator's failing health. He was stricken by a dread disease, and the fortitude and Christian resignation with which he bore his suffering was an example to all of us. Notwithstanding the fact that he was at times suffering intense pain, his application to his public duties here and .elsewhere were not m the least abated. 

 Senator Grant died in harness, working to the last, according to his lights, in the interests of his adopted country which he had served for so many years. We on this side of the chamber join with the Leader of the Senate in expressing our sincere sympathy with his widow and son. That he was a devoted husband and loving father we all know. Great as is his loss to this Parliament, the loss to his loved ones is greater still, and time alone can heal the wound his death has caused  them.. 
The Australian Labour party of which he was a prominent and active member has lost a sturdy advocate; Australia a sterling citizen. On behalf of my colleagues on this side of the chamber I join with the Leader of the Senate in expressing our profound sorrow at the death of  Senator Grant. 
 May I, speaking from a full heart, associate myself with all that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and our Leader on this side has said with reference to the late  Senator Grant?I  was associated with the honorable gentleman in the political fights of New South Wales since 1891, and as one of those who was fortunate enough to be frequently in his company, had full opportunity to realize and appreciate his outstanding qualities. He was a man of keen perception, clear brain, and most excellent judgment, and instance after instance of his foresight and keenness might readily be cited were this a fitting occasion to doso. 
Inspeaking to the motion I can only repeat what has already been said by the Minister and the Leader of the Opposition : that his death is aloss not only to his family, but also to the Senate and to the State which he represented. To that gentle lady, his widow, who took such an active interest in his public affairs, and assisted him so well, and also to his son, I extend the sympathy that I feel is in the heart of every honorable senator.  Senator Grant  had passed man's allotted span, and if the title deed to eternal rest is a life well spent, then surely he earned it, and was called from his strenuous labours here with the words, "Well done thou good and faithful servant." 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.17].  -  I move - 
That the Senate at its  rising adjourn  till to-morrow at  11  a.m. 
The state of public business is such that with some little sacrifice on the part of honorable senators, we should, I think, by meeting every morning, be able to conclude the present sittings of the Senate by the end of this week. That is the reason why I am asking honorable senators to agree to an adjournment until 11 a.m. to-morrow, when we hope that business will be forthcoming from another place with which we shall be able to proceed forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.18].  -  As a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Senator John  Grant, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if, in view of the frequent interruptions and dislocation  of shipping and mail services between Tasmania and the mainland, the . Government will give early consideration to the establishment of the proposed aerial service on that rate. 
[11.8]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
My object in submitting the motion is to allow the debate on the bill to proceed forthwith. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.This bill and the amendments made by another place to the Electoral Bill, together with a Supply Bill constitute practically the only business for the consideration of the Senate at this stage of the session, and it is hoped that if we sit fairly continuously we shall be able to dispose of it in time to enable honorable senators to return to their respective States at the end of the week or the beginning of next week. I am sure that this course will meet with their convenience. All honorable senators are familar with the provisions of this Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and do not need time to make up their minds about it. I am therefore asking them to agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders so that we may proceed with the secondreading debate to-day. 
I am astonished that the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has suggested this course. It is within the knowledge of honorable senators that this bill ran the gauntlet of criticism in another place for approximately four weeks, and that the members of that chamber were called upon to add to the ordinary sitting hours in order to give it that attention which its importance demanded. They sat morning, noon and night, and sometimes all night. As a matter of fact, the bill did not leave another place until about  4  o'clock this morning. And yet the Leader of the Senate now cooly asks honorable senators, after an adjournment of about three weeks, to rush ahead immediately with the second-reading debate and to dispose of it forthwith.  Senator Barnes  suggested very pertinently, while the Leader of the Senate was speaking, "Why not take it as read?" The Minister is treating the Senate with contempt. He suggests that it will meet the convenience of honorable senators if the business of the Senate is dealt with this week. I fail to see why the convenience of members of this chamber should stand in the way of the' calm and deliberate' consideration of this bill, which will have far-reaching effects upon hundreds of thousands of people in Australia. It is not a bill that can be disposed of without serious consideration. The Minister has said that we are familiar with its provisions. I challenge that statement. If the bill had emerged from the debate elsewhere in something approximating its original form, we might have been familiar with its contents; but, as honorable senators are aware, it has been drastically amended in committee. The Attorney-General himself circulated a considerable number of amendments on behalf of the Government, and it is only a few hours since these  were embodied in the bill in another place. In the light of these facts, how can the Leader of the Senate say with truth that we are all acquainted with its provisions? I have already mentioned that honorable members elsewhere had to sit extraordinarily long hours to dispose of the measure. No attempt was made by the Government - in fairness to the Ministry I say this - to in any way force the debate. Ample time was given for its consideration. The Senate is entitled to the same treatment. We should resist this deliberate attempt on the part of the Leader of the Senate to force the bill through all its stages with unseemly haste. The right honorable gentleman has coolly said that all we have to do this week is to dispose of this bill, grant Supply to  His  Majesty's Government - I presume for another three or four months - and consider the amendments that have been made by another place to the Electoral bill. The two first-named will provide sufficient food for discussion for a much longer period than will be available to us between now and Friday afternoon. It. is quite plain that the right honorable gentleman is not going to be content with the ordinary hours of sitting. I presume that before long he will ask the Senate fo sit all night, and thus secure the passage of the bill by a process of exhaustion. 
When that has been done, the Senate will probably adjourn for a considerable time. 
There is another aspect of this matter. If this measure was not of a contentious and provocative nature one might readily agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders. It is not an ordinary amendment ofour arbitration law, but on the contrary a direct attack upon the system of arbitration that has been in operation in Australia for many years. As we are being asked to change that system entirely, we should approach the consideration of the question leisurely and deliberately. The motion should be either withdrawn or defeated by the Senate. The Leader of the Senate has said that, honorable senators are well acquainted with the provisions of the bill. I hold in my hand two pages of printed matter, containing 60 or 70 amendments that were inserted in the measure by another place. Yet we are asked to suspend the Standing Orders so that we may proceed forthwith to the consideration of the bill, pass it through all its stages by Friday, and then adjourn for two or three months! The right honorable gentleman is well aware that the whole complexion of the hill was altered by the amendments inserted in it. Therefore he is exercising to an extraordinary degree the privileges which he possesses. Honorable senators who sit on this side will not be a party to the suspension of the Standing Orders; but I presumethat honorable senators opposite will, as usual, support the Leader of the Senate, so that the bill may be disposed of quicklyand the system of arbitration that up to the present hasbeen in operation in the Commonwealth destroyed. 
SenatorReid. - The honorable senator does not mean that. 
As soon as thi s bill becomes operative the process of destruction will begin. If honorable senators opposite are in a hurry to consummate that object, let them go ahead; but in the attempt to reach that goal the will receive no assistance from this side. 
[11.29]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It is inscribed on the tomb of  Sir Christopher  Wren, in St. Paul's, "If you would see his monument, look around." Applying the same language to the present occasion, I would say to the Senate "If you would see the necessity for this bill in Australia, look around." We have, to-day, the spectacle of a small body of men flouting the arbitration law and the public opinion of this country, flouting also the . discipline and organization of other trade unions, by carrying on an industrial dispute, thereby throwing thousands of men out of work, inflicting great loss on the community and causing the dislocation of trade and commerce generally. 
There has%been an attempt to make it appear that the action of the Government in introducing this bill and its attitude in respect to the present dispute in the transport industry, are prompted by a desire to attack trade unionism. I desire to say at the outset that neither in introducing the bill nor in the steps it has taken to deal with the present disastrous dispute has the Government been animated by any desire or intention to attack trade unionism in this country. On the contrary, the Government recognizes the value and necessity of trade  unionism.  Let me say further that if any employers in this community seek to turn what I believe to be the complete defeat of the Marine Cooks' Union, in the present dispute, into an attack upon trade unionism, or if as a result of its defea't, they attempt to bring about a position detrimental to trade unionism in this country, the Government, as it is constituted to-day, will set its face most determinedly against any such attempt. It will hold the- scales equally between both parties. 
It has been said that those who are supporting this bill know nothing of trade unionism, and therefore are incompetent to deal with a subject such as that to which this bill relates. I wish at the outset to refute that charge. There are on this side of the chamber a number of honorable senators who have had actual experience in trade unions, and many of them have been leaders for a great length of time in the trade union movement. In this connexion I mention Senators Duncan, Foll, Givens, Lynch, Newlands, Plain, Reid, Thomas, Verran, and myself, all sitting on this side, and also  Senator Ogden.  That makes a total of eleven senators who are supporting this measure, as against six of the Opposition who, I presume, are opposing it. May I put forward my own experience, not in a spirit of egotism, but to show that I have qualifications for speaking with some degree of authority on this subject? I have been a trade unionist since I reached the age of 20 years. I was for a long period the unpaid secretary of my union - the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners. I was the unpaid secretary of the Trades and Labour Council of Western Australia, and I was also its  president.  In  addition, I was the  president  of the Second Labour Conference held in Western Australia. Senators Lynch, Givens, Thomas and Verran, all supporters of the Government, also have records just as long, and as varied as my own in connexion with the trade union movement of this country. These men, therefore, have some knowledge of trade unionism. They know what it is. how it works, and what its constitution is, and .therefore are able to draw upon their practical experience in dealing with a subject such as this. 
I come now to the bill itself. I wish to point out in the first place that the Commonwealth Parliament's powers are limited in respect to legislation of this character, inasmuch as it can deal only with industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. A dispute must legally at any rate be interstate in character before it can intervene, and even then the Commonwealth's powers are very limited in that it can deal only with the matter by means of conciliation and arbitration. There are in this country, not only trade unionists, but employers who say that it would be better if arbitration were done away with altogether. They appear to think that if we abolished compulsory arbitration there would be no industrial disputes in this country. They ascribe all our industrial evils of the present day to the Arbitration Court, and assume that if the court were abolished those evils would vanish. The Government does not subscribe to that view. It does not profess that the court has been a complete success, but it does say that it has done and is doing valuable work. The Government contends that industrial disputes and problems are bound to arise, and it is for those who advocate the abolition of the court to propose some better system for effectively dealing with these problems. The present system of conciliation and arbitration has become part of our industrial life, and to abolish it without substituting something better, would be to increase rather than to decrease the problems confronting us. 
At the present time the membership of the unions working under the awards of the Arbitration Court or under agreements filed in the court, is 693,000. There are 149 unions and 27 employers' organizations registered under the act. There are 149 awards and agreements filed in the court, and most of these awards and agreements are . working smoothly and giving satisfaction both to employers and employees. These facts should be remembered by . those who criticize the Arbitration Court because it has failed in some instances to prevent strikes and industrial trouble. . The Government therefore does not propose to - abolish compulsory arbitration, but to attempt, in so far as it is able under the Constitution as it stands, to remove some of the difficulties that now exist. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, they have not made any alternative proposition. In this bill an attempt is made to overcome a most unsatisfactory feature of our industrial legislation, namely the overlapping of Federal and State awards. That is the first important subject with which it deals. This serious difficulty which arises out of the present distribution of Commonwealth and State powers, is one of the problems that would have been effectively dealt with by the Commonwealth Parliament if the referendum which we submitted to the people some time ago had been carried. That opportunity having been denied us, it is the people and not the Parliament who are responsible for the continuance of the present overlapping of Federal and State awards, in so far as the Parliament is incompetent to deal with the evil. There are, however, in the bill, various provisions under which it is hoped to remove, so far as possible, this difficulty. The object of these provisions is to ensure that there shall be only one rule in industry, whether that rule be State or Federal. Clause 32 provides that the court before dealing with a dispute shall consider whether it is more desirable that the dispute, or any part of it, should be dealt with by a State court. There is also in clause 29 a provision which makes it possible for a conference to be held between a judge of the Federal Arbitration Court and State industrial authorities. It is impossible for the Government to compel co-operation between these authorities, but this provision at any rate opens the way for such cooperation. Clauses 17, 22 and 26, arc based upon the principle of the supremacy of a Federal award. That is to say, there is now a way in which the difficulties associated withoverlapping awards can be overcome, and that is that where there is a Federal award that award shall be paramount, and where there is only a State award in operation, it shall be recognized. 
By means of the provisions to which I have just referred we hope to overcome that trouble. Under the present system, where two awards are in operation, the employers are compelled to obey both awards, except in so far as they are inconsistent. There have been certain judgments, which are illuminating, as to the power of the Federal Court, if it seeks fit to exercise it, to overcome the difficulty to which  Senator Robinson  has referred. It is hoped that these clauses will strengthen the power of the court in that direction. 
Clause 35 is a legislative enactment of the principle laid down by the High Court in  Cowburn  v.  the Glyde Engineering Works  (37 C.L.R. page 466), in which a ruling was given that where a Federal and a State award deal with the same matter, the Federal award shall prevail. 
From time to time complaints have been made by employers to the effect that there are too many different awards applicable to one industry. For instance, the H. V. McKay Harvester Works, at Sunshine, Victoria, is subject to move than 30 awards. That state of affairs is very embarrassing to industry, and in clause 22 of the bill an attempt is made to overcome it. 
I point out that the bill cannot deal with unions generally. Owing to our limited powers, it can deal only with registered organizations. Another salient point is that this bill does not increase penalties, but it does increase the power of the court to enforce penalties. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes ; there has been considerable criticism concerning a penalty of  £1,000,  which is provided for in certain cases, but I direct the attention of honorable senators to the fact that that penalty has been in the act since  1904.  It was not introduced by this bill, but was provided for in the original act. 
The bill also provides that the court in fixing wages, other than the basic wage, and hours and conditions of work, shall also have regard to the economic effects of its award. The time is quite ripe for that action to be taken, because it is obvious that if arbitration is to remain part of our economic system, it cannot and must not shut its eyes to the economic effect of what it is doing. We have to remember that our primary products are up against the competition of the world, and that if unsound, uneconomic standards are laid down for the secondary industries, which re-act upon the primary industries of Australia, the position will be very serious. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, that is the very thing we are attempting to avoid. The present system, unless remedied, is likely to bring about starvation. If we set up in Australia uneconomic standards under which our primary products cannot compete in the outside world, it is obvious that we shall bring about a state of starvation in Australia because we are dependent to-day for our bread and butter on the successful sale of our primary products overseas. 
The bill provides machinery by which unionists may obtain secret ballots. This proposal has been responsible for a considerable amount of satire and criticism from members of the Labour party, but I want to mention two recent incidents to demonstrate that unionists themselves have asked for the right to hold secret ballots. The first was described in the following paragraph which was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 26th April, 1928 : - 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the speech delivered by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in moving the second-reading of this bill. Before I enter upon the discussion of its provisions, I should like to reply briefly to one or two statements made by that right honorable gentleman. He referred to the industrial trouble on the waterfront, which has been in existence for some time, and suggested that it was one reason for the introduction of this measure. Apparently the Minister forgot that the bill was introduced in another place long before the present industrial trouble began, so it is idle for him now to attempt to show that the maritime dispute arising out of the trouble with the marine cooks is responsible for the measure. 
At this stage 1 do not propose to discuss the merits or demerits of that dispute, except to say that there is a definite movement now for settlement, and I hope that it will be successful. I must say, however, that the action of the 
Government within the last few days in issuing a proclamation under the Crimes Act is not calculated to help in that direction. Other means could have been found to bring the disputants together. 
The course suggested by the leader of my party in another place should have been adopted. The Government should have invited the Arbitration Court to intervene, and by means of a compulsory conference have sought to put an end to the dispute. The issue of a proclamation under the Crimes Act will have a far-reaching effect upon all concerned. 
The Leader of the Senate has emphasized the importance of the provisions in the bill dealing with a secret ballot of members of trade unions. Already members of such organizations have that right, and sometimes it is exercised. I warn the Government that if this bill becomes law control of trade union affairs in certain circumstances will be in the hands of the Arbitration Court, and for this reason the measure is causing a feeling of resentment among members of industrial organizations. The trade union movement has made extraordinary progress during the last two decades. I am satisfied that the Government, realizing the strength of organized labour, is now seeking by means of this, bill to smash its power. 
SenatorReid.  -  In what way? 
I shall deal with that point later. The Leader of the Senate quoted statements made by exSenator Rae, indicating that that gentleman is opposed to our present system of arbitration, and he charged me with being afraid to repudiate those statements. I do repudiate them. 
I repudiate his statements as regards the attitude of the Labour party towards arbitration. 
I care not what he is or what he will do. I say most emphatically the Australian Labour 
Party stands for arbitration to-day, as it did when the first Arbitration Bill was introduced in 1904. The Leader of the Senate must be hard put to it to find an argument in favour of this measure when he makes so much of a statement of ex-Senator Bae. He knows perfectly well - no man better - that the party to which I have the honour to belong is today steadfastly pledged to the system of arbitration. 
The Minister is only trying to sidestep the issue, by suggesting that the Labour party has  renunciated  or repudiated arbitration. We oppose this bill because we see in it a direct and, indeed, a devilish attempt to cripple or smash arbitration machinery that has been working well for so many years. No one can deny that arbitration has done a vast . amount of good in both Federal and State industrial spheres. We on this side wish to see the system perpetuated and improved. Certainly we do not wish to have it destroyed. 
The Leader of the Senate has attempted to show that opposition to the bill comes not from the trade unionists generally, but from the leaders of trade union organizations. I tell him most emphatically that the rank and file of trade unionists in -Australia are deeply stirred and incensed at what they consider is an attack upon the system of arbitration. In my own State, organization after organization is protesting against the bill. These protests have been forwarded to members in both Houses, to members of the Ministry, and especially to the originator of the bill, the AttorneyGeneral. So much for some of the statements of the Leader of the Senate. 
In 1925, while we were in the throes of a general election, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  in his policy speech said that one of the greatest needs of Australia was industrial peace. No person can cavil at that statement. Industrial peace is what every country needs. But Ave  have to discover the best means of securing and preserving it. We on this side pin our faith to the system of arbitration. Notwithstanding that statement of the Prime 
Minister, the first act of the Government after its return to power was to place upon the statute-book an amendment of the Crimes  Act,  in the belief that by that means industrial peace would be obtained and preserved. During the election campaign the Prime Minister and his lieutenants in this and another chamber made the statement from every platform from which they spoke, that there was in existence in this country organizations which should be disbanded, because they were a menace to the Constitution under which we live, and also that there were men who should be deported and whom the Government would deport if it were returned to power, because they were instrumental in fostering industrial unrest. They said that we were sitting on the brink of a volcano which might erupt at any time, and that revolution, red and bloody, would stalk throughout this fair land unless they were given a further opportunity to control its destinies.  The people were worked into such a state of political hysteria that they were stampeded into voting the present Government, back into office. 
What have they done since that time? The right honorable gentleman who leads this Senate himself stated in Western Australia that those organizations would be disbanded, and that any man who was a menace to our Constitution and our free institutions, would be deported. Will he now mention an organization which has been disbanded, or an individual who has been deported? There is not one. That plainly proves one of two things: either the statements which were made to the people during the last election were false, or this Government has shirked its duty. If we were in the danger that was then pictured, we should have been given some evidence of an attempt by the Government to ridus of it. The men who, according to them, are dangerous citizens, are still in Australia. I am fortified in the opinion that the members of the Cabinet and their supporters were not sincere, and that they knowingly made false statements so as to work up a state of political hysteria. The Crimes Act, as amended, has been upon the statute-book for three years. Can any honorable senator say what it has done or is capable of doing? 
Is any honorable senator prepared to argue that, if the provisions of that act were challenged in the High Court of Australia, it would not meet a fate similar to that which befell another measure that was passed by this Government. 
If the matter is  sub judice  I shall say nothing more about it. 
Recently an effort was made by the Prime Minister to convene a conference representative of both sides in industry, with a view to discovering means for preserving industrial peace; yet, while those negotiations were proceeding, this legislation, which is most provocative in its nature, lay upon the table of another place. The Government was in the position that if the endeavour to secure industrial peace by a round table conference was not successful, it could still fall back upon this coercive measure. That leads me to the conclusion that its suggestion of a peace conference was not a genuine proposal to secure industrial peace. 
Clause 48 of the bill, as originally introduced in another place, indicated the partisan attitude that the Government was adopting. It made provision for the winding-up of the affairs of an organization, and gave to the Arbitration Court the power to confiscate its funds and vest its property in another voluntary organization. The only way in which I can describe such a proposal is to say that it is despicable. Applying the term that is most widely understood in the industrial arena, the proposal was to vest those funds and that property in a " scab " organization. 
There are occasions when it is as well to use the most expressive term, consistent with the observance of parliamentary etiquette. 
THE  PRESIDENT (Senator Sir John Newlands).  - The .honorable senator may not use the most expressive term, unless it conforms to the Standing Orders of the Senate. I ask him not to make use of offensive expressions. 
I have not the slightest intention of coming into conflict with you, sir. I shall not use any term that is considered offensive. But all honorable senators know perfectly well that the term I have used is a colloquialism in Australia. It is true that the proposal to which I have referred was withdrawn, but for what reason? Because of the combined criticism of the trade union organizations and honorable members of the .Labour party in another place, the Government beat a strategic retreat, and that particularly obnoxious proposal does not now find a place in the bill. 
Some little time ago the Prime Minister stated definitely that there should be only one political party in Australia. A close scrutiny of the measure we are now considering suggests that it is designed to bring about that condition of affairs, because it meets only one side of the question-. 
That is so. But there are still within the four corners of the bill, obnoxious proposals which, if they become law, will operate only against the employees and in favour of the employers. The act, which this bill purports to amend, can do everything that the Leader of the Senate has said the Government is anxious to do. One result of the passage of this legislation will be further delays in the hearing of cases before the Arbitration Court. The delays which have occurred in the past have been a source of considerable danger. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

In many instances industrial leaders have considerable difficulty in restraining the members of organizations from ceasing work when they become restless on account of the delay which occurs between the time when a plaint is lodged and the case is heard before the court. 
With more conciliation and less arbitration there would be fewer industrial disputes. The Government should have appointed more conciliation commissioners instead of increasing the number of judges, particularly when included in that number is one who has . well-known political tendencies. Such actions do not tend to make our arbitration system popular, or to preserve industrial peace. 
The bill is onesided in character, and reminds me of- a story broadcast by a comedian, who when referring to his domestic troubles said that in his house there were always two sides to every question - his wife's and that of his wife's mother. In connexion with this bill there are also two sides - that of the Government and that of the employers, and both are against the employee all the time. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and other members of the Government are continually blaming the workers for industrial trouble which sometimes arises, but they do not blame the employers, many of whom are often guilty of evading both the letter and the spirit of industrial awards. On numerous occasions men are deprived of their employment shortly before the Christmas season and are then not paid for holidays, although the awards provide that they shall be paid. We do not hear of the employers ever being blamed for action of this kind. 
It is 24 years since the arbitration system was first introduced, and every one will agree that during that period our arbitration legislation has been of considerable benefit to the workers and 'the community generally. We have to thank organized labour for the benefits gained by the employees. As a result of its efforts, conditions generally have been more favorable. If it had not been for organized labour we would not have had an arbitration system to-day. In the days when there .was freedom of contract, conditions of slavery existed and the workers of Australia realized the necessity for organizing. 
The workers of Australia realized the necessity to organize in order to compete with the organizations controlled by the employing class. I venture to say that the liberty of the subject and the freedom of speech so often referred to are being attacked if not altogether removed by this bill. 
It provides another long list of offences and, in fact, establishes a new criminal code as far as the workers are concerned. In one portion of the bill it is provided that a person criticizing an award of the court or any judge of the court shall be liable to a penalty. We are to establish a court consisting of four or five judges, who, according to the bill are to be sacrosanct. Any man or woman who dares to criticize the action of a judge of the court, or any awards of the court, will be liable to a heavy penalty. It is useless to apply force. For a while it may prevail, but it always leaves behind a feeling of anger and discontent. A system in which force is applied, causes wounds which reopen at the slightest irritation. In his  second-reading  speech the Minister emphasized the point that, in hi&amp; opinion, only trade union leaders objected to this measure. I wish to inform the right honorable gentleman that almost every labour organization in Australia has passed resolutions condemning the bill. The object of an amending arbitration bill should be to simplify and cheapen arbitration proceedings as well as to facilitate the hearing of plaints. If more conciliation commissions were appointed there would be less industrial trouble. 
The act that is being amended provides for the appointment of conciliation commissioners and although those provisions have been in operation for two or three years, only one conciliation commissioner has been appointed. 

 -Yes, Mr. Stewart has done wonderful work. But when  Mr. Stewart  was appointed exSenator Drake-Brockman, who is an avowed partisan in every sense of the word, was also appointed an arbitration judge. He was an ex-president of the Employers' Federation, and representative of the Government at Geneva, and also acted as Government Whip in this chamber. All his speeches were directed against the workers. 
What would have happened if a Labour government had been in power and had appointed the honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan),  who is a lawyer, to the Arbitration Court bench? Honorable senators oposite  would have gone mad with fury and said it was a partisan appointment. 
They are not in the same category.  Mr. Dwyer  was a member of the Western Australian State Parliament for a period; but he was never the  president  of the Employers' Federation. The appointment of partisans to positions of this kind is not arbitration but aggravation. 
The present act gives all the power necessary for the appointment of conciliation commissioners. The Prime Minister has said that industrial peace depends Upon ensuring a fair wage and reasonable conditions of comfort foi- the workers and those dependent upon them. I do hot think the measure will have that, effect. 
It is provided in clause 2'2 that before making any award or certifying any agreement the court shall take into consideration the probable economic effect of the agreement or the award upon the community in general and its probable economic effect upon the industry or industries concerned. Thi's is a new phase of arbitration. The position of the worker is evidently to be subject to the economic conditions of the industry or of the country. The worker has only his labour to offer, the payment for which is to be subject to economic conditions. This may lead to the payment of starvation wages. The economic effect of customs duties on certain commodities imported into this country is not considered. Is there any other arbitration system in existence which has been established for the prevention and settlement, of disputes under which the economic conditions are taken into consideration in fixing wages. Such a provision in the bill makes the system a farce. Nothing is said in the bill about ascertaining the economic effect on the community and industry of bad and inefficient management, or the use of obsolete and antiquated machinery. If we are to have a survey of the economic field, business management should be examined to ascertain if those in control of industry are competent, if their overhead expenses are the result of inefficiency, or if the plant installed enables full value to be secured from the labour employed. 
During the election the Prime Minister was very much concerned about the workers of Australia getting a fair wage, yet in this measure he is agreeable to the workers getting what the court might consider a fair wage after taking into consideration the economic effect it will have on industry. In other words, he places the welfare of the industry before that of the workers. The workers really form the community of Australia. Yet the economic survey proposed is to be conducted in the interests of the employers only, and at the expense of the employees. 
While it is admitted that the condition of workers in Australia is better than that of workers in many other countries, they have yet a long way to go to get the conditions of labour they should enjoy, and an adequate remuneration for their labour. We cannot overlook the psychological side of human affairs. Natural forces have to be taken into consideration. We must not legislate for one side only. Since our arbitration system has been in existence it has been opposed by a large number of employers ; in fact, I think I can safely say that practically the whole of the opposition to the system has come from employers, and not from employees. Although a great body of employers loyally supports the system, and adheres to awards of the court, there are many others who are bitterly opposed to it. Some of them do not scruple to avail themselves of every conceivable opportunity to evade the spirit and the letter of awards. Quite recently a pamphlet was issued by the Metal Trade Employers' Association denouncing arbitration, and  advocating  a return to the " good old days " of freedom of contract, and the survival of the fittest. The pamphlet says - 
The- best plan would be to abolish the industrial arbitration system, which has degenerated into an instrument for the oppression of employers and the hampering of industry. 
The poor employers ! But are they in a bad way? We have only to look at their balance-sheets to see what profits they are making.  We have only to look at their homes to see the extent to which they are oppressed.  Mr. Bruce,  in the policy speech he delivered in 1925, said that during his term of office Australia had progressed at home and abroad, and that its trade internally and externally had expanded; but quite recently, when trying to create an atmosphere for the introduction of this bil'., he said that on account of strikes Australia had got into a deplorable condition. If one of these statements is right the other must be wrong. If, during the Prime Minister's term of office, Australia has progressed, not only at home but also abroad, there cannot have been that degree of industrial unrest and strikes which he alleges has justified the introduction of this coercive arbitration bill. Australia is not alone in having strikes. Industrial unrest is widespread throughout the world. In each of the other component parts of the British Empire there have been strikes greater in number and more injurious in character than we have had in Australia. It is useless for the right honorable the Prime Minister to try to make it appear that Australia is the home of industrial unrest.  [Extension of time granted.]  From 1919-20 to 1925-26 the value of production in Australia has increased from £92,330,000 to £143,256,000, and the value of production per head of the mean population from £17 8s. 2d. to £23  18s.  2d. There is no evidence of going slow in those figures. The pamphlet issued by the Metal Trade Employers' Association also says - 
Industrial arbitration lias a beautiful ideal and a righteous one. It was originally evolved to protect the workers who were unable economically to protect themselves. It has done so. It has overdone it. It has pampered them, so that they have become bowelless tyrants and unmitigated ruffians towards the industries from which they draw their sustenance. 
The pamphlet concludes - 
Away with it, and let us get back to the clear, open economic ring. 
Yes, the clear open market where every man had to scramble to get the best price he could for his labour ! These are the days the employers want, and which will be brought about if this bill becomes law. The reason which has actuated those who have introduced it, and those who are supporting it, is the restoration of those "good old days." Can any honorable senator say that the workers of Australia are getting more than they earn, or any greater comfort in their homes than they are entitled to have? T do not want to see the present conditions of employment destroyed; but I am afraid that this bill will tend in that direction. Because the workers, banded together within the law, endeavour from time to time to improve their conditions of employment, and obtain increased remuneration, they are branded by such employers as those connected with the metal trade as tyrants. Yet no word of complaint is heard against those employers for causing industrial unrest; at all times and under all conditions the blame is laid at the door of the Australian workers. 
I have referred to the general effects of the bill ; but it will be more convenient to discuss its details in the committee stage. I notice that clause 7 refers, among other matters, to sectional strikes. To my mind, this is a most amazing clause. It provides that, in the event of a strike occurring in a section of an industry, an employer may apply to the court for an order declaring that a strike exists. On the other hand, if there is a lockout in a section of an industry, the workers may apply for a similar order. I have never heard of any body of employees asking for an order declaring the existence of a lockout ; but I have frequently heard employers complaining about strikes. I claim this to he a one-sided provision that will operate against the workers only. It represents an effort by the Government to put increased power into the hands of the employers to crush the workers. Let me assume that a strike has occurred in a factory - a section of an industry. That factory may employ 5,000 men. If 100 of those men have gone out on strike, the employer, in order to bring them to heel, may apply to' the court for an order that a strike exists, and that gives him legal authority to lockout the remaining 4,900 employees. That position could arise not only in connexion with a factory employing 4,000 or 5,000 men, but it could also affect the whole of an industry in which there might be 10,000, 15,000 or 20,000 employees. The bill provides for the legalization of a lockout. 
But we are told that the bill has been brought down for the purpose of preserving industrial peace. The most important purpose of our arbitration laws is not the settlement of disputes, but their prevention. I shall deal more fully with this clause" in committee, because I regard it as an iniquitous proposal. 
The next clause to which I shall refer relates to penalties. It is true, as the Leader of the Senate has said, that penalties are provided for in the principal act. Clause 8 refers to organizations of employers or employees ordering or advising men to offer or accept employment. If an organization retains an officer or member who is found guilty of an offence under this clause, it may be fined £1,000. So far, so good. This also applies to officers of branches of organizations. Further, it is provided that the fine may be reduced if the organization can show that it was not responsible for the offence. If the organization removes from' office and expels an officer who has been guilty of an. offence, the fine may be reduced to £100 ; but if the offender is re-admitted within twelve months the fine may be in creased to £1,000. A vendetta is put into operation so far as that' officer is concerned. Clause 10 makes the organization liable up to £50 for strike penalties that may be imposed on an officer of the organization. That means that a union will be liable for the payment, notwithstanding the fact that the officer may have acted in contravention of orders from head-quarters. The more I peruse the clause the more iniquitous it appears to me to be. The board of management of a Federal organization with head-quarters, say, in Melbourne, might give strict orders to a. branch of the organization to do certain things; yet under this clause the organization would be penalized for the offence of a branch or an officer of a branch, irrespective of whether the central body had given orders to the contrary. 
But I contend that the clause is inequitable. 
One of the main clauses is that relating to secret ballots. To the principle of the secret ballot none of us objects. As I have already said, the organizations take secret ballots. I instance the Amalgamated Society of Engineers. 
The rules provide for it; but the provisions of this clause are somewhat staggering. On the application of ten men the court may order the taking of a secret ballot. They may apply either singly or together, and they would have power, under this clause, to put a union, even if it had 100,000 members, to the expense of holding a secret ballot. 
If the union refused to take this ballot at the behest of the ten men, they could go to court, and the court could authorize that the ballot be taken under the supervision of its own officers. 
I am coming to that point. The judge can refuse to reveal the names of the ten men. If the court exercises the authority conferred under this clause - and I have no doubt that it will - then, after the ballot has been taken, it will not order that the Government shall pay the cost of the ballot, but that cost will have to be defrayed by the organization. I can see that, in certain instances, the cost of secret ballots would cripple unions financially. It is proposed to give ten men, perhaps malcontents, full control over the policy, and almost over the funds, of an organization. I invite the closest scrutiny of this clause. 
But the Minister will not deny that ten members of an organization comprising 100,000 members could apply for a ballot, and the court could order that it be taken. Yet the names of the ten men would be kept secret. The members of the organization' may vote against a strike resolution; but if they vote for a strike they are liable to certain penalties. Again, when a dispute is actually before the court, ten men can request that a ballot be taken to determine the matter in dispute, even while the machinery of the court is in operation. 
They may apply for a ballot during the hearing of the dispute, and the court may order that the ballot be taken. If the court does that, it means that the trouble is prolonged ; that the wheels of industry are to remain stationary. If ten malcontents in a huge organization of workers can bring about all that trouble I have a right to say that the bill will not be conducive to industrial peace but will have the opposite effect. I warn the Government that of all the clauses in the bill, the secret ballot provisions are the most dangerous, and will, if passed, practically wreck our arbitration machinery. 
I have already said that almost every labour organization in Australia has condemned the bill, lock, stock and barrel. 
The honorable senator has a better knowledge of wool than of the workers. If the bill is passed in its present form, and if a secret ballot is ordered of members of a trade union in respect of any particular matter, how will the Government compel the men to vote? 
That is so. Neither is there a provision to prevent men, if they do not approve of the ballot, from casting informal votes, in that way defeating the object ofthe ballot itself. Proposed new section 56f . provides that any person counselling another not to vote will be guilty of an offence, and liable to a fine of £50. As I have stated already, the bill establishes an entirely new criminal code. If, as might easily happen, trade unionists become incensed at what they regard an interference with their domestic affairs, and advise one another not to vote at a secret ballot, what will happen? Does the Government propose to fine or- imprison every member of an organization? 
I tell the honorable senator that I have given this bill very careful study, and from my personal experience in the industrial world, I realize that it contains provisions that will do much to break down our present arbitration system. 
In Australia, and in the land from which the honorable senator himself came to Australia.  Senator Pearce  has told us something ofhis experience in trade unionism. He said that he was a member of a trade union either, at or shortly after, his twentieth birthday. I became a member of a trade union when I was only sixteen years of age. However, that is apart from ' the question at issue. I repeat, that the provisions dealing with a secret ballot will do much to break down our arbitration machinery, because they are provocative and coercive in the extreme. 
I have reviewed at some length, the principal features of this measure. I regret that it has been brought before the Senate. I presume, of course, that it  will  be passed, because the Government has the numbers. Although the bill was under consideration in another place for about four weeks, we are expected to pass it at short notice. The Government, I have no doubt, relies upon the submissive majority which it has in this chamber to give it its  imprimatur.  I was hoping, however, that in the course of our legislative duties, we, who are the representatives of the people, would have endeavoured to improve our present system of arbitration in the direction of making the path to the court cheaper, and more direct, and also in the direction of making the court the final arbiter in industrial disputes. This bill will not achieve that purpose. On the contrary, it will put back the hands of the industrial clock. For these reasons, among many others which I could advance, but which I will reserve for the committee stages, I shall strongly oppose the second reading of the measure. I hope that it will be rejected. 
.- The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  who has just resumed his seat, has stated that the bill will set back the industrial clock.  For that reason he asks us to reject it. For exactly the opposite reason I ask honorable senators to support it, to keep the clock from being stopped. No one can deny that the workers in Australia are enjoying better conditions than are workers in any other country. Because of our democratic and liberty-loving sentiments governments and trade unions have in recent years been encouraged in their effort to better the conditions of the working classes. Trade unionism is not so strongly entrenched in Great Britain as it is in Australia, and accordingly the conditions under which the people work there are not comparable with Australian conditions. I am sure also that there is a general desire to maintain the existing standard in Australia. Every one who has knowledge of the history of the struggle upward must acknowledge that trade unionism has been the principal instrument in securing industrial reforms along the line of progress. 

 Senator Needham referred just now to the good old days of voluntary trade unionism and freedom of contract. I remember those days very well. I have good reason to, because I suffered much in the struggle for industrial progress. I suppose that no other honorable senator has been longer in the Australian Labour movement than I have been. At one time or another I have been identified with practically every phase of trade unionism, so I can claim to know something about the movement. I intend to support the bill, because I believe that it will make for industrial progress and certainly prevent our arbitration machinery from becoming a total wreck. 
It is as well to realize that industry is passing through a very strenuous time. Because of the improved conditions enjoyed by employees under our system of arbitration, the cost of production in Australia has risen very appreciably and industry generally is in a serious position. Our primary industries are more or less hampered by the economic conditions which successive governments and awards of the Arbitration Courts have imposed .upon the country, and unfortunately our secondary industries, owing to the high cost of production are unable to market their products ' outside Australia. The problem which we are up against is to maintain our present  ecomomic  conditions so as to keep our primary industries going and help our secondary industries to expand. The present state of affairs is due to a number of abuses of the arbitration system. No government would be so  foolish  as to go out of its way to interfere with the privileges enjoyed by the working class.  Senator Needham  has told us that the industrial organizations are opposed to this bill. If they are, then it is because they have been misled as to its provisions. 
The great majority of the rank and file in trade unions do not take trouble to study legislative proposals for themselves; they depend upon information given to them by their secretaries and leaders. It is regrettable that in respect of this bill, they have been seriously misled and have an entirely wrong impression of the amendments to the act contained in this bill. Honorable senators opposite and their colleagues in another place, notwithstanding their protestations that they would welcome any proposal to prevent industrial disturbances, have made no suggestions for an improvement of the measure. I invite the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, when the bill is in committee to offer suggestions for its improvement. If they are such as to appeal to the good sense of other honorable senators I am sure that they will be well supported. 
I am satisfied that the people of Australia as a whole are in favour of the bill, because they wish to put an end to all those industrial disputes that occur so frequently. They wish to see industry well regulated. I should not have the slightest hesitation in going before them and asking for their endorsement of this measure; which I regard as an honest attempt to solve those difficult problems that so closely affect the industrial life of Australia. The Government is taking the right step in submitting this bill, and I am satisfied that it has the support of a large number of trade unionists. As a matter of fact the Federated Railway employees waited on the Attorney-General not so long ago and asked that their members should come within the scope of the act. Representatives of employees of the States and those engaged in State instrumentalities also have made the same request. How then can it be urged that all these organizations are opposed to the bill? I say that they are not. Although I admit that they may be opposed to certain amendments to ihe act included in it, certainly they are not opposed to the bill itself. 
Nor are they opposed to the bill. They may, as I have stated, be uncertain about some of its provisions in respect of which I have no doubt that they have been misled. Hitherto trade union organizations have been allowed to ignore awards of the court. The greatest sinners in this respect have been the transport groups and the miners. Apart from these organizations, the great majority of trade unionists have been content to work under Arbitration Court awards. They realize that but for the court their conditions would not be nearly so good as they are. 
The Government is not trying to destroy the existing system. It is endeavouring to improve it.  Senator Barnes  knows as well as I do how difficult of solution are the many industrial problems that arise from day to day. He also knows that if the Arbitration Act had not been passed two-thirds of the trade unions  in Australia to-day would not be in existence. Several of the unions when they were established represented only a small minority of the workers engaged in their particular industry. 
I admit that. If we had more men of the same type to-day in some of the trade unions the Labour movement would be all the better for it. The majority of the unionists to-day know nothing about the conditions that existed, in the past. There is a new generation of both employers and employees, and they have had no experience of the manner in which the conditions have been improved by the Arbitration Act. It would be one of the greatest calamities that could take place if we were to revert to the old conditions. Yet despite the benefits of the arbitration system, a handful of men in the Marine Cooks' Union, which numerically is the smallest union in the transport group, has been allowed to tie up the whole of the shipping on the Australian coast. We have reached the stage that there is not one vessel in commission. 
The position, of course, has altered in the last day or two. The fact remains, however, that they proved themselves capable of tying up a service upon which Australia largely depends. I do not  blame the cooks so much as the other unionists in the community. They showed a lack of moral courage in not ordering the strikers back to work. Only a few unions in Sydney, which are led by Jock Garden, stood behind the cooks. If all the other unions had threatened to support the introduction of free labour if the vessels were not manned within 24 hours, the trouble would have been settled very quickly. Until the unions discipline their own members they will always be enemies of the system of arbitration. I regard the unions and the Labour party generally as a set of moral cowards. They should have ordered the cooks back to work or have expelled them from the movement, as they have done with some persons who are too good to be associated with them. 
Let me give another illustration. The South Johnstone strike, which paralysed the whole of the transport services in Queensland, was caused' by a few extremists at the sugar mill who defied the Queensland branch of the Australian Workers Union. On three occasions the judge of the Queensland Arbitration Court visited the seat of the trouble, and endeavoured to settle it. The  president  of the Queensland branch of the Australian Workers Union also went up there, but he was ignored. The Federal Executive, of which  Senator Barnes  is the head, could not interfere, because the Queensland branch© had local autonomy and finally the whole of the railway system was paralysed. The Queensland Government was compelled to take the bull by the horns. The Premier,  Mr. McCormack,  dismissed every employee on the State railways who disobeyed instructions, and refused, to reinstate them until they had signed an agreement undertaking to obey the Commissioner for Railways. Is it not time that the Commonwealth Arbitration Act was amended to deal with such situations? 
Those members who are opposed to the action which has been taken could apply to the court for a secret ballot, I believe such a ballot would disclose the fact that a majority of the members of the union are opposed to the attitude which their secretary has adopted. In that event the court would have the power to order that the ships be manned. 
It is as well to recognize the fact that a body of men cannot be compelled to work if they are  unanimous  in their desire to remain on strike; but on the other hand a penalty can be opposed for any breach of an award. It is just as criminal for a union to break an award as it is for a private citizen to break an agreement. A private citizen can be taken to court and punished. I support the penalties for which the bill provides, in the hope that, they will cause  commonsense  to prevail. An Arbitration Court judge may make a mistake ; but, as in criminal and civil jurisdiction, the victim of it must continue to suffer until it is remedied. 
A farther claim could be lodged within a limited period. It is much better that a union, which represents only a small minority of the community, should suffer an injustice, than that it should paralyze industry. In the timber-workers' case, Judge Lukin decided against the men, and their secretary,  Mr. Bowers,  advised them to slow up on the job and indulge in sabotage. A newspaper paragraph describes the incident in the following terms : - 
Members of the Timber Workers' Union decided on Saturday to defy the Federal Arbitration Court by agreeing to adopt go-slow methods unless their claim for a continuance of the 44-hour week is conceded. 
At a stop-work meeting at the Trades Hall, a resolution was carried endorsing the previous decision of the union, which instructed members not to work more than 44 hours, and not to accept overtime if any attempt was made to alter the hours. It was further resolved that if the employers reduced wages, the employees should reduce their output by  Si  per cent. 
That is defiance of the Arbitration Court. 
The union can appeal from the decision of Judge Lukin to the Full Arbitration Court. 
SenatorREID. - I am not discussing Judge Lukin's decision; it may have related purely to a matter of law. He may have wanted the High Court to decide to what extent he could deal with the matter. The Arbitration Court is helpless in many respects. My complaint is that when a decision is given against the men they go on strike. They want to benefit both ways. 
SenatorREID. - I do not know what was in Judge Lukin's mind; but I have been acquainted with him for very many years, and I know he is as fair-minded as any man. 
SenatorREID. - Evidently Judge Lukin wanted the High Court to say what powers he possessed as a single judge. Until that legal point has been settled, he and the other Arbitration Court judges cannot know where they stand. I have no time for unions which break awards, and that is why I am in favour of the provision of penalties.  Senator Barnes  knows that a fruitful source of trouble is the overlapping of Federal and State awards. On one occasion  Mr. Justice  McCawley, in the Queensland Arbitration Court, increased the rate for shearing from £2 to £2 5s. a hundred, and thereafter the shearers in the other States carried on a continuous agitation to have their rates raised to the same level. The awards of the Federal Court should be paramount. 
SenatorREID. - That was due to an error of the court, and the judge admitted it. 
SenatorREID. - Was it not altered. 
SenatorREID. - I propose to quote briefly from a paragraph which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  giving the opinion of a gentleman who has been prominently associated with the industrial life of Australia, and who has been referred to as a disturber of the peace. I refer to  Mr. Tom  Walsh, who, according to his manifesto, recently issued to the seamen of Australia, has apparently come to his senses, and has expressed views with which, foronce, I think the majority of the people of Australia will agree. In referring to the industrial situation and the policy of the union, he said - 
There can in fact be only one end to this policy, and that is the utter ruin of the Seamen's Union. 
I do not know what his motives are, but there is no doubt as to the accuracy of his conclusion. There is no one in this chamber who knows more concerning the seamen than  Mr. Walsh,  and he says that if they carry on their present tactics the result will be the utter ruination of the union. He went on to say - 
It is useless to secure wages and conditions in advance of what have previously obtained unless the agreements covering those questions are honored by the seamen. 
SenatorREID. - No, I am pleased to say that he has come to his senses, and his utterances are now in accord with those of all reasonable men. He further stated - 
If the ships are continually held up the public will insist upon a repeal of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act, so that overseas companies with ships under overseas articles can be called in to relieve the position. This would ultimately mean that Australian concerns would be absorbed by British companies. 
That is common sense - 
To this state we have come on account of the activities of the militants who insist upon indulging in class struggle tactics in the maritime industry, and what can lie the objects of those who are trying to bring about this very condition of affairs? It is impossible not to come to the conclusion that those who adhere to the revolutionary movement intend, by this means, to drive the workers thus displaced to violence. These plain facts will convoy to you better than other words the truth that there exists in Australia a party which aims deliberately at creating a dreadful civil war and making a desert of this prosperous country. In our claims for fair treatment for the men who go down to the sca in ships, all right-thinking people in Australia will be with us. 
He went on to express similar views, and if earlier in his career he had shown the good judgment which he now appears to be displaying, the industrial position in Australia would, I think, be much better than it, is to-day. 
It is interesting to note that Australia is not the only country in which shipping troubles are occurring. In a paragraph published in the press yesterday concerning the position in Tokio, I find the following - 
It is estimated that 300 non-Conference steamers are being held up awaiting a decision to strike on the wages issue, the shipowners refusing demands. Business men are of the opinion that the owners will eventually be forced to yield in order to avoid the trouble spreading to liners not at present involved. 
That is happening in Japan where the Government can exercise more control in industrial affairs than is practicable in Australia. 
No. We have heard a great deal concerning the absence of industrial disputes in America, but if honorable senators will refer to the industrial situation in that country 40 or 50 years ago they will find that the conditions there were similar to those prevailing in Australia before the establishment of our arbitration system. At times the position became so serious, as was the case in connexion with a dispute at the Carnegie Steel Works, that the soldiers were instructed to shoot down the men. In those days civil riots were a common occurrence. America has now overcome her difficulties and it is to be hoped that it will not be long before we shall be able to say that we have a means of effectively preventing and settling industrial disputes. 
For a long time I was very closely associated with the industrial life of Australia, and I believe that ' this measure will produce some good results, although I have not very much faith in it. If honorable senators opposite are able to submit reasonable proposals for it improvement they will have my support. I am somewhat pessimistic regarding the results which will follow the passage of this bill, because it has not been received in. the right spirit by the industrial section of the community. Honorable senators are aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  made a determined effort to get the employers and employees to meet in conference; but the representatives of the employees rejected his proposals. That is the most convincing proof that the representatives of the employees do not wish industrial peace. If they did, they would have met and  endeavoured to draw up an agreement acceptable to both parties. They speak of the necessity for conciliation but what did they do to assist when the opportunity was provided ? 
Yes, and a better spirit now prevails. I support the bill because I think it will improve our present arbitration system, although, as I have said, I have not much faith in it. I believe, however, that an honest attemptis being made by the Government to improve industrial conditions in Australia, and that in attempting to unravel the industrial problem it has not the slightest desire or intention to interfere with, or injure, trade unionism. 
It was quite refreshing to hear the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  in support of the great principle of arbitration. The honorable senator delivered a lecture  concerning the advantages of arbitration, but it is to be regretted that he has not spent a little more time in upholding the advantages of arbitration before the members of the Labour party. A great many of those whom the honorable senator professes to represent, are prominent trade unionists and members of the Labour party who do not support the principle of compulsory arbitration. Indeed many of them in their speeches and writings have urged within the last year or two that compulsory arbitration must be thrown overboard by the Labour party because it is not in the interests of the workers. 
Would the honorable senator like  me  to give the name of one ? 
The Labour party in New South Wales recently nominated a candidate for the position which has just been filled by  Senator Gardiner  in the person of  Mr. Arthur  Bae. 
It is unfortunate that  Senator Hoare  is not more conversant with Labour politics. The candidate nominated by the official Labour party was not Donald Grant, but Arthur Bae, who has recently written an article condemning compulsory arbitration. 
Yes, and I could give the names of others associated with the party who are also opposed to compulsory arbitration. It is a fact that a recent champion of the Labour party who was nominated to represent New South Wales in this chamber recently wrote an article condemning compulsory arbitration. That, I believe, is becoming the policy of the bulk of the members of the Labour party. It is unfortunate that the Leader of the Opposition does not endeavour to convert some of his followers to the advantages of arbitration instead of lecturing honorable senators. 
I approach this subject with a certain amount of diffidence because I have lost quite a lot of faith in compulsory arbitration as a means of preventing and settling industrial disputes. I have always realized that our present act is undemocratic and outrages almost every democratic principle that we value. It sets up what we may describe as an oligarchy of officialdom that is not controlled by any legislature in the Commonwealth. Worse than that it is an oligarchy that is able to dictate to the legislators appointed by the people. This Parliament found itself trammeled by the limitations of the Constitution in its attempt to legislate for the settlement of industrial disputes. It has no power to legislate directly for the con trol of industrial affairs. For instance it cannot pass legislation for the inauguration of a 44-hours or a 48-hours week or for the control of factories. The only thing it can do is to legislate for the establishment of an arbitration court to which is delegated certain powers. Once judges are appointed to that  court  - they are appointed for life - they are able to make just whatever decisions they please within the terms of the Commonwealth Arbitration Act and they are not subject to the control of this Parliament in any way whatever. But we must remember that ours is not the only sovereign parliament in Australia. State legislatures have certain powers reserved to them to deal with questions of hours, general industrial conditions and matters of that kind, but when they have legislated upon these matters, believing that they are within their sovereign rights in doing so, their legislation may be overridden by a decision of the Federal Arbitration Court. For instance not long ago the Federal Arbitration Court issued an award which conflicted with the deliberate intention of the Parliament of the State of New South Wales to establish a 44-hour week. In the case of  Cowburn  versus  Clyde Engineering Company,  a decision was given that where an award of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court - that body which is not subject to the control of this Parliament - conflicts with a State law the decision of the Federal court shall prevail. 
Of course it does, and it is an issue that sooner or later the people of the Commonwealth will have to face. It is provided that State parliaments shall have the power to legislate on certain matters upon which the Commonwealth Parliament has not the power to legislate, yet the Federal Arbitration Court by a decision founded upon evidence but not upon that knowledge of the conditions in the States that the legislatures of the State must possess, so overrides State legislation in regard to the matter that it becomes inoperative. We have thus set up an oligarchy of officialdom that becomes paramount to the representatives of people in the State parliaments, not upon points reserved for the Commonwealth Parliament but upon matters on which the States are directly empowered to legislate. These things make one wonder just where we stand in the matter of arbitration. That this state of affairs should exist is certainly not democratic, as we understand the word. It is not government of the people by the people; it is rather government of the people by a few officials and the setting up by them of conditions under which the people shall work willy nilly. They are certainly judges but nevertheless they are officials who have all that power under an act of this Parliament to do as they please despite this Parliament and the legislatures of the States and very often despite the wishes of the great majority of the people. 
It was tested in the High Court. I do not know that it has been taken to the Privy Council. 
At any rate, it is something that sooner or later the people of Australia will have to take fully into consideration. It is also another strong argument foi- the amendment of the Commonwealth Constitution so that this Parliament may have power to legislate directly, and as it pleases on matters of this sort, or at any rate, so that it may have equal powers with the State legislatures in that respect. 
We have all had a great deal of experience of arbitration. Every man who has played a part in the affairs of the Commonwealth or a State, or has been an officer of an organization, whether it be a trade union or an association of employers, knows that we cannot afford to dogmatize upon issue arising out of arbitration. It is impossible for us to say that the bill will be a success. It is just as impossible for us to say, as  Senator Needham  has said, that it will be a failure. We may reason that from certain aspects it is likely to be a success or a failure, but generally speaking, it is impossible for us to foresee what will happen within a few months after it becomes law. When arbitration was first mooted in the State Parliaments, it was said that it would be a heaven-sent panacea for all the industrial evils under which we were suffering. -A tribunal was to be set up that would, as  Senator Verran  has suggested, usher in a new Jerusalem. Strikes were to be a thing of the past. There was to be no further industrial conflict. The lion would lie down with the lamb. I am not saying who was to be the lamb. The general future of Australia was to bc one of progress and peace. But what has happened? We have had amendment after amendment of our industrial arbitration laws in the States and in the Commonwealth. We have amended the law from time to time in the light of experience. We have endeavoured to close every loophole and make the whole scheme as perfect as it is possible for human beings to make anything perfect. Yet after all these years we are here faced with further amendments, still further stoppages of leaks, still further proposals for making our arbitration system watertight. I care not what amendments are made or what new proposals are brought forward, we shall still be faced with the possibility of industrial trouble, strikes and lockouts, and such like. One has only to consider human nature to know the truth of such a statement. 
While that may be so, we are morally bound to make all the amendments that are necessary to provide machinery for the settlement of industrial disputes and for the prevention of them to as great an extent as possible. By doing so we may not be able to prevent all strikes and lockouts, but we shall have done something. The point made by  Senator Pearce  is good. No one would think of removing from the statute-book the law against murder because murders are still committed, or the law against thieving because there are still thieves in our midst. Those offences will still be committed in spite of the law, but the fact that the law is in existence does a great deal of good. It prevents a lot of people from committing murder, and gives a general protection to the community. 
I do not know that the honorable senator is quite correct. Penalties have been imposed under the Arbitration Act and have been collected. There are amendments in the bill now before the Senate to make provision for the better collection of penalties by fixing certain guarantees and safeguards that must be observed. 
I know that it is extremely difficult to collect penalties from some organizations. 
Of course a heavy fine could not be collected from such a small union, but there are some organizations from which it would be an easy matter  lo  collect heavy penalties. For instance, it would be easy enough to collect a fine of £100 or even £1,000 from the Australian Workers Union. 
I know that the position is full of difficulties. I have not the sublime faith in this bill that some of my friends have. But it will improve the position in certain respects, and on that account I am prepared to support it. 
Arbitration, I have said, has not been able to remove all our industrial troubles. We still have recurrences of turmoil that sap the wealth of the community in a way that reveals how really wealthy Australia must be to be able to stand it. I venture to say that if many leading countries had been subjected in proportion to their population to the industrial trouble and great losses Australia has had, and has sustained, they would not have been able to stand them. Statistics reveal the extraordinary loss occasioned in Australia, not only to the workers, but also to industry and the community generally, as the result of industrial disputes. In some years this amounts to millions of pounds. The workers would be vastly better off, and everybody in the community would be in a better position, if -the money lost through stoppages of work went into the pockets of the trade unionists. The fact that Australia has survived the industrial unrest that it has experienced is not due to the conditions under which industry has been carried on, but to the magnificent country which, by the grace of God, we are privileged to occupy. But the struggle for national existence is becoming keener every year. The other nations are preparing to meet world conditions that they expect to arise in the near as well as in the dim future. They are building up their industries, and unless Australia has due regard for the future, I am afraid that our hopes that we shall set up in Australia a condition of affairs such as has never been seen in any other country will vanish into thin air. This country cannot continue on the road it has been following. 
The fact that strikes have occurred, and are likely to continue to occur, has been stressed by the Leader of the Opposition, and in that respect I agree with him. But there is a difference between strikes that occur because industrial conditions are not what they ought to be, and those industrial disturbances that arise from sheer cussedness. I am afraid that striking has become a habit; some persons would regard it as a gift. Our industrial tribunals are agencies for the  promotion  of industrial disputes. These are brought about in order that the court may be approached ; and so adept have some persons become at manufacturing them that in a great many industries those saddled with the responsibility of carrying them on find it practically impossible to plan ahead, as business executives must do, to ensure a reasonable hope of success. I would remind honorable senators that industrial conditions in this country are constantly changing. There is no element of permanency in them ; they alter almost from week to week, and from month to month. Certainly from year to year it is almost impossible for any leader of industry to make plans for the future conduct of his business. 
Under the present arbitration system, and under our general system of regulating industrial affairs, business men are handicapped to an extent that would not be tolerated for a moment in any other part of the world, and development is hamstrung because of it. Our manufacturers endeavour to escape from this apparently hopeless position, and the problem of ever-increasing costs of production, by asking for the imposition of ever-increasing customs duties. These are imposed, and these, in turn, increase the cost of living.- But we cannot go on indefinitely along those lines. Sooner or later we must realize that we are reaching a dead end. When wages go up the cost of living increases correspondingly, and again the workers apply to the court for an increase in wages. Still the manufacturers find themselves no better off, and they again apply for heavier customs duties. Who will say that that is a satisfactory condition of affairs? 
Yes, but it is not fair to him; he is breaking down under the load. 
What is the primary producer but a wage-earner ? He has to work twice as many hours as the trade unionist. He gets no holidays, and no Sundays off for a great part of the year. He does not receive double pay for overtime; he has to work hard ali the time. 
Yes, and I am glad that some primary producers are in that happy position ; but I am speaking of the producers generally. A number of trade union secretaries are in a sufficiently good financial position to take a trip abroad at any time. The expense would not trouble them. 
Owing to good seasons and fair prices. Australia has enjoyed a fair measure of prosperity for a number of years ; but we cannot expect this condition of affairs to continue indefinitely. We are faced with the great problem of solving the present industrial unrest, and the Government has brought down this bill as its remedy; but when we begin to consider the problem we immediately see difficulties in the way. In the first place we find ourselves up against what may be termed privilege. The employers naturally re-  sent any interference with their business, and with what they refer to as their vested interests; but it is doubtful whether they are as jealous pf their rights as the trade unionists are of theirs. To be a trade unionist a few generations ago was to be regarded as a kind of moral outcast; but to-day the unionists are regarded as the salt of the earth. I recall that successive British Governments went to all sorts of lengths to wipe out trade unionism. They even transported its leaders in their attempt to prevent the growth of the movement; but it grew in spite of that opposition, because at that time it had behind it right and justice. The trade unionists of that day were only asking for what they were entitled to receive; they wanted the right to organize in order to obtain improved working conditions, shorter hours, and better pay. It was a movement that did wonderful work for the British Empire and the world generally. But the unions in Australia to-day have lost the old ideal, and they are now asking for considerably more than justice. 
I have spoken of privilege in connexion with the employers; but the trade unionists of Australia are asking for a degree of privilege that was not even contemplated by the trade unionists of a few years ago. It was not thought of by organizations of employers or employees in any part of the world. This clamour for additional privilege has manifested itself in many ways. There is a demand that the unions shall be considered to be above the law. What is that but a demand for privilege? When this or any other government brings down a proposal to amend an act such as the Arbitration Act, or any other measure that deals with trade unionists, we are informed that they have no right to do it, that there must be no restriction placed upon the unions, and that any proposal to impose penalties upon them is inherently wrong. These organizations must be regarded, we are told, as being above the law. But I cannot subscribe to thatdoctrine. To concede such a point would mean that the whole economic, industrial and social fabric would be shattered. Trade unionists, like every other section of the community, must be amenable to the law, and subject to the will of the majority of the people. 
It has been said that the Government has no right to bring down this bill, that it is an attack on trade unionism, and that by means of it the Government is improperly seeking to regulate certain aspects of trade union activities. I submit that it is the right of this Government to introduce such legislation, and the right of this Parliament, if it approves of it, to pass it. It has been suggested also even that only members of the party opposite have the right to legislate in regard to trade unions and industrial affairs, and that such legislation should be in the direction of extending the powers, influence and privileges of trade unions, always with the idea of building up in Australia a certain privileged class with rights above those enjoyed by any other section of the community. In the eyes of the law one section of the people, whether trade unionists or not, is as good as another; but it is obvious that in the eyes of honorable senators opposite the trade unionist is the only man who has any right to consideration. Any other man with his wife and family may starve because owing to the operation of the principle of preference to unionists, work often is denied to him. 
SenatorGraham. - There are plenty of people starving to-day. 
That is not so. 
SenatorGraham. - There are thousands in New South Wales. 
I do not know of any one who is starving in my State. Although I am not a representative of the Labour party, I would not make such a reflection upon the trade union movement. If, as the honorable senator says, there are thousands of trade unionists starving in New South Wales - I do not admit that there are - it is a grave reflection upon those powerful trade union organizations that have been in existence for so many years, and it must be obvious to all that up to the present the activities of those organizations have been wrongly directed. Something more than merely higher wages should be their objective. Unfortunately, it is a fact that there is not that spirit of comradeship in trade unions that should exist. In a country like Australia, where there are hundreds of thousands of trade unionists at work and earning good wages it would, I repeat, be a grave reflection upon them if thousands of their fellow trade unionists were unemployed and starving. I do not believe the accusation, and I feel sure that, when  Senator Graham  realizes the full import of his words, he will be disposed to withdraw them: 
I desire now to continue along the line of thought which I was pursuing when the interruption came. It is suggested that we should regard trade unionism in Australia as a sacred institution. Anything in criticism of it is viewed with horror, in the same way as a devout Mohammedan would regard any reflection upon the Prophet. I can, of course, imagine the thrill of horror that is running up and down the spine of the trade union movement at what its leaders believe to be a pernicious attack upon their privilege by the Government and Parliament, through this bill. These people are raising their hands to high heaven and calling out " sacrilege, sacrilege," in the hope, I have no doubt, that something may be done to preserve them in their present privileged positions in the country. 
We know, of course, that their opposition to the measure is inspired, not by the desire to advance the interests of trade unionists generally, but purely for political purposes. Honorable senators of the Labour party are hoping that, by their action in opposing the bill they will secure some advantage to themselves. They are endeavouring to work up a feeling of passionate opposition on the part of trade unionists throughout Australia against the measure and the supporters of the bill, by declaring that it is an attack upon the rights and privileges of trade unionists. 
That is so. They are working assiduously on the class consciousness of the workers. 
The honorable senator has many virtues as we are aware. But he knows, as well as I do, that what I am saying is absolutely true. When he contributes to the debate I venture to say that he will join in the general chorus of condemnation of the bill and will describe it as an attack upon trade unionism, although he realizes that speaking generally, it will distinctly strengthen the arbitration system. 
I have spoken of the possible disasters to the industrial and national life of the Commonwealth if the present chaotic state of affairs is allowed to continue. There are many people who have a very clear idea as to what should or should not be done to improve the position. On the other hand there are certain people who wish to increase the possibility of disaster. They would prefer to see the Arbitration Act repealed and the court abolished so that employer and employee could get back to the old system of direct negotiation without the intervention of any authorized tribunal. It is remarkable that the attitude of honorable senators opposite is endorsed by persons who are keenly anxious to do away with our present arbitration system. Probably these revolutionary spirits who are behind the opponents of the bill are logically right from their point of view. They realize that under modern social conditions the industrial organization is so complex that the days when it was possible to have direct negotiation between employer and employees have gone for ever. This is the day of massed battalion of both employers and employees and the communists and revolutionaries desire to see these two great armies locked together in a struggle to the death. Their one desire is to prevent our industrial machinery from working smoothly; to bring about a state of revolution that will overturn existing social conditions and destroy the fabric of society. All these people are in deadly opposition to the arbitration system, and it is somewhat' significant to note that they are supporting honorable senators opposite. It would be interesting to know if our friends in opposition are opposing the bill from the standpoint of these revolutionaries or not. 
I have stressed the disadvantages of the present system of arbitration. But [ realize that great as the disadvantages are, it is better to endure them than to risk the alternative. The Government has acted wisely in bringing down this amending bill with the object of improving the present machinery. Certain clauses of the measure, particularly those relating 10 strikes and the prohibition of strikes, call for some comment. It is remarkable that whilst in certain proposed new sections strikes are made illegal, other clauses provide that in particular circumstances an unlawful strike or lockout may be .regarded as lawful. This certainly is an anomaly, but after all the whole of our industrial system bristles with anomalies. Moreover it is an anomaly which, I feel certain, can be fully justified. I wish it were as easily possible to justify the proposal of the Government in what I may describe the exonerating clauses of the bill - those provisions which in certain circumstances, lift the penalties imposed upon those responsible for strikes or lockouts. 
We have had some discussion about secret ballots. The principle is democratic, but I am afraid that the provisions in the bill are full of snares and pitfalls. The Government has set out to overcome these -difficulties, but I am doubtful if it  has been successful. I remind honorable senators that one may lead a horse to water but it is quite another matter to make the animal drink. Thus while we may provide the machinery for the taking of a secret ballot and put it in motion, it is impossible to compel unionists to vote. If members of an organization do not vote at a ballot these provisions will be more farcical and disadvantageous to the industrial life of this country. If there is one thing that trade unionists are noted for, it is the loyalty of members to their own organizations. I can speak on this point from personal knowledge. I know how strongly members of a trade union feel about it. In an industrial crisis members of an organization' go on strike because of a resolution of their union. They do not care to go against the decision of a meeting. Exactly the samo position will arise under these provisions relating to the secret ballot. As I have said, I speak with some authority on this matter, because I have a thorough knowledge of the sentiments which actuate members of a union in a crisis. Whenever a trade union is face to face with grave industrial trouble, which threatens to develop into a strike, a special meeting is summoned for the purpose of considering what action shall be taken. If the meeting decides that a strike shall take place, the members of the organization concerned - those absent from as well as those present at the meeting - will observe the decision of the union. Although some of them may not believe in the wisdom of a strike, the last thing they would dream of doing would be to take a stand against the decision of their organization. The question of a secret ballot will arise only when the members of a union are working under a set of conditions that they feel they cannot any longer continue to suffer, and threaten to cause industrial trouble. The famous ten persons to whom  Senator Needham  has referred would then apply for a secret ballot. There is no provision to prevent the executive of the Australian Workers Union or any other organization from calling a meeting of its members and arriving at a decision upon the question at issue. In the majority of instances the members of a union will observe the decision that has been arrived at by a properly constituted meeting, and give effect to it in the secret ballot. 
I would not go so far as to say that. I admit that many trade unionists do not trouble to attend the meetings of their unions. In the average union of 4,000 or 5,000 members the attendance at a meeting would probably be not greater than 100 members; but even so, those who do not attend abide loyally by any decision arrived at. Those conditions will not be altered under this new provision for the holding of a secret ballot. The members who do not believe in a strike will certainly have the opportunity to vote against it; but the great majority of the members will vote in accordance with the wishes of their organization. Despite the provision which makes it an offence to do anything prejudicial to the ballot, the members of an organization will be made acquainted with any decision arrived at, and vote in accordance with it. Having advocated this principle at the last elections, I am now prepared to vote for it; but I gravely doubt whether the expectations in regard to it will be fulfilled. In some cases it may cause a considerable amount of harm. I know of  instances of   union officials having taken a strong stand against the proposal to resort to direct action. The executive officers of an organization know how much it stands to lose by industrial trouble. Frequently secretaries of unions who have opposed the wishes of hot-headed members and endeavoured to preserve industrial peace have been hounded out of their positions, and their lives have been made intolerable. This provision, however, is experimental, and is well worth a trial. The principle underlying it was endorsed by the people at the last elections, and it is favoured by very many trade unionists because they wish to obtain a greater measure of control in their organizations. 
I am sorry that the success of this measure has been prejudiced to an extent by the opposition to it engendered in the ranks of trade unionists by honorable senators opposite and some honorable members of another place. I claim that it is an honest attempt, inspired by the highest motives, to do the right thing to the trade union movement and the people of Australia. Prom that aspect the speech of the Attorney-General in another place was a model, because there was an entire absence from it of either passion or prejudice. The sole desire of the Ministerial party is to act fairly by the trade unionists and the people of Australia. The reason for the introduction of this measure is no different from that which led to the passage of previous legislation dealing with the same subject. It is a genuine attempt to solve the problems with which industry in Australia is confronted. It is easy to criticize, but infinitely harder to advance constructive proposals. This is a constructive proposal which, while it may not do all that is expected, will go a long way towards curing the existing evils in our arbitration system. I hope that when the bill is being considered in committee honorable senators opposite will be able to suggest improvements that will make for the more effective operation of the law in the interest of that section of the community which they claim more particularly to represent. The Government can then be judged according to its readiness or reluctance to accept proposals that have the force of reason and the germs of common sense. Unless honorable senators act in that way they will be condemned out of their own mouths. I give the bill my blessing. 
In common with the majority of honorable senators, I am gravely concerned as to the effect which this measure will have upon the conduct of affairs in Australia generally. I have been a trade unionist for many years. As a matter of fact, I have spent the greater part of my life in an endeavour to provide machinery that will afford an opportunity to the people of this country, but particularly those who are designated wage earners, to obtain what they consider they are entitled to receive from a country which they claim as their own. History teaches us that, notwithstanding the milk of human kindness which we are led to believe flows from the breasts of humanity, the working people of this and every other country have throughout the ages been engaged in a struggle against another human element to obtain those conditions under which they consider they are entitled to live. They have had an uphill fight the whole of the way. Oppression of every description has obstructed their path. 
The trade union movement is possibly more enlightened in Australia than in any other part of the world, not because of any inherent virtue but on account of the peculiar circumstances under which civilization was established in this corner of the earth. In the first place Australia was pioneered by what we can claim without conceit were the boldest, the best, the most enlightened, and the most courageous units of the white races; and their progeny have always insisted upon being given decent means for earning their  livlihood.  We have evolved through different systems to the present method of settling industrial disputes. I think I can claim without egotism that but for organized labour there never would have been a system of arbitration in this country. I do not say that it was a Labour Government which in the 'first place passed that class of legislation; but there is not the slightest doubt that it was the force of organized labour which compelled other governments to do so. They used their power outside of Parliament, and later returned their own representatives to fight on their behalf. Arbitration is an industrial system which they evolved. I can recall the time when employees did all in their power to introduce some conciliatory system under which their grievances could be adjusted, because they knew that strikes meant a substantial loss of wages, and caused untold suffering to men, women, and children. The strike weapon was the only one then at their disposal, as conciliatory methods had been unsuccessfully attempted. The men had approached the bosses almost on their  kness  in an endeavour to place their case before them; but what did they get? They received nothing but contempt and had to contend with refusal after refusal from men who did not know what hardship meant. It was not until a compulsory system of arbitration was introduced that the employers adopted a conciliatory attitude, because they knew if they did not confer the powerful arm of the law would compel them to appear before the courts of this country. 
After years of experience I claim that our present system has done more than anything else to prevent and settle industrial disputes, and Australia is freer from such trouble than any other country. Reading the capitalistic press and hearing the comments of some tory politicians, one would think there was more industrial trouble in Australia than in any other country, but in comparison with other countries in a similar state of civilization, there 'are fewer strikes in Australia than anywhere else. 
In common with all experienced trade unionists, I prefer arbitration as a means of settling industrial disputes to any other system. But I say in all sincerity, that the Government is doing its best to make arbitration unworkable. One only has to refer to the leading articles which appear in the Melbourne  Argus  and other tory newspapers which frequently refer to the iniquity of the Arbitration Act, and its harassing effects upon industries and those who control them, to ascertain the attitude of the Government. Those who support the opinions which these newspapers publish do not want arbitration, which they say hampers industry and imposes upon employers conditions with which, they urge, they should not be compelled to comply. They want arbitration swept out of the way. This measure is an attempt to give legislative effect to the opinions expressed in the  Argus  and other newspapers under the direction of capitalistic institutions. 
One would think to hear the comments of some honorable senators and persons outside, that " the rabble," as they term trade unionists, is not controlled by the law or regulations, and does not obey the laws of the country, but the point should be emphasized that trade union organizations come into existence only under the laws of the country. It is claimed that a good deal of the industrial trouble which sometimes prevails is due to the fact that there are little cliques of trade union officials who by some legerdemain perform acts which the organization as a whole does not support. I know of no trade union in Australia that does not possess the fullest right to elect its officersby means of a secret ballot. The machinery of the Australian Workers Union is similar in a sense to that under which this country is governed. It has its constitution and rules and regulations to guide it in the conduct of its affairs, just as the Commonwealth has its Constitution and laws which are passed under it to enable the Government to function in giving effect to the wishes of the people. Other industrial organizations also have their constitutions, rules and regulations for the conduct of their business. The rules of the Australian Workers Union provide that its officers shall be elected once a year, and I as its general  president  have to submit my name to 150,000 or 160,000 members of the organization in Australia with others for election to that office. The general secretary has to do the same; but any other officers comprising the executive of our organization are not elected by the whole of the members but by sections or branches. Will any one claim that officers so elected are not qualified and should not be empowered to speak on behalf of those whom they represent? Our election is similar to the election ofmembers of this chamber; the only difference being that we are elected every year, whereas honorable senators are priviliged to hold office for six years. In these circumstances I do not think it can be said that I am not sufficiently in touch with the members of my organization to speak on their behalf. 
SenatorVerran. - I do not think there is a man in Australia that can represent a union better than the honorable senator. 
I am . endeavouring to remove some of the bogys. 
I do not know of a union in Australia conducted in any other way. 
I do not. The unions elect their officers periodically. 
SenatorFoll. - Walsh and Johnson appear to be elected every week. 
SenatorBARNES. - It is difficult to obtain a representative vote from the seamen because many of the members of their organizations are constantly at sea. 
There is difficulty at. times. 
Possibly that is true, but if it is, it is an isolated case. I claim that the officers of my union ure intelligent men, and quite capable of making recommendations for the benefit of the majority. As the men would not support any action taken by the  president,  secretary, or any other official that was not in their interests, it is unreasonable to suggest that these organizations are under the control of irresponsible persons who are acting to the detriment of their members. They are more entitled to speak on behalf of their members than are honorable senators in this chamber to speak on behalf of the people who were responsible for their election, because they arc elected at shorter intervals. 
As a result of years of experience in the trade union movement, I believe that the greatest factor in fomenting industrial unrest is not a desire of the workers to be everlastingly on strike, but the fact that there is so much delay in having their cases heard by the Arbitration Court. It is true that the present act may need amending in some minor directions, but the easiest way in which to overcome the present trouble is to appoint more judges. One judge did the work for a long time but he now has assistance. At present there are about 180 cases held up in. the court, and when they can be dealt with God only knows. Unionists are prepared to obey the law, and to submit their grievances to a properly constituted court, but they strongly resent the delays which occur in getting an award from the court. The Australian Workers Union submitted a case to the court about a year ago, which has not yet been dealt with, and our members are continually bringing pressure to bear upon the officials, and blaming them for the delay. They have said they are sick and tired of waiting and may have to resort to direct action, although the representatives of the union are continually endeavouring to pacify them. Similar difficulty i3 experienced by other organizations, and if the Government could facilitate the hearing of,, plaints, they would do more in the direction of obtaining industrial peace than they can ever possibly achieve under this bill. What would it matter if twenty judges were appointed at- £2,000 a year if the ISO plaints which are at present before the court could be promptly disposed of? If additional judges were appointed the claims now waiting settlement would be dealt with in a short time and the whole cause of industrial trouble would be removed. As things are now, cases are so much delayed that by the time an award is made a new plaint is necessary. Circumstances have so altered that the plaint lodged twelve months previously is useless. Clear away all that delay, give the trade unions an opportunity to avail themselves promptly of what arbitration i9 available, .and most of the trouble existing will be removed. 
I am always ready to be a party to conciliation. The officers of the Australian Workers Union are continually in conference with people who employ our members. There are roughly 123 different awards made by the Federal Arbitration Court and by State courts, under which members of the Australian Workers Union work. I have frequently met fruit-growers, wheatgrowers, and all kinds of people in conference. On many occasions we have been able to remove quite a number of misunderstandings and difficulties that were not tending to promote the harmony so necessary to enable industry to be carried on for the benefit of all, and when, sometimes, after having done ail we could to bring about peaceful settlement we have had recourse to the court, the judge has said to us : " I shall convene a compulsory conference; you people  must  settle as much as you can in conference and when you have done that, you can come to the court and I shall arbitrate in regard to the points, upon which you cannot agree." 
Under this bill the whole basis of arbitration is altered. A matter that we thought was settled twenty odd years, ago, has to be determined once more. Early in the history of our law for the settlement of industrial disputes the principle was laid down that no industry should be carried on in Australia unless it could enable the people engaged in it to work under comparatively decent conditions. To that end, it was decided to establish what was then termed and has since been known as the basic wage. I have heard no reason advanced during the debate on this bill why any departure is proposed in this respect - why we should allow the court to take into consideration the economic conditions of an industry. The only object that I can see in doing so is that the court may say : " This industry can be carried on sucessfully, but it cannot pay a wage which the people of Australia think every worker is decently entitled to receive." 
It is provided in the bill that the court may do it. For instance, clause 22 of the bill introduced in another place provided - 25d. The court shall, before making any award or certifying any agreement, and in proceedings for the variation or cancellation of an award or agreement, take into consideration the probable economic effect of the agreement or award in relation to the community in general and the probable economic effect thereof upon the industry or industries con- " cerned. 
In another place the clause was modified by the addition of the following proviso :  - 
Provided that this section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing the basic wage. 
Another grave objection to the bill is that it makes provision for the taking of a ballot in certain circumstances. The manner in which their officers are appointed, makes it impossible for organiza tions to be governed by little, cliquesnot responsible to the will and wishes of the members. I cannot imagine any machinery that would enable a body of men to have a greater and tighter grip upon their officers than that which the members of trade unions have to-day. The law provides that unions cannot be registered unless their rules make provision for the proper administration of whatever the, organization claims to do for its members, for giving the members control over their representatives and for the proper administration of the finances of the organizations. The Trades Union Acts of the States and the various Arbitration Acts of the Commonwealth and the States make it compulsory for the organizations to comply with those requirements. Of course we know that in the best regulated institutions there are occasional leakages. For instance in the Australian Workers' Union recently we had the misfortune to have two or three men get away with some of our cash, but the law has been set in motion and they will be punished as soon as they are caught. But we often find that people are able to get away with the cash of banking institutions, whose administrative arrangements are supposed to be the last word in regard to the control of the money in their care. So that it is not to be wondered at if, occasionally, there are defalcations of union funds. 
I shall quote a few of the rules of the Australian Workers' Union in order to let the public know something a little different from what they have had instilled in their minds during the last few weeks in regard to the conduct of trade unions. As a matter of fact, these organizations are the cleanest run and about the best organized, bodies in Australia. The branch auditors of the Australian Workers Union are selected at the annual meetings of the members of the various branches. They must be experienced accountants, and must not be members of the organization. Wherever possible we secure the services of Government officials. The general practice in regard to the head offices in each of the capital cities is for the executive to engage the services of a firm of accountants of standing. The instructions are that the auditors can go into any office of the organization during working hours, and claim from the secretary the keys, and the right to go through the safe and the books. _ Can any one tell me of a better safeguard than that in regard to the care of the money placed in the hands of the officials of the Australian Workers' Union by the. members of the union? If so, we shall be very glad to adopt it. 
I think that most of them. are. I do not know of any that runs its affairs in a lax manner. They mostly conduct their affairs on the lines we adopt, because in trade unions there is the same human element that is to be found in all other walks of life. It is because of the frailties of human beings that law and rules must be framed and obeyed. Otherwise the dishonest man would gain an unfair advantage over his fellows. No one knows how he will fare when put to the. test if the temptation is big enough. Rule 20 of our organization provides - 
The financial year of the head office shall terminate on the 3 1st of December of each year, and an audited balance-sheet shall be presented to Convention by the general secretary. 
The convention is our highest authority. It is elected by the membership of the union. Every man in the union has the right to a vote in the selection of the delegates. These attend from all parts of Australia. Rule 21 provides - 
The Executive Council shall appoint annually two experienced auditors (not members of the union), one of whom shall, if possible, be a government auditor, who once a year and at other times when requested by the council shii.ll take the head office books and balancesheets, with all receipts, and compare thom with the bank pass book and vouchers, and report on same to Convention. Auditors finding any deficiency shall state the particulars in their report, and lay same before the following Executive Council Meeting or Annual Convention. 
I shall not weary honorable senators by quoting further from the rules of my organization. Apparently they agree that it is conducted on honest lines; but they have " a bee in their bonnets " about other organizations. I can assure them that my union is not unique in the man ner in which its affairs are controlled. Its constitution and rules are brought uptodate as experience shows need for alterations, and those alterations are always effected in a proper manner ; they cannot be made without the members having an opportunity to give them the fullest consideration. There must be a representative gathering of delegates who are elected by the members of the union in the same way as this Parliament is elected by the people of Australia. 
The secret ballot provisions of the bill could not be applied to my organization. When we proceed to elect our officers we begin to take a ballot about the 1st August, and the ballot is open until the 15th December, in order to give all members of the union, many of whom follow seasonal occupations, an opportunity to vote. Should ten disgruntled members, who might easily be put up for the purpose, have power, to cause a ballot of the whole of the members of the organization throughout  Aus-tralia  to be taken on some trivial matter? The employers have their " pimps " in the trade unions. Some of them are placed there deliberately in order to keep the employers well posted in the doings of the unions. What is there to prevent the employers putting up ten men of straw at any time ? All that would be necessary to have such men made members of an organization like the Australia Workers' Union would be to pay the price of the union tickets for them. For £15 or £20 a year, these persons could be kept in a union to embarrass the organization in the interests of the employers, and they could demand a secret ballot of the members on this, that, or the other matter. It would be left to the court to say whether or not such a ballot should be held. A scheme of that kind could be easily carried out. 
It could be done at any time the employers wished. It is unnecessary to cumber our arbitration machinery with such a provision, which would make it impossible for an organization to conduct its affairs honestly. The act would be unworkable. 
Proposals of this kind force me to the conclusion that the object of the bill is to destroy our arbitration system. I have already said that there is a powerful element in the country that would like to wipe out the act. There are some persons even on my own side of politics who would cheerfully do it; hut the great bulk of the working people have no desire to bring about the downfall of the present arbitration system. They desire to continue in their employment as peacefully as possible. There is no sense in a union precipitating a strike if it is possible to settle a dispute in some saner way. Usually when a strike takes place the workers have no other remedy. One of the best ways to minimize industrial trouble is to make it easier than it now is for an organization to go before the court.If we did that we should prevent 90 per cent, of the industrial disputes that now occur. 
Honorable senators, no doubt, are familiar with the industrial history of Australia and the world in general, and it is unnecessary for me to indulge in a homily upon that subject. My countrymen are the most law abiding people on earth, and the most patient. I bitterly resent the gibes continually hurled at trade unionists from Tory platforms and in the' Tory press, that they are always looking for trouble. In my opinion nothing is further from their thoughts. Of course, disputes such as that in which the Marine Cooks' Union is now engaged occasionally occur. It appears to me that that trouble has been staged by supporters of the Government; but I do not know what they expect to get out of it. 
It looks like that to me. It seems very much like the seamen's strike that occurred about three years ago. That was another tin-pot affair; but a lot of heads went into the basket that under different circumstances would not have gone there. I know some of the tactics that are adopted by the other side in order to achieve its objects. "We have ample evidence that many things are done in this country that probably would not be approved by honorable senators. I remember reading re cently in an influential newspaper published in Melbourne about what was called a consultative council - a coterie of powerful financial interests, alleged to be responsible for the policy of the Nationalist party.' It is said that it simply  pully  the strings, and the party has to do its bidding, whether it likes it or not. 
No, in the Melbourne  Age,  that great organ of democracy in Victoria! I think that the article appeared in other journals also. It may have been published even in the  Labour Daily;  that would have given it added authority. I know some of the strings that are pulled. Many people would be loth to believe that such tactics are employed by anybody; but honorable senators on this side, as practical men, know that such things are done. Organized capital will get the last gasp out of labour, and will not be particular whether it is organized or otherwise. 
Labour does try to do that; but there is no truth in the story that the workers of Australia are inefficient and adopt a go-slow policy. Clear evidence is available to show that the trade unionists of this country are the most efficient workmen on earth, and the most law-abiding. I fear that the party opposite would like to deprive the trade unions of the benefit of the Arbitration Act, but the unions wish to carry on peacefully under that beneficent piece of legislation. They do not wish to be hampered more than they are at the present time. They desire to make even greater use of the act than they have in the past. 
M.v respected leader, and the little band who support him in this chamber, ari; powerless to prevent the Government from passing the bill and giving effect to it. As a matter of fact, as I said when the Leader of the Government in the Senate brought the bill forward it might as well be passed without discussion, because the eloquence of honorable members on thi3 side would be of no avail. It is useless to endeavour to persuade the Government to withdraw the measure. 
The union with which I am associated has shown its patriotism by refraining from causing strikes. It has been responsible for only one strike since tbe Arbitration Act has been in force, and that exception was due, not to any objection to the act, but to an unfortunate calculation made by a responsible judge. This bill, I fear, will compel even my union to consider whether it is worth while continuing its registration under the act, or whether it would be better for it to depend upon its industrial might. I submit that the Arbitration Act has been of immense benefit to the workers; it has helped many organizations of employees in the textile industries, in which a large number of women and girls are employed. They were shockingly underpaid and with their small contributions they were unable to build up a big fighting fund; but they were able to take advantage of the Arbitration Act and convince the court of the justice of their cause, in opposition to the best legal talent in the country. They obtained redress that could not have been secured in any other way. To unions such as the miners' and the engineers' organizations, the Arbitration Act has not been such a great boon as it has to the weaker bodies. It would be possible for my organization to conduct a guerilla warfare from one end of Australia to the other that would harass the Government to an extraordinary extent without affecting our members very much. But that is not our policy. Nothing is further from our thoughts than to do anything like that. But I warn the Government that legislation of this character will have the effect of driving law-abiding organizations like my own, away from the court, and converting them into an armed camp. 
SenatorReid. - It is because trade unions have not been obeying the law that the Government has introduced this bill. 
The provisions in the original act enabled the Government to do almost anything that it wished to do. I have very good reasons to know, because I was in trouble once. I have often wondered, when certain things were happening, why full advantage was nol taken of all the provisions in the act. and why the Government or the court did not use its full powers. On one occasion, the court tackled my union, and powerful as we are, it spiked our guns. If that were possible under the act in the case of my union, surely it was possible in the case of other unions, so there should be no occasion for the introduction of this bill. The Government would be wise if it burnt the measure, and concentrated on a number . of needed amendments of the principal act. If the disabilities under which organizations suffer as regards getting claims before the court, were removed, 90 per cent, of the industrial troubles in Australia would disappear. 
This bill, I repeat, will tend to drive law-abiding organizations away from the court, and that certainly will not make for industrial peace. We who are closely identified ' with the trade union movement, know better than most other people how unwise it is to have an army of unemployed in the Commonwealth. This is one reason why we deplore the action of the Government in this matter. We are firmly convinced that the bill will not ease the industrial situation in any way. There has been a good deal of talk about the number of people who are thrown out of work owing to strikes in Australia, but there has been no mention of the millions of pounds that are lost annually because of unemployment, the responsibility for which must rest principally upon the Government. 
I say that it will, and I have already instanced the case of my own organization. The bill contains many objectionable provisions. I do not suggest that all of the employers of Australia will take advantage of them, but I know that a number are capable of doing anything. These are the people for whom the law must be made. Trade unionists are, in the main, law-abiding citizens, and it is impossible to put legirons on them. The history of the industrial movement teaches us that. It is only a little over 100 years ago since men were gaoled and persecuted for being ' members of a trade union, but the restrictive legislation of the time and the punishment meted out to offenders against the law, did not prevent men from coming together in such organizations. The result of that persecution is seen in ' the magnificent organizations which we have to-day, which exercise a considerable influence on the social life of the Commonwealth. No amount of restrictive legislation will check for ever the onward march of progress. It is impossible to keep a good man down. The cause of industrial peace will not be furthered by the passing of this bill in its present form. On the contrary, the Government and all those who support the measure will lose, the respect not only of those who are directly connected with trade unionism, but also of other sections of the community that have an inherent sense of justice, and will not tolerate 'anything that savours of repression or coercion. The Government, I repeat, would be wise to drop the bill, and give its attention to the removal of the disabilities under  which  trade unions are labouring. If the Ministry does this, it will render a distinct service to the Commonwealth. 
This bill may not be all that we would like it to be but it has been submitted in fulfilment of a promise made by the Government at' the last general election.  Senator Barnes  has just stated that it ought to be burned. I do not agree with him. The present industrial position is so desperate that the Government is to be commended for having attempted to furnish a remedy. It is the duty of the Ministry to provide the necessary legislative machinery for the maintenance of order, and to ensure obedience to the country's laws. Having had considerable experience of the arbitration system I am satisfied that, as a people, we have been coddled somewhat; I believe that if the Arbitration Court had disciplined trade unionists as they should have been disciplined, Australia would be the better for it to-day. Trade unionists in many cases have thought nothing of breaking an award; their attitude towards an order of the Arbitration Court has been similar to that of the average publican towards the 6 o'clock closing law - that it was made only to be broken. Every right-thinking man likes others to believe that his word is his bond; that all honorable undertakings entered into by him will be duly observed. Should not the same principle apply to industrial organizations when they obtain awards from the Arbitration Court ? No one can deny that the working conditions in Australia are better, the wages higher, and the people happier than in any other country. And I would say to those men who are making all this trouble, " Go to Russia ; go to Germany ; go anywhere; but for God's sake, go out of Australia." I do not wish to be unkind; but I cannot help thinking that Australia would  bc the button, and no one would raise any objection, if certain extremists were in Heaven to-night. What is going to be the result if a number of people are determined to take more out of Australia than they are prepared to put into it? It is regrettable that our industrial organizations should be handicapped by being obliged to maintain a set of agitators - men who have no responsibility, and whose chief aim appears to be selfaggrandisement. These are the men who are dominating the industrial position to-day. They have brains. So have a considerable section of trade unionists; but unhappily the latter's brains are always back-firing. These agitators are responsible for much of our present troubles. Australia has been blessed by a succession of able Prime Ministers who have had the interests of the Commonwealth at heart; but, unfortunately many of the leaders of industrial organizations have not been animated by the same high purpose. They do not give an adequate return for the £8 or £9 a week which they receive. 
Nothing, and in the end I got kicked out. 
That is so. They get £8 or £9 a week, and are provided with an office and a typewriter. 
And some have motor bicycles. Whenever a strike occurs these men do not suffer loss of pay. They draw full wages, but the trade unionist who is on strike has to be content with what he can get. Looking at the history of industrial unionism, I realize that a man who lifts his organization out of a rut does a great work; but still greater work is done by the man who prevents it from falling over the industrial precipice. Some persons in the past conceived the idea of making the Labour movement bigger and more powerful by affiliating with it the whole of the trade unions. What did that mean? The principles of trade unionism were departed from, and the unions became the infernal political fighting machines that they are to-day. No honorable senator can deny that that is so. I regard the Australian Workers' Union as the only real trade union in Australia to-day.  Senator Barnes  is its  president,  and its members should pray fervently that he will continue to live for many more years. If the union loses his guidance it will go overboard. 
Another class of men who came into the movement some years ago was that which I was pleased to term the " black coat brigade ". They never did any work; they wore out two seats of their trousers to one pair of knees. They came into the movement for what they could get out of it. Fancy a lawyer joining the Labour movement! That class of man saw the opportunities which were afforded by the affiliation of the trade unions and the political Labour party and some of them have succeeded in enriching themselves to the extent of thousands of pounds at the expense of honest trade unionists. They are the men who to-day are making the most noise. I saw some of their type at a meeting in Adelaide only the other night. As trade unionists one would not buy them if they were put up as a job lot. They are opposing this bill for all they are worth. I put it to honorable senators that nine out of every ten Labour members of another place secretly believe in the bill and are praying for its passage. I am not blind. I can tell from a man's expression what he means, and from the twinkle in his eye what he thinks. If' the measure was submitted to-morrow to a vote of the trade unionists in Australia, 80 per cent, of them would signify their wish that it should become law. We have been sent here by the people, and we have no right , to excite prejudice, enmity, illwill or evil speaking for the purpose of gaining a few votes. The real reason for the opposition of a certain class to the bill is a desire to win the next election. They have no consideration for the present generation. There is nothing more cruel in Australia to-day than the party political machine. It is a question of " My party before all ; let Australia go hang." In this matter, we are dealing with what vitally concerns our fellow men. The employer and the workman have lost , confidence in each other, and this is an attempt to bring them together so that that confidence may be restored. 
It may not, if the honorable senator and his friends preach that doctrine. He will flout his intelligence and his susceptibility to the needs of his fellow men if he adopts such a practice. What have the leaders of the Labour movement taught their fellow men during the last twelve years? 
When they get on the box they refer to the workers as " Fellow slaves ". Fancy putting such a plaster on a workman in Australia today! The days of serfdom have passed. We have never lived in better days than those which we now enjoy, and the privileges accorded to working men have never been greater. The marine cooks did not go on strike because of low wages or bad working conditions. They struck against work. In Adelaide the other day two men were offered £15 by the Tramways Trust to uproot a big gum tree. They turned down the offer. Two friends of mine accepted the contract, and on Friday they divided £20, because they also had the right to dispose of the wood in whatever way they chose. This bill has been introduced because the workers are hindering the production of Australia. 
SenatorSirGeorgePearce-Someof them are. 
On a big subject like this one cannot differentiate. I have heard workers referred to as "beasts of burden." Is there anything more distressing than the preaching of such a doctrine? Why not teach man that he is fashioned in the likeness of God, and that he must stand four square to his responsibilities? I always derive pleasure from work, and any man who does not is of no value to either Australia or any other country. God said, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." That cannot be controverted. Our arbitration law makes it possible for the workers to get the last half-penny out of their employers if they are honest. I have participated in three strikes, and I can confidently assert that one-half of the men do not know the reason for any strike. Many of them cannot tell the difference between eighteen pence and a hen and chicken. - The provisions of this measure are not too strongly drawn. How are we to make Australia equal to other nations if we are not prepared to work? No man can say to-day that he lacks the opportunity to develop his intellectual and moral facul-  ties. I question whether we have not carried the principle of free education a little too far. 
The industrial conditions in Australia during recent years have been so disturbed that the Government has been compelled to introduce an amending arbitration measure in an endeavour to secure industrial stability. It is regrettable that because several marine cooks could not secure the assisttance to which they considered they were entitled, and for which provision was not made in the award under which they were working, they went on strike, with the result, that thousands of men who were not in any way concerned in the dispute have been thrown out of employment. If these men were being unjustly treated they should have referred their complaint to the tribunal which has been constituted for the settlement of such matters. As the result of years of experience in the industrial arena I have no hesitation in saying that a strike is idiotic and useless. Years ago it was the only weapon the workers had at their disposal; but conditions have altered. If men wish to succeed they must work, but unfortunately employment is not available to many deserving men. A few days ago I was approached in the street by a man 37 years of age who said : " What are you going to do for me ? " I replied, " What do you expect a man 72 years old to do for a man of your age?" Men must work; but there are unfortunately many who have no such inclination. 
I believe that when a man who has once been a parson enters the Labour movement he is a devil. 
He is largely responsible for a good deal of the industrial unrest which prevails to-day.  Mr. Tom  Walsh, who has taken a very prominent part in many of the industrial troubles on the waterfront possesses, I think, a well-balanced brain, but he has been on the wrong road. Years ago there were many fine fellows associated with the Miners' Association of which I was a member - men who were always in favour of a federation of unions and the establishment of a central executive council. They had their way and that was the end of the Amalgamated Miners' Association. A short time ago one of the cleverest engineers who has appeared before the Arbitration Court, and concerning whom  Mr. Justice  Powers spoke very highly, was dismissed from his union and was afterwards asked to become an honorary member. This man, who for over 36 years had been the secretary of the organization, was thrown overboard because of the action taken by two or three men in Sydney. There are some lovely things up there. There is no need for Italians who hawk images in the streets to be short of supplies; there are plenty already available in that city. We need discipline in every walk of life. If my father had not disciplined me I should have been an uncontrollable animal instead of a reasonable man. If we do not observe the divine law which is above all others, we have no foundation for our civilization. We should never have Lad slavery, strikes, the persecution of the weak, or any other troubles if men had loved God, and had observed the injunction, " Seek ye the Kingdom of God and all these things shall be added unto you." There are some who do not like to hear me speak in this strain, but if men prayed as much as they swore, the world would be better than it is to-day. 
If secret ballots for which provision is made in the bill, were held when industrial troubles arose, strikes would seldom occur. I was on strike on one occasion for 27 weeks, during which time no strike pay was available. On that occasion the rules of the Australian Miners' Association were flouted, and because of that no funds were forthcoming from other unions. I believe that if secret ballots were compulsory, eight out of every ten strikes would be averted. 
I think I am. Reference has been made to the penalties that can be imposed, and to the punishment which may be meted out to some individuals; but the punishments provided in this bill are infinitesimal when compared with those which certain persons will experience later if they do not adopt different tactics. A secret ballot is an honest way of ascertaining the opinion, of the men. Why should certain individuals object to men earning their living ? There are always some who wish to push the other fellow into the ditch. 
No. The honorable senator knows that the party with which he is associated, gave me five years of hell in South Australia. It declared me black and everything else, merely because I held to my convictions. If a member of the Labour party to-day has a strong personality and a lively individuality, they kick him out. The vision of the members of that party has become so restricted that if a real man comes into their presence, they fail to see him. ..No more Labour party for me. 
I intend to support the second reading of the bill, but there are several of its provisions upon which, in committee, I shall seek some information, because my view at present is that they are overbearing and will be hurtful rather than helpful. We need a measure such as this. I am reminded of the Cornishman who said that "If thee gets what thee wants and wants what thee gets, thee ought to . be happy." The workers of Australia are, I believe, getting what they want, and as they will want what they get, they ought to be gloriously happy. I support the bill. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to8 p.m. 

I was about to remark,  Mr. President,  when you left the chair for the dinner adjournment that I was pleased to see that the bill deals with boycotting, and the practice of declaring a man " black." I think it is a very essential provision. A dark man does not object to being called black; but when a man is of fair complexion and has blue eyes, he does not like to be described as " black." In this age of ours, I do not know of anything more wicked than that a man should be called a " scab " or a coloured labourer, because his principles and his convictions differ from those of others. [ have been a labour man . all my life. I challenge any one to say that I have not done as much for the workers of South Australia as any other man, but I have ' been declared an outcast from labour, because I differed from labour views, first on the question of the war, and later because I refused to fall in with a demand for a standard wage for a dying industry. I believe in the British Empire. I have lived under the British flag all my life. I believe in Old England, just as I believe in God. As for the question of wages, on which I was attacked, the men affected were working in a mine that had been worked for 53 years. For eighteen years a sliding scale had been in operation and had worked without difficulty until there came on the scene some howling, mealy-mouthed bolsheviks. Some of them came over from Sydney and got hold of the cars of the workers in the mine, and the miners listened to them. I opposed them. For over a year I had paid money out of my pocket for the welfare of men and women who had spent their lives in the district and whose ages were too far advanced to permit them to remove elsewhere. I was dubbed a "scab," although I had never had a bad disease in my life. It is almost inconceivable that in these enlightened days it should be necessary to protect the individual against a crowd of wicked men evilly designed, but because I oppose these so-called labour men, and because I stood for Parliament against a so-called Labour candidate, a man who floated into Parliament on the blood of soldiers - he would not have won otherwise - I was declared an outlaw. For five long years all that I was allowed to earn to keep a widowed daughter who looked after my home and her three fatherless children was £125. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Is the honorable senator proposing to connect his remarks with the bill? 
Yes. They are in relation to the provision in the bill that deals with boycotting and calling a man a " scab." The trouble about the controversy that has arisen over the bill is that although we live in an age when every man should be able to think and act for himself, there are many people who do not think for themselves. They prefer to let others think for them. Some people who are opposed to the bill have said, "Burn it," but in my opinion the measure will prove to be the salvation of the workers of Australia if only they are willing to  have confidence in it. Any legislation we pass loses its value immediately we, who are the workers, lose our confidence in it. What is the value of a law if we think we can break it when we choose? It is often said of a man that his word is his bond. We cannot say that of men in the Labour party today. There is no honour among them. They talk about class- consciousness, but they never talk about a Commonwealth consciousness. They take all they can get out of the State without giving anything in return. 
I feel that I am justified in supporting the bill. Nothing hurt me more than when I stood in the Trades Hall and was shown the open door and told to get out. After all my honest labour, after filling many offices in the movement, and working for it in season and out of season, it hurt me to be toldto get out by a lot of men who were not fit to sit in judgment on one who had been all his life in the movement. Afterwards everywhere I went looking for work, the reply I got was, I am very sorry, but if you come here we shall have to get out." I was up against that for five years, until eventually I was chosen to represent the State of South Australia in this Senate. Was there anything manly about the attitude of the Labour party to me ? Was it even ordinary common sense ? No, I was dealing with men who had lost their moral conscience and all sense of honour. One man met me in the street and asked me what I was doing to get a living. I told him I was collecting. His reply was, " That's good enough. We'll starve you into the poorhouse." In this present-day civilization is a man to be told that he must starve because he will not bend the knee to others? I have never asked any man to bend the knee to me, and I shall never bend my knee to others. 
There are men in the Labour party who would victimize their own mothers. Capital and labour must walk together. I have nothing against honest Labour men. I have for them the same kindly feeling that I had for them years ago, but I have no such feeling for the man who is going through Australia crying "Down with capitalism." Capitalism is here, and will stay; Labour is here and will stay; trade unionism is here, and I do not know any one who wants to see it depart. It is a healthy body to have in the community so long as it does not prostitute the principles on which it was built up in the first place. 
The bill we have before us can be made agood measure. If it does not become a good measure the workers of Australia will be responsible. No law, social or economic, can be more powerful than we make it; but Labour must be honest. The conference that  Mr. Bruce  tried to convene would undoubtedly have been a. blessing if it had met. Both sides could have discussed the whole question of arbitration; but, unfortunately, Labour said, " We won't attend it. It is a, Bruce stunt," and so on. Where is there a more honest man than Mr; Bruce? I hold no brief for him. We do not wash in the same basin ; but as a Prime Minister he is a credit and honour to the Commonwealth. He puts, forth his principles. without fear of contradiction. Then take the Attorney-General. The first time I saw him I thought he would make a fine minister. He would have been a credit to the pulpit. With his genial manner, and his fine analytical mind, it seemed to me that he was a man who could unfold matters plainly. I heard him move the second reading of this bill in another place.  His  speech was free from nasty things. He is a man of lofty mind, and is good natured. I thought that these two men would have helped to restore the lost confidence between capital and labour. What interpretation can we place on the refusal of Labour to attend that conference than that Labour did not want to confer with capital on the matter of amending the arbitration law? The fundamental principle of this bill is to restore the confidence between capital and labour which has been lost. Some one has placed in my hand a small pamphlet about a communistic school. I do not trouble very much about communists. Like  Senator Barnes,  I think the sooner that crowd gets away from Australia the better. I am sure they will never be able to bring about a revolution here. The moral conscience and intellectual force of the working man in Australia will overcome all the wicked and destructive ideals of the bolshevik element in our community. We have some of them in South Australia and should be glad to send them to Sydney. 
Our primary producers are seriously affected by the " hold up " of shipping. Australia is a wonderful country with great possibilities; but capital is needed if its resources are to be fully developed and its population increased. Some people say that Australia does not need a greater population, but they are wrong. I do not say that merely to increase our population we should allow anybody who desires to enter this country to do so. I am a firm believer in the white Australia policy. I believe that in the British Empire there are sufficient people to .populate Australia. I do not desire that our moral and material standards should be lowered. On the contrary, I desire that Australian citizenship shall reach an even higher level than at present. We should not allow any admixture of the races which would result in a lowering of our standards. This bill will help to make Australia a better place in which to live. If a secret ballot of Australian unionists were taken tomorrow, I believe that 80 per cent, of them would vote for this measure. Ninety per cent, of the members of the Labour party in another place, although they opposed the bill, hoped in their hearts that it would become law. The great majority of trade unionists are behind this legislation. Its only opponents are trade union leaders who are in receipt of salaries of £8, £9. or £10 per week, together with a motor car for their use. At one time when there was a strike at Broken Hill I was asked how long I thought it would last. I replied that it would continue so long as Tom Mann was paid £9 per week to run it. 
In the interests of the unions themselves, their books should be audited by outside auditors. I do not say that trade union officials are dishonest, but sometimes they make mistakes. We should make it difficult for them to bring disgrace upon their wives and families. The secretary of one trade union in South Australia absconded with £140 of the union's funds. When I was informed of the name of his successor I predicted that he would have all that remained of those funds. My prediction was fulfilled, because he absconded recently with £40 belonging to1 the union. In the face of such facts, why dp honorable senators say that a bill to discipline trade union officials is not necessary? The manhood of Australia is in need of strong discipline.  Senator Barnes  allows no one to usurp his position as  president  of the Australian Workers Union. By his action he has many times saved his union from destruction. With a weaker man in the position one does not know what might have happened. Unfortunately, there are many of the black coat, straw halt, striped neck tie, sharp toe boot brigade, men who have never done an honest day's work in their lives, connected with the Trades Hall. I believe that this bill will help the unions to reconstruct the social and industrial life of the people of Australia, and assist men to become better citizens. 
.- I listened with a great deal of interest to the speech of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate when introducing this bill. He delivered a well prepared attack on present-day unionism. Had I not been a new senator who might have been regarded as a somewhat forward individual, I should have interjected while he was speaking to ask him. to tell us something about the bill itself. The right honorable gentleman's speech and the speeches of other honorable senators opposite appear to me to be mere electioneering addresses rather than remarks associated with this measure. That the Government is contemplating another attempt to carry the country with the battle cry " Wipe out the agitators " is very disconcerting to me. Those tactics succeeded at the last election. The electors believed that certain men who were said to be a menace to the country would be transported from Australia before the next election. But two years have passed and no one has yet been transported. Now we have another bill containing threats and penalties against the organized workers. The framers of the Constitution provided that there should be no discrimination between States. Had they suspected that the day would come when a party in office would discriminate between individuals they would have safeguarded that position also. But such a thing was unthinkable 30 years ago. At that time it was not thought possible that the Parliament of the Commonwealth would enact legislation providing different punishments for the same offence according to the social position of the offender. I address myself to this measure as one who believes in Australia. I am not one of those who have been disappointed with the results of arbitration. I measure the value of arbitration, not by its visible accomplishments, but by what it has prevented. 

 Senator Pearce quoted from an article by ex-Senator Rae, a man for whose integrity, truthfulness and ability we all have the highest opinion, whatever our political views may be. The right honorable gentleman endeavoured to show that because ex-Senator Rae did not believe in arbitration, the whole 
Labour movement did not believe in it. I thank  Senator Sir George  Pearce for having brought before us ex-Senator Rae's article entitled "The curse of compulsory arbitration." That article sets out the views not of organized labour but of Arthur Rae regarding arbitration. If his views are to be, regarded as those of organized labour I should be justified in associating the Nationalist party with the views expressed recently by the right honorable William Morris Hughes regarding Italian migration. 
If  Senator Sir George  Pearce knew the men from whom those organizations had to select their candidates he would agree that exSenator Rae was the most able man they could secure. 
The bill before us provides penalties for a lockout. Seeing that I am at present suffering from a lockout, I can only express the hope that those penalties will be increased. Ex-Senator Rae's article is a clear exposition of the views of a man who believes that arbitration has failed. Just as earnestly I believe that arbitration has been a wonderful success. My views and those of exSenator Rae are entirely different. He believes that the labour organizations should always be fighting, Throughout my political life, I have worked not so much for the fight as for the victory. I do not want to see Labour always fighting, I want to see it going forward step by step, and by sane and constitutional methods obtaining what it can never obtain by direct action. I make the following quotation from the article by exSenator Rae: - 
There can be no question that at the outset organized labour expected great results from arbitration enforced by law, and that although frequently disappointed, yet for many years it was believed that the system was sound in principle and that amendments in the law would eventually remedy all defects and make the system a perfect means for the accomplishment of Labour's ends. 
It is true that that was the anticipation of labour. If I desired to see how far we had gone towards the attainment of that end I should refer  to the Australian Workers' Union of which I have been a member since 1894. When the legislature prevented members of Parliament from being members of that union,- it appointed me an agent so that I could continue membership of it. Since arbitration became the law of this country that union has consistently advocated arbitration, and excepting where State and Federal awards have conflicted, there has been no trouble in the wool industry. Both the pastoralists and the men engaged in that industry have benefited by arbitration. Our judges will have to be careful that that great organization whose ramifications extend throughout the country is not led to believe that the benefits which have accrued to them by their loyalty to arbitration are to be taken from them because of decisions given in favour of the employing class. Let me direct the attention, of honorable senators to one of the conditions in a recent award which, in my judgment, savors distinctly of unfairness. I may say, in passing, that the time of Parliament and the Government might better be employed in endeavouring to inspire a feeling of confidence between employer and employees rather than in creating a suspicion in the minds of one section of the community that it is not getting a fair deal. The award to which I allude relates to the liability of employers, and it contains the following provision : - 
A station hand shall be entitled to sue by virtue of this award for only such of the benefits thereof as have accrued to him in respect of work done after he shall have notified his employer in writing that he is a member of the union, provided, notwithstanding, that nothing in this clause shall affect any prosecution for breach of this award. 
If honorable senators ask me what is wrong with this, my answer is that in not a few instances, more trouble is caused over imaginary than real grievances. If I, as a member of the Australian Workers' Union, notified my employer that I was a member of that organization and if he then informed me that he did not require my services, I should feel that I had a grievance against him. My experience, in this matter extends over many years. I can say without fear of contradiction that nothing shakes the confidence of men in arbitration systems so much as awards such as the one I have referred to. 
I speak to-night because those who are identified with the militant section of the Labour party - they are pleased to call themselves the advanced section- - take the view that, in recent years, Labour has stood still while all the rest of the world has moved forward. Ex-Senator Bae belongs to this advanced section. All I can say of that section is that it has travelled so fast that I have failed to keep up with it. The foreword of the  Pan Pacific Worker  states its policy to be- 
To fight against  and  remove all racial and national barriers and prejudices which still divide the exploited classes and oppressed people to the advantage of the capitalists and oppressors. 
I take it from that that the object is to wipe out altogether our White Australia policy which, as we understand it, is one of the national barriers mentioned. I think it is more than a coincidence that the pamphlet in question was published on the 2nd of April last. I was in the country at the time and paid little attention to the march of political events. But now that I have read the pamphlet and understand what is the objective of this advanced section, I realize that these advanced Labour men are taking up the fight where the older men have left it. It may also be useful to remember that within a day or two of the publication of this pamphlet, William Morris Hughes made his remarkable pronouncement concerning the White Australia policy at a conference of the Nationalist party. 
I have no desire to speak at great length to-night, but I should like to make it clear that ex-Senator Bae's views on arbitration are by no means endorsed by the rest of the workers of Australia. Speaking generally, the workers have benefited considerably from arbitration. Many years ago, when I was acting as organizer for the Australian Workers Union, my instructions were to endeavour to persuade the employers to pay the workers 6s. a day. I found that they were not at all enthusiastic about that proposal, nor was it easy to persuade the station hands to hold out for that amount. One employer informed me that he had never yet paid his men 6s. a day, and he was not going to make a start. At that time shearers were asking £1 a hundred. One employer informed me that since 1894 he had not paid more than 15s. a hundred, and did not propose to increase the rate merely hecause there was a scarcity of labour through a number of backcountry men going to the Boer War. I then told him that I had looked over his ration list, and noticed that sheep were being charged at 8s. a head, whereas formerly the men were charged only 4s., and I said to him, "I suppose that as there is a scarcity of sheep you are charging more. As there is now a scarcity of men we propose to charge more for their labour." A few years later the Arbitration Act came into operation, and placed the position of trade unionists on a much better footing. The working classes have benefited appreciably from arbitration; but I warn the Government against the danger of passing unjust measures such as this. If there is one thing more than another which governments should avoid, it is that of appearing to take sides in industrial disputes. 
This bill contains many glaring anomalies. There is, for example, the provision imposing a penalty of £20 on an ordinary person for using abusive language, and a penalty of £100 on a person belonging to a trade union. Where is the sense of fair play in that? The law should bear evenly upon every person in the community. I believe thai this bill contains many unfair provisions. I intend, therefore, to submit a number of amendments at the committee stage. We are advised to trust the Government. I ask honorable senators not to travel side by side with the extremists who go so fast that the rest of us appear to be standing still ; not to link themselves with the militant section of the community, but to stand for parliamentary action and proper constitutional means. As one who fought for arbitration for many years, and took a prominent part in many struggles, I can say, in the words of the poet that, we have taught these men the worthier cause, and brought the freeman's arm to aid the freeman's laws. We have gained more by constitutional means during the last 25 years than militancy has gained during a century in other countries. 
What is the danger to Australia at the present moment? The danger, as I have said, is that governments may appeal to the country on issues that stir the passions of the people, and prevent them from exercising a calm and deliberate judgment on questions that may be brought before them. In this way governments may improperly secure a continuance of office. I realize that governments and leaders of parties are justified in taking full advantage of their opponents; but they are not justified in deliberately preparing measures calculated to irritate one section of the community. My objection to this bill is that it will cause a great deal of irritation to one section. I read the other day the report of a speech delivered by the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce).  In the course of his remarks he referred to certain provisions of the bill and mentioned that the penalties against members of trade unions for breaches of the act were being reduced from £1,000 to £50. But I have read the bill, and I find that there is an extraordinary discrepancy in the penalties imposed by it on individuals. For example, a unionist who goes on strike may be fined £50. But if 1,000 men take part in a strike they may each be fined £50 so the total fines will be £50,000. On the other hand, if an employer locks out 1,000 men the. fine imposed upon him or his .organization will be only £1,000. When the bill is in committee I propose to move an amendment, the effect of which will be to impose on an employer a fine of £50 for every man locked out. The amendment will, in my opinion, equalize the punishment. It is absurd to suggest that a trade unionist could be fined £1,000 as provided in the act. That penalty was never enforced. In all our legislation the penalties imposed for breaches of the law should be commensurate with the offence committed. Does any one argue that it is fair to fine a member of a trade union £50 and an ordinary individual only £20 for the use of abusive language in the heat of passion - at a time when men may honestly believe that they are fighting for their existence, their homes and their children? I frequently use heated language because of the heights of anger to which I am roused over what some honorable senators opposite may  regard as trivial matters. If I plead guilty of the offence, how much more reason is there for forgiveness of a trade unionist who uses abusive language in moments of anger, when he believes that the welfare of those who are dear to him is at stake. There is no reason why members of trade unions should be singled out for these heavy penalties. 
I am satisfied that when the history of the industrial movement in Australia comes to be written, the brightest pages in it will be those devoted to the work done by the pioneers, who sacrificed so much to make the conditions of their fellow men better. I am not raging against the employers because, as I read history, the reason why our industrial progress has not been greater is that the workers themselves have been so contented. I invite honorable senators to 
Study the industrial history of Great Britain during the eighteenth century, which marked the birth of trade unionism in the mother country. What were the conditions obtaining at that time? History tells us that children, only nine years of age, were employed in the coal mines, and that when Parliament passed a law raising the age to eleven years, mine owners clamoured that their industry would be ruined because they would not be permitted to employ the younger children. Among the witnesses who gave evidence before that famous select committee which investigated the conditions was the overlooker, whose duties, I presume, would be similar to those that are performed to-day by an overseer. He said that, after having worked for  12, 14  and  16  hours a day, little children had to be whipped, and sometimes they had to have water thrown over them, tq keep them awake, so that they could do their work. I am not altogether condemning the employers. In many cases the workmen themselves made their children, work just as long hours. They had to do it to obtain from production sufficient to enable them to exist. We have never had those harsh conditions in this country. We have never been ground down to that level. Surely we can tolerate little pinpricks and struggles without wishing to magnify them, and to say that they will bring about the ruin of industry! 
I was a little disconcerted at the possibility of' an early election, when I heard  Senator Duncan  make such a wellbalanced speech. It certainly possessed the quality of sensibility, and had been well thought out. He did not altogether lose touch with his old friends while he attempted to keep in the good graces of his newly acquired friends. He made the usual reference to the loss occasioned to industry by men going out on strike. While the team of English cricketers is in Australia I shall be prepared to sit beside him and try to tally up each day the amount that is lost to production as a result of the idleness of the thousands of people who will leave their work to watch the games in which it engages. No complaint will be made in Parliament about such a loss .of time. I am a good enough sport to say that there is no loss; that these national games, which teach us to be sports and to take a beating if need be, are well worth a place in any schemeof education in a British community. But what is the use of carping at the few pounds which industry loses because men go on strike to better their conditions? I do not want to see strikes resorted to for that purpose. I believe that they are always a failure. That is why I pin my faith to arbitration. The empty stomach cannot fight the full purse.  The employer  has only to sit still and forego his profits for a month or two, until the unfortunate worker is starved into subjection, and is forced to return to conditions that may be worse than those which he left. . 
I am of an optimistic, hopeful nature. I believe that arbitration 'has done an immense amount of good for the working classes of this community, and a great deal more for the employing classes. They were afraid of the effect pf higher wages and shorter hours. It is one of my delights to study the balancesheets of the big companies in this country, and note the profits which they make year after year. I do not say that every industry is profitable; but if any honorable senator will read the financial columns of his morning newspaper he will gain some idea of the profits that are being made. The nominal value of the shares of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company is  £20,  but their selling value at the present time is  £60.  They must be  doing fairly well, or their shares would not he quoted at that figure. Their value has doubled since the Labour party was instrumental in having wages increased and hours shortened. That great employer of labour in America, Henry Ford, set an example to the whole world, and showed that production was not made more profitable by maintaining a low standard of wages. He raised the wages of his workmen from $2.40 to $5 a day, in one act. 
He did that against the advice of his directors, who said that he would make the concern bankrupt. It has always been argued that industry will fail because of the great demands that are made by labour upon it. Every honorable senator knows that machines have been invented which make it possible to produce more in a day than can be produced by manual labour in a month. But the workers get no more; they receive only enough to live on. Let me again quote from the remarks of ex-Senator Rae. Referring to a policy of stagnation, he says - 
Another, and perhaps the most disastrous effect of the arbitration system is that it has a direct tendency to keep the working class standing still while the rest of the universe is constantly progressing or, at any rate, constantly changi ug. Awards are based on the basie wage though they ure varied according to the degree of skill required, exceptional danger, or the inconveniences or  unhealthiness  of the surroundings. But no matter what these marginal differences may be, the basic principle is that the wage awarded shall keep the worker and his family " in frugal comfort " and permit them a few of the cheaper forms of pleasure, in return for which he must render humble obedience to the court, never go on strike, and must hold the law in the deepest veneration. Also, when any concession is withdrawn or his wages reduced, lie must realize that what the law has given the law can take away and blessed is the name of the law. 
There is a great deal of food for thought in statements of that character. ExSenator Rae has expressed the view not of the Labour party in New South Wales, but of a keen thinker, and one who can express his thoughts clearly Some enthusiasts who prefer more substantial results may hold different opinions. He also says - 
But supposing everything is worked as fairly as the system permits, even then it  means that the workers as a class will never be any better or any worse off than their first award made them, because while nominal wages may rise or fall their purchasing power, which constitutes real wages, remains approximately the same. Now, when any legal system condemns a huge majority of the people to a condition of stagnation and, moreover, expects them under severe penalties to accept that position without daring to make any effective protest, what must be the consequence? Clearly the choice can only lie between rebellion or slavery and it depends entirely on the courage and mental make-up of the workers which position they will take up. 
Some honorable senators may seize upon the reference to " rebellion or slavery " and say that he is in favour of a rebellion. He wants nothing of the kind, and neither do we. But I do not want the laws of this country to contain any provision that appears so unfair that it may be used as an argument to induce any person, either unionist or nonunionist, to range himself on the side of rebellion and against constitutionalism. We must all strive to avoid that. We have to realize that a unionist i3 not a criminal, and we must not by legislation seek to make him one. If a man can be punished for ceasing work, can it be said that he is other than a slave? Do honorable senators opposite wish to adopt the role of a Simon Legree? If they saw the slave boss's whip cutting into the backs of coloured labourers would not their blood rise against such a degradation being placed upon mankind? It is just as cruel to impose penalties upon men who earnestly believe that they are struggling for better conditions. I am dreading the effect of this legislation. It must be remembered that speeches which are favorable to it will rarely reach the ears of the workers. They will have only the version of those who wish to make them believe that the quick road to superior conditions is direct action. In one place this measure is described as the " Bruce Coercion Bill ", and in another place as the " Australian Blackleg's Charter". This is the language in which it is summed up : - 
Comment on this is unnecessary. To sum up the Bruce Coercion Bill in plain English, as we have issued in pamphlet form, it means - 
Taking away from the trade unions the elementary right to strike. 
Forcing men and women to work on the bosses' terms. 
Disbanding the unionsand handing over their fluids and property to groups of scabs. 
Controlling the internal affairs ofthe trade unions in the interests of the employers. 
Protecting and fostering the growth of scabs and re- actionary trade union officers within the unions, who will sell the workers into thehands of the employers. 
Breaking the trade unions financially. 
Preventing the trade unions, through the boycott or other means, from using any economic weapon against their enemies. 
Paving the way to a general offensive by the employers against the wages and hours of the workers. 
Over-riding and nullifying any awards favorable to the workers which have been introduced by the various State Labour Governments and State courts. 
Generally breaking up the organization of the trade unions in order to make the workers helpless against the attacks which the employers are preparing against the existing standard of living of the workers of Australia. 
I do not say that that is a perfectly straight statement in regard to the bill; but I feel that it will be better for this Government, for this Parliament, and for the people of Australia, if this attempt to bring the unions into subjection by the use of the " big stick " is not persisted in. It must be remembered that the democracy of Australia have had the benefits of education, and are able to think and write. I say candidly that you can stamp out a small industrial trouble by the use of force and coercion, but the moment it becomes so geat that the men believe that the fight is against unionism the drastic type of legislation is the worst that could be placed on the statutebook. The preservation of law and order is dependent upon the power of the Government, backed up by public opinion, not upon military organization or police forces. Drastic penalties and harsh conditions cannot be enforced in opposition to the wish of a majority of the people. Whenever a wave of crime passes over this country, men who have never thought out social problems write to the newspapers urging that it be stamped out by the imposition of heavy penalties, and complaining that the magistrates and judges are too lenient. The stamping out of crime is a slow process and must be brought about by the education of the human mind, so that it will turn from brute force to reason. In the ranks of the trade unions at the present time there is the dread that the Government is preparing the way for an opportunity to crush unionism. The penalties provided in this measure are unusually severe, and those to be imposed upon trade unionists are much heavier than the penalties which the employers are ever likely to be called upon to pay. There should not be any discrimination in matters of this kind. During the Great War trade unionists, militants, and representatives of all sections of the community were banded together in a great endeavour. All sections of the community were represented. There was no such discrimination then. We always seem to be faced with the problem of a conflict between one section, which is said to be causing industrial trouble, and another that is always frantically endeavouring to preserve what they term law and order. We are the most law-abiding community on the face of the earth. Like  Mr. Rae,  I sometimes think that we are too peace-loving, and allow our freedom and liberty to be filched from us. Clause 52 provides that for certain offences, such as the use of insulting language, the penalty shall be £20, or in the case of an officer of a registered organization, £100. 
I am quoting from the bill circulated for the information, of honorable senators, and if it is not the same as other honorable senators have in their possession it is not my fault. The penalties provided are as I have stated. If the Government has changed its mind, the measure I have before me is the one which has been brought before trade-union organizations with the object, shall I say, of stirring them up. On the first page of this measure I read, " This, bill originated in the House of Representatives, and having this day passed, is now ready for presentation to the Senate for its concurrence." It cannot be said that I am not quoting from the right bill. The proposed sub-section from which I am quoting is on page 20, at the bottom of which penalties of the amount I have Stated are provided. Why should there be any discrimination between members of unions and its officers? As the framers of our Constitution provided that there should be no discrimination between the States, so we also should provide that  there shall be no discrimination between Australian citizens in the matter of penalties. 
In another portion of the bill it is provided that ten members of an organization may demand a secret ballot of the whole organization, but I venture to say that any one who knows trade unionists will admit that such a provision is quite unworkable. When the Boer War was threatening, that much quoted humourist Dooley said' that if he were Kruger he would give the  Uitlanders  a vote; but would reserve to himself the right to count the votes! If a secret ballot is to enable the individual members of an organization to express their opinions, what is likely to happen? I am not suggesting that the ballot will be "crook" or that the counting will be inaccurate ; but they will take a legitimate ballot and will win every time. During the years I have been connected with industrialism in New South Wales I have found, with few exceptions, the men with whom I have been associated always earnest and honest. It may be possible, in some instances, to . single out one or two whose integrity has not been up to the usual standard of unionists, but that can also be said of some who are found amongst the employing class. There are Black sheep in every flock. The Government would never suggest that the affairs of friendly societies should be controlled by legislation of this nature. It will be said of course that there are certain members of the community whose actions are disturbing our commercial activities, and  cousing  industrial strife, but during the 23 years I have been associated with trade unionism, I have never known men to cease work unless they have had a legitimate grievance. I am not advocating strikes, and if I were a member of the Marine Cooks Union I should be willing to suffer even a little longer and have my grievances adjusted by constitutional methods rather than resort to direct action. In some instances, however, men are driven to. take drastic action. When travelling on a passenger steamer some time ago, I left a table in the . saloon which was spread with all the luxuries one could desire, and saw when going to my cabin the stewards, who had been working sometimes all day and long into the night, sitting along the alley way eating their food from their hands. 
I am speaking of what I saw ten or fifteen years ago on a big liner; but since then I know there has been great changes on our coastal ships. But what right have ten members of a union consisting of perhaps thousands of men to claim a secret ballot? Ten members of this chamber cannot outvote the other 26. Why should ten members of a union direct a course of action to which perhaps ' thousands are opposed? Unionists will always see that there is fair play. 
Let us consider the provisions of this measure very closely to see if it cannot be improved in committee. We should see that every law which passes through this Senate bear on its pages the  imprimatur  of fair play. I should like the Government even at this stage to withdraw the bill just as it is likely to withdraw the Empire Exhibition Bill which was strongly opposed in another place. Some time ago, Parliament passed a Crimes Bill under which it proposed to deport Walsh and Johnson; but what happened? The Government found that it had not the power it thought it possessed. The Government is always professing a desire to secure industrial peace, but has now submitted a measure that will stink in the nostrils of decent men. An attempt is being made to treat the workers of Australia as criminals. Has the Government the right to propose the unnecessarily heavy penalties which are provided in this measure, merely because a few men are fighting for better conditions? Has the Government any right to send men to gaol for refusing to work? Is that an offence? One of the greatest rights which we, as British people, enjoy is 'that of free speech. Are we now to be deprived of that right? Under the common law of England British people have the right of free speech; but under this measure the exercise of that right is to be made a criminal offence. 
I intend to oppose this bill to the utmost of my ability, because the penalties proposed are harsh, and because it will be the means of causing more industrial strife than there is in Australia to-day. It is an attempt tq destroy the spirit which has made Great Britain the country she is to-day, and which has given her the strength which she possesses. I do not wish a state of industrial unrest to prevail; but I should not like to see the representatives of the States in this chamber following a false trail that will not lead them anywhere. I am prepared to speak openly oh the public platform and suffer, if necessary - as thousands of other men have suffered for asserting their rights - in an endeavour to secure to those who come after me the rights which they should enjoy. It is true, as  Senator Duncan  said, that we could not achieve much by the exercise of force ; a case that rested upon force alone would be doomed to failure. We should proceed cautiously with the consideration of this measure, and not endeavour to rush it hurriedly through its committee stages. If men. have a legitimate grievance they will strike, and we cannot stop them. I suppose if a man leaves his work he will be accused of striking. I have spoken somewhat strongly, because I think this measure is one of the worst and most irritating that has ever been submitted to this Parliament. I ask, even at this late hour, if the Government will not reconsider its decision, withdraw the bill, and let us see if we cannot obtain, by means of conciliation, the objective we all seek. Let us try to restore confidence between those who toil and those who employ. The restoration is not only possible; it has been secured in a great many cases, notwithstanding the efforts of those extremist militants who are advancing so rapidly that old fogies like myself get out of breath trying to keep pace with them. But I cannot support a bill of this nature, that will lead us nowhere unless it be into paths of danger. 
.-H I congratulate  Senator Gardiner  on his maiden effort. Although he has been absent from the chamber for about two years, he has evidently lost none of his cleverness in debate. He told us that he had listened very attentively to the speeches made on the bill, and had heard very little about the contents of the measure. I listened very attentively to the honorable senator's speech, and I do not think he referred to the bill for more than a couple of minutes; when he did attempt to quote a provision in it he left out its most salient features.  Having heard the honorable senator I am satisfied he knows nothing about the bill. In the early portion of his speech he said that because he was a strong believer in conciliation and arbitration he was out of step with the militant section of his party. If he had read the measure he would know that it is mainly designed to bring about conciliation where conciliation does not apply at the present time, and to make arbitration easier instead of more difficult. He referred to what he called the "bad old days." He spoke of employers in countries where they have black slaves, and of how men winced at the thought of the backs of these men being laid open with the slave drivers' lash. He referred to the child labour of Great Britain a hundred years ago. Is there any honorable member of this Senate who stands for that sort of thing, or desires to do anything to injure trade unionism? Is there any honorable senator who believes that this bill will do anything to injure trade unionism? As a matter of fact it has been designed to make trade unionism better in Australia and to improve the lot of trade unionists. The honorable senator at the conclusion of his remarks said, "Let us have conciliation." If he had read the bill he would have seen that it contains provisions for the extension of the principle of conciliation. As an exMinister of the Crown and as a man who has been in political life for many years he must know that one of the greatest disadvantages of- the Federal Arbitration Court is that owing to the limitations of the Federal Constitution it is practically powerless to function until a dispute comes into existence. Everything that could be done to make the power of the court more elastic has been done by the present Government.. During its term of office it has amended the law to enable the court to function more speedily and render it more accessible to the workers. One would think from the remarks of honorable .senators opposite than those supporting the Government contemplated, by means of this bill, a concerted attack upon trade unionists. If we wanted to commit political suicide wo might do that. Thousands and thousands of good trade unionists in Australia vote for the Nationalist party. Probably more of them vote for it than for the Labour party. They realize that they can get more generous treatment for trade unions from the Nationalist party than they are likely to get through the tubthumping tactics of honorable senators opposite. The loud-mouthed vapourings  that achieve no practical result, have kept honorable senators of the Labour party in opposition, and are likely to keep them there for many years to come.  Senator Gardiner  protested against the penalties provided in this act. When  Senator Gardiner  was a member of a Labour government, the Federal Arbitration Act, then on the statute-book of Australia, contained most of the penalties which the honorable senator describes as excessive, and which he claims have been provided for by the present Government to oppress and crush trade unionists in this country. He knows that most of them are in the original act, but he obviously chose to quote them to-night for political party purposes. I do not know that he took any action to have them removed when he was a Minister. I do not know that he ever raised any strong objection to them. In the course of his speech to-night he told us that he believed in the principle of conciliation and arbitration ; that he believed in the handshake rather than the fight. Every honorable senator who is supporting the bill is doing so because he thinks the measure will encourage industrial peace. The honorable senator referred to the men who carried the burden of Labour in the early days. He will find those men sitting on the Ministerial side of the chamber to-day. He will_find that some of them are members of the present Government. 
Honorable senator after honorable senator opposite has claimed that practically the whole of the industrial legislation on the various statute-books of Australia has been passed as the result of the efforts of the Labour party. Since I have been a member of this Parliament, and in my experience in the State of Queensland, I have seen a tremendous amount of beneficial industrial legislation placed on the statute-book by governments strongly opposed to the Labour party.  Senator Gardiner  spoke of the awful conditions which apply on vessels, and mentioned that when he was travelling in luxury to Great Britain, he saw stewards eating their meals out of their hands in alleyways. He said afterwards he was talking of British ships over which the Australian Government has no control. I remind him that it was a Nationalist government that brought into force the Commonwealth Navigation Act which has given the seamen, stewards, and others who work on ships trading on the Australian coast, better conditions and' wages than are enjoyed by workers on the vessels of any other country. 
It was a Nationalist government that brought the act into force by proclamation. Labour, when in .power, took no steps to have the act proclaimed. But the point I seek to make is that the people who have benefited by the proclamation of the Navigation Act have yet to show that they are deserving of the benefits it has conferred upon them. The privileges they enjoy are abused as no other privileges have been abused by any set of workers. The bulk of the trouble occasioned on our coast is brought about by men who are enjoying those privileges. 

 Senator Needham, Senator Gardiner, and  Senator Barnes  have referred to the secret ballot provisions of the bill.  Senator Pearce  has shown the results that have followed the holding of secret ballots. Who is holding up our shipping industry to-day? The smallest section of men who work on our ships. So exasperated has become the .Brisbane branch of the Marine Cooks' Union, that is has declared that it will have nothing more to do with the present dispute. For the last three years it has never had any voice in the affairs of the union, and its members are prepared to man the ships no matter what decision is arrived at in the other States. It is also prepared to send its members to other parts of Australia. "What would have been the result if a secret ballot had been held among the members of the cooks' union? They would not have been on strike to-day. Those honorable senators who travel between the mainland and Tasmania or go by sea as they frequently do to "Western Australia and Queensland, converse freely with the men on the ships, mid discuss industrial affairs with them. Each man they talk with says that, on every occasion he is pulled out of his ship to go on strike, the orders are given not by the men who go to sea, but by the men who are on shore. It is not the man who is on what is termed a "happy ship " and is satisfied with the conditions under which he is working, who willingly goes on strike. He has no voice in the matter. When a ship arrives in port, a representative of the union comes on board and tells him that there is a strike in progress. He must get out or face the consequences. In regard to the present trouble, we know  that the stewards and seamen have no sympathy with the cooks. So exasperated are they at the continuous trouble that is brought about by a few individuals, that they are taking steps to protect their own interests. Provision is made in-this bill to protect members of organizations such as the Seamen's Union. No one who is acquainted with the actions of the Seamen's Union during recent years will deny that its members need some protection. Five or six years ago that union was one of the strongest financially in Australia; to-day, instead of having .£30,000 in the bank, it would experience difficulty in finding 30,000 pence. Because Messrs. Walsh and Johnson have had a squabble as to who should be the secretary or the  president  of the unions, its funds have been dissipated. The members of the union do not know where they stand.  Senator Gardiner  said that if legislation of this nature were proposed in connexion with friendly societies there would be an uproar throughout the country. I remind him that legislation to protect the accounts of friendly societies has been in operation for many years. That protection which is afforded to other sections of the community should be' afforded to the trade unionists of this country. The laws of the States and the Commonwealth relating to limited liability companies give protection to their shareholders. It is the duty of the Government to protect every section of the community. 
Prom the remarks of  Senator Gardiner  one would almost be led to believe that the attitude of the Nationalist party towards trade unions and arbitration was one of hostility ; yet that party has done more to make arbitration workable than any other party has done. During my eleven years as a member of the Senate many amendments have been brought forward by Nationalist governments to make the Arbitration Court more accessible. Some time ago  Senator Barnes  pointed out that a great deal of dissatisfaction existed- because of the congestion in the Arbitration Court, largely on account of the large number of plaints lodged by public servants. In consequence of those complaints the Government appointed a Public Service Arbitrator to deal with conditions in the Public Service. This relieved the congestion existing in the court, as a large number of the plaints were lodged by Commonwealth Public Servants. Moreover, the Government has appointed a number of additional judges in order to expedite the hearing of plaints. Now it proposes to go a step further. It purposes extending the facilities for settling disputes by conciliation.  Senator Barnes  will agree that  Mr. Stewart,  the Conciliation Commissioner, has done much to bring the parties to disputes together without recourse to law. Yet we hear from honorable senators opposite nothing but a tirade of abuse of the Government for daring to introduce this bill. 
This measure is condemned because of the alleged severity of one penalty, Honorable senators would have us believe that the Government is desirous of getting back to the conditions which existed many years ago, whereas the bill has been introduced in an effort to bring about industrial peace. Unfortunately, there are persons in. the community who do not desire industrial peace. When the Prime Minister desired to arrange a conference to promote industrial peace, those persons who previously were loudest in their protestations in favour of industrial peace refused to attend it. 
That is because they thrive on industrial turmoil. The great organization of which  Senator Barnes  is  president,  knowing that to be so, refuses to affiliate with the Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales, and with other industrial bodies. The Australian Workers Union, whose members may be found throughout Australia and whose assets are valued at many hundreds  of thousands of pounds, prefers to play a lone hand and to have no association with  Mr. "  Jock " Garden. 

 Senator Gardiner referred to the penalties which the bill imposes on individuals who declare things and persons "black." During recent years we have had many pitiable exhibitions of men who have been prevented from working by the action of their fellow unionists. During the recent railway strike and the South Johnstone disturbance in Queensland, we had the spectacle of one section of a union declaring " black " another section of the same union. 
Actions of that nature will do more to harm genuine trade unionism than will any industrial legislation introduced by the present Government, which has always shown its willingness to assist the workers to gain their legitimate desires. Honorable senators opposite say that they believe in arbitration. But they cannot have both arbitration and the right to strike. When an industrial dispute was imminent in Queensland some time ago a ballot of members was taken to decide whether the union would abide by the award of the court in the event of it not giving them what they wanted. If the unions are to have the benefit of arbitration they must be prepared to accept the awards of the Arbitration Court. Unfortunately, certain sections of the community are in favour of arbitration only when it suits them. If an award of the court does not coincide with their desires, they claim the right to strike. The Nationalist party is prepared to make every effort to encourage conciliation and arbitration. 
Honorable senators opposed to the bill would have us believe that every social and industrial reform has emanated from Labour governments, and that other governments have done their utmost to crush the workers and destroy trade unionism. At a recent by-election in Queensland the Labour candidates took up the same attitude. They claimed that the Labour party had been responsible for all the recent social reforms. They stated that Labour had given the people industrial arbitration, notwithstanding the fact that Labour did not come into power until 1915. Both the Wages Board Act of 1908 and the Industrial Peace Act of 1912 were introduced by Liberal Governments. They claimed, also, that Labour was responsible for the Workers' Compensation Acts of 1905 and 1909, whereas those measures were passed by Liberal Governments, Labour not coming into power until many years afterwards. They claimed, further, that the Labour party had, by price fixing legislation, given the people protection from profiteering. Actually that legislation, the Control of  Trades  Act, was passed by the Liberal Government in 1914, and although a Labour Government was in power for some years afterwards, it did not put the act into operation. They further claimed credit for educational reforms, the passing of the Apprenticeship Act, the appointment of Workers' Dwelling Boards, and many other useful legislative reforms, all of which were introduced before the Labour party was in power in Queensland. 
I do not wish to dwell upon this matter further, except to say that the object of the bill is to give members of trade unions an .opportunity to control their own affairs. All who took part in the last election will recall the promise of the Government that, if returned, it would bring in a measure that would' have « that effect. The bill now before the Senate is in fulfilment of that promise. Unfortunately for the members of the Opposition, this Government gives effect to its promises. I am satisfied that  Senator Needham's  greatest regret is that the Ministry has introduced this amending legislation. For two years, as Leader of the Oppositionin this chamber, he has been endeavouring to work up some sort of a case against the Government in regard to election promises, and is unable to point to one undertaking that has not been honored. 
SenatorFOLL. - Apparently that is a matter that hurts. The Government has passed a housing bill. 
SenatorFOLL. - The act has just been proclaimed and I have no doubt that it will interest the honorable senator to know that throughout Australia people are making applications ' under that act for loans for the purpose of . building homes for themselves. The people who are taking advantage of this act have no hope of obtaining homes for themselves under existing State laws, and so they are turning to the Federal Government for this much needed assistance. The Government, as I have said, has carried out its promises. This is one reason why honorable senators opposite are so uncomfortable in view of the forthcoming election. They have my sympathy. 
I have a high personal regard for  Senator. Hoare,  and I am sorry that he is at present, in such an awkward position. During the whole debate honorable senators opposite have been setting up " aunt sallies " for the purpose of knocking them down again. Even the newest recruit to the ranks of the Opposition, a Labour senator who is not a member of the Labour party, indulged in this pleasant pastime, but not one sound argument has been advanced why the bill should not be carried. 
I intend to support the measure because I am satisfied that it will make for the smooth running of our arbitration machinery and because I am a firm believer in the principle of conciliation and arbitration. Honorable senators opposite are opposing it because they have received their instructions from the outside junta. Although they know that it will do a great deal for the workers of Australia and benefit trade unionists from one end of the continent to the other, they dare not support it, because the whip hasbeen cracked and they must obey their instructions. For my part, I welcome it, because it will do much to uplift trade unionism and give trade unionists an opportunity to control the affairs of their organizations. I believe, also, that it will do away with much of the industrial turmoil that has been experienced in recent years, and make for peace in industry. 
 There is really nothing for  Senator Foll  to get excited about. He has assured us that he believes that the bill will make for industrial peace. I have no doubt that he is sincere in his belief, and I will not quarrel with him on that account. We who are opposing it believe that it will have the opposite effect.  Senator Foll  made some reference to the " aunt sallies," which, he said, had been set up by honorable senators on this side in their criticism of the measure. He was discreetly silent about the " aunt sallies " and star turns put on by those who are supporting the bill.  Senator Verran,  for example, gave a picturesque address. He told us, among other things, that capitalism was here for our benefit. He was not always of that opinion. On one occasion, when he was a leader of trade unionism in South Australia, he is reported to have said in a speech delivered at Kadina - 
He would live to see the day when the workers would wipe the sweat from their brows with the slack of their guts. 
The honorable senator said much more. He declared also at a Labour social at North Adelaide, at which I was present, that - 
Capitalism was a sweating system. Every week many of the workers would, through the sweating system of capitalism, have to take up an extra hole in their belts. 
If he was sincere then, is he sincere now ? I wish to be quite fair to  Senator Verran,  and I shall expect him to be absolutely fair to former colleagues of his who are still in the Labour movement. He says he was "kicked" out of the Labour  party. I well remember attending a special conference in Adelaide, when  Senator Verran  was leader of the Labour party in South Australia. On that occasion the delegates were asked to sign a certain resolution. Those who refused to do so walked out of the room.  Senator Verran  was one of those who did so. 
The honorable senator knows very well what that sheet of paper meant, and why other members of the Labour party remained in the room. Something of a similar nature happened in Melbourne when the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  said at a meeting of the Labour party, " Those who are with me, follow me," and a number followed him out of the room. No one was kicked out of the party. They all went out. 
But let me deal with the bill itself. It is said that to Greece we owe our art and culture, to the Jews our religion and moral code, and to Rome our system of jurisprudence. Out of that system of law and order our civilization has developed, but in the view of some people it has failed. Perhaps it may be said to have failed in cases where men able and willing to work are not allowed to do so. As a result of the present system unemployment has become world-wide, and there has been much crime, misery, destitution and despair. I agree that strikes and lockouts cause much unemployment and poverty; but while there has been much criticism of trade unionists for the part which they play in strikes, nothing has been said concerning the employers' responsibility for lockouts. Two sections of the community are opposed to arbitration - the extremist employers and the extremist industrialists. Both are in the wrong, and both are a menace to human progress and society at large. 
My earliest recollection of the arbitration system is in connexion with the appointment of conciliation boards in New Zealand. We who were identified with the Labour movement in Australia were then looking to 
New Zealand for our inspiration, for we realized that conciliation boards there were doing much to improve the condition of the workers in that country. A little later the Labour movement in Australia gathered strength, and eventually it was instrumental in securing the passing of a law providing for our present arbitration system, which has always been part of the Labour party's platform. Labour seized it with both hands. I agree that the arbitration system has not proved as successful as its advocates anticipated; but we cannot expect to secure perfection. I admit that we cannot have both arbitration and strikes. I am a believer in arbitration, and consider that the unions should obey the awards of the court, whether they are in favour of or against them. If they are not prepared to do that, they should be honest and say " We do not believe in arbitration ;. we will get out and revert to the old method of settling of  disptes  by direct action." In my opinion the marine cooks have been unwisely led, and what is more, that they were induced to begin a fight that thenleaders knew they had no hope of winning. Messrs. Tudehope and Johnson appear to have made up their minds to drag other unions into the upheaval whether they were in favour of or opposed to it. The question which is suggested to my mind is, whether those two men, and others who are equally extreme, wish to destroy unionism. If that is the case, who is paying the piper ? They are not taking this action without hope of reward. Prior to the last election the strike in the ranks of the British seamen was brought about by persons who were well paid for what they did. Where the money came from, one can only conjecture. 
One of the proposed new sections to which labour is most strongly opposed is that which provides for the taking of secret ballots. The objection is, not to the secret ballot itself, but to the methods that are to be employed. It is a boast of the Labour party that the secrecy of the ballot is one of the greatest blessings that has ever been given to any people. 
That is so. "We do not want the sort of mechanism that brought about the return to power of the honorable senator's party at the last election. If Johnson and Walsh had each been paid £1,000,000, it would not have been a farthing too much for their political services to the Nationalist party. Three months previously the political pendulum was definitely swinging towards Labour, and its return to power looked to be a certainty. At the dinner which was tendered to Lord Forster, just before his departure from Australia,  His Excellency  referred to  Mr. Charlton  as the future Prime Minister of Australia. But Walsh and Johnson, by their actions, enabled the Nationalists to secure the victory. 
The Government has not made plain the manner in which the provisions in regard to the secret ballot are to be put into operation. Sub-section 2 of the proposed new section 56f reads - 
The secretary of the organization or branch may thereupon forward a statement in writing upon the matter to the registrar for submission to the judge dealing with the matter, and in particular, may state whether the organization or branch will itself take within any anil what period, a secret ballot upon the question, or will take any other action in relation thereto. 
What is meant by the reference to a branch ? The majority of unions in Australia are federated; they have a federal executive, and each State constitutes a branch. If a dispute arose in a construction camp, and ten men demanded a ballot, would it be taken throughout the State or only among the mcn concerned in the dispute? It is my impression that it would have to be taken throughout the State. During its progress another small dispute might arise. It will thus be seen that any ten unscrupulous men will be able to demand a ballot repeatedly, and eventually cause the branch to become bankrupt. It is possible to find in every union ten members who arc unscrupulous enough to take any action. Two thousand years ago Judas betrayed his Master for 80 pieces of silver. And even the Labour movement to-day has in its ranks many a Judas who would he willing to sell it for 30 pieces of silver, or even less. In one portion of the bill the term " bona-fide unionist " is employed. Will the judge of the Arbitration Court have to satisfy himself that applicants for a secret ballot are in reality trade unionists? 
There may be in any union ten men who are not unionists at heart, but are entitled to call themselves unionists by virtue of the fact that they have paid their subscriptions. At the request of their masters they will apply themselves to the task of wrecking the organization. 

 Senator Pearce has said that trade union organizations are controlled by their secretaries and presidents. To a certain extent that is so. It is the fault of the rank and file, who do not attend meetings, and, therefore, have no right to complain if action is taken which docs not meet with their approval. I joined the Shearers Union in 1898, and have been a unionist ever since. I have never seen any pressure brought to bear upon members of a union in the conduct of a ballot. At one time I was the secretary of a branch at Port Adelaide,, which was not satisfied with the actions of the executive. I took a principal part in an agitation against it, and soon obtained a following. The union's room was not large enough to hold those who attended a meeting which we called, and we engaged a special hall. We succeeded in turning out the old executive, as well as the secretary and  president,  and in having new officials appointed. That will prove to honorable senators the power of the rank and file. 
Endeavouring to act contrary to the policy of the Labour party. Their places were taken by  Mr. Thomas  Murphy, who, I think, became  president  of the Australian Workers' Union and by a  Mr. Dunstan,  who is now in Queensland. I ask leave to continue my remarks at « later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
On the 17th May  Senator J.  B. Hayes asked the following question :  - 
What is the number of cases of apples exported to all eastern markets, including Singapore, Sourabaya, Hong Kong, Fort Said, Batavia, Manila, Colombo, and Calcutta during the year ended 31st March, 1928? 
I promised to obtain the information and am now able to inform the honorable senator that the number of cases is 74,764. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is the principal function of rifle clubs to provide a " Reserve " of citizens trained in the use of the rifle, on which the nation could draw in time of need to augment the Active Citizen Forces? 
If so, is not the time ripe for insisting that the rifle club movement change over from the "Bull's Eye " target and adopt the modern "Bisley Tin Hat" target? 
Why are the rifle clubs almost exclusively trained in the use of the obsolete Long M.L.E. weapon ? 
Would it not be sound policy to issue, and insist on rifle clubs training in future with, the modern battle weapon - the' Short M.L.E. (Service) rifle? 
What amount of money was expended by the Commonwealth Government on Rifle Club Services (Including pay of Staffs) for the year ended 30th June, 1927? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Royal Air Force Squadron of four metal Supermarine " Southampton " Flying Boats under Group-Captain H. M CaveBrownCave, now in Australian waters, visit Tasmania? 
If the island state of Tasmania is not included in the Squadron's itinerary, will the Minister give earnest consideration to the desirability of such a visit and endeavour to bring it about? 
.- Last night I stated that the two extreme sections in our community were opposed to the principle of arbitration. I have in my hand a copy of the  Pan Pacific Worker,  in  which appears an article by Arthur Rae, entitled "The "Curse  of  Compulsory Arbitration." Among other things,  Mr. Rae  states - 
 It is impossible to estimate the moral harm which has been done to the Australian working class by its hasty and ill-considered acceptance of arbitration as the solution of labour's problems. 
That is a most astonishing statement. Another statement equally astonishing was quoted by my leader  (Senator Needham)  last night, from the report of the conference of the Metal Trades Employers' Association held in Sydney recently. A report of the proceedings of that gathering appears in pamphlet form and has been circulated, I presume,  to  all honorable senators. It contains the following statement.' - 
Industrial arbitration is a beautiful ideal and a righteous one. It was originally evolved to protect the workers who are unable to economically protect themselves. It has over-done it. It has pampered them so that they have become bowelless tyrants and unmitigated ruffians towards the industry from which they draw their sustenance. Away with it, and let us get back to the clear, open economicr ing. That is the only way to prosperity and increased employment. 
Apparently the representatives of the two extreme sections in our industrial life hold the same view of arbitration.  Mr. Rae  declares that arbitration is a curse to the workers, and the members  of  the Metal Trade Employers' Association consider it to be a curse to the employers. 
That is so. The employers have a right to their opinion, and I have no quarrel with them for giving expression to it. But Arthur Rae is a member of the Labour movement which stands for arbitration. It has had this plank on its platform for many years. If Arthur Rae believes that arbitration is a curse to the workers, and if he wishes to be an honest member of the Labour movement, he should remain silent on the subject of arbitration. If he cannot subscribe to that plank in the platform, and if he honestly believes that arbitration is a curse to the working class or the movement in general, he should either keep his views to himself or get out of the Labour movement. The latter course would be the more honorable for him to adopt. I, like my leader in this chamber, repudiate absolutely Arthur Rae's statements in the  Pan Pacific Worker.  I stand for arbitration, and so does the Australian Labour party. 
SenatorReid.  -  Ex-Senator Rae belives in arbitration, too. 
He ought to, at all events. In my opinion the Labour movement in New South Wales has become a labour tragedy. 
I do not care. In all probability, if I were in New South Wales, I would be expelled from the movement. Anyway, I am not in New South Wales, and I am not a member of the New South Wales Labour party. I come from the good State of South Australia. Arbitration has been a protection to the workers of Australia, and, indeed, it has benefited fair-minded employers, too, because it has protected them from the actions of unscrupulous competitors. 
It would appear that the employers connected with the metal trades industries are out to destroy arbitration. Probably, if the opportunity  presented itself, they would make overtures to the National party to introduce legislation with that end in view. They state definitely that they do not want arbitration awards, but prefer the open ring, so that, if a worker offers his services at 5s. a day, they may take advantage of the position and reduce wages. According to their own statement, they are endeavouring to reduce the standard of living in Australia. It is extremely foolish for representatives of the working classes, and Arthur Rae is one of them, to quarrel with the system of arbitration. If the system were destroyed to-morrow, has Arthur Rae, or the red rag movement of Australia, any substitute for it? 
What is gained by violence must be held by violence. Arthur Rae must know perfectly well that his doctrine is absolutely wrong. If by any chance the control of industrial affairs in Australia passed into the hands of Arthur Rae, " Jock " Gardner, and others of that fraternity, what would they do? They profess to be democrats - I do not think they are anything of the kind - but if they are, they would appoint an executive from the whole of the people of Australia to govern this country. That is exactly the procedure which is adopted in connexion with the election of members to the Federal Parliament. No system could be fairer.  Mr. Rae,  and others who hold similar opinions, must recognize that arbitration is the bulwark of unionism, because it protects the employee a3 well as the employer. The employee knows perfectly well the basis upon which he may be employed. It is not an exaggeration to say that a strike such as that which we have been experiencing in the last few weeks causes 200,000 persons to be compelled to join the ranks of the unemployed. If there was no Arbitration Court those men would be forced by economic circumstances to accept whatever wage the employer cared to offer. Under the awards of the Arbitration Court, no matter how many thousands of men apply for a job, the employer must pay the wage that is fixed. Such a provision is a protection against unscrupulous employers. I "i 
The judge of the Arbitration Court bases his award upon the evidence that is tendered to him by the employees on the one hand, and the employers on the other. I do not know how force can be used by the unions to compel the court to grant a higher rate. 
I admit that some of them do. 
Any employer has a perfect right to pay higher wages and to work his employees fewer hours than are provided for in the award. When that course is adopted the employer must gain some advantage from it. If he did not wish to depart from the terms of the award, and the employees endeavoured to compel him to do so, he could either appeal to the Arbitration Court or close down his works. 
I recognize that the system of arbitration has been a bulwark of unionism also in another way. It forces into unions persons who would not join but for the fact that that is the only means by which they can obtain the benefits of the court's awards. During the time that I was employed in the railway workshops in South Australia, there were members of different unions who were doing exactly the same class of work, but under different awards which differentiated in the rates of pay. Those who were on the lower rate resigned from their own organizations and joined the ranks of the union which enjoyed the higher rate. 
Such a condition of affairs would have been obviated if the last referendum had been carried. 

 Senator Verran said yesterday, that he had been victimized. He neglected to &lt; mention the victimization of employees by their employers. It is sometimes difficult for men to obtain employment because of action they have taken on behalf of their mates.  Senator Verran  appears to believe that such a policy will not be possible under the bill. I disagree with him. If the employers cannot practise victimization openly, they will find some other method. Neither  Senator Verran  nor any other man can hope for redress in that direction. 
Honorable senators opposite are expecting a great deal from the bill. I do not think that any good will come out of it. When the Crimes Act was amended it was asserted that the effect would be to maintain industrial peace in Australia. That has not been the case. The number of industrial upheavals that have occurred since the passage of that amending legislation, has been greater than it was previously. Peace cannot be brought to industry by acts of Parliament of this nature; they merely aggravate existing troubles. The unionists themselves must supply the remedy, as they have done in the case of the marine cooks' strike. 
That is why they welcome this bill. 
When the seamen said that they were willing to man the boats there was an immediate break away, and I honestly believe that there were a number of moderate unionists who were only waiting to find some way out of the difficulty.I quote the following paragraph, which was published in the daily press: - 
Adelaide, Sunday. - At a specially summoned meeting of the Seamen's Union on Saturday, the following motion was carried: - 
In view of the serious industrial position created by the strike action of the Sydney Executive of the Marine Cooks, Butchers and Bakers' Union, in ignoring the interests of, and using bush ranging tactics against the unions vitally affected by the dispute and also against the labour movement in general, this mass meeting of seamen views the industrial situation with grave concern; in view of the fact that ship-owners are already running some vessels with non-union labour, we recommend the executive of both the Adelaide and Port Adelaide Trades and Labour Councils to call a mass meeting of all the transport unions likely to be affected by the cooks' dispute as soon as possible, to consider the best means to adopt to protect the interests of unionists engaged in the shipping industry as far as affects the South Australian coastal trade. 
A meeting of cooks to discuss this decision has been arranged for to-morrow morning. Commenting on the decision,  Mr. J.  D. Jonas, M.P., expressed the opinion that the cooks' union should be disciplined. He said it was up to the Australian Council of Trades Unions and all maritime and other bodies affiliated with the Australian Council of Trades Unions of which the cooks are a party, to discipline the cooks in the same manner as was done recently by the Port Adelaide Trades and Labour Council, when certain organizations would not agree to carry out the resolutions of the council. In those instances their affiliation was suspended. 
That supports the point I am endeavouring to make, and proves conclusively that the unionists wanted industrial peace. A majority of trade unionists felt that in the circumstances the marine cooks were not justified in leaving their work and dragging other good men at their heels, particularly when the labour market was over-supplied. I do not agree with the tactics adopted by these men, particularly when there is a properly constituted tribunal hefore which their grievances can be heard. We have an arbitration system established for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes, and I maintain that it Avas the duty of the marine cooks to have first appealed to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. If that council had said that their demands were unreasonable-particularly as we have an army of unemployed num bering perhaps 100,000 men, they should have remained at work. In all probability, the council would have given advice to that effect. But instead of adopting a proper course, the men ignored recognized union rules and led themselves and others into difficulties. They have only themselves to thank for having blindly followed  Mr. Tudehope  and  Mr. Johnson.  I am wondering what is behind the move of these men. It seemed a hopeless task from the outset, particularly as there was little prospect of their receiving support from the great body of industrialists in Australia. They must have known that they would be defeated in the end. They said, as stated in the  Monthly Labour Journal,  published in Sydney, that rather than confer with the Australian Council of Trade Unions they would return to work defeated. The fact that the seamen and stewards decided to remain at work is sufficient to show that a large body of unionists was disgusted with the tactics of the marine cooks, and if it had not been for the determined stand taken by these men an even more serious industrial upheaval would have resulted. 
I quote the following paragraph from a Brisbane newspaper: - 
Members of the Brisbane branch of the Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers' Association informed a representative of the. ship-, owners, that they would be prepared  to  man the idle vessels on Monday. The cooks said they were prepared to go to the southern ports and take their places in the galleys of interstate steamers. 
That is further evidence of the fact that the men did not wish to follow the advice of Tudehope and Johnson. If provision had been made in the act itself, for holding a secret ballot in the way I have suggested, it is reasonable to assume that the present trouble would not have arisen, because in many cases, as I shall show shortly, the majority of unionists do not favour direct action. A secret ballot, on the lines I have suggested, would be a blessing to unionists. 
Some years ago I was associated with an industrial dispute at Port  Adelaide,  when there was a good deal of talk about downing tools. A resolution was submitted at a meeting of the men to ascertain whether we should cease work, and only one of 120 men present voted by open ballot in favour of remaining at work. Later, it was decided to hold a secret ballot, the result of which disclosed that only six of the 120 wished to strike. As the outcome of the experience, I became a firm supporter of secret ballots, which I think should always be held before men cease work. It is only by that means that we can get the honest opinion of the men concerned. Many men will not record their honest opinion in an open ballot, because they are afraid of what the others will think. 
The leaders of the marine cooks, to whom I have referred, have taught the extremists of Australia a lesson which they are not likely to forget, and I think it will be a long time before there is further serious industrial trouble on the water front. In future men will recognize that it is their duty to consult others before taking direct action. Tudehope and Johnson, and others of that calibre, will, in future, be afraid to do what they have done in this instance, because they know what the consequences will be. "When unionists are dissatisfied it is their duty to consult the Australian Council of Trade Unions, whose responsibility it is to endeavour to assist the men in settling disputes in a constitutional way. In this instance when the marine cooks refused to take their advice the Australian Council of Trade Unions should have informed them that it would declare every vessel " white " and order other unionists to resume work. What right has Tudehope to say that he would suffer defeat rather than confer with the Australian Council of Trade Unions? As  Mr. Duggan,  the  president  of the council, said,  Mr. Tudehope  has broken the moral code of unionism, and the men have obeyed the dictates of Tudehope and Johnson, rather than follow the direction of the council, which is the proper body to consult. The marine cooks should not have followed these men, who were endeavouring to conduct a hopeless strike. I do not know what their object was. I am suspicious of these men. 
.- While I support this bill to amend the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, I confess that I have very little faith in its effectiveness. Much as we may all agree with the theory of the legal settlement of industrial disputes, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act has produced, in some respects, greater evils than it was designed to rectify. We hear on all sides statements by people, principally on the employing side, that the act ought tobe scrapped because it has not worked well. These people have sound reasons for their belief. The first is that employers are compelled to obey the decisions of the Arbitration Court, whilst employees are not. In the light of experience, it is impossible to feel confident that any system of compulsory arbitration can be equally binding on employers and employees alike. On the one hand we have a few employers who are possessed of tangible assets which may be seized by an order of the court. On the other hand we have great numbers of employees whom it is not a practical proposition to compel to obey an order of the court if they are determined to defy it. Again, there is the question of the overlapping of awards and their tremendous complexity. When I was managing a sawmill a few years ago, it was an extraordinarily difficult matter for me, singlehanded as I was, to interpret the various awards given by the Federal Arbitration Court and the State Wages Board. Another reason justifying the claim of those who say that the Arbitration Act should be scrapped is the onesided nature of the system. Lockouts are entirely abolished, but employees can cease work at a moment's notice whenever they feel inclined. One of the worst features of the system, is that it has led to the creation of a vast army of parasites. We have vigilance officers, inspectors, shop stewards, walking delegates, conciliation commissioners, assistant secretaries, organizers of all kinds, and a host of men, most of whom do their very best to stir up strife, because industrial trouble and strife are the real source of their income. Yet another objection to the arbitration system is that the Commonwealth and State law authorities are reluctant to take penal action against the unions, and particularly against individual members of the unions. This repugnance is also shared by the employers, with the result that unscrupulous union officials take advantage of their immunity to flout the law with impunity. We see, therefore, that the law which has been designed to prevent industrial disputes, actually fosters them. Any law that does not work impartially between litigants is ripe for most drastic amendment. Some say that this legislation is ripe for repeal, but I would not go so far as that. 
I am supporting this bill because it aims at drastic amendment, although I am not very optimistic about its effectiveness, and because I hope it will assist very materially in getting over the present very rotten state of affairs. The ideal of industrial arbitration, was very fine and very righteous. It was originally evolved to protect the workers who were not economically strong enough to protect themselves against bowelless employers. The act has done it. In my opinion, it has overdone it. It has so pampered them that in turn they have become bowelless tyrants and unmitigated ruffians towards the industries and the community from which they draw their sustenance. That sweeping statement may not apply to all unions, but it certainly applies to quite a number of them. We have heard of intimidation and victimization of employees. I had personal examples of it prior to the war from unscrupulous employers. On the other hand, terrible tyranny and victimization are experienced to-day at the hands of the very people whom this act was designed to protect. In the past the Arbitration Court has been able to command some measure of respect and obedience from the employees because it had something to give them. It has been able to command that respect and obedience only while it has been increasing wages and reducing hours. To-day when we are faced with economic pressure due to world-wide competition it will not be possible for the court to continue giving benefits; and on the day when it will be absolutely necessary to increase hours, and possibly reduce wages slightly, the court will practically cease to function, because its awards will not be obeyed. It is palpable to any one with intelligence that obedience will not be rendered to awards that increase the hours of work or reduce wages. The only alternative to reduced wages is increased production. But the unions are resolutely adamant; they will have nothing to do with piece-work, payment by results, a system of bonuses on output, profit-sharing, or any system of co-partnership. They declare all these methods absolutely black. When I was working a mill in the northwest of Tasmania I was paying the highest award rates. But having had a lot of experience in staff work during the war, in the course of which we made free use of graphs and got down to absolute bedrock, I introduced a system of paying something in addition to the award rates by results. The capacity of the mill was known, and I paid a bonus of so much per 100 super, feet when the output exceeded the recognised capacity. The system was working quite well and the mill was quite a happy little  enterprize  until a travelling organizer came along and objected most strongly to it. To make a long story short, the system had to be cut out, and immediately the output of the mill fell by something like 4,000 super, feet a day. The men still got the award rates but they lost the extra 12s. or 18s. a week that they were getting by way of bonus and which it paid me to give to them. I can see no hope for our future unless similar systems are permitted by the executives of the various unions. The economic pressure from outside is with us all the time. 
It is impossible to increase wages or reduce hours of work any further. It may be necessary to increase the hours and reduce the wages, but if the court attempts to do so I fear it will absolutely cease to function, and even the scant obedience paid to its awards in the past will vanish. 
The bill is an honest attempt to preserve the act. Signs are not wanting to-day that the Federal Arbitration system is tottering - some think, to a dishonoured fall. This bill is a last attempt to make it binding on both parties, employers and employees alike. The problem is a difficult one, but because I am convinced that the bill is an attempt to solve it, I support it. 
I have listened with no little amazement to the statement so persistently made by political and industrial Labour - and they are practically the same - that the bill is absolutely aimed at the destruction of trade unionism. I submit that if this be really so destruction is but deserved, for then trade unionism is a law unto itself and above and beyond any court in Australia. No such attempt is being made by the Government and its supporters. He is a sophist who, on reading this bill, makes such an assertion. For years we have had the spectacle of the Arbitration Court proving its inability either to control the employees or to enforce its awards. Its impotence has become a byword and a reproach among all thinking, patriotic citizens. All the nonsense we heard yesterday about slavery and the rattling of leg-irons is mere camouflage. Those evils disappeared many years ago. Not long ago, 400,000 good Australians cheerfully and voluntarily gave their services to the Empire so that freedom should not perish, and 60,000 of them died. The great majority of those men were trade unionists, and I number hundreds of them as comrades and friends. Better citizens could not be found. Thousands of trade unionists realize that the bill is fair and reasonable. Why there should be such a howl as was raised concerning the secret ballot provisions passes my comprehension. What objection can there be to this proposal? I quite realize that there would be difficulty in taking a ballot in the large and widely scattered organization of which 

 Senator Barnes is the head ; but there are many other unions. The bill is an honest attempt by the Government and its supporters to make the Arbitration Act workable, instead of allowing the Arbitration Court to become a by-word and a reproach because of its impotence. If the measure will assist in any way to have the awards of the court obeyed, our efforts will not have been in vain. As it is an honest attempt to improve the present impossible state of affairs in the industrial sphere, I support it. 
.- Nearly a quarter of a century has passed since the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which this bill seeks to amend, received legislative sanction. It was passed in spite of the united and bitter opposition of the employers of Australia. At that time and for years anterior to that period, unionism was anathema to the average employer in Australia. His creed - and some employers still hold to it - was freedom of contract. He believed that labour should be treated like every other commodity; that the law of supply and demand should operate in the labour market. 
Let me tell the honorable senator that employers, at the time to which I have referred, declared by resolution, at their annual conference in South Australia, in favour of freedom of contract as against trade unionism. The employers disbelieved then in any compulsory form of arbitration, and many of them, throughout Australia, are still opposed  o  it. The bill, we are told, is intended  to  settle industrial disputes, but in my opinion it will extend them. Its effect will be to legalize strikes and lockouts. It will give employers more power than they were able to exercise formerly. In the event of a small section of employers in a big industry "downing" tools, the employers will have power to close the whole establishment, and lockout perhaps hundreds of men who are in no way concerned in the sectional dispute. It will give the employers power to lockout all those covered by a general award, inflicting the greatest hardships upon, not only the men engaged in the industry, but also the general community. 
The bill declares war on organized labour. We are informed that it has the  blessing of the majority of the trade unionists of this country; but those who make that statement are boiler-plated in their audacity, and brass-mounted in their effrontery. I have been associated with trade unionism for many years, and I know something of the industrial troubles that have occurred in these southern seas since the great maritime strike. There are 851,000 trade unionists in Australia, and this bill is an affront to that vast army of industrialists. No less than 150 organizations of employees are registered in the Arbitration Court; but only 27 organizations of employers are so registered. It is significant that the number of employers registered is so small. The Employers' Federation opposed the introduction of the principal act by the unanimous vote of its members, and those who opposed it in the respective branches of the legislature were specially thanked for their* efforts. It is significant, also, that the Employers' Federation has never registered under the act. 
Nearly 25 years have elapsed, and it has had all that time to think about the matter. Honorable senators opposite talk about breaches of awards by the workers; but there have been as many breaches of awards by the employers as by the employees. 
I was sorry to hear  Senator Sampson  use words that were highly offensive to me, and others associated with the unions and the labour movement. He stigmatized good citizens, who are doing their work efficiently arid well, as parasites. These men have the respect and confidence of their fellows, and are engaged in work that is essential under present day industrial conditions. He referred, no doubt, to the vigilance .officers whose services in the policing of the awards of the Arbitration Court are indispensable. He called them parasites; but every organization worthy of the name has its organizers. The very party to which he belongs has them, and they are highlypaid officers, too. They are employed to strengthen the Nationalist party, which, it is said, has an inexhaustible treasury, and has enrolled armies of organizers. But I would not call those who do that class of work parasites. Ever since the birth of unionism in Aus tralia, we have had them. The honorable senator also spoke of trade union secretaries as if these officers were not essential to the successful working of any organization. 
Certain organizations are so strong numerically and financially, that the work becomes too heavy for the paid secretary, so an assistant is engaged to undertake some of the duties connected with the organization. 
Does  Senator Sampson  suggest that industrial organizations are the only bodies that employ assistant secretaries? Is he unaware that the growth of every big organization, whether it be industrial, financial, or commercial, renders necessary from time to time the appointment of additional officers to carry out the duties allotted to them ? I hope that we shall hear no more of these sneering, satirical and offensive remarks from  Senator Sampson  concerning office-bearers of trade unions throughout Australia. I belong to an organization, the Printing Trades Employees' Union, which has a paid secretary and an assistant. These officials have the full confidence of all members of our organization. 
I am afraid that honorable senators supporting the Government have not the slightest knowledge of the work-  ing of industrial organizations and the expenses involved by such bodies iu securing awards in the Arbitration Court. Under the law as it stands, the procedure in the court is cumbersome, costly and slow to the point of vexation. The awards in the printing trades industry cost the organization, to which I belong, approximately £6,000. The clothing trades claim came before the court in April, 1926, the hearing lasted from June 1927 to December 1927, and the award was made on the 1st May, 1928. That award cost the union £1,180. Prior to 1920, a single judge of the Arbitration Court was empowered to hear and determine claims in respect of working conditions and hours; but the amending act of 1920, provided that whenever a question of standard hours was involved, three judges must sit as a court to deal with it. To illustrate how the work of the court has been hindered, I need only state that for seven months of the last 2-J years, three judges have been occupied solely in dealing with the question of standards hours in industry and finality has not yet been reached. Because of the provision in the law that requires three judges to determine claims involving a question of hours, the court is more and more congested and the workers have become very impatient. I mentioned just now that an award in the clothing trade cost the organization concerned, £1,180. A later award cost the same union £2,000. 
No ; but I am complaining of the cumbersome and costly procedure of the court involving, as I have shown, wearisome delays to industrial organizations in their efforts to get simply justice from the court. I make no reflection upon the judges. All I am urging is that the act should bo amended in certain directions - not as this bill indicates, but in the direction of making it easier and less costly for organizations to appear before the court, and also to allow of awards being made more expeditiously. Recently I obtained a return from the Arbitration Court, setting out the date of some awards given and their cost to the organizations concerned. It is as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192806131_9_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192806131_9_1.jpg"></graphic>

This list could be substantially augmented if all the returns were available. 

 Senator Duncan had a good deal to say about industrial unrest in Australia. The honorable senator deplored the frequency with which disputes occurred and went on to say that he was amazed that, notwithstanding these troubles, industry in Australia was able to carry on. He and other honorable senators appear to think that Australia is the only country in the world where industrial disputes occur; that the Commonwealth, compared with other countries, is seething with discontent. It is a fact that throughout the world there is a considerable amount of industrial unrest, and that other countries also experience a succession of strikes from time to time. Many years ago,  Senator Pearce  won the plaudits of the crowd for his condemnation of our present social system. 
Listening to the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  delivering his second-reading speech, I was reminded of Bret Harte. I felt constrained to ask myself - 
Do I sleep ? Do I dream ? 
Do I wander and doubt? 
Are things what they seem? 
Or is visions about? 
I had a vision of years gone by, and events that are past, when  Senator Pearce,  to the inspiring strains of The Marseillaise, quick marched to the Yarra bank, and, under a crimson banner, lent his support to motions in favour of international peace and international brotherhood, denounced, the existing capitalistic system, and suggested the nationalization of monopolies and the socialization of the means of production, distribution and exchange. When I think of those days, and compare the right honorable gentleman's attitude then and now, I am amazed at the change that has come over him. At that time he uttered sentiments that were considered dangerous and extreme. He desired to change our social system. He used language identical with that which is being used to-day by the very men he now denounces - that under the existing system of society, strikes are inevitable. There are fewer strikes in Australia than in other countries. 
On the basis of population, the workers in England lose through industrial disputes three times as many working days as the workers in Australia. 
SenatorFINDLEY. - In Australia, the loss through strikes and lockouts is less than one day per wage-earner per annum. On the other hand the loss through unemployment averages two weeks per wage-earner per annum. The workers lose more in one month through unemployment than in one year through industrial disputes. 
I and every other member of the Labour party deplore strikes, and have always endeavoured to prevent them. A great deal is said by honorable senators opposite, in regard to the suffering that is endured by different sections of the community as a result of strikes. Those honorable senators have sudden spasms of sympathy for the poor people who suffer through strikes. They should be as zealous and anxious on behalf of the unemployed in Australia, who are suffering to-day and have suffered for very many years. 
SenatorFINDLEY. - I am dealing with the unemployment that exists apart from strikes. Long before the present strike occurred thousands of men and women in different parts of Australia were out of employment. 
The newspapers from time to time relate instances of persons who have taken their lives because of their inability to obtain employment. Thousands of workers are in dire poverty on account of unemployment; yet this Government has done nothing of a practical nature to assist them. 
SenatorFINDLEY.- If an advertisement was inserted in a newspaper tomorrow for any class of workers there would be hundreds of applications. A cable the other day stated that some members of the Scottish delegation to Great Britain had told their kinsmen in Scotland that there was ample work for those who desired to leave the Mother Country. One man said that he could provide work for 50 persons. If he would authorize his manager, or whoever is looking after his business while he is abroad, to advertise the positions in Australia, he would be besieged by probably 500 applicants. 
I have heard that statement made on other occasions. Are there no unemployed in Western Australia ? 
Who has done the pioneering work in Western Australia and every other part of Australia? Australians are noted bushmen and axemen. 
According to the unbiassed view of a visitor from overseas, for efficiency and output Australian workmen stand alone. I am satisfied that if proper conditions are provided, and decent wages are paid for that class of work, in either Western Australia or anywhere else, ample labour will be available. The organization of which  Senator Barnes  is the  president  numbers over 100,000 members, and has in its ranks some of the finest workmen in Australia, who have done as much pioneering work as any other class in the community. 
Many members of the Australian Workers Union are out of employment in Western Australia. 
I believe that the majority of them are on a weekly wage. 

 Senator Barnes yesterday referred to the proposed new section 25d. He read the section as it "was originally introduced in another place; but it was amended there in the early hours of yesterday morning. As originally introduced it read - 
The court shall, before making any award or certifying any agreement, and in proceedings for the variation or cancellation of an award or agreement, take into consideration the probable economic effect of the agreement or award in relation to the community in general, and the probable economic effect thereof upon the industry or industries concerned. 
We can take it for granted that when the Government first introduced that provision it had in view the economic effect that an award might have upon any industry in Australia, and doubtless also the power that might, and in all probability would, be exercised by the judge to increase the number of hours worked and reduce the wages received by the men employed. 
We know that during the war period many companies had returned to them in three years the amount of capital they had invested. They were able to pay very high dividends; and in some instances, bonuses as well. They watered their stock, and made no provision for what are termed "lean years." Many industries in Australia do not employ up-to-date methods of production, and have not installed the most modern machinery. Even in the United States of America there are some industries which are not considered efficient. 
I do not believe that it has been taken into consideration at any time. The Government weakened on its original proposal, and inserted the following proviso : - 
Provided that this section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing the basic wage. 
-We could all understand the meaning of the original provision.; but I, at any rate, am unable to grasp its significance in its present form. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to2.15 p.m. 

The. drastic provisions of proposed section 25d, in which the court was given power to reduce wages below a living rate, and also to impose conditions that would be intolerable to any working man, have been amended since it was first introduced. The Government has apparently realized, doubtless after full consideration and consultation with its supporters in this chamber and in another place, the dangerous element it embodied in the measure, as introduced. It was understood when compulsory arbitration first came into operation, that provision would, at least be made for a living wage, and I have always contended that if an industry cannot pay a living wage it should not receive encouragement. The present basic wage does not provide more than a mere existence, and I often wonder how a man who has a wife and family dependent upon him can, even on the basic wage provided for in Arbitration Court awards, keep out of debt. How can married men, who are endeavouring to purchase homes and who have to provide food and clothing for themselves and their families, pay their way? Although the wages paid to those engaged in the work-a-day world are higher than they were a few years ago,, it is. problematical whether the higher wages are of any benefit owing to the increased cost of living. Why has the Government weakened by amending its original proposal? It has probably realized the serious nature of the provision to which it desired to give effect. 
It did not display any such spirit when it framed the original provision. Eventually it lacked the courage to carry out its intentions, and amended the clause by the insertion of this proviso - 
Provided that this section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing' the basic wage. 
It is problematical whether the basic wage will be safeguarded under that proviso. I should like the Minister in charge of the bill,  Senator Pearce,  to explain its meaning. 
Provision is made in. the bill for holding secret ballots in certain circumstances, and if we are to accept the statement of the Minister, this is to be the panacea for all industrial strife and unrest. The members of the Government do not believe in the secrecy of the ballot. There is not an honorable senator opposite who is an out-and-out supporter of secret ballots. Prior to a Federal election an army of canvassers who are paid by the Nationalist party go from door to door soliciting votes on behalf of Nationalist candidates, and tell them peculiar tales concerning their political opponents. The secrecy of the ballot is violated by members of the Nationalist party prior to. every general election. In the main, there is no such thing as a secret ballot. The provision in this bill with respect to a secret ballot is an unwarranted interference with the domestic management of the trade unions. It is an insult to the intelligence of trade unionists of Australia; it suggests that they are incapable of managing their own affairs. Apparently the view of the Government is that the efficient management of a union can be ensured only by giving ten members of the union- some of whom may be direct actionists - the power to demand a ballot. 
The honorable senator is quibbling. If the request for a ballot is not acceded to they can demand a ballot.. 
Provision is made in the bill' whereby ten members of an organization can ask for a ballot on the subject of a resolution carried at a mass meeting of the organization. They could demand that the ballot be taken in response to the appointment of officers or in connexion with the work which is always done in a peaceful and intelligent way by efficient officers of the organization. If a meeting were attended by 999 members of a union consisting of 1,000 lumbers and ten dissatisfied and disgruntled men objected to the appointment of certain officers they could ask for a secret ballot. If it were refused, they could approach the court. If the court were informed that only one-half of the numbers of the organization were present, it might rule that the organization had not obtained the opinion of a majority of its members, and might order that a ballot be taken. 
There is usually a full attendance at important gatherings, but where minor matters are under consideration the attendance may be small. The court has to be satisfied that the ten members who asked for a ballot are bona fide members of the organization. Their names are not to be disclosed, in order to prevent victimization. How can the court determine whether those who ask for a ballot are bona fide members of the organization? It will have to approach the secretary or some authorized officer of the union to ascertain whether they are or are not financial members. 
There is associated with industrial organizations a minority, some who do not favour arbitration, believing that they can obtain more by direct action than by constitutional means. This Government, which is supposed to denounce direct action, came into existence as a result of direct action. Prior to the 1922 general election, the Nationalist, Country party and Labour parties were opposing each other in the political arena. The right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  who was then leader of the National party, extended the olive branch to the Country party with a view to bringing about a united party to oppose the Labour party. What was the ultimatum delivered by the Country party? It said that it would not work with, or be associated with any party of which  Mr. Hughes  was the leader. When that ultimatum was issued the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  who was then  Mr. Hughes'  lieutenant, said, " If you get rid of the 
Prime Minister against his will, he can wreck any administration." If he be thrown out, as some suggest, I will go too." 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the bill. 
I intend to do so. When the Country party's ultimatum was delivered to the National party, they threw  Mr. Hughes  overboard, and there was no fight. I make this passing reference to an incident which occurred in the year stated and it is sufficient to show that this Government came into existence as a result of direct action on the part of the Country party. 
I do not see how the secrecy of the ballot can be assured. Sea-faring men, for instance, would have no fear in refusing to adopt this or any other course suggested to them if they thought it was wrong. During the British seamen's strike, the men were threatened with certain punishments, and we know what happened when warrants were issued. In order to save public expense and the time of the police they marched to the police head-quarters at Russellstreet, Melbourne, and gave themselves up. There is no way in which to enforce an effective secret ballot, even under the compulsory provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act.  (Extension of time granted.]  To me a secret ballot such as that for which provision is made in the bill is quite unworkable, and to say the least of it, more or less farcical. It, too, is an affront to the unionists of Australia. 
The Leader of the Senate has made frequent reference to the present system of conciliation and arbitration, and in effect has said that the present arbitration system has not proved the success which its sponsors anticipated. The right honorable gentleman favours more conciliation and less arbitration. On one occasion he was Australia's representative at the League of Nations Assembly at Geneva, and some of his remarks at that assembly have been published' in the press. In  Hansard  of 30th November the following appears: - 
I said then, as I say now, that compulsory arbitration- in Australia in industrial matters had not been an unqualified success; and that, as a result of our experience in Australia, public opinion was turning more and more in the direction of seeking agreement by conciliation. 

 Mr. Justice Higgins who, in my opinion, has had more experience in the Arbitration Court than any other judge and is more conversant with industrial legislation and the machinery of the Arbitration Court than any other man in Australia, replied to  Senator Pearce  in. these words - 

 Sir George Pearce either does not know the A B C of the Arbitration Court or he deliberately misrepresents its activities. Apparently he does not know that even under the original act no judge can make on award until conciliation has been tried and failed. Apparently he does not know that the majority of differences between employed and employer are settled by mutual agreement, and not compulsion. All the court does is to make the agreement  a  legal document, to give it the force of law and make it binding. 
We know as a matter of fact that 50 per cent, of the industrial disputes in Australia have been settled by conciliatory methods. 
Towards the close of his remarks,  Senator Pearce  found fault with awards that provide for preference to unionists. He said that when he was Minister for Defence he discovered that extraordinary powers were given to trade unionists under awards that gave preference to unionists. 
At one time  Senator Pearce  believed in the principle of preference to unionists. Speaking on the original Conciliation and Arbitration Bill he said - 
I said that without preference to unionists this bill would in its operation become a tyranny. It would take away from the trade unionists of Australia the right to strike, without conferring on them any protection against their employers victimizing them, simply because they are unionists. 
Later on he said :  - 
It will be recognized that trade unionists sacrifice their time and money, and in some cases incur odium in being prominent in union matters. It is for these reasons that I, with others, wish to see an efficient preference to unionists. I have felt the pinch of the boycott; I have seen an attempt made to take the bread from my wife and children. I know from bitter experience that there are men who, because a workman has the courage to speak his opinions, will try to drive him out of the country; and therefore I contend that this measure should either be dropped into the wastepaper basket, or passed in such a form that the men who accept the responsibility of stating the mind of their fellow-workmen shall be placed in a safe position, at any rate, so far as their living is concerned. 
The natural corollary to the general acceptance of the principle of preference to unionists, is that a union shall be all embracing, which is what  Senator Pearce  desired, and that the employer who requires a workman shall communicate with the secretary of an organization. Even before the arbitration system came into existence, that practice was followed in the printing trade, to which I belong. The employer who wanted a workman communicated with the secretary of the union, and the latter responded by sending a workman to the employer. The practice has been followed to a greater extent since the arbitration system has come into existence, and particularly since the principle of preference to unionists has been embodied in arbitration awards. 
I have looked closely through the bill, and I see nothing in it that will make for improved industrial conditions in Australia. It will not make the arbitration machine run more smoothly and expeditiously, or less expensively. It is intended only to humiliate, weaken, and if possible, deal a deadly blow at organized labour. The unions are to be burdened with unnecessary expense in the management of their own affairs. Pains and penalties are to be imposed on the workmen, and the freedom of the press is to be curtailed. The judges are to be free from criticism of their administration of the act. Parliaments and governments are open to criticism; but any exception to decisions of the court taken by organizations or individuals or expressed through the columns of newspapers that advocate the claims of the workers, will render the persons who have the temerity so to express their opinions liable to punishment. We had hoped for a substantial measure of reform, but apparently our hopes are in vain. 
That the bill should be dropped, lock, stock and barrel. The Government has no justification for arousing the anger of those who doubt the sincerity of its motives in introducing this bill. In days gone by, when the workers were downtrodden, many of those who support the Arbitration Act to-day came to their aid, and risked their employment because of a desire to improve the lot of those who were working under almost' intolerable conditions. Some of the men associated with the Labour party know what it is to be boycotted, blacklisted and victimized from one end of Australia to the other. In those days, those who took a prominent part in trade union affairs were marked men.  Senator Barnes  has said that when the Australian Workers Union appointed men in an honorary capacity to police the awards of the court, some of them lost their jobs. 
Yes, the practice is being carried out even to-day. The Australian Workers Union and other organizations have had to appoint paid men to do the work formerly done by men employed in an honorary capacity. This has been necessary owing to the risk taken by unionists who did the work without payment under the eyes of the bosses. 
But they countenance this bill. 
I do not. .1 rose to oppose it, and I have shown why it is dangerous. I know that the opposition comes from not only the officials of organized labour, but also members of the organizations. I do not know one union that is favorable to the measure. 
The great majority of the workers are associated with the trade unions, and the organizations of labour throughout Australia are vigorously opposed to the bill. I realize that we, on this side, are a numerically small party for the time being. 
I, like other members of our party, am speaking for 851,000 trade unionists, because I am satisfied they object to the bill. 
I have heard that statement more than once. Those who make it apparently favour the secret ballot. Then why not take a ballot of the unionists of Australia on the bill before it is proceeded with further? I am satisfied that nearly the whole of them would oppose it. It will not lead to the settlement of industrial strife. It will give- extraordinary powers to the employers that they never previously had ; they will have power to impose hardships on the general community. If, owing to a strike in a section of an industry, they lock out all the men employed in that industry, will not the general community be affected? Desirable as industrial peace is, I do not imagine that it will ever be obtained. When we reach that happy state of affairs in which there will be no strife and no unemployment, we shall have reached the Promised Land. 
I shall do all that I can - although I expect that my efforts will be in vain - to prevent the passage of the bill. It is very different now from what it was when first introduced in another place, because as many amendments have been inserted as there were clauses in the measure when it was brought down; but in my opinion it is still in the highest degree unsatisfactory. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Plain).  - The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I have listened to the condemnation of the bill by honorable senators of the Opposition. Each, in his turn, has admitted that there is some necessity for dealing with the industrial position in Australia; but no suggestion has been made as to how a desirable change could be made. In the light of experience over many years,,  the  people generally realize that the industrial situation is most unsatisfactory.  It  is open to question  whether compulsory arbitration is the best method of settling industrial disputes, or whether it reduces them to any extent, or tends to improve the relations between employers and employees. Each State has its own industrial legislation, either in the form of wages boards or arbitration courts, and superimposed on those tribunals is the Federal Arbitration Court. It is most undesirable to have various tribunals determining wages and industrial conditions, and overlapping awards. In many cases we find that the States have legislation covering practically all industries, and, when unions become affiliated in a Federal body, they can come under the jurisdiction of the Federal Arbitration Court. The result is that many of the State industrial tribunals become mere recording machines, and determinations that have often been arrived at by mutual agreement have to be altered to make them consistent with the awards of the Federal court. 
It is open to question whether this court has not extended its operations into spheres of industry never contemplated by the framers of the Federal Constitution. We have to accept the position as we find, it, however, because that action has been taken within the limits of the Constitution. Years ago the High Court decided that State instrumentalities were exempt from the provisions of the act; but that decision has since been reversed. I am satisfied that if we had to choose between the wages board system in certain of the States and compulsory arbitration under the Commonwealth, we should find that differences between employers and employees are more readily adjusted under the former system.  Senator Findley  has stated that 50 per cent, of the industrial disputes are settled by conciliation. The balance, in which transport unions are involved, are dealt with by compulsory arbitration. It is not to be expected that if parties to a dispute proceed to litigation, the same harmonious relationships will continue to exist as would obtain if a settlement were effected by conciliation. This harmony, I suggest, is essential to the successful carrying on of industry. Speaking generally, round-table conferences are likely to prove the more satisfactory method for  the  settlement of industrial disputes. Tt should be obvious to all honorable senators that some improved method must be adopted to settle differences between employers and employees. At present there is a considerable amount of overlapping in awards made by the various industrial tribunals. In some industries special officers are employed to keep in touch with the various awards and determinations to ascertain where the line of demarcation is drawn between one branch of industry and another. At present there is a. good deal of confusion in industry because of this overlapping. 
I am surprised at the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition and his supporters towards the bill. No one can doubt that it has the endorsement of the people. , During the last election campaign a definite promise was made that, the Government, if returned to power, would introduce legislation to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The depleted ranks of the Opposition in this chamber and in another place are a complete answer to criticism directed to this measure by honorable members opposite. The people, believing that the Government was in earnest in its desire to effect improvements to our arbitration system, returned it and its supporters to power in both Houses with overwhelming majorities. 
I was surprised also at the trend of the remarks of  Senator Gardiner  yester: day. It seemed to me that the honorable senator was getting a little on both ways He said that he was a firm believer in arbitration, and then went on to suggest that there is nothing wrong in the action of men who go on strike. He put it that if men did not care to work, all they had to do was to knock off, and that no one need suffer hardship as a result of their action. The honorable senator has had long experience in trade unionism and as a member of this Parliament. I believe he was a member of the Senate when the first Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was passed; and since he was a supporter of that measure, his views on arbitration should be thoroughly sound. And yet his remarks yesterday would lead one to believe that he is not quite sure where he stands with regard to compulsory arbitration. At all events this is the impression that will be created in the minds of those who read the speech which he delivered to the Senate yesterday. The honorable senator actually had to go back to eighteenth century conditions to find support for arguments which he advanced against the measure. He spoke of the lash, told a most gruesome tale concerning the conditions in industry in Great Britain during the eighteenth century, and endeavoured to persuade us that industrially we were still living in that industrial era. He knows, however, that the sincere desire of the Government and its supporters is, not to injure trade unionism, but to see that the balance is held evenly between employer and employee, and to bring about peace in industry.  Senator Gardiner  went so far as to declare that the Government's purpose in introducing this bill was to destroy trade unionism. There is no justification whatever for such a statement. This Government has been in office for many years, and from time to time it has introduced legislation with the object of improving the conditions of the working classes in the Commonwealth. 
The fact that the Government has been in office for so long in a democratic country, in which trade unionists number considerably more than 50 per cent, of the electors, is the most conclusive proof that could be advanced, that its policy has the endorsement of the majority of the workers in Australia. Honorable senators, and members in another place, as well as members of some of the State Parliaments, who claim to represent the workers, are in a minority. The Government, three years ago, gave an undertaking to introduce this legislation, and was returned with an overwhelming majority. 
The honorable senator is taking up a wellknown attitude of win, tie, or wrangle. He suggests that the people were misled. To do that is to insult the intelligence of the electors. The issues upon which the Government were returned, were stated in the most definite terms, and the people gave their verdict in favour of the Government. They were under no misapprehension as to what the Ministry proposed to do. 
I listened attentively to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition yesterday, and I was struck with the fact that although he and other members of his party have declared that they believe in arbitration, and that the act should be improved, he offered no constructive criticism of the bill, and made no suggestion for its improvement. The measure gives the honorable senator and his colleagues in the Labour party the fullest opportunity to amend and improve the act. But, apparently, it is not their intention to co-operate or assist the Government in any way to improve the industrial conditions in Australia. Apparently the honorable senator does not realize his responsibility as the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. 'He even went to the length of calling for a division against the first reading of the bill, indicating thereby that, in the view of Labour members, Parliament should not have an opportunity to consider an amending conciliation and arbitration bill. 
Apparently then, the Leader of the Opposition believes that amendments of the act are not necessary. Surely he acknowledges that the industrial position in Australia is most unsatisfactory, and that we, who have the welfare of Australia at heart, must pay due regard to circumstances as we find them. "We should not be content to rely solely on increased customs duties to provide the needed stimulus for the development of our secondary industries. On the contrary, it should be our endeavour, as the Commonwealth develops, so to organize industry that it will be in a position to supply, not only the needs of our own people, but also to export its surplus products to other countries. The economic position of Australia is different from that of almost every other country. Our people work in a land of sunshine, and under the most favorable of conditions. 
They are in receipt of high wages, and the like of their environment is not to be found elsewhere in the world. It is not too much to say that the manhood of Australia is superior to that of any other country. If the conditions under which our people work serve the purpose they are intended to serve, should we not be able to show a higher degree of efficiency in production than the other countries to which I have referred? Unfortunately, that is not so. Our industries to-day are being fostered on a false basis, and the conduct of their affairs has no economic principle underlying it. 
Those who are opposed to this bill are endeavouring to make it appear that it is an attempt on the part of the Government and its supporters to whittle away the advantages which their unions have won for their members. Not one member of the Government party in either this or any other place has ever given a moment's consideration to such a proposal. Can the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  point to one clause that has for its object the destruction of the usefulness of unionism? 
That is only a general statement. The honorable senator did not point to any such provision when he spoke to the motion for the second reading of the bill. I feel confident that the action of the Government will have the approval of not only employers and employees, but also the people of Australia generally. If the Government is anxious to whittle away the advantages that are enjoyed by trade unionists, why did it not make the attempt years ago? Has it introduced any legislation which suggests a desire on its part to destroy unionism in Australia ? 
Has anything been done under that act in the direction I have indicated? 
The honorable senator is merely being absurd. I am surprised that a man of his intelligence should make such a suggestion. The contrary is the case. Not 5 per cent. of the people hold the view which he has just expressed. He is well aware that a little over two years ago, when the Government went to the people, it said that if it had not the necessary powers to deal with industrial disputes it would not hesitate to ask for further powers. Is the honorable senator prepared to argue that other countries have not similar legislation; or will he deny that they can do what this country was not in a position to do until the Crimes Act was amended? Why should not this nation have the power to deal with undesirables that is possessed by other nations? Our people have a franchise equal to and in many cases better than that which is enjoyed by the people of other countries. 
The honorable senator should be sport enough to admit that it was submitted to the people and that they approved of it. 
No ; but the Government and its supporters stated clearly and unmistakably what action they would take if they were returned to power. 
I shall now deal with the speech that has been delivered by  Senator Hoare,  particularly that portion of it which related to the provisions for a secret ballot. It was a most creditable effort on the part of an honorable senator of the Opposition. He said he disagreed with the provisions of the bill in that respect, and argued that the Government should provide that first of all a branch of a union should take a secret ballot among its own members to decide whether a ballot of the whole of the organization should be taken on the question of a cessation of work. But does that justify the honorable senator in opposing the bill? He has admitted that it has some merit, and that it is only a question of whether the ' ballot shall be taken upon the representations of any ten members or in response to the request of a branch. That is a perfectly fair and reasonable contention, and I hope that when the bill is in committee the honorable senator will move in that direction. 
It is regrettable that when the Government makes an earnest attempt to bring about harmonious relations between employers and employees, it should be made to appear that it is an attempt to injure the workers of this country. I am confident that the people will not accept that version. The Government is in power at the wish of the people, and its one desire is that only such laws shall be passed as will hold the scales evenly between all sections of the people, so that each will get a fair reward for its labour, and have justice meted out to it. The Leader of the Opposition may not agree with the provisions of the bill; but he will have the opportunity to introduce whatever amendments he thinks are necessary to bring industry into a more settled state. 
I support with pleasure the second reading of the bill in the belief, which I am sure is shared by every honorable senator, that it will achieve the desirable object of bringing the employers and employees closer together, and thus obviate disputes which widen the breach between them. 
If any justification was required for the introduction of this measure, it is provided by the following paragraph which appears in a Sydney newspaper of to-day's date: - 

 Mr. J. S. Garden, secretary of the Trades and Labour Council, yesterday referred to the proposal that the members of the Maritime Unions should, if the necessity arose, be prepared to work with volunteers. " The new methods adopted in strike strategy are different from the old methods," said  Mr. Garden.  " The old method was that, once a tiling was declared black, the trade-union movement should dissociate itself from it. Tactics now are different, insofar as, if the scab cooks man the vessels, our tactics may change, and we may supply union men even though the scab cooks are aboard. Accidents, however, occur in the best-regulated families. The new cooks will not be very good sailers, and will have to go to the railings occasionally. They may lose their balance. It was a case of ' the water is damp, the sea is deep, and dead men tell no tales.' " 
I have listened with very great interest to every speech that has been delivered in this Senate upon this measure. If any further justification than that which I have just given is desired for its introduction, it is furnished by the speech of  Senator Findley.  I advise that honorable senator to circulate it throughout the length and breadth of Victoria as a justification for the proposed amendment of the Arbitration Act. 
I wish to preface my remarks by the statement of three facts about which there can be little argument. They are - 1 : The driving force responsible for the advancement of civilization and the production of wealth, both primary  and secondary, is the hope of reward ; 2 : The acceptance of that principle has lifted mankind out of the slough of despond. If that all-important inspiration is missing in any plan conceived by those engaged in industry, to uplift man from the dead level of stagnation, the result sooner or later must be disaster ; and 3 : Our arbitration system has failed because it has not taken cognizance of those facts. Compulsory arbitration has failed in Australia, after an experience extending over a period of 24 years, not so much so because it has not prevented strikes and lockouts, but rather because it has not kept men in profitable employment from the point of view of either the wage-earners or the captains of industry, whose product is now a nonseller in the world's markets. Human nature cannot be altered by act of Parliament. If the incentive to greater effort is non-existent, as it is to-day, men become slack. That applies to both the employer and the employee. Let us get down to bedrock. In a properly conducted infant school a teacher responsible for the children's education encourages the pupils by awarding marks, according to the merit of the work done. 
The usefulness of our present arbitration system terminated when it dispensed with sweated conditions and fixed a living wage. But it must be recognized by men of ordinary intelligence to-day that a living wage keeps a great body of manual workers just on the bread and butter line, with, in many instances, very little butter, because in the awards of the court no differentiation is made between the rates paid to single and married men who have many mouths to feed. Under the present system there is no hope of reward for extra effort, or the display of intelligence in the work accomplished. It does not provide the means whereby an honest and conscientious worker may be adequately remunerated, and avoid the influences of undesirable environment. Under the present system of fixing wages by the Arbitration Court, whereby the minimum wage, in most cases, becomes the maximum, the workers of Australia are stranded. Men have lost the incentive to improve their positions. They are in a position of hopelessness when their wages and conditions are fixed by judges in surroundings where wigs and gowns predominate. The workmen of to-day do not think of what they can put into their job; but only what they can get out of it. 
The proposal to hold an Empire exhibition in Sydney has been thrown overboard, because I believe it is now recognized that Australia is not in the position to produce and sell her secondary products in competition with other countries. This is due largely to the fact that we have failed to recognize economic realities. To-day Australia, which is essentially a primary producing country, ought to be the principal food producer of the world; but the only products which at present we can profitably export are wheat and wool. These two primary industries have survived only because of the efficiency displayed by those engaged in them. I am indebted to  Senator Guthrie,  who is regarded as one of the best authorities on wool in Australia, for supplying me with some very valuable information in relation to the production of that commodity. Last night  Senator Gardiner  referred to the fact that, in the good old days, the pastoralists paid only 15s. to 20s. per 100 for shearing sheep, and I may say that, if it had not been for the interest and energy displayed, as well as the scientific methods employed in the industry in increasing productivity, the pastoralists would not be able to pay more than that to-day. In 1891, 106,000,000 sheep produced 497,000,000 lb. of wool, and in 1927, 103,000,000 sheep produced 855,000,000 lb., showing that, as a result of the efficiency displayed by those engaged in the industry, the quantity of wool produced from a smaller number of sheep was nearly doubled during that period. 
What is the position in regard to the production of wheat and other cereals in 
Australia? When I first became associated with my father's farming activities 30 years ago, we could not produce more than 6 or 8 bushels to the acre; but, as a result of the training I received at the Roseworthy Agricultural College, where I gained an extensive knowledge of wheat production, including the value of a rotation of crops- 
Yes, and hard work, production has increased to such an extent that we could not carry on profitably if we did not get from 25 to 30 bushels an acre. 
No ; farming is now carried on more scientifically, and those engaged in the production of wheat concentrate on their' work. It is a curious fact that a hen will not walk over a chalk line. There is some excuse for the poor hen, which imagines there is a " catch " somewhere. Legislators, in a sense, have encircled themselves with a chalk line. It is time we recognized our economic position and stepped over it. 
The measure now under consideration has been referred to by honorable senators opposite as a coercion bill. I have a knowledge of the legislation passed in this and other parliaments for a number of years, and I do not think any bill has ever been introduced which is not regarded by some as being coercive. The bill under which  Mr.  Homburg,  when Attorney-General of South Australia, prohibited peaceful picketing was designated  "Homburg's  Coercion Act." When subsequently it was amended by  Sir Henry  Barwell, it was called the Coercion Bill. My friends opposite call the bill now before us a coercion bill, but, if the measure is what  Senator Needham  and hia party say it is, why did the  president  and others connected with the railway union in South Australia come all the way to Canberra to secure from  Mr. Latham,  the Attorney-General, a promise that they should not be cut out of its scope? 
I am sure they would not wish to remain under this bill if they thought it was the dreadful thing that honorable senators opposite say it is. I am sure, also that intelligent unionists will not be misled by the talk of honorable members opposite. It is an indictment against Australia as a whole that Califfornian " Sunkist " oranges should be exhibited for sale here in the national capital, and that Californian raisins, as I am informed is the case, should be sold in the shops of Mildura, which is the centre of the Australian dried-fruits industry. I am proud of the work that I did in the South Australian Parliament to help others in preventing the establishment of a canning industry at Cadell, in my electorate. It would have been an everlasting shame to me if I had helped to put men in the position in which most of those engaged in the fruit-canning industry find themselves to-day. The co3t of picking and packing and transportation is so high, in consequence of duties imposed by the tariff and wages prescribed by wages tribunals, that the fruitgrower can only sell at a loss of 7d. or 8d. on each dozen cans of fruit processed, and thi3 after a bounty of ls. 6d. a dozen has been paid by the Commonwealth Government; and the very small margin of profit earned upon the canned fruit sold within the Commonwealth does not to any appreciable extent offset this loss. Some of the growers, it is true, recognize that the only way out of the dilemma lies in a reduction pf the cost of production, which is in turn bound up in the issue of the continuance of the endless race between high duties and higher wages and 3till higher duties. But the majority can offer no better solution than to demand a larger bounty from the Commonwealth Government or to suggest that production he restricted. The other day I -was shocked to hear  Mr. Theodore,  who is regarded as an outstanding man in Australian public life, preaching the gospel of reduced production. If Australia has reached that stage when it is necessary to reduce production, I am afraid its position is hopeless. I do not think we have reached that stage. Nevertheless, we need to review our circumstances with a view to bringing about a better economical position in regard to production in secondary and primary industries. 
A policy of reduced production in order to save the sugar industry of Queensland. 
I am not doing  Mr. Theodore  an injustice. He emphasized over and over again the need for reduced production when speaking in another place. I shall support the second reading of the bill, not because I expect very much from it - I agree with  Senator Sampson  in that respect - but because I am prepared to give it a fair chance, and because I believe it is an honest attempt made by an honest, conscientious, upright man in the person of the Attorney-General to try to get us out of some of our difficulties. I am also prepared to vote for the second reading because the bill provides increased facilities for the settlement of disputes* by conciliation. We imagine that we are up to date in Australia, but as a matter of fact we are 100 years behind some of the other countries. 
I have with me a most interesting work. It is the second progress report of the South Australian Royal Commission on Law Reform. I was associated with the work of that commission for four years. As the result of our proceedings, many valuable hills have recently been introduced in the State Parliament by  Mr. Homburg.  It was the first occasion, in the history of the British Empire on which a body of laymen had endeavoured to put litigation on something like an equitable basis. We met with a considerable amount of abuse and every obstacle was put in our way by some of those whose living was likely to be affected - the Law Society and the principle legal practitioners of South Australia. As a matter of fact, we were up against a fairly strong union. In the course of our inquiries we found many instances in which conciliation has proved just as effective as arbitration in the settlement of litigation, just as it has proved effective in the settlement of industrial troubles. We found that in Norway, Denmark and Sweden, conciliation councils, in respect to litigation, had been in existence for 100 years. The following figures show the extent to which the conciliation courts of Denmark operate. In 1916, of a total of 57,844 cases, 52 per cent, were adjusted or settled by the conciliation courts. In 1917, the cases adjusted or settled were 53 per cent. In 1918 the percentage was 49 per cent., and in 1919 it was 48 per ecmt. In 1920 the percentage adjusted or settled was 51 per cent.; in 1921 it was 53 per cent. ; and in 1922 it was 52 per cent. In Norway, in 1916, 81 per cent, of the cases were adjusted or settled by the conciliation board of Christiana. Conciliatory methods should enable us to avoid the awful expense of arbitration spoken of by  Senator Findley.  The honorable senator told us that it sometimes takes from six months to a year, and costs anything from £1,000 to £6,000, to bring about a settlement of a dispute. The honorable senator's speech was the greatest condemnation we could possibly have of the existing system of arbitration. What are we getting as a result of our present economic system? 
Exactly. If nothing else will alarm the people, surely the figures given the other day, in reply to a question submitted by  Mr. Gregory  in another place, will do so. The honorable member for Swan was informed that at the present rate of progress it will take 24 years to double the population of Sydney and 53 years to double the population of the rural districts of New South Wales; that it will take 27 years to double the population of Melbourne, and 302 years to double that of the rural areas of Victoria; that it will take 14 years to double the population of Queensland, and 45 years to double that of the rural areas of Queensland; and that it will take 18 years to double the population of Adelaide, and 165 years to double that of the rural districts of South Australia. Under our present system the only incentive a man has to get out of the hide-bound system of the fixation of wages, and go into our Mallee districts to suffer hardship, put up with droughts, fight all the pests that are likely to affect his crops, withstand the ravages of wild dogs and submit to all the discomforts the pioneer wheat-grower has to suffer, is the ever alluring hope that he may be able to get out of his present unsatisfactory environment into a position in which he will have sufficient for himself a!nd those dependent upon him. 
I am pleased that the honorable senator has interjected. He is the general  president  of the Australian Workers Union, and as such is one of the aristocrats of Labour. The gentlemen who are members of the Australian Workers Union are the aristocrats of industry. Most of them work under piece-work, which is something that recompenses a man for bending his back at his task. I have known members of the Australian Workers Union to come into my sheds and earn anything from £2 to £3 a day. They deserved it. Subsequently I have met them at Scott's Hotel, dressed as well as myself, and with money to spend. If we could only get away from the hide-bound system of arbitration, which puts everybody on the same level, and give men some incentive to increase production, all of the unions would be as happy and contended as the Australian Workers Union to-day, and we should not have half the industrial trouble we have to-day.  Senator Gardiner  said yesterday that Henry Ford had increased the wages of his employees because he found it paid him to do so. I advise honorable senators to read Henry Ford's latest work,  The Great To-day and the Greater Future.  Henry Ford found what other intelligent business men have found - that the way to get the best out of workers is to give them an incentive to work by paying them on results, and also by giving them an interest in the concern in which they are working. Henry Ford went so far as to buy a railway that was showing a loss. He did not know much about railways; but he thought that it might succeed if Ford methods were applied to it. He gave the workers on the railway an interest in the concern, with the result that it turned out a huge success. The Henry Ford methods should be adopted in Australia, because they give men an incentive to work and use their brains and show some interest in their jobs. The application of these methods by Henry Ford himself has had the result that he sells to his own employees more automobiles than he sells to the people of Australia. It is time we woke up and started to preach the dignity of labour, instead of the doctrine of how much we can get out of anything. I do not blame men very much for asking how much they can get out of their work when they are employed under a system that does not give them an incentive to work harder than their fellows, who may go to sleep on the job. It seems to me that we ought to start in our schools and try to teach our children to realize the dignity of labour. We want a reformer of the Gandhi type in this country to teach the people of Australia of the need to banish the theory of the untouchable. India i3 suffering; millions of its people are on the verge of starvation, as the result of misunderstanding on the part of British rule. 
I confess that I am a bit of a radical in these matters. I have always been sympathetic with the man who is an honest worker. I have no desire to make friends with the idle rich. I would sooner shake hands with an honest, hard-working man than with one who has not done any work and does not know what it is to do a day's toil. I have worked. When I waa appointed to the Senate, the very first to congratulate me were the men alongside whom I had worked, and when I went to get my suitcase at an Adelaide railway station, one of the porters shook me by the hand and said, "I am pleased to see that you have got the job, because I knew you when you had a blacksmith's apron on and your face was covered with smoke and grime." Yet we are told that honorable members supporting the Government do not know what work is. If we had not worked hard and long, if we had not put our hearts into our work, we should probably still be today at' the point from which we started. 
My point in that regard was that we need in this country a reformer of the Gandhi type, to preach the gospel of the dignity of work. We do not want to be taught that it is  infra dig  to do hard work. When I see people living in the lap of luxury, when I see women with powdered faces nursing poodle dogs, when some of them ought to be nursing good Australian babies, it incenses me. My sympathies are with the honest worker, just as the sympathies of the Government are with the honest worker; and what has prompted Ministers to introduce this bill is their desire to protect the workers from being misled by paid organizers, who get them into trouble before they know where they are. In committee, I shall look upon the bill with an impartial eye. If the measure discriminates in regard to the imposition of penalties, I shall not stand for it. I believe in trying to give everybody a fair deal. 
I should like to offer a few observations concerning the bill itself. The historical aspect of the debate has interested me more than any other feature of it. 
Quite so. We have had national history, industrial history, personal history, and all sorts of history. That which intrigued me most was the history which was narrated by two honorable senators sitting on either side of the chamber, but probably looking at the subject from different points of view. I refer to the right honorable gentleman who leads the Senate, and to my good friend,  Senator Barnes.  I can endorse all that has been said about the latter gentleman, even to the extent that the last  speaker  has gone. I thought I had noticed a certain haughtiness about him; but it was possibly due to the new position to which he has been elected by, not only his own party, but also members of the party who sit on this side. 
Another honorable senator who contributed very tellingly to the' historical aspect of this subject was  Senator Verran,  who dealt with it in his characteristic and incisive way. T was very much taken with his description of the gradual development which has taken place in the personnel, aims and achievements of the Labour party. During the earlier years of that movement, although I never belonged to that party, I had ample opportunity to observe the ways of many of its leaders and representative men, and from my own absolutely unbiased stand-point I can endorse all that has been said by the three gentlemen to whom I have referred. I can endorse, too, the difference in type which has been alluded to by those gentlemen, as existing in the first days of that party, and in these its latter days. First of all we had the old school of Labour representatives and Labour men, and, thank goodness, in this Parliament, and in both branches of the legislature, there can still be found members of that old school. I refer to the time - it is almost shocking to refer to it- - when the principal officers of unions were unpaid; when they did their work, not with the incentive of gain, but more because they thought it was their duty at the behest of their fellow members to do what they could for what was, and is, .a very great cause. Then there came along those gentlemen who looked upon politics on the Labour side as a stepping - stone. Steppingstones lead both ways, of course ; but, possibly, they looked upon membership of the Labour party as a stepping-stone to higher things. There have been many such men. I think  Senator Verran  called them the black-coated brigade. He not only pictured the habiliments they wore, but also the unusual, abnormal, and totally irregular places in which their garments had become threadbare! Then we come to the latest school of Labour representative. The colour has changed to a very great extent from black to red. We find that for the last three years, approximately, these gentlemen have been in full authority, however much the Opposition may chafe at the fact. These gentlemen who call the tune for Labour, are undoubtedly very red in their tendencies, if not in their garments. There is no getting away from the fact that although this was pointed out at the last Federal election, honorable senators opposite have not been able to shake off their hold. We find quoted by both sides in this debate that most interesting article by  Senator -  pardon me, ex- and prospective senator - Rae. I think it must give honorable senators opposite, as the French would say, " furiously to think" that this gentleman, who is regarded apparently as at least one of the fine flowers of the Labour movement in the mother State of New South Wales - the most populous State, the State that sets the pattern to other States in Australia - is one of the chosen representatives on the Labour side for election to the Senate. I should like to know what they are going to do to alter that position. When my friend,  Senator Barnes,  thinks of it, he must become nearly frantic. I hate to remind him of it; but I do so with a view to stimulating him, if stimulus is necessary, to devise some means whereby this state of affairs can be remedied. I warn him that it is very prejudicial to the party of which he is so distinguished a member. He is possessed of ingenuity and force of character that have undoubtedly aided him to rise to a position in Labour circles that I have heard alluded to as the highest in Australia, and I would counsel him and his fellows purely for the good of their party and the good of Australia to resist this tendency and see if there is any method by which it can be checked. 
Let us not consider that aspect for a moment. Let us not take too sordid a view of the matter. I have mentioned this in public before, and I may do so again; but, for the good of Australia, I do not like to see it. While it injures the party of which I am speaking, it is ten times worse for the country that we are trying to assist in governing. It is a tendency that cannot be too strongly deprecated. 
We find, from the document to which I have alluded, that this Pan-Pacific Conference, proposes that steps shall be taken to break down national barriers, to bring all the countries  bordering on  -the 
Pacific to the same level, by means of a concerted plan of action between representatives of Australia and representatives of those -races that the party opposite, more than any other party, has held up to obloquy, ridicule and hatred! 
That is a logical consequence of it. Instead of our party being accused of not upholding the White Australia policy - an accusation which, with a few personal exceptions long ago, is utterly wrong and ridiculous - that charge will now be thrown in the teeth of the party opposite. It will be said that they and their representatives -  Mr. Rae  and others of his kind - are busily at. work with the representatives of all the coloured peoples round the shores of the Pacific to devise some plan whereby the barriers of race, colour and cost of labour may be broken down, and Australian labour conditions thrown into the industrial melting pot. To achieve what? That is what we want to know. It is to achieve the object of dark powers, whose one ambition is the destruction of this Empire to which I believe, thank God, every decent member of the Labour party still gives his adherence and affection. 
Referring now to the bill, I really think that it is an absolutely honest attempt to supplement, correct and ameliorate certain disabilities under which this community - not the Labour party alone, but the community in general - has been suffering through the lack of certain methods and resources in our present legislation. Personally, I believe in the principles of arbitration. I think that it has not fallen short of achieving its object. I do not say that it has failed. This country would have been very much worse off without the attempts that have been made to effect the objects of arbitration than it has been as the result of them. I am afraid I must belong to a moderate section, because the extremists on both sides are supposed not to believe in compulsory arbitration. They state, as an argument against the bill, that the Government and the "reds" are combining to destroy arbitration by trying to put on the statute-book an impossible measure. Now, 
I do not think that is so. It is on a par with the suggestion that the Government has in its pay gentlemen like  Mr. Rae,  and  Mr. Jock  Garden - whose latest effusion must be very comforting to his friends, if not his admirers, on the opposite side of the chamber - in order to bring this result about, and as honorable senators opposite have put it, "crush" trade unionism by rendering it subject to so iniquitous a bill as this. Both those arguments are too absurd, and I think we must dismiss them from our minds. 
One of the faults of the present act is that sufficient care is not taken to fix  resonsibility.  An attempt is made to remedy that in this bill. I most certainly think that it will lead to a better understanding between employers and employees. That is a very laudable object; but there is another object, and if that alone were the main purpose of the bill, we should be doing well by passing.it. If we can provide in this measure a stimulus for the average unionist to take more interest in his organization and more interest in the election of its officers, and the course which these officers follow at the direction of the union, then we shall have helped to put labour, in conjunction with its employers, on a far better basis than it stands at the present time. 
I should like to have ascertained from  Senator Findley  if any record is ever kept of the percentage of unionists who attend the union meetings, important or otherwise. A great deal hinges on that. I feel sure that many unionists, instead of going to meetings after their hard day's work, or under the new principle of stopwork meetings, say, "I will leave it to Bill; he is paid for it." We understand from sources which are partially available to many of us, that "Bill" is very well paid for what he does. I understand that some of these gentlemen who may be generically known for the time being as "Bill", draw salaries which approximate even those of the officials of this Parliament. I allude to officers of the House and members of Parliament at the same time. That being so, perhaps the more " Bill " is paid, the more the unionist thinks it is his right to leave matters to him. In this connexion let me point out another fact. We find that in those unions whose members individually pay most attention to the proceedings of their organizations, the least industrial trouble arises. I need only point to the record of the Australian "Workers Union, which very largely, I believe, through the interest which the individual members take in its proceedings, manages to avoid industrial trouble. But, on the other hand, in organizations like the Seaman's Union, whose members, perhaps, from the very nature of their occupation, are not able to attend their meetings and voice their wishes, we find that they, often on the sole and undirected impulses of the officials, get themselves, and not themselves only - that does not matter so much - but also this country and everybody in it into trouble from which it is very hard to extricate them. I hate to make any mention of cooks, because I am perfectly certain that whatever may be the views of honorable senators . opposite about the cause of the present industrial dispute, they must by this time be firmly convinced of the truth of the old proverb, " The devil sent the cooks." That, I think is abundantly evident. 
I agree with the honorable senator. I have no doubt that many honorable senators opposite and a large number of people in this country would like to see certain cooks returned to, shall I say, their country of origin-, a place where, we are given to understand, the fires never fail and there is no need to cook by electricity. The present trouble, I venture to suggest, would never have arisen but for the absolute absence of control of officials of the Marine Cooks Union. I should say that  Mr. Tudehope,  by this time bitterly regrets that he relied so much upon his own initiative, and consulted so little with the members of his union, who might have advised him not to make the curry so hot, as apparently he has succeeded in doing. 
That is so. There is one underlying principle in the bill with which, I believe, r honorable senators of the Labour party will agree. I refer to the proposed new sections to provide for an effective ballot of members of a trade union before it becomes involved in any serious industrial crisis. I believe that if the provisions relating to the secret ballot are operated we shall do away with 50 per cent, of our industrial troubles. If the bill can achieve that object then all the consideration which we can give to it will be time well spent, and I believe that the thanks of the people of Australia, of both political persuasions, will be due to this Parliament for having done something useful. 
I believe they will. I have noticed in the course of the debate that honorable senators opposite have arrogated to themselves the right to be regarded as the representatives of the people of Australia. That in my view, is altogether too large a claim to make. 
That is so. 
Or figures either, as  Senator Foll  has suggested. It is borne out only by fancy. The assertion that our friends of the Opposition represent the people of Australia may be taken under three headings - facts, figures, or fancy. If facts and figures fail to support the claim it may, perhaps, be admissible to depend the claim' on fancy. Certainly the assertion of our friends of the Labour party that they are the sole legitimate representatives of the people of Australia is not borne out by facts - I understand that even unionists themselves are not always solid on this point. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. I submit that we are here because, fortunately, a sufficient number of people in Australia realize that the party to which we belong is at all events endeavouring to legislate, not in the interests of one section only, but in the interests of the whole of the people. As long as this is the objective of our party, we shall be perfectly safe. There is nothing to "be gained by stirring up what is called class consciousness, though I am not sure that such a thing exists in Australia. At all events, I- have not had much evidence of it. I think that, if there is any country in the world where there is less of this class consciousness, as it is called, it is Australia, and I always regret any attempt to destroy the existing relationships between the respective sections of the people. 
I believe that it is ; but not by the class which is always accused of endeavouring to encourage it in the minds of the people. 
Yes. There is another matter to which I desire to allude. I have noticed, of late years, an increasing disposition on the part of young people in Australia to look upon working for somebody else as the sole means of livelihood. But I do not make this charge against the young only. On the part of people of all ages there is a marked inclination to depend upon employment provided by others, instead of striking out for themselves. Let me say at once that wages men never made a country, and never will. A country is made great by its pioneers ; by men, who, in the first place, depend upon wages for their subsistence, but as time goes on save a little, and themselves become employers. A country is made great even by the mistakes and failures of its pioneers. Their failures become a lesson, not only to themselves, but also to other people engaged in the same experiment and carrying on the same work. 
That is so; but, I am afraid, to a much less extent in these later years than formerly. Years ago it was a task to persuade the younger members of families to remain in the towns. That is not the case to-day. In these days it is difficult to persuade them to go into the country and engage in. .the pioneering work, where the real future of Australia lies. I speak from experience of some fourteen or sixteen years in the back-blocks of Australia. I have some knowledge of what is required of the people engaged in the development of Australia. I know something of the tasks that are set them, and I know, too, how the great majority of them win through to success. I deeply deplore this tendency on the part of our young people to remain in the towns attracted by the meretricious pleasures to be found there, instead of striking out to make a career for themselves. I deplore this failure on the part of our young people to regard the wage-earning period of life as the saving period, or the starting point for a successful career of independent work. If  we can do anything to counteract this tendency we should not neglect the opportunity to do it. This bill, I believe, contains the seeds of that useful thought which,  I hope, will germinate in the minds of some of our younger people. 1 may be wrong, but I believe that the future of Australia lies in the development of small holdings. I believe that, if we can develop such a scheme as it has been developed in France and in Italy, the future of Australia from a financial, national and industrial stand-point will be assured. 
There is just one matter which I should like to set right in the mind of my honorable friend,  Senator Needham.  Se alluded to me as the defender of some body which is called the Metal Trade Employers' Association. I do not know why he did so, because I have no knowledge of that body. I therefore repudiate the charge. I do so because if I did not, the honorable senator would possibly say, on some future occasion, that he had accused me of being its defender, and that, although I had heard him, I had not contradicted the statement. I have had nothing to do with the association in question. I could not help thinking while the honorable senator was quoting, certain references to the Labour party by a representative of the association that the language employed was singularly like that used by  Mr. Mutch,  a member of the Labour party in New South Wales, in a speech endorsing the candidature of a gentleman whom we are all very glad indeed ,to see amongst us again. I refer to »  Senator Gardiner,  i ' As ' a matter of fact I was under the impression when  Senator Needham  was quoting certain statements by a representative of the Metal Trade Employers' Association that he was quoting extracts from a speech by  Mr. Mutch.  It was my mistake. I apologize to the honorable senator. 
I should like to do so, but I am afraid that the  President  would not allow me to repeat the language used. I understand that the speech was made in the Parliament of New South Wales, and that what is held to be parliamentary language there is such that if it were used in the street one would need to be careful that a policeman was not within hearing. 
I think that this is the making of a good bill. I assume that when it is in committee its provisions will be discussed in some detail. I hope that honorable senators will approach the consideration of each clause, as I propose to do, having at heart the interests of the community generally, and with the intention of making the machinery of the Arbitration Court work as smoothly as possible. If the measure emerges from committee in anything like its present form it will be a useful piece of legislation. 
Let me repeat that if only we can induce the average member of a trade union to take more interest in the affairs of his organization, we shall achieve a great deal. It gives me pleasure to support the second reading of the bill. 
I listened attentively to the remarks of  Senator Kingsmill,  and I could not help being struck with his mouldy sarcasm. It is a part of his make-up to be as sarcastic as possible. I assure the honorable gentleman it ill becomes him. Throughout his somewhat flowery speech he omitted to make any reference to the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. For once he forgot that piece of legislation. The honorable senator offered some advice to the young people of this country. He suggested that they should not depend so much upon employers, but should go out into the backblocks and blaze the trail. There are thousands of young people in every State who would be glad enough to do that if only they could get. land to settle on. The honorable senator appeared to have a poor opinion of young men who are not fired with the ambition to be their own bosses, and he deplored the fact that so many are content to work for wages. It is within the knowledge of all honorable senators that thousands of men who ventured into business have failed, and have again joined the ranks of wage-earners. I should like to know what has become of  Senator Kingsmills  possum farm. Did he make a success of that venture? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! I remind the honorable senator that his remarks must have relation to the bill. 
You did not take this stand,  Mr. President,  when  Senator Kingsmill  was referring to me. 
I point out that I do not differentiate in my attitude towards honorable senators. I allow all of them a little  lattitude;  but when they transgress to too great an extent I am obliged to call them to order. I now ask the honorable senator to address himself to the bill. 
During the last 25 years arbitration has done wonders for the industrial organizations; hut within the last ten or twelve years the business before the court has become so congested that large organizations have not been able to have their plaints heard. A union to which I belonged at one time had a plaint before the court for four years. The economic conditions are continually changing, and if the workers cannot have their plaint heard they are inclined to resort to the barbaric weapon of the strike. 
During this debate a great deal has been said in regard to the action of the marine cooks in tying up the coastal shipping service. If ever it was necessary to have one big union, that is the position at the present time. No small union should be allowed to take the bit between its teeth at the expense of the thousands of workers who are either directly or indirectly concerned. 
 Is the honorable senator in favour of one hig union? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John Newlands). -  Order! 
 One big union, one big strike, and one big starvation. 

 Senator Verran 
 again interjecting 

The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John Newlands). -  I ask the honorable senator if he intends to connect his remarks with .the subject-matter of the bill? 
There may be a few provisions in this measure which will be of slight benefit to unionists; but there are many others which are very objectionable and which should be amended if the Government wish to treat unionists fairly.  Senator Guthrie  referred to the wives of unionists who, he said, should have a vote; but that honorable senator has as much love for the workers as the devil has for holy water. 
 The angle from which I approach the discussion of this subject is different from that of others who have preceded me. Some honorable senators have had a long association with trade unionism, hut my experience has been largely with employers. Foi over 40 years I have been an employer, and for four or five years of that period I had the privilege of occupying the position of  president  of an employers' association. On several occasions I acted as employers' representative on wages boards, and, going still further back, I was, as a military officer, called out on one occasion, I am sorry to say, to assist the civil power in preventing misdeeds in Queensland. That is now ancient history, but I refer to it merely to show that it had a very good effect. Not a single shot was fired in anger, but the action taken on that occasion resulted in the restoration of peaceful conditions in Queensland. As a representative of the employers I have no hesitation in saying that they desire industrial peace, and I think that the provisions of this measure will assist in that direction. It does not pay the employers to have their warehouses closed or their ships held up. Employers wish their operations to be continuous in order to make profits, which is the object of business, and therefore industrial peace is very desirable. They cannot, however, agree to peace at any price; it must be secured on a fair and reasonable basis. 
It has been asserted by some honorable senators that arbitration was first established by a Labour government; that was not so in Queensland. In that State the wages board system, which is an excellent one if the cardinal difficulty of appointing a  chairman  acceptable to both parties can be overcome, was first introduced. The practice in Queensland was to appoint three members to represent the employers and three to represent the employees, all of whom had a full knowledge pf the industry. The difficulty we experienced was to find an independent  chairman  in whom both sides had confidence. . The system, which was a failure in Queensland, has, I understand, been a success in Victoria, although I do not know how they overcame the difficulty of appointing a  chairman  suitable to both parties. The next step taken in Queensland was the introduction by a Liberal Government ' of an Arbitration Act. Before that act was introduced, the Chambers of Commerce, which represented the employers, were asked for suggestions as to the best means of introducing the system. At the time I was  president  of the Rockhampton Chamber of Commerce, and that chamber recommended that judges should not be engaged in arbitration cases. I came to that decision many years ago, and it is one to which I adhere to-day, because, as the result of experience, I am forced to the conclusion that judges are not the most suitable persons to handle arbitration matters. They are bound by precedents and procedure, and have no opportunity to acquire sufficient knowledge of the subjects with which they have to deal. I have previously expressed the opinion that the best men for such positions are those who have had wide commercial experience, and who possess a judicial mind. Such men should be paid a salary sufficient to place them beyond temptation. A recommendation to that effect was not adopted in Queensland, or in the wider Commonwealth sphere. 
Although I do not think the present system is satisfactory, we have to do our. best with the  material  at our disposal. I agree with  Senator Graham  when he says that our arbitration system  is- not perfect. We can also say that marriage is not perfect, but no one has been able to suggest  a better system than that which prevails at present. Our present arbitration laws operate prejudicially against the employers at times, because employers can easily be located, prosecuted and fined, whereas it is often difficult to locate and punish employees who break the law. Although our arbitration system is not a success from the viewpoint of many of the employers, they accept it as a principle and wish to see the law properly carried out. In Queensland,.  Mr. Justice  McCawley, one of the ablest men who has ever graced the Bench in Australia, once had a very strong leaning towards the political party which appointed him. Many of his earlier judgments were decidedly in favour of the employees; but later he developed a true judicial mind and made many industrial awards which were acceptable to both parties to the dispute. When the Mount Morgan company found it necessary to have its many awards consolidated,  Mr. Justice  McCawley went very carefully into the position. He realized that the industry had not the capacity to pay the very high wages claimed by the unions, and after considering the matter and giving very good reasons for his decision, he gave an award based on the ability of the industry to bear it. The workers would not accept the award. They went on strike and remained on strike for eleven months, during which time they received subsistence from the Queensland Government. At the end of the eleven months the Queensland Government, like every one else, was most desirous of settling the trouble, and devoted £50,000 a month out of the railage which the company was paying, to give the men not all of their demands, but up to 70 per cent, of them. Although the workers had their own judge, and everything their own way in Queensland at that (time, they would not accept an award based on reason and justice, preferring to remain out on strike for eleven months until the State Government devoted £50,000 a month from the railage paid by the company to meet the greater portion of their demands. 
Yes ; one could hear loud-mouthed agitators talking of how the Government was protect-, ing the Mount Morgan company by giving it £50,000 a month to keep its employees at work, whereas it  wa3  a contribution by the taxpayers out of the railway revenue to meet the demands of the men, and was not a contribution by the Government to the company. 
 I always contend that labour has a perfect right to stop work when it likes, and I do not think that strikes should be declared illegal ; but at the same time I hold that when industry is held up by a strike the employer should have the right to keep it going, especially if it is an essential service, by putting on whatever labour he is able to obtain. I hold, also, that the people who are thus employed should not be interfered with. I think that picketing should be declared illegal. The old yarn about peaceful picketing has been exploded. We have seen " peaceful picketing" in operation on the sugar cane fields of Queensland. The severest penalties should be imposed for picketing or interfering, with free labourers doing work which others have refused to do. 
Unfortunately, there is a good deal of overlapping in industrial awards. This bill may have the effect of preventing it, but I am rather doubtful about it unless we can secure the co-operation of the States. .Had the proposals of the Government which were submitted to the people at the last referendum been accepted the way would have been perfectly clear to prevent overlapping; but without the power that this Parliament would have obtained if the Government's proposals had been accepted it is doubtful whether the Commonwealth Parliament can do anything practical in this respect. At any rate, a good deal can be done with the goodwill of the States. I am one of those who think that the Commonwealth's activities in industrial matters should be very light. The Constitution implies that its founders contemplated that the only activity that would come within the aegis of the Commonwealth would be the shipping industry. All other Australian industries are essentially State activities. That view has been stressed time after time by congresses of Chambers of Commerce and employers' associations. Occasionally it has been suggested that shearing is another industry that mightcome within the control of the Commonwealth. Personally &gt; I think that shearing is not interstate in character. At any rate, it is not as much interstate as is the shipping industry, as the workers proved in Queensland by ignoring a Federal award  in the shearing industry and getting a State award for higher wages than are fixed in the Federal award. 
They could not help themselves; they had to pay the piper. 
It certainly did. It is highly desirable that we should avoid overlapping awards. It is, of course, the easiest matter in the world to camouflage a State dispute by giving it an interstate character. I hope that eventually there will he federal control of all awards, with delegation to State tribunals. I am sure that the employers and the unions will not be able to stand the expense of concentrating in Canberra to secure Federal awards. Had the Government proposals been adopted by the people we could have had a Federal Court and authority delegated to State tribunals to deal with practically everything. Only the most important matters such as standard hours of labour would have been dealt with by the central tribunal. 
The provisions of the bill dealing with secret ballots seem to have caused a good deal of contention on the other side of the chamber. To my mind, it is quite a good idea to require the holding of secret ballots. Honorable senators opposite admit that it is the regular practice for the unions to hold these ballots, and the provision in the bill is only a slight extension of a principle already adopted by the organizations. Surely there can be no objection to the provision that ten men may initiate the taking- of a ballot. 
We could not allow one man to initiate the taking of a ballot. It is necessary to compare the Government's proposal with the practice that is commonly adopted in the commercial activities of the country. For instance, one shareholder cannot ask that a meeting of shareholders shall be con vened.  It is laid down in most of the articles of association of companies that a certain number of shareholders shall have the right to demand that a meeting be summoned. That is all that the ten members of a union will be able to do; they can demand a ballot on certain subjects. 
The honorable senator cannot imagine the whole of the activities of his organization being in issue at the one time. The ballot that could be demanded by ten men in the Australian Workers Union would apply to a section only. The main point is that in all commercial activities a few men can demand the calling of a meeting to do certain things, and the provision in the bill is merely an adoption of that principle. Surely there can be no reasonable objection to it. Furthermore, as I emphasized in my election speeches, it gives the rank and file control of their unions. 
I agree with a great many of the bouquets that have been thrown at  Senator Barnes  and his union. The Australian Workers Union is a well-conducted organization. But there are many others that are not well conducted, and if the newspapers are to be believed, the Cooks' Union is one of them. The secretary of the Cooks' Union is the kingpin of his organization. The rank and file of an organization ought to be able to exercise proper control over their officials. They do in well-regulated unions; hut there are many in which they do not. I think it is highly desirable that they should have the control proposed to be given to them by this bill. Who will object to the supervision of accounts? Registered companies have to file their accounts with the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies. Friendly societies are under very strict actuarial supervision. Every similar organization is more or less liable to audit, and in view of quite a number of recent happenings I think there should be no objection to the supervision of union accounts. 
In Queensland there has been a good deal of opposition to the Government's proposal. I wondered where it was coming from, and caused inquiries to be made. I find that two gentlemen,  Mr. W.  E. Crane, B.A., and  Mr. Paterson,  B.A., are touring Queensland saying that this bill is designed to break the unions and spoil the workers.  Mr. Crane  got his degree in Queensland; but  Mr. Paterson  was a Rhodes scholar. I have previously expressed my opinion of this gentleman and his Rhodes scholarship. I venture to think that if the great Cecil Rhodes could have foreseen that the historic provision in his will was likely to produce a man with the views of  Mr. Paterson  he would never have signed it. Both these gentlemen are out-and-out Communists. I think they belong to the Jock Garden community. 
As far as the future is concerned I am entitled to think that we have fixed our wages on a wrong basis. My idea is that we should fix a wage for the single man and, starting from that basis, encourage him to marry and have a family. It would be the best way to settle the population problem of this country if we gave a man additional pay upon his marriage and increased it by so much for every child he had until it reached the earning age. The fund out of which these payments would be made could be based upon contributions from the worker, the Government and the employer. Although the employer may possibly have nothing to do with a man's marriage, the fact that a worker is married makes him contented and through the content of his workers the employer benefits. There is also the other angle to be looked after by the employer - the payment to be made for skill, long service and loyalty. Under our present scheme we lose sight of these things. We fix a minimum wage which is really a maximum and the employer has to bring his best men down to the average of the lowest worker. In an ideal state of things such as I have just now adumbrated that sort of thing would not happen. It may be said that all employers cannot be controlled, that they will not recognize merit; but America has a way of getting over that difficulty by the appointment of control inspectors. At any rate I think it is a; scientific way of settling- the problem, though I doubt very much if it will ever' be completely settled to the satisfaction of the whole community by any of the methods mentioned. I think thateventually the settlement of our industrial troubles will be achieved by cooperation in industry, with employers and employees working together for the common good. Of course, that method would involve the allocation of profits among, those who put capital into industrial enterprises as well as among the workers and the directive brains. Capital and labour and directivity are complementary to one another. If co-operation along those lines can be evolved in the future there will be no more industrial trouble. 
I do not think so. I am not entirely an admirer of  Mr. Ford.  The industrial delegation to the United States of America did not regard him as such an ideal employer as he has been described in other quarters. The bill is an honest attempt to improve industrialconditions, and, although some necessary amendments may be made in committee, I hope that the measure will be passed substantially in its present form. 
[5.17]. - The debate has been interesting and informative, and I wish to thank honorable senators for the friendly criticism that has been directed to the bill. I propose to reply to several points that have been raised. Both  Senator Needham  and  Senator Graham  indulged in a good deal of comment on the alleged opposition of the trade unions to the bill. I intend to give the Senate a sample of that' opposition. It began in Melbourne. First of all there was a meeting of trade union secretaries, and they decided to send out a circular letter to all trade unions appealing to them to oppose, the bill. Some little time after that, honor able senators received letters from different unions. The following is the text of a letter that was sent to me from the Western Australian Amalgamated Society of Railway Employees: - 
General Secretary's Office, 27 Trades Hall, Perth, 28th April, 1928. 
Dear  Sir, 
At a special .meeting of the above union, called at the request of the various branches, it was decided that this organization is irrevocably opposed to the proposed amendments of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because they aim a vital blow at the industrial unions of Australia, and that instead of creating industrial peace, they would be more likely to create industrial chaos. I was instructed to write and request you to oppose the proposed amendments. 
Trusting you will realize the necessity for the sake of industrial peace of opposing the proposed amendments, 
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) G. Keating, 
General Secretary. 
On receiving that, I wrote, in reply, as follows : -  4th May, 1928. 
Dear  Sir, 
 I am in receipt of. your letter of 28th April in which you ask me to oppose the proposed amendments to the Australian' Conciliation and Arbitration Act; "because they aim a vital blow at the industrial unions of Australia." 
The provisions of this bill provide for the enforcement of awards and also to enable the members of unions to have effective control of their own affairs by means of a secret ballot where such is demanded by them. 
 I cannot see how such proposals can bc said to " aim a vital blow at the industrial unions of Australia," nor can I see why any union should object to its members having the power to control its affairs. I can only assume that you have not read the bill, and have been misled by the many misleading statements that have been made in regard to the bill. 
I am, therefore, forwarding you by this mail a copy of the bill, and would be glad if you would point out which of the clauses are capable of the construction put upon them by you. 
When the various amendments were drafted, I forwarded a copy of them .to that organization, and again I invited suggestions ; but I have received no reply. Does that not indicate that those responsible for the letter from the union had not seen the bill? 
Then I suggest that that makes the position all the worse, because having seen the measure they could not indicate any clauses that would have the effect that they said they would have. Surely when they appealed to me to oppose the bill, they must have acted in good faith; but, when I asked them to indicate which of the clauses would have that effect, they failed to reply. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They have not said so. 
Now I come to  Senator Barnes,  who made one or two somewhat extraordinary statements in his otherwise calm and wellbalanced speech. Amongst other things he said he believed that the Commonwealth Government had staged the present industrial dispute. What a ridiculous statement ! 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What a foolish suggestion! He is not only a senator, but also the leader of one of the greatest unions in this country. If he did honestly believe that the Government had staged the present dispute, why did he remain silent while the Government, according to his own statement, was using a union in this country to bring about one of the biggest disasters that has ever overtaken unionism since the great maritime strike? 
If the honorable senator really believes that the Government brought about the present dispute, he has been false to his own union in remaining silent and not denouncing the Government up to the present time. Although he is the leader of one of the greatest unions in Australia, he remained silent while the Government, according to him, if he would have us take him seriously, was supposed to be leading the country to disaster. He referred to the law-abiding unions. I am glad to say that the overwhelming mass of the unionists are law-abiding, and no law-abiding unionist has anything to fear from the bill. 
Now I turn to  Senator Gardiner.  I was glad to hear him in this chamber again ; but in his speech on this measure he was not up to his usual form. He did not show that grasp of -the bill that he customarily displayed in dealing  with measures when he filled the position of Leader of the Opposition. He was apparently totally unacquainted with certain clauses. He said that the bill threatened penalties against the organized workers of this country. But the measure does not make any threat ; it provides penalties against not only the organized workers, but also those who are unorganized, if they act contrary to the provisions of the bill. Those penalties are provided against not only workers, whether organized or unorganized, but also against employers, whether organized or unorganized. Then he said that the hill imposed a fine of £100 for abusive language by a unionist, and only £20 for the same offence by a non-unionist. I invite his attention to the clause on which he based that statement. If he turns to page 20 of the bill, he will find that proposed new section 86a provides - 
No person shall - 
by violence to the person or property of another person; 
by any threats; 
by any pecuniary penalty or injury; 
by intimidation of any kind to whomsoever directed; 
by abusive or insulting language; 
by declaring or joining with other persons in declaring goods or places or persons or undertakings or positions " black " ; or 
by any other form of boycott or threat of boycott, prevent, or endeavour to prevent, any person from offering or accepting employment or working . in accordance with the terms of an award or order of the court. 
Penalty: Twenty pounds, or, in the case of an officer of a registered organization, One hundred pounds. 
There is no differentiation between a unionist and a non-unionist, or between an employer and an employee. The provision is directed against any person who commits any one of these offences; whether he is the secretary of an organization of employers or of employees, he incurs the penalty set out.  Senator Gardiner  also said that the bill, apparently, was brought in for the purpose of irritating the community. Surely he will give the Government some credit for political common sense, at any rate. We are approaching an election, and why on earth should we be so foolish as to bring in a bill to irritate the community when we are about to appeal to the people? 

 Senator Sampson referred to the disinclination of employers to prosecute unions or unionists for breaches of the act.That undoubtedly has always been one of the weaknesses of the arbitration law. Employers are disinclined to take action because it brings them into court and into the light of publicity. It may make them appear to be harsh employers, and bring them into a collision with a union that may lead to future trouble. The tendency, therefore, is for them to take this action only as a last resort. That is one of the reasons why there has been almost a failure in the past to impose the penalties against workers who have broken awards. That is one reason why provision is made in the bill for the appointment of inspectors to police the awards, so that it will not rest with private individuals to see that they are obeyed. These inspectors will police them not only against the worker, but also against the employer if he breaks them. The honorable senator also referred to the difficulty of enforcing an award, and there is the greatest difficulty in doing that, by means of fines or penalties. That is one of the reasons why in certain cases - not in every case and not at the request of the employer but at the discretion of the judge - the court, knowing the history of an organization and its capacity for breaking an award, may demand that a bond be put up to ensure that an award is honoured in the future. 
Senators Graham andFindley both referred to a clause which, I admit, is new, and a distinct departure from previous acts. This is clause 7, and it requires serious consideration. It provides - 
Section seven of the principal act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - "7. - (1.) Any person or organization bound by or entitled to the benefit of an award may apply to the court for an order declaring that a lockout or strike exists in an industry or in some section or part of an industry employers or employees in which are subject to the award. (2.) The court may require notice of any application made under this section to be served upon such persons as it directs. (3.) Where an application is made under this section the court may, if it thinks fit in all the circumstances of the case, make an order declaring that a lockout or strike exists in the industry or in some section or part of the industry. (4.) The court may at any time, upon such notice, to such persons, as it thinks fit, revoke a declaration made under the last preceding sub-section. (5.) Upon an order being made under this section declaring that a lockout exists in the industry or a section or part of the industry, anything in the nature of a strike done in that industry or in any section or part of that industry shall not, while the order remains in force, be a breach of the act or of any award or order of the court. . . . 
There is a similar provision in regard to lockouts. These provisions have been introduced to deal with a feature of industrial trouble that is most sinister and dangerous in its character. I refer to job control. I ask honorable senators to consider that aspect of industrial trouble in a reasonable way, and ask themselves if it can be dealt with in any manner other than that provided in the bill. What happens in an industrial dispute if unionists do not avail themselves of the Arbitration Court and seek redress of their grievances through that channel? When they are in this frame of mind there are two courses open to them. One is the general strike; the other, and a far more deadly and dangerous weapon, is job con trol. By exercising job control they attack an industry in sections in the hope that they may be able  to bring the whole industry into submission. Ships are held up . by this means. Where this plan of attack is adopted, it is not long before those who employ it succeed in rendering idle many other industries, and throw thousands of fellow unionists out of employment. In this way they do serious injury to the community at large. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.We have to recognize that it is impossible to deal with this pernicious system of job control by the imposition of the ordinary penalties in the act, for the simple reason that men who adopt it only have to say that they do not feel well, that they want a rest, or that they want a holiday. Then they walk off their ship or cease work. When this plan is put into operation on a ship that is about to sail, perhaps fully loaded with valuable refrigerated cargo, the result is most disastrous. It is not necessary that the entire crew, or that the entire complement of firemen should cease work. If four or five firemen walk off a ship at the last minute, their action holds up the ship just as effectively as if the whole crew had gone on strike. Action of this sort by men engaged in various industries paralyses industry in general. How can we deal with them? Clearly the provisions in the act are ineffective, because men who practice job control merely state that they are not well or do not care to work, and leave" their employment, not as a body, but individually. Penalties under the act can be imposed only if it can be proved that the men acted in combination. No one can deny that, in many instances the action of men who practice job control is directed by their unions for a specific purpose. The men are determined not to go to the court for redress. Their minds are set upon direct action, and nothing will deter them from putting their plan into force. In such circumstances, it is only right that employers should have the same liberty of action. If men practice job control with the idea of paralysing industry, the employer should have equal freedom of action to declare a lockout in the hope of bringing a dispute to an end. 
There is only one way to deal with job control. The Government has provided the means in this bill. I invite  Senator Barnes,  if he has a better proposal, to submit it when we come to those provisions of the bill in committee. With his vast experience of trade unionism, he must know that job control is practised by many industrial organizations. I am aware that his union does not countenance it, but he knows as well as I do that other unions do. I suggest, therefore, that if he has any proposals to deal with job control more effectively than the provisions inserted by the Government, he should submit them to us. They will receive every consideration, and, if considered desirable, will be accepted. This is the only way in which we can deal with the menace of job control which is one of the most dangerous weapons that can be used by trade unionists in an industrial dispute.  Senator Findley  objected to these provisions in the bill. If he will read the clause again, and have regard to the circumstances' in which the provisions will be operative, he will. see how the Government proposes to deal with this menace. 
I do not propose to follow  Senator Findley  in his excursions into my poli- tical past, except to say that some of us, as we grow older, learn, while others petrify, and never learn. I admit that, at one time, I was an enthusiastic believer in the principle of preference to unionists. I took the view that, as a trade union had to incur considerable expenditure, and had to go to a great deal of trouble to secure an award from the court, it was only reasonable that an award should include the principle of preference in employment to unionists. But in actual working the principle is not without grave faults. I can speak from personal experience. As Minister for Defence for some years I had the experience of the working of the principle, and I know only too well what a powerful weapon it is in the hands of union secretaries and organizers who, by this means, have absolute control over the lives of trade unionists. 
It enables union secretaries and organizers to bestow patronage on friends in a union and prevent others from securing employment. In the actual working of the principle a member of a trade union can secure employment only through- the secretary or organizer of his organization. 
I had indisputable proof when I was Minister for Defence that if a member of a trade union displeased the secretary or organizer he had very little chance of getting a job. As a matter of fact I had unionists writing to me direct asking for employment, and when I advised them that the policy of the Government was to give preference to unionists and that they should apply to the secretary of their union, they wrote in reply stating that so far as they were concerned that was the finish, because they had no chance of getting a job from the secretary of their union. 
SenatorBarnes. - The Minister must be aware that in every union office there is a record of unemployed members. This is open to inspection by members. If a man knows that he is next on the roster for employment, the secretary cannot turn him down. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE:I know that the principle of preference to unionists is operated in the way I have . indicated. 
I come now to the question of unemployment in relation to this bill, a point raised by  Senator Findley.  The honorable senator deplored that there was so much unemployment in Australia. We all regret that, unfortunately, the position is so unsatisfactory, and that there are so many men out of work in the different " States. But can this be wondered at in view of the adverse seasons experienced? In South Australia last year the wheat harvest was 15,000,000 bushels below the production of the previous year. That reduction in yield represents an enormous loss of purchasing and. employing power on the part of the people. There- is, however, another factor bearing greatly upon this problem of unemployment in respect of which  Senator Findley  has never made a protest. I refer to the. thousands of men who are thrown into the' ranks of the unemployed owing to the action of strikers. How many thousands are out of work to-day as the result of the marine cooks' strike? 
I challenge that statement. The existence' of unemployment in Australia has had the effect . of immediately reducing migration. The migration policy of the' Government has not, in any respect, been a factor in unemployment in Australia. The only migrants coming to Australia are nominated either by a State or by friends or relatives in Australia, who undertake to find them employment. Furthermore, migration is really controlled by State Governments. As soon as there is evidence of unemployment, the States cease to nominate, and so the number of migrants coming to Australia drops automatically. At present, with the exception of some nominated migrants for the State of Western Australia, and domestic servants for one or two other States, the States have ceased to nominate. 

 Senator Findley spoke also of the great profits made by industry, and endeavoured to show that the court could go on almost indefinitely making increases in awards, because industry is so prosperous. Is this the same  Senator Findley,  who, a little while ago, when the tariff was under discussion, declared that unless increased duties were granted, those industries would be crushed out of existence ? The honorable senator appears  to  speak with two voices. In the discussion of this bill, he takes the view that the industries of Australia are so prosperous that they can afford to pay higher and still higher wages ; but when discussing tariff matters, he takes the view that unless these industries are given more protection, they must go out of business. 
The honorable member was unfortunate  in  his criticism of the provisions relating  to  secret ballots of members of trade unions, as proposed in the bill. He said that we on this side had really no belief  in,  and no knowledge of, the secrecy of the ballot. I can only say, on that point, that the Commonwealth electoral law, especially that part of it which deals with the ballot, is regarded as the most perfect system in the world. It originated in Australia. In other countries where it has been adopted it is known as the Australian ballot system, and is commended because of the precautions taken to 'ensure secrecy. It is extraordinary that opposition to the taking of a secret ballot in relation to the policy  of  trade unions should come from representatives of the Labour party, which,  in  the days gone by, always stood for democracy. Actually, Labour members, as well as others, are members of this Parliament by virtue of the secret ballot. If this principle had not been incorporated  in  our electoral law, many members would never have been elected. What objection, therefore, can there be- to the Government's proposal to make this principle a cog in our industrial machine? The arguments used by  Senator Findley  against these provisions, are exactly the arguments that were employed by Tory opponents many years ago against the inclusion of the secret ballot in the electoral law. As a boy I read many of the speeches delivered by prominent public men of the day concerning the secret ballot. The arguments used then against this principle were exactly the same as those employed by honorable senators opposite in their opposition to the secret ballot provisions in this bill. It appears to me, therefore* that political economy can be described as a wheel, and that the gentlemen opposite, who are the inheritors of the party that stood and fought for democracy and all that it means, have, in these later, days, become a Tory autocracy. 
[5.46].  -  This bill was drafted in 1927. It, therefore, is necessary to amend the short title. I move - 
That sub-clauses (2) and (3) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following sub-clause: - (2.) The Commonwealth Conciliataion and Arbitration Act 1904-1927 is in this act referred to as the principal act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Penalty for lockout or strike). 
 Sub-section 1 of section 6 of the principal act provides that any person or organization who or which does anything in the nature of a lockout or strike, or continues a lockout or strike, shall be liable to a penalty of £1,000. The Government contends that by this clause it is acting magnanimously. It is merely pretending to reduce the penalty from £1,000 to £50. It was never imagined that the maximum penalty of £1,000 could be collected if any court was foolish enough to impose it. The claim of the Government that it is being generous will not bear investigation. In the case of an organization the penalty will be increased instead of reduced, and if the law was applied strictly some organizations would be ruined financially. I have in mind organizations consisting of from 500 to 1,000 members. I know what their contributions are, and I can assure honorable senators that when the expenses of management have been met there is very little left. If any member of an organization does anything in the nature of a strike he can be penalized to the extent of £50. It has been the practice for an organization to pay any fine imposed upon one of its members in consequence of 'any action taken by him that meets with its approbation or has its consent. The position might easily arise under which every member of an organization would be liable to a fine of. £50. Such an amount could not be recovered. 
That is so. A figure considerably less would meet the case if an individual or an organization was found guilty of an offence under the arbitration law. There is no. doubt that monetarily organizations of employers can afford to pay the penalty provided; but it is altogether too severe a burden to place upon unionists. Under the provisions of section 6a the fine of £1,000 is made applicable to not only the organization but also the individual. A trivial act might bring a member of an organization, or even the organization itself, under the ban of that particular provision. Not very long ago certain persons were admitted to the Commonwealth and subsequently were discovered to be suffering from some mental trouble. Eventually they had to be confined in a hospital for the insane. After a period of detention they were deported. The stewards on the vessel by which they travelled were ordered to look after them. In the course of their surveillance one or two of the stewards were injured by some of these unfortunate people. The whole of their number ceased work, and thus committed something in the nature of a strike and rendered themselves liable to a penalty. although possibly their lives were in danger. While it is necessary that all laws which this - Parliament enacts should make provision for some penalty, as a deterrent to potential law-breakers; such penalties should be imposed within reasonable limits. 
We, as the makers of the laws, should exercise a little sweet reasonableness; we should not wait for the matter to come before a judge. When passions are roused it is difficult to obtain what may be regarded as a reasonable decision. 
It is not our concern whether the penalties are imposed either frequently or infrequently; that is a matter of administration, which does not come within our province. The Minister has stated that as this penalty is in the principal act, we have no justificartion for opposing it. We are not disputing the fact that it has previously been in operation, but pointing out that it is ridiculously high, and one that it will be impossible to collect from the organization or the individual.For that reason, I ask the Minister to postpone the consideration of this clause with a view to submitting an amendment providing for the imposition of a more reasonable penalty. 
[6.2].  -  I remind honorable senators that these are maximum penalties. The imposition of a fine of £1,000 on some employers would mean forcing them out of business. Seveneighths of the employers in Australia could not afford to pay such a fine. No court would impose a savage fine; but a  Company  may commit an act for which a fine of £1,000 would be fully justified. On the other hand, there are many employees who would be seriously embarrassed if they had to pay a fine of 450. It would be foolish to impose an unnecessarily heavy fine. There might be cases in which the court would be justified in imposing a fine of £50 on an employee or a fine of £1,000 on an employer, who, as the result of his action, might inflict considerable hardship upon the community. There have been instances of firemen leaving a vessel at the last moment, thus causing considerable inconvenience and expense not only to the shipping company but to many of their comrades who were to travel by the ship, and who had to incur expense which they could ill afford at hotels or  board.  ing houses until the vessel was manned. Honorable senators will vividly recall an occasion on which the tourist traffic to Tasmania was held up, and when travellers were not only seriously inconvenienced but had to incur a great deal of expense which  they  could not have anticipated. In cases of that kind a heavy ^penalty is justified. No court would impose a heavy fine for a minor breach of an award. The maximum fine is in each case stated in the bill, and the court must have the power to exercise its discretion. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The minimum fine could be the smallest  coin  of the realm. 
 This is one of the clauses which I said last night I would endeavour to amend. We are on very dangerous ground when we provide for imposing a penalty upon men for ceasing work. According to the definition, a strike exists when men working in conjunction with others cease to work. It would be exceedingly difficult to prove that a man was ceasing work independently of his mates. What will be the position of workmen in Australia if under, a Commonwealth law they are to be punished for ceasing work? They will be slaves. Under our conciliation and arbitration system we have attempted a great deal; but there are always some who persist in using the old-fashioned strike weapon. Civilization has now reached the stage where men and women have the right to select their own representatives to frame the legislation under which they are governed, and our position is superior to that yet reached in any other country. Notwithstanding all the benefits that have been conferred upon those engaged in industry in the form of higher wages and better conditions, we have not that industrial peace which we anticipated. Some become exasperated, and, like Oliver Twist, dare to ask for more. Notwithstanding the fact that Australian workmen are now able to look their employers in the face, and in most cases meet them on a footing of equality, this measure provides for very marked discrimination in the penalties to be imposed on different sections. Our workmen will never be contented until they are adequately remunerated for the wealth they produce. I do not pretend for a moment that I have any hand-made system of preventing industrial unrest; but there will never be a satisfied community until the present system is altered. A man should get what he earns. 
Quite so. I am, however, trying to give what I think are the causes of industrial unrest, one of which is the inequitable basis upon which the world's wealth is distributed. The man who toils the hardest gets the least, and the man who toils the least receives the most. The man with an organizing brain reaps the benefit. 
The man who works with his brain is entitled to all the wealth that he can produce ; hut we have no right to take from the working man a share of the wealth he produces. Positions which carry great responsibility, and where exceptional skill is required,  should be adequately remunerated. Today provision is not made for the distribution of wealth in proportion to the efforts used in its production. 
That may be so ; but we are still a long way off . This clause provides for the imposition of a penalty of £1,000 on an employer responsible for a lockout, and of £50 on an employee who strikes. We are on dangerous ground in providing such penalties ; but, if they are to be imposed, they ought to be on a fair basis. It is unreasonable to penalize an employer to the extent of £1,000, because he closes up an establishment in which only two or three men may be engaged. 
But that is what the clause provides. I suggest that the penalty to be imposed upon the employer should be £50 for each employee locked out, and £50 should be paid by each man who strikes. If the maximum is £50, an employer who locked out 1,000 men should be fined £50,000, and if 1,000 workmen went on strike the amount to be collected would also be £50,000. Employers and employees would then be on exactly the same footing. It would be unreasonable to expect the average employer to pay a fine of £50,000; but the court could determine what was reasonable. Penalties such as I have suggested, if penalties are to be imposed, would be fair. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Progress reported. 
[8.6].- I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to and that the following consequential amendment be made in the bill: - 
After clause 2 insert the following new clause :  -  2a.  Section forty-one of the principal act is amended - 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (4) the word "and" (last occurring); and 
by adding at the end of paragraph (b)of sub-section (4) the words - " and 
any senator or member of the House ofRepresentatives whose name is enrolled in accordance with the provisions of this subsection may vote as an elector of the sub-division in respect of which he isso enrolled. 
Section 41 of the principal act is as follows :  -  (4). Notwithstanding anything contained in this act - 
any senator may, if he so desires, have, his name placed upon and retained upon the roll for any sub-division of any division of the State which he represents.  . . . and any member of  the House of Representatives may . . . have his name placed upon and retained upon the roll for any sub-division of the division which he represents . . . ; and 
any senator who lives in the Territory for the Seat of Government may .... have his name placed upon and retained upon the roll for any sub-division of any division in the State which he represents and any member of the House of Representatives who lives in the Territory for the Seat of Government may . . . have his name placed upon and retained upon the roll for any sub-division of the division which he represents. 
The amendment made by the House of Representatives disqualifies an elector from voting in any sub-division for which he is enrolled unless his real place of residence has been in that sub-division during the three months immediately preceding an election. The consequential amendment I have moved is to preserve the position of members of the House of Representatives and senators who, under the act, are allowed to be enrolled for any sub-division of the division which they represent or for any sub-division of any division of the State they represent. The amendment moved by the House of Representatives, while enabling members of Parliament to be enrolled in this way, would not enable them to vote in the subdivisions for which they were enrolled unless their real places of residence had been in those sub-divisions during the three months immediately preceding an election. The purpose of the consequential amendment is to restore the previous position and permit a member of Parliament to vote as an elector of the subdivision in respect of which he is enrolled. 
I should like to be assured that the amendment made by the House of Representatives will not endanger the right of a citizen to vote. The clause,  as  it left this chamber, provided - 
Provided that an elector whose real place of living is not in the division in respect of which he is enrolled shall not be entitled to vote as an elector of that division unless his real place of living was at some time within three months immediately preceding polling day within that division. In this proviso the words " real place of living " include the place of living to which a person temporarily living elsewhere has a fixed intention of returning for the purpose of continuing to live thereat 
I should like to know if the omission, of the words "whose real place of living is not in the division in respect of which he is enrolled shall not be entitled to vote as an elector of that division " and the insertion of the words " shall not be entitled to vote as an elector of the division in respect of which he is enrolled " is likely to create a hiatus, during which, if an election takes place, the elector who has moved from one sub-division to another may be disfranchised. I quite see the necessity for the consequential amendment proposed by the Minister to preserve the privilege now enjoyed by members of this Parliament, which would have been endangered by allowing the amendment made by the House of Representatives to remain unaltered. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW. (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [8.10].  -  The amendment made by the House of Representatives is purely a drafting one, and makes no substantial alteration to the clause as it left this chamber. The elector who moves from one subdivision to another, will still be enabled to vote in one or the other, according to enrolment. At the end of the proviso "real place of living" is defined to include " the place of living to which a person temporarily living elsewhere has a fixed intention of returning for the purpose of continuing to live thereat." If an elector moves from one electorate to another he may vote in the electorate to which he has removed, or in that in which he originally lived, . according to enrolment. He will not be in danger of being disfranchised. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
Section seventy-seven of the principal act is amended by omitting from sub-section (2.) the words " chief polling place " and inserting in their stead the words " office of the Divisional Returning Officer ". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 

(1.)  In elections for the Senate the place of nomination shall be stated in the writ.  (2.)  In elections for the House of Representatives the chief polling place for the Division shall be the place of nomination therein. 

 House of Representatives amendment - After clause . 3 insert the following new clauses: - 3a. Section eighty-three of the principal act is repealed, and the following section inserted in its stead: - ' "83. - (1.) If after the nominations for an election for the Senate have been declared and before polling day any candidate dies and the candidates remaining are not greater in number than the candidates required to be elected, they shall forthwith be declared to be elected and the writ returned. (2.) If after the nominations for an election for the House of Representatives have been declared, and before polling day, any candidate dies, the election shall be deemed to have wholly failed.". 3b. Section eighty-four of the principal act is amended by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following proviso: - " Provided that where the election has failed in consequence of the death of a candidate after the declaration of the nominations and before polling day, the supplementary election shall be held upon the roll which was prepared for the purpose of the election which failed.". 
[8.14]. - I move- 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
Theposition in the past has been that if,- after the declaration of nominations,  a candidate dies, and the number of remaining candidates is not greater than the number required to be elected, those remaining have, been declared elected, tinder this amendment the position with regard to the Senate will be the same; but, in regard to the House of Representatives, if after the declaration of the nominations a candidate dies and the number remaining is the number required the election will be deemed to have failed, and it will be necessary to hold another election. But, for purpose of the new election, the roll as at the date of the original election will be taken. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 8 - 
After section ninety-one a of the principal  act the following section is inserted: - "91b. - (1.) Subject to sub-section (2) of this section the following persons are authorized witnesses within the meaning of this act: - 
all Commonwealth Divisional Returning Officers........ all Railway Station-masters and night officers in charge who are permanently employed in the railway service of the Common wealth or of a State; all permanent way inspectors and roadmasters employed in the railway service of the Commonwealth..... 

 House of Representatives Amendment. - After "railway service of the Commonwealth;" insert "all engineers engaged upon railway or road construction; all mail contractors;". 
[8.17].- I move- 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
This adds engineers on road construction and mail contractors to the list "of authorized witnesses. 
I am glad that the spirit of reasonableness has at last prevailed. I asked for one of these additions but was refused. I welcome both. 
Motion agreed to. . 
Clause 9 - 
Section 92 of the principal act is amended. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section . . . the envelope in which the ballot-paper is enclosed may be addressed to . . . any other Divisional Returning Officer, who shall deal with it in the prescribed manner. 

 House of Representatives Amendment. - After " Officer " insert " or to an asistant returning officer." 
[8.19].- I move- 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
This is to add assistant returning officers to the officers to whom postal votes maybe delivered. 
Motion agreed to. 

 House of Representatives Amendment. - 

Omit " who ", insert " or may be delivered on polling day to any presiding officer, and the divisional returning officer, assistant returning officer, or presiding officer as the case may be,". 
[8.20].- I move- 
That the amendment be agreed to and that the following consequential amendments be made in the bill: - 
Clause 21, after "officer" insert "or any assistant returning officer or presiding officer ". 
Clause 22, after " officer " insert " or any assistant returning officer or presiding officer ". 
Clause 23, after " officer " insert " or any assistant returning officer or presiding officer ". 
These are all consequential amendments on the amendment made in another place to enable postal votes to be delivered to a divisional returning officer, assistant returning officer or presiding officer, up to and including polling day. 
Motion agreed to 
Consequential amendments to Clauses 11 and 13 agreed to subject to further consequential amendments. 
Clause 14 - 

 House of Representatives Amendment. - After clause 14 insert the following new clause: - "14a. Section one hundred and thirteen of the principal act is amended by omitting from sub-section l the word " State " and inserting in its stead the word Commonwealth ". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 113. (1.) . . .  an elector shall be entitled to vote at any prescribed polling place for the subdivision for which he is enrolled or he shall be permitted to vote at any other polling place within the State. 
[8.23]. - I move- 
That the amendment be disagreed to. 
This amendment extends the provisions of the principal act in regard to absent voting so that an absent voter may vote at any polling booth in the Commonwealth. The Government, after considering this matter and consulting with the Chief Electoral Officer, found that it would take an enormous time to get a declaration of the poll owing to the fact that absentee voting would be allowed all over the Commonwealth. At the present time, absentee voting is allowed, intra-state; but under the provisions, as amended in another place it would be allowed interstate. At the present time postal voting is allowed interstate, so that no voter absent from his own State is prejudiced in recording his vote because he can avail himself of the postal voting provisions. Owing to the difficulties in counting the votes and the delay that would be caused the Government considers that the amendment should not be accepted. 
I do not think that the reasons advanced in opposition to the amendment made in another place are valid. The Minister has suggested that there is no danger of any elector being disfranchised by not allowing absentee voting interstate, as well as intranstate, for the reason that interstate postal voting prevails throughout Australia. It is well known that we, on this side, have always opposed postal voting. But the Parliament has decreed that that form of voting shall operate. If the elector is protected through absentee voting being allowed within the State, what is the use of postal voting within the State? The Minister says that, because postal voting is allowed interstate, there is no need for absent voting interstate. I cannot accept that argument. The other argument adduced by him in opposition to the amendment in another place is that delay would be caused in the counting of the votes. But that is not of sufficient importance to prevent the people from having the fullest facilities in the matter of absentee voting. If my memory serves me aright, absentee voting was operative in the Commonwealth during the early part of the life of the Federal Parliament, and nobody cavilled at it. The Electoral Department did not then say that it delayed the counting of the votes. Since the elimination of the provisions for absentee voting in the interstate sense, a longer time has been occupied in the counting of the votes than when that system was operative throughout the Commonwealth. 
Even if it did, that would not be a fatal, objection to the extension of the principle. The rolls for the whole of the Commonwealth could be made available at the chief polling booth. 
Even so, when the absentee voting provisions applied, nothing like three months elapsed from the time an election was held until all the votes had been counted. I hope that the committee will accept the amendment. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [8.28]. - This matter was referred to the committee that inquired into electoral matters in  1926-27;  but the committee did not recommend the adoption of the proposal. The committee's report stated,  inter alia - 
Much evidence was tendered to the committee as to the desirability of electors being permitted to vote when in a State other than the one for which they were enrolled. 
At present absent voting is restricted to the State for which the elector is enrolled. 
Interstate absent voting was formerly provided for. but it was found that its operation caused grave delays in the announcement of the results of the elections; and, upon the introduction of postal voting, it was decided that practically all cases of this kind would be met by the postal-voting system, and, therefore, absent voting beyond the boundaries of the State was discontinued. 
If it were re-introduced, the same difficulties would arise, and the already long period of suspense during which the votes are being counted, would be considerably added  to.  In any cases of close elections, periods even as long as a month would elapse before the decision of the electors could be made known. It would be impossible to enter upon the final counting of the Senate votes until the whole of the absent voting ballot-papers had been received by the Divisional Returning Officer to whom they were addressed. This would mean that, in connexion with the Senate election, no real progress in the count could be made within amonth of polling day. 
The committee cannot, therefore, recommend the re-adoption of the system of interstate absent voting. 
 I think that the committee has exaggerated the difficulties. 
I am unable to understand why the Government in this chamber is opposing an amendment that was agreed to in another place by a substantial majority. In this they are in opposition to their colleagues elsewhere. Every member of the committee will agree with me when I say that the provision in our electoral law entitling electors enrolled in one State to vote at any polling booth in another State, was a great convenience to many thousands of voters, and it was largely availed of. There is no analogy between the system under which the elector voted in person, and the principle underlying the provision governing postal voting. Since we have provided for compulsory voting throughout the Commonwealth, we should give every opportunity to electors to exercise the franchise. Although the provision relating to absent voting has not been in the electoral law for some years, many people are still under the impression that, as absent voters, they can vote at any polling place in the Commonwealth. Prior to the last election a number of electors personally known to me advised me that they would be leaving Victoria before election day and intended to vote at a polling booth in New South Wales. I informed them that they would be unable to vote as absent voters, and that it would be necessary for them to make application for postal ballot papers. 
Nevertheless some people are still under the impression that they can exercise the franchise in that way. The only objection, if it can be called an objection, advanced by the Minister in charge of the bill to the amendment inserted in another place, is that if it is agreed to, it will cause considerable inconvenience to electoral officials, and may necessitate a delay of three or four weeks in the declaration of' the final count. All I can say is that the provision was in the act for many years and, so far as I know, did not cause any inconvenience. As a candidate on several occasions I know that we had to wait some time for the final results, but we had the satisfaction of knowing that every citizen of the Commonwealth was given an opportunity to exercise the franchise and, as I have said, this privilege was appreciated by many thousands of electors supporting all political parties. I hope that the committee will not reject the amendment inserted in another place. 
 Senator Reid  knows that there are more people travelling by trains from place to place now than there has been at any period in the history of Australia. This movement of the people is not due entirely to the present maritime dispute. It is the normal state of affairs. Persons wishing to travel by train from one State to another must book in advance in order to secure berths. 
I am aware of that ; but the provisions for absent voting, when they were in the act, were appreciated by a large number of electors, and proved  a  great convenience. "We should not now place obstacles in the way of people who wish to exercise the franchise. 
.- I hope that the amendment inserted by the House of Representatives will not be rejected. Our primary concern should be the convenience of electors, especially those in far distant places.  Senator Kingsmill  mentioned just now the position of a Victorian voter who wished to exercise the franchise at Wyndham. He said that, if such  a  person voted by post at Wyndham, it would be about three months before the result of the Senate poll could be declared. There need be no serious delay. For example, if I happened to be at that centre on polling day and this provision were in the act, I would go into the polling booth there, give my residential address in Ballarat, and claim the vote. The returning officer could telegraph to Ballarat to ascertain if my name was on the roll. If it were not, he would refuse to give me a ballot-paper. Otherwise, he would issue a paper to me, and I could vote in the ordinary way. There need be no serious delay in the declaration of the final count. I can assure honorable senators that thousands of electors throughout Australia would regard this provision as a privilege, and it could be used without causing any trouble. 
I am aware of that. If I had had an opportunity to give evidence before that committee, I feel sure I could have convinced the members of it that they were wrong. It is impossible for electors living in certain parts of Australia to make application for and receive a postal ballot-paper in time. To me it is unthinkable that honorable senators should desire to place obstacles in the way of any citizens of the Commonwealth having an opportunity to exercise the franchise. The postal vote is a very great convenience to the people who are unable to attend a polling place, and the absent voting system would likewise be much appreciated. It is absurd to argue that if we allow absent voting at elections, the declaration of the poll may be delayed for three months. 
The section of the Electoral Committee's report read by the Minister  (Senator Glasgow),  emphasizing the delay that would take place in the declaration of the final count if absent voting were allowed, to my mind, exaggerates the difficulties. I had the privilege of being a candidate under the old system, when electors were allowed to vote as absent voters all over the Commonwealth. I have also contested elections since those provisions were removed from the Electoral Act, and I venture to say that there has been scarcely any difference in the date of the declaration of the poll. My first election was in 1906. On that occasion the poll was declared about three weeks after polling day. My last election was on 16th December, 1922, and the poll was declared on 6th January. 
I come now to the statement of  Senator Kingsmill,  that it would take about three months for an absent vote recorded by a Victorian elector at Wyndham subdivision to reach the divisional returning officer for his division. The honorable senator is well aware that there is an air mail service in Western Australia. 
It goes not very far from it. There are also air mail services in other parts, which rapidly annihilate space. Surely honorable senators are not insensible of the fact that we are making rapid progress in our means of transport by land, sea, and air ! It is  ridiculous to say that it would take three months for a vote so recorded to reach the divisional returning officer in these modern days of aviation, when the Pacific can he crossed in a few days. Even if the vote was sent by steamer it would not occupy three months on the journey. I admit that there might be a little extra delay, but it would not be nearly as great as has been stated. Therefore I hope that the committee will agree to the amendment that has been made by another place. 
I was a member of the Joint Select Committee on Electoral Law and Procedure, which made a unanimous report. Some members of that committee sunk their personal views in certain directions in order that the report might be unanimous. 
I was always in favour of restoring' to -the act the provision which made it possible for an absent vote to be recorded in any part of Australia. We should give every possible assistance to the electors, and no obstacles should be placed in their way. It would be far easier for an elector -to record an absent vote in a polling booth, than to vote by post. 
Of course, I did. 
There has not been time for the whips to crack. I remember the time when an elector could go into any polling booth in Australia and vote with respect to the constituency in which he was enrolled. I was sorry when that privilege was withdrawn, because it was a great convenience to the travelling public, who should be given every opportunity to exercise the franchise. If delay is the only reason that the electoral officials can advance in opposition to the proposal, it is a poor one indeed. 
That is not so. The honorable senator knows that it is not necessary, and that such a practice was not adopted when this provision was in the act previously. When I was elected, almost six years ago, the date of election was the 16th December. The counting was continued until Christmas Eve, and then held over until well into the new year. Yet the department urges that we should not re-enact this provision because it will cause delay in completing the counting of the votes ! Which is the more important, the delay that might, be occasioned, or the convenience of the electors? We should consider the convenience of the electors the whole of the time. I hope that the Senate will accept the amendment made by another place. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [8.52]. - Honorable senators are aware that the facilities provided for electors to record their votes are far better in Australia than in any other part of the world. The provisions of our act are most liberal. The postal-voting provisions have been so improved that in future an elector will be able to deliver a postal vote for any electorate to the nearest returning officer or presiding officer, up to and including the day of the election. That is a big step forward. It will enable an elector who is absent from his usual place of residence to record a postal vote in any part of Australia in which he may happen to be on the day of election. There are difficulties in the way of extending the provisions in regard to absent voting beyond the limit3 of a State. Under the system of preferential voting, every polling booth would need to have additional supplies of blank ballot-papers, and a list of the candidates in every electorate iii the Commonwealth. That would be impracticable. I submit that no person can complain of the facilities that are provided. I ask the committee to disagree with the amendment made by another place. 
[8.58].- I move- 
That the amendment be agreed  to. 
The bill as it left the Senate provided that in any prosecution for voting more than once the placing of a mark by a presiding officer opposite the name of an elector on the certified list of voters, should be prima facie evidence that that elector had voted. Objection was taken to that proposal in another place on account of the risk of a mistake being made by a presiding officer. It was pointed out that cases had occurred in which presiding officers had omitted to mark on the certified lists electors who had voted; and it was only reasonable to suppose that there were occasions when a mark was placed against the name of an elector who had not voted. The Government realized that there might be such a risk, and agreed that the clause should be negatived. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 

 Later. 


 Resolved - 

That Senators  Sir William  Glasgow, Thompson, and Needham be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the Senate disagreeing to an amendment made by the House of Representatives in the bill. 
[9.3] .   -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure has been rendered necessary by the ratification of the financial agreement recently entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. As honorable senators are aware, the National Debt Sinking Fund Act of 1923-25 was designed to deal solely with the sinking funds in respect of the Commonwealth debt. It created a National Debt Commission, and set out its powers and duties; but as the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, which has now been adopted, relates not only to Commonwealth debts but also to State debts, it is necessary to amend the act. The financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States has been ratified by all the States with the exception of Western Australia, and the Parliament of that State is now considering the agreement, to which it is hoped it will agree. The National Debt Sinking Fund Act sets out the procedure and provides that the commission shall exercise and perform such duties as are conferred upon it by the act or as are prescribed. It is proposed to amend that section by adding "or of which the execution or performance by the commission is provided for by the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States." It does not affect the National Debt Sinking Fund, but extends the provisions of the act to embrace the debts of the States covered by the financial agreement recently entered into. 
I understand that this measure is to provide that the National Debt Sinking Fund Act shall apply to the State debts covered by the agreement recently entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. No principle in that act is affected except that its provisions are extended to embrace the agreement to which I have referred. It does not only cover the agreement mentioned, hut will also embrace any other financial agreement that may subsequently be entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[9.9]. - I move - 
That  the  bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to appropriate a further sum of £10,000,000 for the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Trust Fund. The total amount appropriated for this purpose up to date is £91,250,000 of which amount £85,610,664 has actually been expended up to the 31st March, leaving a balance of £5,639,336. As the rate of expenditure is now £10,000,000 a year, this balance will be exhausted by the end of September. It is, therefore, necessary to appropriate a further sum of £10,000,000. That is the sole purpose of the bill; it does not affect the rate of pensions or the conditions under which they are paid. 
I should like the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to give the Senate some information concerning a practice that has been in operation for some time, and which is seriously affecting certain old-age pensioners who are inmates of homes or sanitoriums in which pensioners are accommodated. Although a pensioner is entitled to a weekly payment of 20s., if he is an inmate of an institution 10s. 6d. of that amount is paid to the institution, 4s. to the pensioner to enable him to secure some slight additional comforts, and the remaining 5s. 6d. to which he is duly entitled is retained by the Treasury. This matter has been ventilated in this and another place on many occasions, and in every instance the Government has been adamant. Some time ago, when I last brought the matter up, the Minister for Defence  (Senator Glasgow),  who was then Acting Leader of the Senate, said that the subject was to be considered at a meeting of State Premiers which was to be held shortly afterwards. As that conference has been held, I should like to know if consideration was given to the matter, and, if so, what decision was reached ? 
  Senator PEARCE  (Western Australia- 
Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.13]. - As this measure does not affect the conditions under which pensions are paid, I am not armed with any information on the point raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I shall, however, ascertain the actual position from the Treasurer, and, if possible, supply the information when the Supply Bill is under consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[9.16]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to appropriate from the Consolidated Revenue fund a further £10,000,000 for the payment of war pensions. The measure does not affect the rates of pensions or the conditions governing the granting of pensions, but merely asks Parliament to provide the money to pay war pensions  which havebeen or will be granted under existing legislation. The number of pensions in force at 30th June last, was 259,821 with an annual liability of £7,372,768. The number is increasing as the result of granting new claims, mainly in respect of newly-born children and newly-married wives of ex-soldiers who are pensioners, and it is estimated that the number in force at 30th June, 1929, will be 271,899 at an annual cost of £7,651,124. The total expenditure to 31st March, 1928, on war pensions was £71,089,581. The last appropriation was made by Parliament in August 1926, the amount then appropriated being £10,000,000. The balance of the appropriation unexpended at 31st March last was £3,032,089, which will be sufficient to cover payments to the end of next August. 
Further appropriation is required to meet the total payments for 1928-29. The usual practice of asking Parliament to vote a lump sum has been followed, and the amount of £10,000,000 has accordingly been included in the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[9.18]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill relating to the rights of officers of the Public Service who have been appointed as Commonwealth authorities, or as members of Commonwealth boards, or who are employed by Commonwealth authorities other than those governed by the Public Service Act. There are no less than thirteen acts on the statute-book which provide for the employment of officers of the Public Service in some capacity outside the public service. These acts usually provide that such officers shall not be subject to the Public Service Act, but shall be engaged for such periods as may be prescribed, and shall preserve their existing and accruing rights. In most cases it is also provided that the officer need not resign from the Public Service, but may be granted leave of absence for the period of his employment under the act, and in such cases provision is made for fixing the salary of the officer upon his return to the Public Service. In the case of the Development and Migration Act, however, no express provision has been made in regard to the grant of leave of absence to the officers concerned during their employment as members or officers of the commission. This has given rise to some difficulty, as the commission took over a number of public servants who had previously been engaged on migration work, and it desires to retain the services of these public servants in addition to those of  Mr. Mulvaney,  late secretary of the Markets Department, who has been appointed a member of the commission. The present bill will remove the difficulty which has arisen in regard to these officers, and it will also make uniform provision in regard to officers occupying similar positions under other, acts. The bill will affect officers appointed under the following acts :  - 
Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1920. . 
Commonwealth Bank Act 1911-1927. 
Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922- 1924. 
Development and Migration Act 1926. 
Land Tax Assessment Act 1910-1927. 
Northern Australia Act 1926. 
Science and Industry Research Act 1920- 1926. 
Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924-1926. 
Superannuation Act 1922-1924. 
It is proposed also to definitely state that the rights preserved by such officers are - 
leave on the ground of illness; 
long service leave or pay in lieu thereof (including pay to dependents on the death of the officer) ; 
superannuation; 
child endowment, and 
in the case of female officers, payment on marriage. 
If the officer desires, however, he may, within a period specified in the bill, elect to come under the rules and regulations of the authority concerned, and in that case he will not preserve his rights as an officer of the Public Service. That provision is made because in some cases the rights the officer may get under the authority to which he is transferred;  the Commonwealth Bank for instance, may  be  better than those enjoyed in the Public Service. He may, therefore, elect  to  come under them rather than those  of  the Public Service. The bill also provides that such officers need not  resign  from the Public Service, but shall  be deemed to be  unattached officers during the period  of  their employment  by  the authority concerned, and on the termination  of  that employment  they shall  be  entitled  to  reappointment in the Public Service with such advancement  in  status and salary, beyond those previously held and received  by  them,  as'  the Public Service Board in the circumstances thinks just. I think  it  will  be  seen  by all  honorable senators that this  is  a matter  we  ought  to  place on a uniform basis so that there will  be  no doubt about the rights preserved  by  the officers affecte'd1. This  is  attempted  .to be  and I think has  Deen  done  by  the bill. The measure will save  us  from continually having  to  patch each piece  of  legislation  to  bring about uniformity. 
 A close scrutiny  .of  the bill does not reveal any phase  to  which serious objection may  be  raised. Those officers who have gone into the employ  of  certain Commonwealth authorities should  be  protected. When they entered the Public Service  of  the Commonwealth a contract was made with them that, provided their conduct was1 good and their service efficient, they would  be  entitled  to  certain privileges. If the exigencies  of  the Commonwealth call them  to  some other branch  of  activity  of  the Commonwealth I  do  not think  it is Tight  that they should lose the privileges to which they were entitled  or  the rights that have accrued  to  them. It  is,  perhaps, just  as  well  to  lay down  a  clear line  of  guidance for the future and at the same time remove any anxiety these officers may have. I notice that the right  is  given  to  officers  to  avail themselves  of  the privileges accorded  in  their new spheres  of  activity. In that respect, therefore, the bill applies both ways. There  is,  however, a feature  of  the measure with which I  am  not altogether 
Satisfied.  I refer  to  the provision that an officer who has secured a position  Under  another authority need not  resign  from the Commonwealth Public 
Service, but will remain as an unattached officer. That provision may result in a little injustice to those who remain in the Public Service. For instance, I presume that someone is acting in the position held by  Mr. Mulvaney  as secretary of Markets Department. I do not know whether the officer who is acting as secretary to the department is receiving the full salary, attached to the position, but if he is not I do not think he is being justly treated. When an officer elects to apply for a position under another authority and thus betters himself, I think he should sever his connexion with the department with which he has been associated, always provided that his privileges are preserved to him and he retains his accruing rights, for which provision is made in the bill. 
In that case I see no reason why we should not agree to the bill. I think that the rights that are accruing to officers of the Public Service should he retained by them when they transfer in the circumstances set out in this measure. 
[9.30] . -  The procedure mentioned by the honorable senator is the exact procedure that will be followed. The position occupied by  Mr. Mulvaney,  as Secretary of the Markets Department, has become vacant; but he will not cease to be a member of the Public Service. It does not mean that he is on leave from the position in the Markets Department; but he is oh leave from the Public Service. The position of Secretary of the Markets- Department is vacant now, and very shortly it will be filled by another officer. Although  Mr. Mulvaney  ceases to be the Secretary of that department, he will still be a member of the Service. He will be a member of the Service on leave. On his return to the Service it will be for the board to appoint him to another position of similar status and his rights will be preserved. No damage will be done to any other officer owing to that procedure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
Better reasons than have been advanced should be furnished to the committee for the insertion of this provision. Sub-section 1 of section 6 of the principal act reads - 
No persons or organization shall, on account of any industrial dispute, do anything in the nature of a lockout or strike, or continue any lockout or strike. 
The penalty is £1,000 in the case of an organization or employer; but, in the case of any other person, the penalty provided under this clause is £50. During the discussion on the second reading of the bill, and also in the committee stage, the Minister advanced as the main reason for the provision that it would prevent job control. He said that the penalties mentioned were the maximum amounts, and would only be imposed in extreme cases. He instanced the firemen leaving their ships and holding up the marine services of the Commonwealth, handicapping shippers and inflicting hardship on the general community. By those remarks he desired to convey to the committee that the clause we are now considering will prevent that; but nobody knows better than the Minister does that it will do nothing of the kind. It could have no application to the shipping of the Commonwealth, because the Seamen's Union has been deregistered. 
Do I understand that organizations not registered under the Arbitration Act could be brought under the provisions of this bill? 
This clause applies only to those organizations registered under the act. 
In 1925 the Seamen's Union was deregistered, and it has been working under conditions agreed upon between the union and the shipowners. 
But the union is not working under an award of the court. It is news to me to be informed that the bill will have application to any organization whether registered or not. 
We are discussing, a bill to amend the Arbitration Act, and it appears to me that its provisions will have no application to organizations not registered under that act. 
Let us be clear about this. The whole of the discussion on this clause in another place hinged on the point that an organization registered under the Arbitration Act should not be made wholly and solely responsible for the acts of individuals. I am inclined, notwithstanding the statement of the Minister, to back my opinion against his. My contention is that this provision can have no application to the Seamen's Union, because it has been deregistered. 
 I am astounded at the Minister's interpretation of the clause. 
The clause amends section 6 of the act in certain respects. Sub-section 1 of that section' reads - 
No person or organization shall, on account of any industrial dispute, do anything in the nature of a lockout or strike or continue any lockout or strike. 
There might be something in the Minister's contention as regards the Seamen's Union. That union, having been deregistered, does not come within the purview of the court. 
The . Minister's contention that these penal provisions will deal with all attempts at job control falls to the ground. Does he say that any citizen not a member of an organization registered under the act is liable under the provisions of this bill? 
Then a citizen may be punished unfairly in two ways: first as a citizen under the common law, if he is guilty of any disturbance of the peace, and again as a member of an organization if he becomes implicated in a strike or lockout. 
" Strike," according to the act, includes -   . . . the total or partial cessation of work by employees, acting in combination, as a mean's of enforcing compliance  with  demands made by them or other employees or employers, and the total or partial refusal of employees, acting in combination, to accept work if  the  refusal is unreasonable. 
There is a vast difference between the meaning of the word "employee" and the word "person," and I contend that as this is a measure to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, a " person " not necessarily an employee, is not liable under it to any penalty. If a man of independent means, who does not have to work for his living, takes part in a strike, will he be regarded as a " person " within the meaning of the act? 
I agree with  Senator Findley.  There has been no reduction in the penalty imposed on individuals, and I am satisfied that, if they are put into operation, these provisions will cripple the smaller organizations, and certainly will not make for the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
I do not feel disposed to allow the clause to pass until I am thoroughly satisfied as to what it means. This is a bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. For what purpose? Obviously the amendments are in the direction of making the penalties more drastic with the object of preventing industrial disputes in connexion with organizations that are working under awards of the court, and, according to the Minister, to prevent industrialists from disobeying such awards. I still contend that these provisions have application only to organizations that are registered in the court. The Minister asserts that they will have a general application, and that the penalties may be imposed on any person not associated with an organization registered under the act. 
That makes the position even worse. The Minister says now that these provisions will have no application to an organization that is not registered, but will apply to a " person " who is a member of an organization not registered. Can any honorable senator conceive of any individual, as a member of an unregistered organization fomenting a strike? 
Can honorable senators opposite name one? 
They are members of an organization that has been deregistered, and, according to the Minister, no penalty can be imposed on an organization unless it is registered under the act. 
Exactly. It would appear that organizations that register, and obtain awards from the court, are to be penalized, but organizations not registered will not be touched by this bill. 
I : shall 'be glad to have a clear explanation from the Minister on this point.   
[9.59]. - I really did not take  Senator Findley  seriously. The provisions appear to be so clear that I did not believe that either' he or  Senator Needham  was in any doubt. As they appear to be .serious, I shall endeavour to make the matter plain to them. Section 6 deals with the penalty that shall be imposed on any person or organization, who or which, on account of any industrial dispute, does anything in the nature of a lockout or strike, or continues any lockout or strike. " Strike," as defined in the principal act, includes " the total or .partial cessation of work by employees acting in combination as a means of enforcing compliance with demands." The act does not say that those employees have to be members of an organization to come within the scope of that provision. If they are employees, they are "persons," whether they are members of an organization or not. If they are members of an organization registered under the act, they come within the provisions of section 6a, which provides that no person or organization bound by an award of the court or entitled to the benefit of an award of the court shall do anything in the nature of a lockout or strike or continue any lockout or strike. The reason there are two sections dealing with the same offence is to make it possible to deal with the case mentioned by  Senator Findley  and  Senator Needham.  If an organization which is not registered, does something in the nature of a strike it can be- prosecuted and fined. Similarly if a member of such an organization does anything in the nature of a strike he can be prosecuted and fined. If the members of the Seamens' Union, which is not now registered in the Arbitration Court, proceeded in combination to bring about a strike, they could be fined under section 6. On the other hand, the members of an organization which is registered in the court and is working under an award of the court, would be dealt with under the provisions of section 6a, and their organization could be fined for their act. If there were not the two sections there would be  a  direct inducement to ah1 organization which wanted to bring off  a  strike, to have its registration cancelled. Honorable senators opposite have reached such an unfortunate state of mind that they consider that the mere act of deregistration permits an organization to do anything. They are not thereby relieved of responsibility. 
Honorable senators who sit on this side are not under the impression that any person can do what he likes. We contend that if there is  a  breach of the law the person who commits it can be dealt with under other legislation. 
The Minister has gone further than that. He has said that any person can be dealt with under this law irrespective of whether he is  a  member of a union or not. I should like him to inform me whether a single employer will be subject to the penalties provided by this clause? 
I still doubt the accuracy of the Minister's interpretation, and consider that the clause is unjust and unreasonable. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Declaration as to existence of lockout or strike). 
In his concluding remarks when replying to the debate on the motion for the second reading of the bill, the Leader of the Senate laid special stress on this clause. He admitted that it was a departure from the existing arbitration law, and therefore required very serious consideration. It is certainly an extraordinary departure from the law which has been in operation for many years. The right honorable gentleman claimed very definitely that the dire consequences attendant on the exercise of job control would be eliminated as  a  result of the operation of this provision. I have always considered that  the main purpose of conciliation and arbitration laws is the prevention of industrial disputes. One of the defects in our arbitration law - a constitutional defect, I admit - is that the court cannot function until a. dispute has extended beyond the limits of a State. Applying the analogy of a bushfire, the fire-fighters cannot take steps to quench it until it attacks more than one farm. That defect is inherent in the Commonwealth Constitution, and until that Constitution has been altered we cannot obviate it. But in any legislation that we can enact constitutionally, "we should endeavour to cultivate as far as possible the principle of preserving industrial peace by the methods of prevention rather than of cure. I feel sure that honorable senators will agree with that contention. Not by the greatest stretch of imagination can it be shown that this clause will have that particularly desirable effect. Again using the simile of the bush fire, instead of allowing the fire-fighters to get to work to prevent its spread, the proposal is to pour oil upon it and thus induce it to spread. The clause legalizes lockouts and strikes. If a few men in any section of an industry leave their work the employer can lock out every employee in that industry. 
The clause provides that any person or organization bound by or. entitled to the benefit of an award may apply to the court for an order declaring that a lockout or strike exists in an industry, The initiative 
Tests  with the employer. It is not right to penalize 5,000 or 6,000 men because half a dozen persons act foolishly. That is  not  the way to settle a dispute. 
If that is the state of mind in which honorable senators are approaching this question, we shall not proceed very far along the road to industrial peace. That is a vindictive way of looking at the matter. If two or three men do a foolish thing, despite the advice of their executive, the whole of the industry will be penalized. 
I know that the Trades Hall Disputes Committee in Melbourne has frequently declared against job control. It has conferred with the shipowners, and arranged with the seamen to cease- such tactics. 
I do not claim that it was effective; but at least the attempt was made. The disputes committee has a better opportunity to put an end to job control than will be afforded under this provision. Its policy has always been one of reason. The Arbitration Act was placed upon the statutebook with the object of settling disputes by peaceful means. We should progress further along the road to peace if we allowed the provision to remain as it is in the principal act. Section 7 of the principal act provides - 
Where persons, with a view to being associated as employers and employees respectively, or representatives of such persons, have entered into an industrial agreement with respect to employment, any of such persons who, without reasonable cause or excuse refuses or neglects to offer or accept employment upon the terms of the agreement, shall be deemed to be guilty of a lockout or strike as the case may be. 
That provision is sufficiently comprehensive. A member of the High Court Bench, who for many years was  president  of the Arbitration Court, declared in no uncertain terms that a man who refused to work was not guilty of an offence. This clause provides that it shall be an offence. 
Yes, but there are not as many employers' organizations as there are organizations of workers. I cannot recall an instance where the employees have taken legal action because of the existence of a lockout. 
The definition of lockout is -  " Lockout " includes the closing of a place or part of a place of employment, and the total or partial refusal of employers, acting in combination, to give work, if the refusal is unreasonable, or the total or partial suspension of work by an employer, with a view to compel his employees, or to aid another employer in compelling his employees, to accept any terms or conditions of employment. 
My main objection .to the clause is that it will not he the means of bringing about a settlement of industrial trouble. It is an aggravating and unworkable provision, and will create chaos where order should prevail. Under the principal act it was competent for the court to convene a compulsory conference, and if such a conference failed the parties were ordered into court. In nine cases out of ten such a procedure has resulted in the settlement of the dispute. Since the inception of arbitration, those responsible for the administration of the act, have always endeavoured to confine disputes to a narrow limit, and that has always been the endeavour of the leaders of industrialism in Australia. When the big maritime strike occurred in 1917, as during the present dispute, industrial leaders endeavoured to prevent its extension. In these circumstances why should we include a provision in the bill which will prevent them from performing such good work. . There is no need whatever for this amendment. The section which I have already quoted is sufficiently comprehensive to cover any situation that may arise. I trust the Minister will agree with the deletion of this clause. 

 Senator 
 Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [10.21].  -  This clause has been embodied in the bill in an attempt to prevent sectional disputes in the shape of job control, which comprise one of the most difficult phases of our industrial troubles. There is no denying the fact that it is quite easy to penalize employers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, if the employer is responsible for a lockout he can readily be punished. It is easy to establish the existence of a lockout and also to get a conviction; but it is very difficult to prove that a strike exists. When firemen or seamen walk off a ship, about to sail, it is difficult to prove that they are acting in collusion. A strike is defined in the principal act in this way -  " Strike " includes the total or partial cessation of work by employees acting in combination...... 
It is difficult to prove that men leaving a ship at the last moment are acting in combination. The definition continues -  as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made by them..... 
There have been dozens of instances of job control where the men have made no demands at all. Two or three of them walk off without rhyme or reason, from mere caprice, in order to hold up the ship, and it is obvious that they do so with the object of injuring their employer, who is, in such cases, so to speak, handcuffed. It cannot be proved however that the men who leave the ship have acted in combination and so have committed an offence for which they are punishable. On the other hand if the employer refuses to employ the men, he can be punished for causing a lockout. It is easy to establish his offence, because the moment he holds up the ship he can be charged with causing a lockout. That is unjust. If these men wish to defy, flout, or treat our arbitration law with contempt, we say that they should be given a dose of their own medicine. The employer has at present no means of protecting himself against an unlawful attack in the form of job control or of proving such an offence. The clause provides that if a judge is satisfied that the men are exercising some form of job control, the employer shall be put on the same basis as the employee. That I think is only fair. 
 I am pleased to see that under this provision the Government is making a determined attempt to deal with job control which has caused such annoyance, expense, and inconvenience, to the whole community particularly during the last three or four years. As a representative  of Tasmania, I have no hesitation in saying that that State has suffered more as a result of job control tactics than any other portion of the Commonwealth. Honorable senators opposing the bill know the results which have followed the actions of the seamen and other maritime workers who have adopted this form of striking in order to avoid punishment under the act. Job control has done more to bring seamen into disrepute than anything else. 
The Leader of the Opposition, I understand, said some time ago that job control was a scientific means of carrying on a strike. 
The practice is for a section of the men to. cease work without making any- demands, so that it cannot be said that a strike exists. They endeavour to whittle away the authority of their employer; but as a general strike does not exist they cannot be penalized under the act. On many occasions seamen or firemen have left ships just prior to their departure, which has caused considerable inconvenience and expense not only to the shipping companies, but to many passengers who in many instances have been most seriously embarrassed. There is no law in operation under which they can be punished. It cannot be said that there is anything unjust in punishing men who act in this way, and in the circumstances it is only reasonable to give the employers some relief by providing that they shall not be compelled to carry on their businesses. The Leader of the Opposition has said that the disputes committee in Melbourne has endeavoured to prevent job control, but as its efforts have apparently been ineffective, he should support this provision which should be the means of proventing sectional strikes. He also said that the employers could act as they wished; but the bill provides that they must obtain a declaration of the court that a strike exists in order that anything done in the nature of a lockout in the industry may not be a broach of the act or of any award. The judge will view the matter just as impartially as he would a plaint before him asking for improved wages or working conditions. It is the judge, and not the employer, who will decide whether the matter relates to a strike or a lockout. 
The Government is, no doubt, in earnest in its attempt to devise means to avoid those industrial troubles that arise from time to time, but it has evolved something which, in my opinion, will only serve to intensify and multiply those difficulties. This provision in the bill looks all right until it is analysed. Subsection  1  of the proposed new section  7  seems fair enough. It seems to put both parties to a dispute in the same position in the eyes of the law. Sub-section  2  requires notice to be given of an application that is being made by either side, and on an application being made to the court, the court may make an order. But I think it will have a tremendous difficulty in proving the existence of a lockout.  Senator Sir George  Pearce is quite wrong in saying that it is an easy matter to prove. The employer who uses his ingenuity to dodge his responsibilities under the act may not easily be convicted of locking out his employees. Let us take the McKay Harvester Works as an illustration. There are departments of various kinds in the great works at Sunshine. Let us assume that the employer sees trouble simmering in one section of his works. Taking time by the forelock, realizing that the workers may be getting a little itchy about something, and that the trouble may spread over the whole of the works, he can easily say " That machine does not seem to be working too well," and close down that piece of machinery, throwing all the men employed in a section of the works out of work. It is quite an easy matter for an engineer to fix an engine so that in some mysterious manner it ceases to work. If the men think there is something ulterior in the action of the employer in closing down a section of the works, they may make an application to the court to have him declared guilty of taking part in a lockout. Although they may be quite clear in their minds that it is a lockout, it will be a very difficult matter for them to prove it. But if the court is satisfied, and declares that it is a lockout, the men will then say, " If it is a lockout, it is a case of one out all out," and next day all of McKay's men would be out, with the court unable to find them guilty of doing anything in the nature of a strike. That is the situation which may arise at any time under this provision. The procedure in regard to applications by employers works out in just the same way. The proposed new section seems to be simple enough, and one would think that it ought to work easily enough, but there are a hundred and one different ways in which its provisions can be dodged. I do not think that either employers or employees can be convicted under it. 
The new section  seems  likely to be a greater failure. Job control is a difficult matter to handle. It is no doubt irritating to the business people of Tasmania that a steamer should be held up because a couple of firemen walk off it for no explained reason, but if the firemen do not go on board the vessel cannot sail, and job control can just as easily be exercised in that way. 
Prom the experience we have gained Parliament  thinks  by bringing in some new law it can beat people who do these things, but they immediately find some other means of dodging it. It is the business of a union to control its membership when there is danger of a small body of men throwing down their tools without giving consideration to the effect their action is likely to have in causing, say, 1,000 men to go out on strike. In the case of the Australian Workers Union we have had cases where young chaps ignorant, possibly, of the effect of stopping work without the authority of the central executive have gone out. In such a case the organization simply says, " Stop out as long as you like, but you get no strike pay or assistance from the organization until your case has been considered and you are given proper authority for the action you take." That seems to be a common-sense way of doing things. Although the framers of this provision have no doubt been earnestly desirous of avoiding what is admittedly the cause of a lot of trouble, I am afraid this clause will open the door to ten times as much trouble as we have experienced up to the present. 
I do not condemn the bill lock, stock, and barrel. There are some fine provisions in it, particularly those relating to conciliation committees. But there are other provisions which are not at all desirable. I should like to point out that the public knows very little about the conciliation that takes place. For a number of years the disputes committee appointed by the Melbourne Trades Hall has done splendid work in settling disputes by means of conciliation. Immediately any trouble arises that may affect a number of in dustries, the disputes committee gets to work. In the first year of its activities it brought about settlements in 110 disputes out of 112 that occurred. The work done by that committee is not generally known by the public. There is no song made about it in the newspapers. I think the Government would be well advised to give this provision further consideration with a view to its simplification. I know that the task is a difficult one. The Minister was good enough to ask me to submit something to take its place. If the Government approved of it, he said that he would accept it. But I am not in a position to make any suggestion to him except that he should delete it from the bill and depend on the provision in the principal act to reach the objective he has in mind. I am satisfied that he will never reach it by means of this provision. 
The Minister seems to have the two word " job control " on his mind. They appear to haunt him. He tells us that this clause will have application to those who practice job control on the ships. I disagree with him, because the language of the provision is clear. It says - 
Any person or organization bound by or entitled to the benefit of an award may apply to the court. 
The provision has application to registered organizations of employers and employees,' and to no others. In that respect I am fortified by a statement made by the Attorney-General, who sponsored this bill in another place. Dealing with this clause, he said - *. 
It will be observed that this clause refers only to industries the employers and employees of which are subject to an 'award. 
The Seamen's Union are not working under an award of the Arbitration Court. They have been deregistered. 
-There is a mutual agreement between the shipowners and the Seamen's Union, but it is not registered in the Arbitration Court. It would appear, according to the Attorney-General, that the union can still practice job control because the clause applies only to registered unions. Now I come to the provision that  allows an employer to. shut down an industry, in which thousands of men' may be. engaged, simply because a few men in ' a section of that industry " down tools." Thus a vast number .of men who may be working under different awards from that applying to the section of the industry in which the dispute occurs, would suffer hardship. The Minister said that if the workers have the right to strike, the employers should be able to retaliate. 
I am aware of that. The Government desires to give the employers power to prevent sectional strikes by causing a cessation of work throughout an industry in which a sectional dispute occurs. Men who are working peacefully under awards, and giving satisfaction to their employers, would be irritated if such action were allowed on an order of the court. Unionists stand by their fellow workers when they feel that the employers are trying to do injury to any section of them. The clause will not make for peace in industry. 
Sometimes breaches of an award are of only a technical or minor character. 
In the event of a sectional dispute, the employer might consider it a favorable opportunity to " clean up " the whole of his establishment. The men employed in a section of an industry might " down  tools " over a simple matter that could be easily adjusted if the parties were called together; but a strike would be deemed to have occurred. The employer might be an impetuous person, and might apply to the court for an order that would enable him to lockout the whole of his employees. 
How does the honorable senator who interjects know that it would not? I have some know ledge of what a strike means. . The clause should be postponed for further consideration. Even the Minister- seems to be in doubt as to its real significance ; but there should be no ambiguity. The opinion expressed by the Minister differs from that of the Attorney-General. He is but a layman and probably does not understand the bill as well as does the AttorneyGeneral.  His  main concern is to have the bill passed; but I am anxious that if it is, it shall be made perfectly clear. In its present form it will irritate the workers of Australia by legalizing lockouts and by inflicting undue hardship and severe penalties on innocent people. Much time must have been spent by the AttorneyGeneral's Department in drafting the measure, and there must have been long and serious discussion of this clause by the Cabinet. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
 I have been looking at an interesting table in the  Commonwealth Y ear-Book  for  1927.  It shows that the number of awards, determinations and ' industrial agreements by wages boards and industrial courts are on the increase rather than on the decrease. In December,  1913,  the appointment of  505  boards had been authorized,  501  had been constituted,  387  had given awards or determinations, and  575  awards or determinations and  401  industrial agreements were in operation. In  1926,  the last year for which the figures are available, the number of boards authorized had increased to  599,  and  563  had been appointed. The awards or determinations in force numbered  1,262,  and the number of industrial agreements in force numbered  681. 
I have left nothing out. I want the committee to understand that I hold no brief for job control. I have been a member of. the State disputes committee in Western Australia. As a matter of fact I have been secretary of both that committee and the metropolitan disputes committee. The function of those committees is to fake whatever action may be necessary to prevent men from "downing tools," and thus causing a dispute to extend over the metropolitan area. If there is a probability of a dispute extending, it is dealt with automatically by the State's disputes committee. 
The figures which I have just read indicate that the majority of the organizations desire to enter into industrial agreements under the aegis of the court. Actually not a great percentage of awards have been disobeyed. 
Sometimes an industrial dispute is caused by the impulsive action of one or two trade unionists despite the efforts of the executive to prevent trouble from coming to a head. I honestly believe that .these proposed new sections will not have the effect desired. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  speaking at a dinner given by the  President  of the Victorian Employers' Federation, on the 5th April, 1927, said - 
There is only one way in which this problem can be dealt with, and that is by resort to a spirit of co-operation and good-will. 
I thoroughly endorse that statement. I am afraid, however, that these provisions will not promote the gospel preached on that occasion by the right honorable gentleman.  Mr. Bruce  also went on to say that formerly the employers had the heavy end of the stick, and they never hesitated to use it, but now the employees had the heavy end. Then some one at the meeting added : " And they are using it." I do not wish to see either employer oi1 employee holding the heavy end of the stick. I wish to see the stick, to continue the simile, evenly held by employer and employee. That is the end which we should have in view when considering this class of legislation. I strongly object to the clause, and I hope that it will be rejected. 
 So far as I' can see the clause will not do more than is already possible under the section which it amends. That section reads - 
Where persons with a view to being associated as employers and employees respectively or representatives of such persons, have entered into an industrial agreement with respect to employment, any of such persons who without reasonable cause or excuse refuses or neglects to offer or accept employment upon the terms of the agreement shall be deemed to be guilty of a lockout or strike as the case may be. 
That ought to be sufficient. I feel suspicious about these amending provisions. I am afraid that they will inflict punishment upon innocent persons instead of upon the extremists on either side. My one desire is to help the nation by insuring peace in industry. I have no sympathy with men who put into practice the treacherous system known as job control ; men who, without rhyme or reason, as the Minister put it, take action to hold up industry. I have no time for those men who walk off a vessel a few minutes before the time fixed for departure with the casual remark that they might be back in a few hours, or, if not, the following morning. They know that the ship cannot sail without them. Their action may cause ship-owners considerable financial loss and annoyance; but the unfortunate passengers suffer to an even greater extent. I could imagine the feelings of a full train-load of working men on their way home after their day's toil, if they were told by the guard at some out of the way station that he was going off and might not be back for a few hours, or perhaps until the following morning; but that, in any case, if 1,000 guards offered to board the train, not one would be allowed to give the driver the right of way. That, in effect, is what these men who practice job control on our ships are doing. It would be far better if they declared at once that they were out for a general strike. Job control is a pernicious system, and is quite indefensible. I fail to see, however, how these amending provisions will deal effectively with men who practice it. The men may plead illness and leave work. Who is to prove that they are not ill? 
That may be so. There will be the same trouble in fixing responsibility for a lockout. An employer, for reasons best known to himself, may decide to close his establishment. He may say that he is feeling ill, or urge that, owing to financial difficulties, he will have to close down for some considerable time. Although he may be quite dishonest about the matter, it will be difficult, under these provisions, to inflict punishment upon him. I am at a loss to know what should be done for' the best. 
I do. The people who have been responsible for the present dispute should have been checked at the outset. The officials of the union should have impressed upon the men that they were in the wrong ; that, by holding up the ships, they were punishing innocent people and not gaining anything for themselves. The officials, if they had done their duty, would have prevented all this trouble. I believe, however, that out of evil good will come, and that trade union executives in future will insist upon a more moderate attitude. It is unthinkable that the extremists who, in this dispute represent not more than 5 per cent, of the trade unionists involved, should be able to cause so much trouble and unemployment. I hope that the bill will do something to prevent industrial disputes from extending ; but, as I have already said, the provision already in the act should have been sufficient. 
-For the reasons advanced by honorable senators on this side, the Minister should seriously consider postponing the further consideration of this clause. I am satisfied that you, sir, as well as- I, and other honorable senators, do not desire an all-night sitting, and I trust that the Minister will not compel us to endure one. I was within the precincts of this building at an early hour this morning. "We began the present sitting at 11 a.m., and we have been deliberating for over twelve hours. There is a limitation to human endurance. 
There is no real necessity for honorable senators to overtax their strength in order to assist the Government to bullock the measure through. How is it possible for honorable senators to apply themselves to this and other provisions in the way that they wish, unless they are wide awake, alert and clear minded? I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to report progress. 
We have made substantial progress to-day; if we adjourned now and returned fresh for our work to-morrow, we would dispose of a greater volume of business in three hours than if we sit all night. 
I have no desire to stonewall either this or any other clause. It ill becomes the honorable senator to make any such suggestion in reference to me. I am never guilty of doing anything that will prevent the passage of measures in which I believe. If the Minister will neither postpone the clause nor report progress, I ask him to guide us to an understanding of the meaning of this provision. How many sectional strikes that have taken place in big industries in Australia have warranted the application of such a provision? No honorable senator can point to any sectional strike that has taken place at any time in a big industry to which even an anti-Labour Government would apply a provision of this description. The only instance that the Minister has been able to cite is that of job control in the shipping industry. He has referred to two men, whose names were mentioned frequently during the last Federal election campaign. According to statements that have appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  one of those is now opposed to industrial strife, and is doing all he .can to bring about peace in industry. Is this provision intended to be used against one man ? 
According to rumour, one of those two has said something which has led to certain action being taken against him. No organization which is not registered under the Arbitration Act can be fined for doing anything in the nature of a strike. The Attorney-General is of the opinion that only registered organizations can have the provision applied to them. The clause opens up big possibilities for an industrial upheaval in Australia. 
I should like  Senator Millen  to point out how it will do that. It will give the employers the opportunity to appeal to the court in the case of a sectional strike, and the result may be a lockout involving a large number of men who have had nothing whatever to do with it. The honorable senator must know that there are awards which cover different branches of certain industries, such as carpenters, fitters, moulders, body-builders and various other classes of artisans. The Sunshine Harvester establishment works under many different awards. 
Let us assume that the number is  100.  In  a  very small branch of that very big establishment  a  small dispute may occur. 
It may, or it may not. If it was, the hundreds of men who are employed in the establishment as a whole could be locked out. 
They would be penalized under this clause because of action taken by a section of the employees that might be working under an entirely different award. Extraordinary powers are being given to employers. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
This clause extends the conditions under which penalties may be imposed upon organizations ordering its members to refuse to offer or accept employment, and I do not think it will be more effective than the section which it is proposed to amend. Under this provision an organization is responsible for the actions of a committee of management of the organization or a branch of the organization or of a member of a committee of management of the organization, or of the committee of management of a branch. As there are only about  29  employers' organizations registered in the Arbitration Court, as against  149  employees' organizations, it will be seen that the provision will be very unfair in its incidence. The disparity in numbers of organizations clearly shows that it is directed against organizations of workers. I stated earlier in the debate that a member of the High Court Bench, when President of the Arbitration Court some years ago, said it was not an offence for a man to refuse to work. If an officer of an organization should order one of its members to cease work, the organization, under this provision, may have to pay a penalty of  £1,000,  which will be reduced to  £100  if the officer proved guilty of an offence is removed from office and is expelled from the organization. If he should be reinstated within twelve months the organization will be liable to the full penalty of  £1,000.  This is not  a  reasonable way in which to endeavour to settle industrial disputes, and is an indication that the Government in sponsoring this bill is adopting  a  vindictive attitude towards the men. It should be sufficient to fine the organization £100 without inflicting any further punishment. Why should this threat be held over the organization and the individual for twelve months? This clause justifies the statements made by those who are opposing the bill that, instead of it being a measure to promote industrial peace, it is a vicious attack on trade unionism. The penalty should always be commensurate with the offence, but it is not in this instance. I do not object to the union being made responsible for the acts of its officers, but when the organization makes an honest endeavour to control them, it should not be so heavily penalized. An organization will be responsible for the actions of an official of one of its branches. It may occasionally happen that a branch of an organization refuses to obey the order of the controlling body. In some of the big organizations there are hundreds of men holding responsible positions. In the Australian Workers Union they are called " reps." They are the representatives of the union in the shearing sheds and other places. Under this provision, if one of these men, or if an official in a minor branch of the union commits an offence, the organization, although its management committee may have done everything possible to prevent such a thing happening, is liable to a fine of £1,000. The fine may be reduced to £100 on the expulsion of the member who has committed the offence; but if he is reinstated in the union within twelve months, the fine may be increased to £1,000. Surely these heavy penalties are not necessary to enforce compliance with the awards of the Arbitration Court. 
Shortly before the transfer of this Parliament to Canberra, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  delivered an address in  Wesley  Church, Melbourne, in the course of which he said - 
The overwhelming majority of workers in Australia are perfectly safe, sound, decent people, who want to get on with their job without interruption. 
Yet the right honorable gentleman is trying to penalize many of these safe, sound, decent people. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
 This clause amends section 9 of the principal act by omitting sub-section 3, which reads - 
No proceeding for an offence against this section shall be instituted without the leave of the Chief Judge or the Registrar. 
Section 9 contains a number of penalties ; but, as the act stands now, no proceeding for an offence against the provision can be instituted without the leave of the Chief Judge or Registrar. That safeguard is now to be removed, although it is retained in other clauses which impose penalties. For instance, it is to be found in section 6. I cannot understand why the protection afforded to parties by section 9, as it now stands, should be removed. The person who is charged with an offence is often put to great inconvenience and heavy expense in defending himself, which may easily be avoided if the Chief Judge or Registrar is first of all given some idea of the charge to be laid. For these reasons I hope that the amending clause will not be agreed to. 
This clause provides for the insertion of new section 10 after section 9 of the principal act. Section 9 provides that an employer shall not dismiss an employee or injure him in employment, or alter his position to his prejudice by reason of the circumstances that the employee - 
is an officer or member of an organization, or of an association that has applied to be registered as an organization; or 
is entitled to the benefit of an industrial agreement or an award; or 
has appeared as a witness, or has given any evidence, in a proceeding under this act; or 
being a member of an organization which is seeking better industrial conditions, is dissatisfied with his conditions. 
The penalty provided is £50. Surely it should not be a crime for a man to try to improve his working conditions. Under the same section an employee may be fined £25 for ceasing work in certain circumstances. It is now proposed, under new section 10, to penalize the union also by providing that if it appears that at the time he committed an offence he was an officer or a member of the committee of management of an organzation or a branch of an organization, the court, in addition to making any other order, may order the organization, or trustees thereof, to pay out of the funds of the organization any amount of the penalty not exceeding £50, if the offence is doing anything in the nature of a lockout, and £10 if it is doing anything in the nature of a strike. Why should an organization be penalized because of the action of an officer, if it has endeavoured to make him comply with the law? The clause furnishes further evidence of the desire of the Government to persecute the unions. The officers often have a difficult task in keeping their members under control, particularly when months elapse between the lodging of a plaint and the hearing of it by the court. Of ten, when an award is given, the conditions have so materially changed since the lodging of the plaint, that the members of the organizations have become restless. I have been faced with that difficulty when in charge of a committee of disputes in Western Australia. I have always contended that we should make it as inexpensive as possible to obtain awards of the court; but this clause imposes an additional penalty, and will not take us any further along the road of industrial peace. Everything that could possibly be done under the principal act, was done, and this clause will merely intensify industrial trouble. An organization might almost be bankrupt, but under this provision it will be compelled to pay a fine up to £50, in addition to any other penalty that the court may impose. 
The Minister knows that it is extremely difficult at times to' do that. If a committee of management has made a bona fide effort in that direction, the court should take that into account. 
That is so; but the clause is unjust and vicious, and will not promote industrial peace. 
[1.10 a.m.]. - Until quite recently there were cases before the court in connexion with the Waterside Workers' 
Union, and at the same time important branches of the organization were conducting strikes. Judge Beeby, I think it was, called on the chief officers of the union to compel those branches to resume work, and said that otherwise he would not proceed with the hearing. The general secretary stated that he had asked them to do that; but he practically admitted that no notice had been taken of the request. Under this clause, the officers of those branches would be dealt with; but before a fine was inflicted on the organization, its officers would be heard under the provisions of sub-section 2. If the officers of the organization could show that they had tried to discipline the officers of the branches, the organization would not be fined; the officers of the branches only would be penalized. This clause has been inserted to meet cases such as that experienced by the Waterside Workers' Union. If the workers are to receive benefits from arbitration, they must have discipline.  Senator Barnes  pointed out that his organization had experienced difficulty owing to some of the members taking action without the approval of the union. I should think that the provision would be welcomed by organizations, especially federated bodies, who desire to enforce discipline amongst their branches. 
This clause, relating as it does to standard hours, should be closely scrutinized. Proposed new section 18aa, for the insertion of which it provides, is as follows :  - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, where - 
a variation of an award is made affecting the standard hours of work fixed by that award in an. industry or in a section of an industry, the interpretation or variation shall have no force or effect unless it is considered by the court constituted by the Chief Judge and not less than two other judges and is approved by the majority of the members of the court. 
In the earlier years of our arbitration system it was competent for one judge to consider claims relating not only to conditions of employment and wages, but also standard hours. This rule obtained up till 1920, when, because of the agitation for a reduction in hours from  48 a  week to 44, the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  introduced a measure providing that every claim involving a question of hours should be determined by three arbitration judges. The right honorable gentleman did not hesitate to make an attack on the then  President  of the court, who shortly after retired from the Arbitration Court Bench. The object of the Government in amending the act was to prevent the court from reducing standard hours from 48 to 44, notwithstanding that it had been demonstrated in Ford's establishment in America that a shorter week meant an increase in output. Since 1920 every claim involving standard hours has been determined by three judges. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. The first  President  of the Court  (Mr. Justice Higgins)  carried out his duties with the greatest impartiality, and I venture to say that it is easier to reach finality as regards standard hours with one judge in the bench instead of three. In a majority award made recently by Chief Judge Dethridge, Judge Lukin and Judge Beeby, the court decided that the standard hours in the engineering trades should be 44 a week, but that award has not yet received general application. 
It was Judge Beeby who laid down that principle, but it proved to be unworkable. Subsequently Judge Beeby had to explain his judgment, and make a variation of it. This clause perpetuates the principle. In my opinion, it would be better if standard hours were determined by one judge. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President Executive Council) [1.23 a.m.] . - -It is singular that criticism of this clause should come from the Leader of the Opposition, because it was inserted in the bill in another place at the suggestion of the Labour party. The bill does not in any way touch the question of standard hours. The provision in the principal act relating to that matter is not disturbed. When the measure was under discussion elsewhere,  Mr. Brennan,  a member of the Labour party, directed attention to an interpretation by Judge Lukin of an award of the court in the timber workers' case.  Mr. Brennan  pointed out that the interpretation which Judge Lukin had placed unpon the award in effect, altered a. judgment of the Full Arbitration Court ; and the Government, at his suggestion, included this new section, which pro- vides that whenever any case comes before the court involving an interpretation or variation of an award affecting standard hours, it must be heard by three judges of the court. 
It is quite true, as my Leader  (Senator Needham)  has said, that in 1920 the procedure of the court was so altered that whenever the question of standard hours was involved in a claim, it had to be determined by three judges instead of by one as formerly. The Government two and a half years ago appointed three judges to consider this important question. Those judges have spent one-fourth of their period of office in dealing with standard hours, but have not yetreach finality. Because of this amendment to the act, requiring three judges to determine all claims involving standard hours, there is serious congestion in the Arbitration Court. 
That is not our experience. I question if the first President of the Arbitration Court took seven months to determine the hours to be worked by industry under awards made by him. Forty-four hours is the recognized working week in many callings in Australia to-day. 
It was, in certain trades and callings. As a matter of fact, some of them worked fewer than 44 hours. Judge Lukin's interpretation was opposed to the opinions of the other judges. The timber workers were working under an award which specified that the number of hours should be 44 in certain areas and 48 in others. Judge Lukin ruled that the number should be 48 in the whole of the industry. The timber workers' organization was dissatisfied with that judgment, and probably because of that dissatisfaction  Mr. Brennan  desired that the question of the variation or interpretation of an award involving standard hours should be decided before three judges. If there is a chance of those judges interpreting the award to mean that 44 hours shall be regarded as the standard number, some good purpose will be served by the submission of the matter to them. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 20 agreed to. 
Clause 21- 
Section twenty-four of the principal act is amended by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following proviso: - " Provided that the court may refuse to certify any such memorandum if it is of opinion that the agreement is not in settlement of an industrial dispute or contains clauses which the court has no power to insert in awards, or that it is not in the public interest that it should be certified.". - 

 Section proposed to be amended - 

( 1 )  If an agreemen t between all or any of the parties as to the whole or any part of the dispute is arrived at, a memorandum of its terms shall be made in writing and certified by the Chief Judge and  . . have the same effect as ... . an award. . . . 
[1.35 a.m.]. - The House of Representatives substituted the words " a judge " for the words " the Chief Judge " in the section proposed to be amended. It is necessary to make a consequential amendment to this proviso. I move - 
That the words " the court ", first occurring, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " a judge ". 
The amendment proposed by the right honorable gentleman does not improve, the clause. Section 24 of the principal act confirms the practice which has been in operation for years in not only the Federal, but also the State sphere, under which the parties met together and entered into an agreement. A. memorandum of the agreement was prepared, and was ratified by being registered in the court. This clause, if amended in the manner suggested, will give to the court the power to intervene and refuse to register an agreement after the parties have spent time, trouble and money in drawing it up in a peaceful, orderly and reasonable fashion. 
This is a retrograde step. A few moments ago, when we were discussing the question of standard hours, I contended that that question could be decided more satisfactorily by one judge than by three. Here the position is reversed. I have taken part in many round-table conferences. The representatives of the employers are invariably well versed in the industry in connexion with which it is proposed that an agreement shall be drawn up. The delegates representing the union are expert in their business. A judge may have legal ability, but these men have a more expert knowledge of the work in which they are engaged. 
The Leader of the Senate has not mentioned any agreement that has caused injury to the public. At an earlier stage I read from the last  CommonwealthYear-Book  an interesting table, which showed that during the year 1926, in the Federal and State arena  681  industrial agreements were entered into. Can the Minister point to one of those agreements and say that it in any  way  caused injury to the public interests,  adversely  affected a companion industry,  or  was not in the nature of a settlement  of  an industrial dispute? Here we have the real spirit of conciliation and arbitration. 
The whole case will be reviewed by a judge, who  can  refuse to register the agreement. Up  to  the present only that portion of the  dispute  which was not settled by a voluntary agreement could be dealt with by  the  court or a judge of the court,  or, if no  agreement resulted from a voluntary conference, the whole dispute went to  the  court. That was an excellent practice. If evidence could be adduced to show  that  any agreement entered into in that  way  injured the public interests there might be some reason for supporting the clause. 
There is  coordination  and co-operation  of a  voluntary nature when the representatives of the parties to the  dispute  meet to draw up an agreement.  It  might as well be contended that, after  a  wages board has come to a decision  as  the result of consideration by experts, that decision should be referred to  a  judge of a higher court to determine, first, whether it effected a settlement  of an  industrial dispute, and secondly, whether or not the public interest was adversely affected. 
The principal act proves a proper method of overcoming industrial difficulties. No time is lost, the employer is receiving his profits  and  the employee his wages. Although both parties may enter into an amicable agreement, this clause provides that such agreements must be reviewed by a judge. This may lead to dislocation of industry  and  possibly a dispute. It is a retrograde step and one which I cannot support. 


 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. For years the coal owners and coal miners worked under agreements in which the rates of wages were continually increased, and in consequence the price of coal was raised until they ran against a snag in the form of overseas competition. How did the general public fare as the result of that agreement? The industry has been conducted in such a way that it has almost wrecked itself, and in continuing its policy has caused a great deal of damage to other industries which depend upon it. One can readily see that an agreement might be drawn up between employers and employees that was altogether inconsistent with an award of the Arbitration Court. There must be some standard in industrial legislation, and an agreement should not contain a provision which a court has not the power to insert in an award. How could we allow an industrial agreement filed in the court, which becomes an award, to contain a provision which the court itself would not insert? Obviously it would render the machinery of the Arbitration Court farcical. That is why this provision, which is one of the most useful in the bill, has been inserted. 
I ask the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  to name one industry- - 
The Minister has suddenly become solicitous concerning the general public and contends that honorable senators on this side of the chamber have no interest in the welfare of the community. The Minister is not concerned when employers in certain industries are making huge profits, and landlords who are a law unto themselves are charging exorbitant rents. He thinks that if employers' balance-sheets are satisfactory, every one should be satisfied. I maintain that we as representatives of the people, have the responsibility of safeguarding the interests of the public, and contend that during the period in which agreements filed in the court have had the effect of an award, they have not been detrimental to the public interest. 
The question raised by the Leader of the Opposition and so effectively replied to by the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  has been agitating the public mind for a considerable period. The most outstanding example of an industry which, under industrial agreements having the effect of an award, has been operating to the detriment of the public, is the shipping industry. Those engaged in it, instead of resisting the demands of the men have granted them from time to time and provided for the increased cost, as well as for huge profits, by increasing fare and freights which the public have had to pay. It is time legislative provision was made for preventing action of this kind. It is gratifying to realize that at last the public is to receive some consideration. Does the honorable senator suggest that if the employers and employees agree upon terms suitable to them, that the court should not have a voice in determining whether the wages provided in an agreement should be paid. The iron and steel industry, which is essentially a key industry, and is highly protected, could under an agreement filed in the court, pay unnecessarily high wages, and pass the increased costs on to the users of their products, with very serious' effects upon other industries. The Leader of the Opposition should realize that the Government is legislating in the right direction by providing that the interests of the public shall be conserved. 
 Senator Herbert  Hays was surprised at the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  in objecting to this clause. If he was surprised at the honorable senator's remarks, all 
I can say is that I am amazed, if not almost dumbfounded at his statement. He is supporting the clause because he objects to agreements entered into between employers and employees having the effect of an award, since he contends they are inimical to the interests of the people. The members of the Seamen's Union have up to 1925, obtained awards from the Arbitration Court. Does he suggest that the wages and conditions provided in those awards were too good for the seamen? 
That is the honorable gentleman's argument. In effect, he said that as a result of wages being increased, and the conditions improved, fares and freights were increased, and in consequence the general community penalized. 
Are we to assume that every award or agreement that provides for a living wage will be opposed by the honorable senator? 
The honorable senator said that if the court awards certain rates, the cost is passed on to the public. The seamen have never received more than a living wage. It is true that the conditions of the seamen during recent years have improved considerably, but the seamen of to-day are more intelligent and are not prepared to submit to the conditionswhich obtained in the. Australian coast some years ago. The honorable senator did not refer to the profits made by the shipping companies. 
The shipping companies operating on the Australian coast have amassed fortunes. 
Then the Minister emphasizes what  Senator Hays  stated. 
Does the Minister object to agreements in which provision is made for decent conditions? 
I deny that. 
But the cooks have to work very long hours. 
In bad weather they have always to be available, and on many occasions have to work overtime. The Minister knows that as a fact under their award they are not paid more than the engineers. 
That is especially provided for in the award. The cooks are not responsible for bad weather and long delays. When accidents occur and the running of the ship is interfered with, the cooks have always to be on hand to provide food, and on that account may perhaps receive at the end of the month, what some consider a high wage. Under ordinary circumstances they earn nothing more than a living wage. I shall not object to the Government taking power to deal with that octopus that has its tentacles outstretched over the whole of Australia. I refer to the shipping combine that can do pretty well what it likes, so far as passengers and freights are concerned. 
The argument used by the honorable senator was that the agreement between the ship-owners and the seamen was harmful to the community. There being two parties to that agreement, and one of them being the seamen, it is my task to show that they are not getting more than a living wage. As one who has been associated with unionism, I feel that I am justified in  defending the working class to whom I belong, and in showing that the men who go to sea are not overpaid. 
The honorable senator and the Leader of the Government described certain agreements as being harmful to the community, and they cited the agreement in the coal industry. We know that one of the coal barons is a millionaire. No one can say that one Australian coal-miner has even become a millionaire. 
They are a hardworking section df the community. 
The honorable senator cannot be serious in making that statement. At most, some of the coalminers who have the luck to be in a good pit, earn fair wages at times, but on the whole their wages are small, and just now many of the mines in the Newcastle district are only working half time. 
There are reasons for the falling off in the Newcastle coal trade besides the decrease in the overseas export trade. The development of coal mines in other States is one contributing factor. For many years Vie.toria depended on Newcastle coal for the whole of its requirements, but in recent years a great change has come over Victoria'. Morwell is now turning out immense quantities of briquettes, and Wonthaggi supplies the railway department and other Government activities with coal which, a few years ago, was obtained from Newcastle. According to  Senator Herbert  Hays, the increased wages which are given as the result of agreements that have been entered into between employers and employees, are passed on to the community in the shape of, increased prices for commodities or increased fares and freights. But, as a matter of fact, we know, as men of the world,, that in many cases where increases in wages are granted to workers, the employers make a profit out of those increases. 
If there was any point in the honorable senator's argument it was that because increased prices were passed on to the community, there should be no increase in wages. 
At  any rate the honorable senator's argument was that since increased wages were passed on by the employers to the community at large, there should be no awards or mutual agreements giving increased wages. 
I should like to bring before the committee the position that has been brought about in the South Australian railways as a result of the pernicious system of bargaining that now exists between the coal barons referred to by  Senator Findley,  and the men employed in the coal mines of New South Wales. Frequent attempts have been made, to find brown coal in South Australia. Experts engaged in Britain have been diligently investigating the possibility of the dis.covery of a suitable coal for use on the State railways, and one or two very inferior samples have been sent to England and Germany for testing to see if, by any chance, the State could get out of its difficult position. No success has so far been achieved. When I first entered the State Parliament in 1914, the engines on the State railways were being fuelled with coal from Newcastle at a cost of 18s. a ton. To-day it costs 42s. lOd. a ton to fuel those engines. Although the State has engaged the services of a leading American railway expert to try to get its railway system down to an economic basis so that some profit may be earned on the £30,000,000 invested, the huge cost of procuring coal keeps the mileage cost at an excessive figure, and the problem that faces  Mr. Webb,  the Commissioner of Railways, is most difficult. I am pleased, therefore, that a provision has been inserted in this bill which will enable the Arbitration Court to decline to certify any memorandum and give it the effect of an award, if it is of opinion that it is not in the public interest that it should be certified. During the war when there was a possibility of the whole of the coal-mining industry being held up,  Mr. Hughes,  who was then Prime Minister, settled the dispute. He settled it quite easily in a way that any one could have settled it. He gave the men all that they asked. The result was that the price of coal went up and every workman's wife who wanted coal for heating or cooking purposes was penalized. I am glad that this provision has been inserted in the bill. 
 I cannot allow the remarks of  Senator Findley  concerning my comment on this provision, to go without contradiction. We know that the honorable senator is often in a humorous frame of mind, but his words which are amusing to us, may convey a different impression to the public who do not know the honorable senator as we know him. The honorable senator made it appear that I had said that the wages received by the seamen on the Australian coast were too high. When he was speaking he asked me to cite a case in which the public interest had been in any way affected by an agreement between employers and employees, and I cited the two key-industries, shipping and steel, saying that it was quite possible that substantial increases might be given quite inconsistent with those granted by awards made by the Arbitration Court. I pointed out, also, that the shipping companies, having control of all the shipping trade on our coast, could, with the greatest of ease, pass on to the public the increased wages with, perhaps, something substantial in addition.  Senator Findley,  by drawing attention to the huge profits made by the shipping companies, has borne out my contention that they have substantially increased their rates. 
This is another reactionary clause that will extend the new principle of the economic survey of awards. The clause that the committee has just disposed of is confined to agreements between the parties which have to be submitted to a judge to determine whether or not public interests are affected. Section 25 of the principal act, which the present clause amends, is compact and effective. It reads - 
In the hearing and determination of every industrial dispute, and in exercising any duties or powers under or by virtue of this act, the court or the Chief Judge shall act according to equity, good conscience, and the substantial merits of thecase, without regard to technicalities or legal forms, and shall not be bound by any rules of evidence, but may inform its or his mindon any matter in such manner as it or he thinks just. 
That section was sufficient for all purposes; but the committee is now asked to agree to the insertion of a series of new sections, the last of which is as follows : - 25p. The court shall, before making any award or certifying any agreement, and in proceedings for the variation or cancellation of an award or agreement, take into consideration the probable economic effect of the agreement or award in relation to the community in general and the probable economic effect thereof upon the industry or industries concerned: 
That provision ran the gantlet of strong criticism in another place, and, after hours of -discussion, the Government agreed, by way of a compromise, to add the following words : " Provided that this section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing the basic wage." Clause 21 deals with agreements only; but this clause relates to both agreements and awards. Time after time this Parliament is called upon to deal with thetariff, and since the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth is protection, increased customs duties are imposed. Does Parliament ever concern itself with the economic effect of those duties upon industry? 
The only object which this Parliament has in view when imposing customs duties is the fostering of Australian industries. The economic effect of customs duties is not considered. In proposed new section 25d, however, it is proposed that the court shall make an economic survey of industry, and consider the effect of a particular award upon the industry or industries concerned. 
I am not concerned about provisions that may be included in Queensland legislation. We are considering, at the moment, a proposed new Commonwealth law. The provision to which I have referred represents a radical departure from all previous legislation dealing with industrial affairs. In my own State organizations may not bother to get agreements from their employers because they know that they will have to run the gauntlet of the court. These proposed new sections will add considerably to the work of the court.  Senator Barnes  has told us that a number of organizations already have been waiting for a considerable time to have their claims heard by the court.Four judges have been working assiduously to deal with claims, but they are not able to cope with the work, and the congestion of the court is responsible for much of the industrial unrest that prevails to-day.  Sir John  Quick, a  Deputy President  of the Court, has been engaged for many months in the hearing of the railways case, and has not yet reached finality.  His  term of office has been extended from time to time in order that he may make an award. The proviso to proposed new section 25d states that the section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing the basic wage. It is important to remember that the basic wage has not yet been determined by the court, but determinations respecting it have been made by State tribunals in Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland, and New South Wales. In my own State it is reviewed every year. Since the advent of the State Labour Government in 1924 the Arbitration Act in Western Australia has been amended, and now it is the finest piece of arbitration legislation in the Commonwealth. 
It is reviewed every year because the act makes provision for it. If the Commonwealth Arbitration Court decides to review the basic wage, there is no provision in the act to prevent the court from fixing it at a lower amount than it is to-day. Will any honorable senator say that the basic wage in any of the States is too high? In Western Australia it is £4 5s. a week, and in some of the other States £4 6s. Surely that is not too much for a man to provide house rent and food and clothing for himself his wife and family. 
a.m.]. - The clause deserves the earnest and serious consideration of the committee. I hope, therefore, that we shall have a statement from the Minister as to the real meaning of the proposed new sections.  Senator Needham,  in&lt;-his statement of the position just now, did not draw an imaginary picture of what is possible under this clause. If it is passed in its present form it is possible that, following a survey of the economic field, the basic wage may be seriously affected. Proposed new section 25d reads - 
The court shall, before making any award or certifying any agreement, and in proceedings for the variation or cancellation of an award or agreement, take into consideration the probable economic effect of the agreement or award in relation to the community in general and the probable economic effect thereof upon the industry or industries concerned. 
It appears to me that the Government believes that some awards made by the court are not in the best interests of the industries concerned, or in the best interests of the community. That is- the in ference I draw from my reading of this proposed new section. In my opinion itis a dangerous provision so far as arbitration awards are concerned. I say in all earnestness that any industry that cannot pay a living wage to its employees, does not deserve encouragement. 
I vote for high duties, because they are designed to encourage the establishment of secondary industries in Australia. The procedure of the court has been to make awards in respect of protected industries without considering the economic effect of such awards. It has been stated that mutual agreements have in some instances been harmful to ihe community, because they have resulted in increased wages and improved conditions, the cost of which has been passed on by the employers. A similar statement is made when tariff duties are raised, irrespective of Arbitration Court awards. When the tariff was amended a few years ago, the price of almost everything went up, and if the reason was asked, the reply was that increased duties and higher wages were responsible. Many industries can well afford to pay more than a living wage, but I do not think that they will be affected by this clause. Some persons who are associated with industry have little or no time for the Arbitration Court, and would give their whole-hearted support to a provision empowering it to inquire into the economic position of all industries and the economic effect upon them of any award. The amendment made to the clause in another place does not absoltuely safeguard the basic wage. I believe there are some honorable senators opposite who do not desire to see the basic wage reduced. Those who are conversant with the conditions of the workers must share with me the view that in some cases the wage paid to-day is not as high as it should be. 
The conditions in this country are better than those of any other country. O.ur people have the opportunity to do what many other people cannot do in a constitutional way. We have an enlightened democracy. The conditions of practically every age, in almost every country, are an improvement upon their predecessors. It is doubtful, however, whether the conditions in some industries in Australia are very much better than those which existed prior to the war. If honorable senators considered seriously the economic effect of increased tariff duties upon the general community, there would be little progress and very few industries would be established in Australia. There are some persons who do not favour high duties and are not enthusiastic advocates of the Arbitration Court. They honestly believe that a reversion to lower duties and perhaps the abrogation of the Arbitration Court, would make- the conditions better than they are to-day. T do not share that view. I ask those who, like myself, have voted for increased duties, not to give a whole-hearted support to this clause, but to regard it in the light in which they regard the tariff. When we are dealing with the tariff, or a proposal to grant a bounty, we take a broad national view and do what we consider is best for Australia as a whole. 
 The honorable senator's time has expired. 
A great deal has been said about the economic effect of Arbitration Court awards upon industry in Australia. I am very much more concerned about the economic effect upon the community. While listening to  Senator Findley,  I came to the conclusion that he had missed his vocation, and that when he entered this legislature the stage lost an actor compared with whom  Sir Henry  Irving would have seemed poor indeed. Some very important information reached me to-day which has a particular bearing on this clause. At the present time South Australia is assisting the other States to spend advantageously the sum of £34,000,000 which is being advanced by the British Government under the migration agreement. The Liberal Government there is endeavouring to prevent the money from being frittered away under the system of day labour. It is .trying to develop the State economically, and make the money go as far as possible, by adopting the piece-work and butty-gang systems. Some members of the Australian Workers' Union are averaging £1 14s. 6d. a day in removing soil from the trenches that are being put down in connexion with a big water scheme through the vast territory of Eyre's Peninsula, where it is hoped that a vast province will be developed. 
I shall inform the honorable senator if he will be patient. The figures I am about to quote were given in a speech on the loan estimates in the South Australian House of Assembly by the Premier and Treasurer  (Mr. Butler),  as reported in the South Australian  Hansard  of the 24th May, 1928. I emphasize the fact that they have not been supplied by any political partisan, but have been compiled by  Mr. Bellamy,  the hydraulic engineer who is controlling the activities of this department in that State. The figures are most illuminating, and I trust that those whose duty it is to administer the act when it has been passed by -this Parliament will pay some regard to the opinions expressed by some honorable senators during this .debate. The extract to which I have referred reads - 
Hydraulic Engineer, £1,000,000. - I shall now refer to the savings made under the petty contract system. From a report dated 18th May, 1928, from the western district engineer, the price for excavation on schedule of reticulation mains was 6s. 4.2d. net. The cost under petty contract is .3s. 6d., which is 2s. 10.2d. per cubic yard less than the day labour rate, or approximately 44 per cent. Under the old system the cost of refilling was ls. 5.4d. The present cost is lO.ld. - saving, 7.3d. per cubic yard, or approximately 42 per cent. Further, contractors are at the present time taking out considerable quantities of soft and broken rock as earth, and this has been included in the above figures, but was previously included and debited as rock. Laying and jointing costs have also been decreased ranging from 22 to 33 per cent. This work is done under day work system, but is being performed by the petty contractors, who are on the whole a much better type of labourer than previously procurable under the day work system. These men are anxious ' also to expedite the day labour work in order to get back on contract rates, and thus our costs of such work as is being carried out under day work is being considerably reduced. On the Port Noarlunga mains the cost of trenching and filling was estimated at approximately 7s. lOd. The actual cost was slightly under '5s. Id., and the saving approximately 35 per cent. Since the scheme for lessening costs has been put in hand the savings on school buildings have been 33 per cent. below estimates based on costs prior to introduction. 
The TREASURER. - I have not the figures for the West Coast, but for Port Noarlunga the highest wages were 45s. a day, the lowest 18s., and the average £1 14s. 6d. Generally, all the men are satisfied. No man earns less than the basic wage under the system of payments by results. 
The average wage received by the men employed on this work was £1 14s. 6d. a day. All of the men are satisfied, and no man earns less than the basic wage. I think I have shown that even under the piece-work system it is easy to preserve the present basic wage, and I maintain that if men in constant employment could earn £537 a year for a six-day week of 48 hours, there would not be much cause for the alarm expressed by honorable senators opposite. I trust the provision will be passed in its present form as I am confident it will result in much good to the workers and also be of benefit to the general community. Under the piece-work system an honest worker can earn a decent wage, and if conditions such as I have mentioned became general it would not be long before Australia would become a working man's paradise. 
The information supplied by SenatorRobinson does not remove my anxiety concerning the possibility of a reduction in the basic wage. The honorable senator has quoted what he says are authentic figures, but he did not mention whether the men receiving such wages were in continuous employment. 
I have already directed the attention of the committee to the fact that the basic wage in one of the States is £4 5s. a week, and on that amount many men have to maintain a wife and four children. The rent which he would have to pay would be from 25s. to 30s. a week. If we deduct 30s. a week from £4 5s., it leaves £2 15s. a week, out of which he has to clothe and feed himself, his wife and four children. I contend that that is practically impossible. Honorable senators opposite have not referred to the excessive rents which some unfortunate men have to pay; they are anxious only to ensure that the " interests of the community " will not be affected. The unfortunate employee who has only his labour to sell, is forced to go to the court when seeking an increase in wages and better conditions, but he has no tribunal to which he can appeal to determine what rent he shall pay. The landlord who owns the house in which he lives can charge exorbitant rents, and proceed without interference by any authority. These unfortunate men must pay the rent demanded by unscrupulous landlords or be homeless. That is a phase of the question that is apparently overlooked by honorable senators opposite whose onlyconcern isfor the employer. 
I have no desire to do otherwise. We are considering an economic question with which I think the amount of rent a man pays is closely associated. 
I do not think it is very closely associated with the cancellation of an award, which is the subject now before the committee. 
There is no encouragement for one party to continue in that  appeal to conciliation which my friend,  Senator Robinson,  has assured us he supports. If the honorable senator scrutinizes proposed section 25d carefully, he will see that, if it becomes law, it will have a serious effect on the conciliation side of our industrial law, even almost to the "point of wiping it out altogether. For that reason I oppose the clause. 
The proposed new section 25d is an exceedingly dangerous and pernicious provision, containing as it does all the elements that are likely to destroy the usefulness of arbitration. The workers will realize that it is useless for them to apply for higher wages with this provision in the act. When our tariff is increased we look at the matter from the point of doing good to the community as a whole.  Senator Robinson  has mentioned that in South Australia the Government pays £2 a day to men for digging trenches. I think there must be something wrong with the honorable senator's figures. If it is known that men are earning £2 a day on piece-work the system is very speedily altered and the rate is so changed that the men have very little opportunity to earn anything like the amount quoted by the honorable senator. I knew the father of the present Premier of the State. He was one of the greatest advocates of piece-work Australia has ever known. In .those days there were many men working on piece-work who were not earning anything like the basic wage, which was then 6s. a day, and were almost starved off the jobs they had because they could not earn sufficient to provide food for themselves and their families. It is absurd to suggest that the present Premier of the State has a better outlook in this regard than his father had. It is said that figures cannot lie; but liars can figure. I do not trust those which have been quoted by  Senator Robinson.  It is absurd for the honorable senator to claim that men who can earn £2 a day on piece-work make about £500 in twelve months. No sane person would be misled by such a statement. I am afraid, however, that when the court is faced with the evidence that men are earning these wages on piece work, it may say, " It is too much for any working man to earn." Two pounds a day! It is absurd to suggest that men engaged in digging trenches are earning those wages. If they earned them the whole body of conservatism would revolt. The honorable senator forgot to point to the thousands of pounds that were saved to the Commonwealth by the employment of day labour on the construction of the east-west railway. He also forgot to refer to many bridges and public works built in South Australia under the day-labour system at a saving of many thousands of pounds to the State. And he forgot to say that better work was done by day labour because it was carried out, not to make a profit, but to last. It is well-known that contractors do not care how soon their work deteriorates. Work done by day labour will last because the best of workmanship is put into it. I am afraid that proposed Section 25d will undermine the basic wage. Under our present arbitration system employers are not asked what their wives pay for stockings, and whether they are silk, or how many hats they wear in a year; yet the workers are expected to answer all these questions in giving evidence with regard to a wages claim. They are very often degraded by having to state what clothing they wear and what it costs; whereas the employing class get off scot free. The wife of an employer may pay 70 guineas for a coat, but that does not come out in evidence in the Arbitration Court. I cannot understand how men who declare that they are in favour of the basic wage can support a provision of this kind. It shows their lack of sincerity or lack of knowledge of the economic conditions of the toiling masses. I know that it is useless to plead for the deletion of this section, but very soon the people of Australia will have an opportunity to deal with those who have inserted it in the bill. If the people are satisfied to return them once more to power, they will deserve all they get; that will be a lower basic wage than they have tb-day. 
I am puzzled as to the meaning of proposed section 25d. Reading it without the proviso it means that the court is instructed to take into consideration the probable economic effect of an award on the affairs of the country, which seems to me to be a clear indication that it is empowered to fix a rate of wages very much below what we have for years understood to be the basic wage. But, apparently, the objection raised in another place to giving this power to the court has shown the Government that the provision has a meaning which was never intended, and accordingly the following proviso has been added to it :  - 
Provided that this section shall not affect the practice of the court in fixing the basic wage. 
I should like to know what portion of the proposed section will guide the court. Is it to be guided by the proviso? It seems to me quite a suitable provision, because it requires the court to make provision for a basic wage. But the court is also empowered to take into consideration the economic effect of its awards. If the circumstances indicate that an employer is making so much that he is in a position to give more than the basic wage, the court may in some cases fix a wage higher than the basic wage. I want to know whether the Government is sure of what is meant by the provision. If the provision means what I think it does it will be. all right, but if it means what others think it does it will be all wrong. 
The Minister has stated that certain officers of industrial organizations are engaged exclusively in the preparation of cases for the Arbitration Court. That is not so. 
The Minister did not qualify his statement in any way. He said most emphatically that certain officials did nothing else, and that as soon as one case was finished they started on the preparation of another. He added that because cases were presented by laymen much time was wasted in the courts.  Mr. E.  H. Barker, the secretary of the Labour party executive in Western Australia, conducts all the affairs of his office and, in addition, prepares basic wage applications for the State court. He does not receive additional remuneration for his court work. It is regarded as part of his ordinary office duties. When I was acting as secretary to the State executive I invariably had to work more than eight hours a day. The office is no sinecure; nevertheless the secretary prepares cases for the Arbitration Court without additional remuneration.  Mr. Kenneally,  the present member for East Perth in the Western Australian Parliament, prior to his election, was the general secretary of the Engine Drivers, Fireman and Cleaners' Association of Western Australia. He, too, had to work more than eight hours a day, carrying out his ordinary office duties and preparing basis wage applications. The Minister said also that laymen waste the time of the court. Sometimes judges complain also of waste of time by lawyers. It was stated by counsel in the Bulumwaal murder trial now on appeal before the Full Court of Victoria, that  Mr. T.  C. Brennan, the famous criminal lawyer, had been charged" with wasting time by a judge of the Supreme Court of Victoria. Laymen are not the only offenders, but I do not admit that they are responsible for waste of time in the courts. Section  27  reads as follows :  - 
On the hearing or determination of any industrial dispute an organization may be represented by a member or officer of any organization, and any party not being an organization may be represented by an employee of that party, but no party shall (except by consent of all the parties) be represented by counsel, or solicitor or paid agent. 
If the clause now before us is passed in its present form the court may, without the consent of all the parties, allow one or other of the parties to be represented by counsel. I do not approve of the proposed amendment, and I hope that it will be defeated. 
The position has been correctly stated by my leader  (Senator Needham).  Under the law as it stands, the consent of all parties is necessary before counsel may appear in an arbitration case. This amendment opens the door to the employment of legal representatives in all arbitration cases. It provides that if one party wishes to have legal representation and the other party objects, the former may approach the court and, if the court thinks that the application is reasonable, it may grant it. The Leader of the Senate stated that much time was wasted by labour advocates in presenting cases to the court. I think he went further, and said that some of these men lived on the game. 
Of course they do. Most of the advocates who appear before the arbitration court on behalf of registered organizations are paid officials of their unions, and their arbitration work is part of their ordinary office duties. Many of them have been complimented by the judges for the manner in which they have presented their cases. 
We can imagine what will happen if this clause is passed. Once the employers have the right to employ counsel, registered labour organizations will feel obliged to adopt the same course. Consequently the costs incidental to Arbitration Court awards will be considerably increased. I do not say that lawyers purposely prolong cases before the court; but they are noted for the time which they devote to the minutest details. We have seen them in Parliament and on public platforms. Attention to detail is a part of their training. They spend a great deal of time, which would not be spent by the trained labour advocate, upon what, to their minds, are technical points. ' Earlier in the proceedings I mentioned the enormous sums that it has cost unions to get awards from the Arbitration Court. I did not give the complete figures; in the last few years there have been many cases of which I have not been able to ascertain the cost. This provision will mean additional expense to the unions. Even though a little more time may be occupied when cases are presented by labour advocates, their wage is infinitesimal compared with the fees that are charged by legal gentlemen. If they were paid at special rates, the total cost would still be less to the labour organizations. 
If the Government sincerely desires to assist trade unions, it should do everything in its power to lighten their expenditure of money, time and energy in endeavouring to obtain awards from the Arbitration Court. The position will be one-sided if lawyers appear for the employers and the organizations are represented by trained labour advocates. For many years  Mr. Justice  Higgins was the  President  of theArbitration Court, and very few lawyers appeared before him. It is probable, however, that, with the passing of this provision, a larger number will appear iu the future,. They will be briefed on behalf of organizations of employers, and for their own protection the registered labour organizations may find it necessary to brief counsel to answer the technical arguments advanced by them. The reasons advanced by the Leader of the Senate for the insertion of this provision do not appeal to me. I shall vote against the clause. 
During my second-reading speech I said that if any injustice or any discrimination between the workers and the employers became apparent I would vote to have it removed. I must admit that both  Senator Findley  and Senate Needham have put up a much stronger case for the rejection of this principle than the Minister has advanced for its acceptance. I, therefore, intend to vote with the Opposition. I have had some little experience of- legal gentlemen. It was my function to assist in investigating the operations of the legal fraternity in my State, and to arrive at an intelligent understanding of what occurs in the courts of justice. Although I do not condemn all the members of the legal profession, it is my opinion that the termination of litigation frequently synchronizes with the wiping out of the litigant's bank balance. Although the men who represent the case for the unions become expert in its presentation, and to that extent the employer is often at a great disadvantage, they have their limitations. The expenditure of a few thousand pounds in having their case presented is a mere fleabite to some employers; but the unions are dependent upon the contributions which the workers can afford to make out of their living wage. If we keep the legal profession out of the Arbitration Court a more concilatory spirit will prevail. I have always championed conciliation. My friend,  Senator Barnes,  has told some of us, in the course of conversation, . that very often differences between employers and employees are adjusted to the accompaniment of a few draws of the pipe and a drop of Old Scotch. I ask the Minister to consider whether out of his flock he cannot concede one little ewe lamb to our honorable friends opposite. No great harm would be done. On one occasion I, in company with a few other unsuspecting sportsmen, was dragged into the court because I endeavoured to win a silver cup presented by  Mr. Angus,  of South Australia, with a beautiful greyhound that I owned. The charge laid against me was that I conspired, with others, to commit a breach of the Cruelty to Dumb Animals law. We did not escape from the clutches of the law until our lawyer had filched from us £250. Many years ago my father bought a property. To place himself in a position to pay for it, he. sold other properties that he possessed. The Commissioner of ' Taxes in South Australia, demanded .'£483 in respect of the profit made on the sale of the land:' I maintained on behalf of my parent that it was an accretion of capital, and. therefore not taxable under the South Australian Act. We had to go to the court to prove that the commissioner's interpretation was wrong. We obtained the verdict, but it cost us practically as much as the commissioner had claimed in taxation, and the court awarded us costs to the extent of £5 ! That was due to the fact that there were lawyers on the job. We do not want a repetition of that under our Arbitration Act. From the experience I have had, I am confident that if some members of the legal fraternity think that the parties whom they are representing have substantial banking accounts, the proceedings will be protracted to the detriment of both parties. Unless the Minister can prove that my interpretation of this provision is incorrect, I shall oppose it. 
This addition to the section in the  principal act, which it amends, will not be of advantage to either party to a dispute. The main object of inserting the original provision in the principal act, was to protect the interests of organizations which had not very much money. Lawyers can appear in the court only with the consent of both parties, because it would  be undesirable for unions with a small amount of capital at their disposal to endeavour to fight an employer with a good deal of money behind him. There are men who have a knowledge of the industry in which they are interested, who can place the case before the court better than men trained in the law. The job of lawyers is to embarrass their opponents and perhaps cripple them financially, and in order to overcome this difficulty, we contend that it is unnecessary for lawyers to appear in the court at all. There may be occasions, such as when constitutional questions are under 'consideration, or technical legal points are involved, when their assistance is invaluable. I would never favour a lawyer representing one party, when the other party to the dispute objected; nor would I assist in giving the court the power to override the opinions of the parties concerned. After years of experience, I contend that the representatives of both sides have an intimate knowledge of the case, and can put the position clearly before the judge, even if he does not possess a knowledge of the industry. Laymen are not inclined to protract the proceedings, and for that reason the absence of lawyers saves the time of both parties. I think the Government should have allowed the provision in the principal act to remain unaltered, particularly as I have not heard any requests for an amendment. 
The act provides that when a State award conflicts with a Federal award it shall, to the extent of its inconsistency with the Federal award, be invalid. The proposed amendment goes further by adding the words that where a State award "deals with any matter " which is the subject of a Federal award, the State award shall, to the extent of its inconsistency in relation to the matter concerned, be invalid. I presume that the object of this amendment is to obviate, if possible, the overlapping of awards, but I do not think it will have that effect. It will certainly render idle conciliation committees and boards of reference in operation in some of the States to which many matters in dispute are now referred. The section to be amended provides that where a State court makes an award it shall, in so far as it does not conflict with a Federal award, be legal. 
Therein lies the difference between section 30 of the principal act and the amendment that is before us. Under section 30 the whole of the award of a State tribunal which clashes with a Federal award is invalid, and the Federal award is supreme, whereas this clause singles out any part of a State award which deals with any matter dealt with or is inconsistent with any matter or part of a dispute dealt with in the Federal Court. The State court will still be at liberty to make an award in relation to any matter that has not been incorporated in an award made by the Federal court, but if in any part of the State award there is an inconsistency with the Federal award, the State award does not operate. Assuming that the Federal court grants two-thirds of a long list of requests made by unions, it is obvious that a State award covering any of the matters embraced in the two-thirds granted by the Federal court will become invalid so far as they are inconsistent with the Federal award, but in future, if the union applies to a State court for an award on any matter that may have been included in  the one-third of its requests which was not granted by the Federal court, the fact that it has already been dealt with by the latter court, although an award may not have been made in regard to it, will render invalid any decision' of the State court in regard to it. That is my interpretation of this clause, and I am fortified in my opinion by men of legal training and with considerable experience in arbitration courts. I should like to hear the Minister explain the reason for the introduction of this amendment. If he can prove that the Constitution requires that parts of awards must not be inconsistent, we are perforce compelled to accept the clause. But until I hear him give that explanation I must maintain my opinion that the proposal contained in this clause is unfair. 
We are getting on famously. The Minister has spoken and has explained everything in a few words, at the same time hinting that we on this side of the chamber are deliberately delaying the proceedings of the committee. When we remember that another place took four weeks to discuss this bill, I think that we are treating the Government very well. There is something more to be said about this clause than what the Minister has told us. We were informed that the purpose of the preceding clause was to clarify the provision in the original act and give effect to decisions of the High Court. Evidently the process of clarification is to go on. The clause now before us has a much more farreaching effect, and bears an altogether different aspect from that which has been placed on it by the Minister in his usual offhand style. It gives employers the right to apply to the Federal Court to knock out awards made by. a State court with which they may be dissatisfied. There is no question here of any clashing between a Federal and a State award. Proposed new section 30a (1) provides - 
Any person interested may apply to the court for a declaration that a State law dealing with an industrial matter or an award, or determination of a State industrial authority is invalid under section 30 of this act. 
I call attention to the words " an industrial matter ". The State court can determine an industrial matter which may not be an industrial dispute. This has been definitely stated by an ex-President of the Arbitration Court, who is now a member of the High Court.. An organization of employers dissatisfied with an award of the State court may apply to have it disallowed. I contend that where an award of the State tribunal does not clash with a Federal law it should remain operative. The term " industrial matter " may act as a drag-net bringing in various State awards. Therefore the clause will have a far-reaching effect. The Arbitration Court in Western Australia is working well and scarcely any objection is taken to its awards or the agreements registered under it; but under this clause it is competent for an employers' organization to appeal to the Federal court against its decisions. I conceive that the clause will pave the way for industrial unrest, and will render the splendid work of the State tribunals nugatory. In view of the recent decision of the High Court, the amendments of the principal act contained in clause 25 are sufficient to establish the supremacy of the Federal law. The judgment of the High Court to which I have referred makes interesting reading. The dissenting judge,  Mr. Justice  Higgins, definitely declared that there was a vast defference between an industrial matter and an industrial dispute. He remarked " To consider a common subject for a different purpose is not to deal with a Commonwealth dispute ". Again, referring to the conciliation committee in New South Wales appointed under the aegis of the industrial court there, he said " The approach of the committee to the subject of labour conditions is not through the gate of disputes". I contend that the Minister's statement does not go far enough. Apart from the constitutional aspect, after a matter had been decided by a State tribunal or any subordinate authority under it, such as a conciliation committee or a board of reference that obtains under some awards, it could be moved to the Federal court with a view to cancelling or varying the award. 
I thought that clause 25 would have given the Commonwealth tri bunal all the power required to deal with the determination of industrial authorites that were inconsistent with Federal Swards. The proposed new section 30a, sub-section 1, means added trouble and expense for the workers in obtaining awards or determinations by a State industrial authority. In Victoria we have wages boards composed of representatives of employers and employees and an independent chairman. Although some organizations are working peacefully under determinations of those boards, any person may on giving 28 days' notice apply, under this provision, to the Federal court for a declaration that a wages board determination is invalid. The court must hear the evidence and determine the application, and may make such declaration as it thinks just. If that does not mean the employment of more lawyers, I do not understand the English language. No person would make an application unless he was advised legally to do so, and unless he felt sure he could prove that the award was invalid under the proposed new section. Then the persons working under the award would be forced to employ a lawyer to defend their case. The Government appears to be anxious to open to lawyers a field that they had not an opportunity to enter under the original act, unless by the consent of both parties. I see no necessity for the clause and shall vote against it. 
This clause amends section 33 of the principal act, which provides that the Chief Judge may, at any time, require from an organization submitting an industrial dispute to the court, security for the due performance of the award, and in default of such security being forthcoming he may order a stay of proceedings. The penalty provided in the act is £200. This sympathetic Government, that desires to promote and maintain peace in industry, that professes to have the interests of the worker at heart, presents a blunderbuss at the head of trade unions in the form of this amendment, increasing the security from £200 to £500. I admit the imperative necessity to require a security for the proper observance of awards ; but it is an outrage to ask industrial organizations to put up £500. Honorable senators supporting the Government have protested, all through the debate, that they desire to deal equitably with all sections of the community. There are 29 employers' organizations, and 149 employees' organizations registered in the Arbitration Court. I venture to say that the wealth represented by the former organizations is immeasurably greater than the wealth represented by the latter bodies. Even if that were not so, there is no reason why the amount of security should be increased. I can only conclude that the Government is determined to harass and embarrass industrial organizations, even to the extent of crippling them financially. Many such bodies of workmen have never had £200 to their credit in the bank, and if this clause is carried, they will have to mortgage part of their assets to raise the additional sum demanded. The provision will operate with particular severity on an organization that might have been fighting a case in the court for months and be short of funds.  Senator Hoare  instanced the cost of Arbitration Court proceedings to the tramways' union, the expenditure in that case being £6,000. I remember it very well, because I was an executive officer of the Australian Tramway Employees' Association at the time and represented the Perth, Fremantle and Kal- goorliebranches. In the end, that organization Was practically bankrupt, and to make the position worse, the High Court decided that the Arbitration Court had no jurisdiction, so the award disappeared. I have mentioned also the protracted hearing in connexion with the railways' case.  Sir John  Quick,  Deputy President,  has been engaged upon the claim for seven months, and I understand that he is a long way from the end of it yet. In circumstances such as these, it is manifestly unfair to expect industrial organizations to find a security of £500. 
Question - That the clause stand as printed - put. The committee divided: 
Ayes . .  . .  . . 16 
Noes . .  . . 5 
Majority . .  . . 11 

<graphic href="119332192806131_85_10_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192806131_85_10_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 28 to 31 agreed to. 
Clause 32 (Court to consider propriety of dealing with dispute - Cancellation of award). 
I direct the attention of honorable senators to proposed new section 38c, which is provided for by this clause, and reads - 
The court shall, in the case of every industrial dispute, consider in the course of the hearing and as promptly as possible, if there is anything in the nature or circumstances of the industry, or any other reason, which makes it more desirable that the dispute or any part of it should be dealt with by the court than by any State industrial authority, or by State industrial authorities in the several States, and, unless the court so declares, it shall dismiss, or refrain from further hearing or determining, the dispute or part. 
I should like to have the Minister's interpretation of the words " more desirable." I wish to direct attention also to  sub-section 2 of the proposed new section 38d, which reads as follows : - 
During the period of suspension or cancellation, no person affected as a present or past member of the organization by the suspension or cancellation shall be entitled to the benefit of any other order or award in force, and every such order or award shall cease to apply to the employment of those persons. 
That, to my mind, is vindictive. 
In the opinion of the honorable senator, it is time that the court killed arbitration. Not content with cancelling the award and depriving the members of the organization of its benefits, it pursues those members to other employment. If they enter that employment they are not to reap the benefit of any award which governs it. Is that British fair-play? 
I am concerned not with white-anting, but with equity, justice, and fair-play. 
There is nothing red about me or the party to which I belong. The cancellation of the award is a sufficient penalty. If a member of an organization whose award has been cancelled secures employment in some other industry which, through its organization, is registered in the court, and enjoys the benefits of an award or agreement, why should he be deprived of those benefits ? 
The court should not work on that supposition ; it is not equity. Such a man may be weeks out of employment, yet when he secures it he and those who are dependent upon him are to be further punished. I should like the Minister to explain the reason for this provision. 
[5.20 a.m.]. - The proposed new section 38c is designed to prevent overlapping. It provides that, ;n the case of every industrial dispute, the first question the court has to ask itself is - whether the dispute can be best settled by the Commonwealth or the State court. If it considers that it is a Federal dispute, it must exclude all State awards; but if, on the other hand, it considers that it is a State dispute, it must forward it to the State tribunal, and no Federal award must apply to it. 
The proposed new section 38d provides that where an organization does something in the nature of a lockout or a strike, or commits any other breach, the award of that organization shall be cancelled. It is well known that some unions have in their ranks men who follow different occupations. There may be an award for a particular industry, such as the making of jam or biscuits. Carpenters or tinsmiths may be employed in that industry. The union connected with tha jam-making or biscuit-making may do something in the nature of a strike. What would be the use of cancelling thi? general award if the carpenters or tinsmiths could fall back on the award which related to their particular calling? The proposed new section provides that if there is anything in the nature of a strike in that industry, not only shall the award covering the industry be cancelled but also that those persons shall not benefit from any awards which cover their particular trades. 
A careful examination of this provision reveals the fact that men who, in the opinion of the court, have been guilty of certain breaches of the act, are not to be allowed to work under existing awards.. There are either State or Federal awards iu all industries. Are those men to be denied employment? If they find other employment, they must be paid the ruling rates of wages, or the men who are receiving those rates will not work alongside them. What is to become of them? 
Some men have conscientious reasons for taking a certain course. Why should they be followed from place to place and prevented from working under awards of the court? What are they to do? 
I am surprised at an old trade unionist saying that they must repent when they do something which they consider is right. 
Laws have been broken from time immemorial. I remember the time when the present Leader of the Government in the Senate had not the greatest respect for the law. He has passed through the school of adversity. In some of his early speeches he told the people of Australia, through the columns of  Hansard,  the hardships that were inflicted on him and the boycott that was applied to him when he was a working carpenter. Now he wishes to apply the boycott to other men if they happen to act in contravention of this provision. 
This clause amends section56 of the principal act which reads - 
Any association applying to be registered as an organization may on application to the Chief Judge obtain power to adopt and may thereupon adopt any rules to enable it to comply with the prescribed conditions as part of its rules, and any rules adopted in pursuance of this section shall, notwithstanding anything in the constitution or rules of the association be binding on the members of the association. 
It provides that any ten members of an organization may demand a secret ballot. That is an entirely new departure. I have previously indicated that honorable senators on this side of the chamber are in favour of the principle of the secret ballot, which principle is embodied in the rules of the various industrial organizations registered under the act. The officers of the industrial organizations are elected under that system so that the application of the principle to trade unionism is not new. 
It is the method of application and not the principle to which we object. 
I suggest  that  it would be better to cast this measure into the wastepaper basket and continue under the act now in operation. Ten men may singly or collectively apply to the court for a secret ballot. They can first apply to the judge, and secondly to the Registrar, and if the direction of the judge that a secret ballot should be taken is not complied with, the organization may be penalized to the extent of £500. If the Registrar's instructions that a ballot be held are not obeyed the penalty is £100. We are placing extraordinary powers in the hands of individuals who may be acting contrary to the policy of the organization. 
I am aware that the ultimate determination rests with the judge, but too much power should not be placed in the hands of one individual, particularly in the matter of making application to the court. 
That does not improve the position. Ten disgruntled men may be able to exercise authority over 10,000 men. 
It is placing too much power in the hands of minorities and creating Mussolinis in organizations. Some honorable senators seem to be under the impression that an application for a secret ballot can  be  made only when a strike is pending, but a ballot can be conducted on the subject matter of any resolution, the appointment of officers, or any affairs of domestic concern to an organization. The Minister said that the court need not grant the request; that it would first decide whether the situation warranted the holding of a ballot. I do not see that there is any necessity for the court being asked to move in that direction, particularly when the request has not been made by  a  majority of the members of the organization. It would take months to conduct  a  ballot among the members of the Australian "Workers Union. 
It must apply to the whole organization. 
A secret ballot can be demanded to ascertain the opinion of members on any domestic matter, and in connexion with which there is to be no absent voting. 
That is so, but while we make provision in our electoral law for postal and absent votes within  a  State, we are prepared to allow  a  judge of the  Arbitration  Court to give directions for the conduct of a secret ballot under the control of an officer of the court without provision for absent voting. Proposed section 56c provides - 
Any number of members of an organization not less than ten may apply in writing to the registrar for directions that a secret ballot shall be taken by the organization or a branch thereof. 
Honorable senators will see that the whole organization is likely to be affected. 
I have seen a dispute started in a small section of an industry which has threatened to involve a general upheaval. No matter how well conducted an organization may be, there are always some men who need to be disciplined. The Australian Workers' Union, which has been held up as a paragon, has frequently found it necessary to discipline some of its members. An organization will not have the opportunity to state its side of a case before a judge determines whether or not a ballot shall be held. As a nation, Australia objects to the interference of other nations in matters of domestic concern. For instance, we will not submit to dictation in regard to our White Australia policy, because we regard it as a matter of domestic concern. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
This clause is most objectionable to the Labour party. We regard it as almost insulting to the intelligence of those who are entrusted with the responsibilities attaching to the management of unions. The Government declares that it wishes to give the members of trade unions a voice in the management of their own affairs. Members of the unions have always had an opportunity to express their opinions on a matter concerning the organizations to which they belong. The office-bearers in every organization I am aware of are appointed by the majority of its members. Sometimes special meetings are convened for a particular purpose. They are usually well attended, but although the motions submitted at one of those meetings may be almost unanimously agreed to, a ballot may be demanded if there are ten men present who are perhaps displeased with the manner in which the  chairman  has submitted the motions. It may be that they have some dislike to the office-bearers. It may be that they are disgruntled. In any organization there are always ten men who do not see eye to eye with the majority. It is quite an easy matter to make the pathway of labour difficult by giving ten men in an organization the right to demand a secret ballot. 
After a motion had been carried almost unanimously by a meeting, I think any one would object strenuously if ten discontented individuals could demand the holding of a secret ballot. Proposed section 56c provides : - 
Any number of members of an organization not less than ten may apply in writing to the registrar for directions that a secret ballot shall bc taken by the organization or a branch thereof upon any question affecting the organization or branch. 
Any ten men will thus. be in a position to demand the holding of a secret ballot in regard to the appointment of an officer. Proposed sub-section (6) of proposed section 56c provides that if a judge is satisfied that ten of the persons applying are members of the organization affected, and that the application is bona fide and relates to a matter of substantial importance, he may give directions for a secret ballot to be taken upon the question. He may regard the appointment of an officer as a matter of substantial importance. Ten disgruntled men in a union may put their organization to endless expense merely because they are dissatisfied with the election of an officer, and if the court is not satisfied that the ballot has been properly conducted it may direct another ballot to be held at the expense of the union. It is compulsory to take a ballot, but no provision is made in the bill for compulsory or effective voting. Under our electoral law we are compelled to go to the poll, but that act cannot make us record effective votes. If a ballot were forced on the great majority of the members of an organization because of ten disgruntled men,' we should know what result to expect, especially from seafaring men. Probably most of the ballot-papers would be torn up and thrown overboard. There are no stronger advocates of the secret ballot than members of the Labour party. As a matter of fact, most of the labour organizations make provision in their rules for the taking of ballots on important questions. These are invariably taken for the election of officers when more persons are nominated than are required for the positions to be filled. The Government must have some ulterior motive in bringing down these provisions. Is it suggested that the unions do not manage their own affairs satisfactorily? The officers are elected not by small coteries of members, but at least by a majority of the members of the organizations. Many of the officers, because of their mature judgment and experience, are elected unanimously. In some of the organizations there are members who are not too well disposed towards the Arbition Act. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain). 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
It has been said that senators on this side are convinced that the sole object of the bill is to cripple trade unionism completely. If there is any warrant for that statement, it is to be found in this more than in any other clause. A secret ballot, as proposed to be taken, would be absurd, because it might be ordered on the application of ten disgruntled persons who could be placed in a union by a body of employers for the sole purpose of smashing the organization. To allow such a provision to become law would be not only absurd, but also criminal. Probably more than ten members of the Australian Workers' Union, for instance, could be induced to approach the court and ask for a secret ballot regarding the price of membership tickets. These now cost 25s., and a vote might be asked for on the questions of reducing the price to 15s. The officers of that organization are elected by a secret ballot. 
It is as secret as any ballot can be, because nobody but the member voting knows how he votes. The ten disgruntled persons might be in dead earnest and put up a reasonably good argument in support of the application. 
But we ought to be sure about it. The vote would have to be taken at the expense of the organization, and it would cost at least £1,000. If any doubt were felt about the accuracy of  the ballot, it would be possible to cause a second ballot to be held under the supervision of the court and at the further expense of the union. Then, later, another ten disgruntled members might feel that the scope of the organization should be widened for the benefit of the members, and that to enable this to be done the annual membership fee should be increased from 25s. to £2. I have no doubt that a fairly good case could be made out along these lines, and an order for the taking of a ballot could be secured. Subsequently, another ten persons might say that they were dissatisfied with the number of hours which members worked. They could tell the court that the organization was spending its money in a stupid and hopeless agitation for a 40-hour week. They might apply for a secret ballot to determine whether the members could be required to work 40 hours or 50 hours. As a matter of fact, a strong case for a ballot might be advanced, and the court might agree to the application. If the ten men could present as good a case as the party opposite tries to make out, the court would probably grant their request. The members of the court would probably hold Tory views. It would be quite an easy matter for the union to be landed with an expenditure of £2,000 or £3,000 on such ballots in a year, with the result that funds needed for its legitimate work would be diverted to this useless channel. In the following year another ten members of the organization might contend that it was spending too much money on conducting newspapers, and a vote could bc demanded on that. It would take about six: months to hold the ballot, and another £1,000 would be spent. 
We do not know that. The court is to be given the right to order these ballots. 
The court can order a ballot on any matter at the present time. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [6.20 a.m.]. - I propose first to deal with  Senator Needham's  misstatement in regard to the clause. He said that no opportunity will be given to an organization to show cause why a secret ballot should not be held in respect of any particular matter. I direct his attention to proposed section 56f, which reads as follows: -  (1.) Any order or directions made or given by the court or a judge under section fifty-six b, fifty-six o, fifty-six d, or fifty-six B of this Act for the taking of a secret ballot of an organization or of a branch of an organization shall, in the first instance, be provisional, and notice thereof shall be given by the Registrar by registered letter to the secretary of the organization or branch concerned. (2.) The secretary of the organization or branch may thereupon forward a statement in writing upon the matter to the Registrar for submission to the Judge dealing with the matter, and, in particular, may state whether the organization or branch will itself take, within any and what period, a secret ballot upon the question, or will take any other action in relation thereto. (3.) Upon the expiration of fourteen days from the - date of the provisional order the Judge shall make the order final or set aside the order. 
Provided, however, that the Judge may adjourn the matter for such period as he thinks proper. 
Those provisions meet practically all the objections which  Senator Barnes  has raised to the clause. I listened with a good deal of attention to the honorable senator, because I know that he is absolutely earnest in regard to all matters pertaining to unionism, and particularly anything that affects the Australian Workers' Union, with which he is identified. I have no doubt that he really believes everything that he has said ; but I am equally certain that he is entirely mistaken about the meaning of the provisions. I remind the Senate that this amending bill is intended to deal, not so much with the internal government of trade unions, as with means for the settlement of industrial disputes. It is not a bill to deal with trade union matters in the same way that a Friendly Societies Bill might be expected to deal with friendly societies, and, therefore, its provisions are not particularly directed to the internal administration of industrial organizations. The main purpose is to provide the machinery for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes. It will riot be the function of the court to inquire into all the minutiae of trade union matters, such as, for example, the employment of trade union funds for the establishment of labour newspapers, or even the balances to the credit of the various organizations, though the court will exercise some oversight of moneys contributed by members. These matters, will be touched only incidentally by the provisions of this bill. The judges of the Arbitration Court will interpret the bill in the light of the functions of the court, which are directed to the settlement of industrial disputes. When, therefore, a request is received from some branch of the Australian Workers' Union or other organization for a secret ballot, the judge will take all these matters into consideration, and if he believes that the application is a reasonable one, he may call upon the secretary of the organization or branch to submit reasons why a ballot should not  be held. The application may be for a ballot on certain questions in respect of which the members of an organization might not care to let it be known how they vote, for fear that they might be prejudiced in the eyes of their fellow unionists, or in the eyes of their employers. The judge may see very good reasons why, in such circumstances, members should have the right to determine certain issues by a secret ballot. If, however, members of an organization such as the Australian Workers Union put forward a request for a ballot concerning such questions as the establishment of a labour newspaper, the judge would immediately decide that it was not the function of the court, and would decline to order a ballot. I feel sure that  Senator Barnes  has conjured up a nightmare of objections, though I have no doubt that he is perfectly sincere in what he has said. I am glad that he has told us what is in his mind, because it has given me the opportunity to assure him that he is under a misapprehension. Tho purpose of the bill is to meet a situation caused by a section of industrial leaders, men of strong wills and dominating personalities, who have given evidence of their intention to take a certain line of action. The honorable senator knows perfectly well that in all organizations there are members who like to be on the side of those who shout the loudest, and that if an open vote is taken in respect of any particular industrial matter of importance, their hands go up with the crowd, although they really believe that other action should be taken. In circumstances such as these, the secret ballot will be a valuable instrument for good. May I give my own experience as a trade unionist? Very many years ago it was decided to call a meeting of carpenters in Perth, with the object of supporting a demand of non-unionists for an increase in wages, which at that time were 10s. a day. There was no arbitration court at that time, and the spirit of unionism was not much in evidence. The movement for an increase in wages really came from the non-unionists, who were in a substantial majority. I suppose that, all told, there were about 400 carpenters in Perth, of whom only 45 were unionists. I was the unfortunate secretary of the local union. We formulated a request for lis. a day, but gave six weeks' notice to our employers, because there was not a great deal of work going on at the time, and the employers had made contracts for work which would last . for about six weeks, on the basis of 10s. a day. We did not desire to take advantage of them, and place them in a difficult position by a sudden demand for an increase in wages. In those days I was quite a novice in the art of public speaking. I was chosen to move the motion, and I did so. Then there stepped on the platform an orator who afterwards made his mark in Melbourne and other centres - Montague Miller. He was a working carpenter, and one of the finest orators in Australia. He was not a unionist. He moved an amendment that a wage of 12s. a day be demanded. In a wild and impassioned speech he swept aside my arguments and made me appear ridiculous. He roused that mass meeting to a tremendous pitch of enthusiasm. As he was stepping off the platform he demanded that the vote be taken. The  chairman  rose to his feet and put the question. By an overwhelming majority my motion was defeated and his amendment was carried. He dismissed with scorn the suggestion that six weeks' notice be given, and at his instigation it was decided that the notice should -expire on the following Monday. I, as the secretary of the union, had then to serve the notice on the employers. The Monday arrived. The employers refused to accede to our demand, and 400 men went on strike. Before a week had expired the number was reduced to 200, and by the end of the following week only the 45 unionists were still out. All the non-unionists were back at work, and were receiving only the 10s. a day they were previously being paid. I was out of work for a month, because my name was passed round as that of the union secretary who had served the notice. If there had been a secret ballot that vote would have been entirely different. Those men were simply swept off their feet by the enthusiasm and the impassioned language of Montague Miller, not by the logic of his arguments.  Senator Barnes  knows very well that- in a mass meeting of that character it is not possible to obtain the calm judgment of the men. That is what the secret ballot is designed to bring about. Under these provisions the men will not be swept away by a wild harangue, but will sit down calmly, think the matter out, and register a vote according to an unfettered judgment. 
I thank the Leader of the Senate for his convincing speech and the effective manner in which he has swept aside the bogies that have been raised in connexion with this provision. In introducing this principle, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  is carrying out a promise made at the last election, which was responsible for placing him in the position that he occupies to-day. I have no complaint to make with regard to the scope of this particular provision. I should be willing to enlarge it. The wives of trade unionists, who undertake the responsibility of rearing a family and keeping the home as it should be kept, should be consulted before men take extreme action. 
A great deal of the suffering which to-day is caused to the wives and children of trade unionists is brought about by the irresponsible young trade unionists, who regard it as a good joke to go on strike, congregate in the streets, blackguard the capitalists, and let off hot air, all of which will not buy bread and butter. 
When I previously addressed myself to this clause I referred to the fact that we objected to any nation interfering with matters that concern our domestic policy, particularly the White Australia policy that we cherish so highly. Addressing a meeting the other day, the Prime Minister said that the Labour party had denounced the White Australia policy. I emphatically contradict such an assertion. We are as loyal to that policy to-day as we have always been. 

 Senator Pearce has read a sub section which he claims proves that an organization will be consulted before  a  ballot is ordered by the judge. The proposed section 56d has a direct bearing on his contention. It reads: - 
The court may order at any stage of the proceedings in relation to a dispute that any matter upon which the court thinks fit to ascertain the views of the members of an organization .... be submitted to. a vote of the members .... taken by secret ballot...... 
The organization which has to take the secret ballot cannot, of its own volition, appear before the judge and state its side of the case. Therefore  Senator Pearce  was not strictly correct when he said that it could. In any other court of law both sides have the right to appear either personally or by counsel; but in connexion with any industrial matter, ten members of an organization can apply to the judge to order a secret ballot. The organization itself cannot put its case before the court unless the judge thinks fit. 
I also join issue with the right honorable gentleman in his statement that the whole of an organization such as the Australian Workers' Union, cannot become involved in a dispute. Supposing a Federal organization, in the event of failure to secure a 44-hour week for its members throughout Australia went on strike, and the Australian Workers' Union struck in sympathy, would not a nation-wide ballot have to be taken to ascertain the wishes of its members? 
There is another point.- When a ballot is to be taken the judge can decide whether there shall be absent voting. Therefore we propose to place in our arbitration law, a provision that does not appear in our electoral law. If the Government is so keen on the principle of the secret ballot, and believes that the workers and their respective organizations desire the privilege, let it withdraw the bill and submit it to a ballot of the workers of this country through their organizations. That would be a true test of whether the workers want it or not. The Government will not take that action, because it knows that 95 per cent, of the workers would reject this application of the principle. 
Another dangerous phase of this application of the principle is that while, the court is doing its best to settle an industrial dispute, any ten members of an organization can apply for a ballot, and even at that stage the judge can order it to be taken. That will mean further delay, greater cost, and more misery. The penalties provided for any refusal to  comply with an order of the judge are outrageous. For one class of offence the penalty is £500, for another class £100, and for a third class £50. The Minister has not shown how a properly representative vote of either an organization or a branch can be obtained; first, because it may be conducted without provisions for absent voting; secondly, because the system proposed to be applied is not a compulsory one; and thirdly, the men can purposely make their ballot papers informal. It would be impossible for any judge or any court to determine who had voted. A good deal of expense and trouble would be involved and possibly not more than 30 per cent, of the members of the organization would record a valid vote. The system proposed is unwieldy, impracticable and unwarranted. 
I have followed the discussion on this subject very closely, and. regret that,  Senator Barnes  is temporarily absent from the chamber, as I intended to reply to his statement that 15 members of the Australian Workers' Union can if necessary convene a general meeting of that organization, which consists of possibly 150,000 members, to discuss any subject of interest to that organization. It is about time honorable senators opposite admitted that the shearers, for instance, would not be asked to vote on a question which concerned only navvies engaged on railway work or men employed in sewerage construction. When an application is made to the court for a secret ballot the court will decide if the request is applicable, and can refuse to accede to it. Judges who have had years of experience in arbitration are not likely to authorize a procedure which will cause a good deal of inconvenience and expense to the unions, or will affect the public interest. Honorable senators opposite persist in putting up a lot of "aunt sallies," instead of considering the facts. When the Australian Workers' Union wishes to conduct a ballot amongst, say, those engaged in the shearing industry, the ballot papers are sent ' to delegates, who , distribute them amongst the members. There is no secrecy, as I have seen the ballot-papers taken to the sheds, distributed, marked and openly returned to the delegate. When ballot-papers are circulated in this way to men employed at shearing sheds, railway camps or sewerage construction works, it is easy for those who handle them to ascertain how any member has voted. If they were placed in an envelope possibly they would be opened. When speaking on the motion for the second reading of this bill I referred" to the South Johnstone dispute in Queensland, which temporarily paralysed railway transport and industry generally in that State. A secret ballot at the outset would have prevented all that trouble, but the branch executive had not the courage to act. Those engaged in the sugar industry were afraid of the strike extending, but the executive ir Brisbane did not do anything and  Mr. Riordan  had not the courage to tell the men, who were sitting idly by and being maintained by means of levies, which were being collected to the extent of 20s. or 25s. from other unionists, to return to work. I have the utmost confidence in the judges of the Arbitration Court, and am sure they will not countenance any undue interference with the domestic affairs of an organization.  Senator Barnes  referred to the possibility of the  Worker  newspaper, which is in a very sound financial position, being wiped out, but the judge would say that a matter such as the honorable senator mentioned was one with which the court would not deal. If honorable senators opposite submit any proposal for the protection of unionists, I shall support them. I have discussed the subject of a secret ballot with some of the best authorities and have endeavoured to ascertain whether a better system than that proposed could be adopted. Even if the number of persons who have the right to apply to the court for a secret ballot were increased, it would not make much difference. Most of us are moral cowards and it is difficult to get men to openly record a vote. A secret ballot would provide a means of obtaining a reliable opinion from the men and the principle embodied in this bill is one which I strongly support. 
The Minister  (Senator Pearce),  in replying to the statements of  Senator Barnes,  did not touch upon the main issue. He endeavoured to lead us to believe that this provision applies only to industrial disputes. It is an all-embracng clause, and embodies an unwarranted interference with the domestic management of trade unions. The election of officers or the appointment of a committee of management has nothing to do with an industrial dispute. A special meeting of the Australian Workers' Union may he summoned for the purpose of imposing a levy to raise funds to establish the Sydney paper called  The World,  for which the building and plant have been ready for years past. The meeting may be almost unanimously in favour of imposing the levy, but ten members present at the meeting may take exception to the proposal, and demand a secret ballot. 
According to  Senator pearce,  the judge would, come to the conclusion that the matter had nothing to do with an industrial dispute, but the case I am citing has, in my opinion, a great deal to do with the clause. First of all, ten men have power to demand the ballot, and, on an appeal being made to the court, the court may decide that a ballot has to be taken. It would probably decide that a ballot should be taken if one were demanded in the case of any of the matters referred to by  Senator Barnes.  If the powers proposed to be conferred on ten men and a judge of the Arbitration Court were to be carried out rigidly, the management of trade unions would be almost impossible, and the unions would be put to a great deal of unnecessary expense. Never have the unions carried out their business in a way more eminently satisfactory to their members than since the great maritime strike of the nineties. These provisions for secret ballots are viewed with grave suspicion by members of unionistic organizations. It may be true that the judge will not order a secret ballot to be taken unless full justification is shown for taking one. Nevertheless, the power exists by which ten men may demand a ballot on any resolution or in respect of the appointment of officers and committees. The great bulk of the unionists of Australia do not treat this clause lightly. They would not be spending their time and their money in the issue of literature and in the engagement of the principal halls in capital cities and in country towns, and in arranging meetings at different factories and institutions, if they did not take a serious view of this and other objectionable provisions in the bill, and did not believe that the objective of the Government was to weaken trade unionism. 
I have no hesitation in saying that arbitration awards have assisted in strengthening the unions by increasing their membership, and that improved conditions of labour have resulted from the awards of the Arbitration Court. Many people derive benefits from those awards who did little or nothing to bring the Arbitration Court into existence for the purpose of settling or, .at any rate, minimizing strikes. It has achieved that purpose, and whilst the unions have on occasion found fault with the costliness of getting plaints heard and with the frequent delays, they have not anticipated that the act would be amended as is now proposed. I believe that the Government has no other purpose than to restrict the growth of unionism. 
Why, then, doe? the Government propose to set up barriers and difficulties in respect to the domestic control of unionism? 
There is nothing democratic in allowing ten men to rule 10,000. 
 The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
As a member of the Australian Workers' Union for many years, I agree with others that the restrictions in this bill will hamper organizations in their legitimate functions. If there is nothing in this clause to enable the Government to secure a strangle-hold on the unions, I do not know why it has been inserted in the bill. When I was serving my time at a trade in New Zealand apprentices were not allowed to join unions. I was apprenticed to an old English boss who would shoot at sight the first unionist he met. In my opinion the clause will not have the effect that honorable senators opposite imagine it will. It will strain the relations between unionists and their employers. The rules of the majority of the organizations provide for the taking of secret ballots, if it is thought necessary to hold them. I remember attending union meetings in Kalgoorlie at which secret ballots were demanded and held. Why should ten men in a large organization be permitted to approach the court for a secret ballot of the whole of the members ? One of the worse features of the provision is that the names of the applicants will be kept secret. If they desire such a ballot they should be prepared to stand up openly and let their fellow workers know that they want it. We should not encourage back-door tactics. It is impossible to say how far-reaching the effects of this clause will be, because it will make it possible to force ballots by subterfuge. I oppose the clause. 
.  - This is another penal clause, and it falls within the category of some of its predecessors. It amends section 60 of the principal act, which provides :  -  (1.) If it appears to the court, on the application of any organization or person interested or of the Registrar - 
that for any reasons the registration of an organization ought tobe cancelled; or 
that an organization has been registered erroneously or by mistake; or 
that the rules of a registered organization have been altered so as to no longer comply with the prescribed conditions or have not bona fide been observed or are contrary to the terms of an order or award; or the court may .... order the registration to be cancelled .... 
There are a number of other sub-sections of a similar nature. Stringent as are the provisions in the principal act, they are less stringent than those embodied in the clause, which is so drastic that it will make it increasingly difficult for organizations to continue along the path of peace. I intend to oppose the clause. 
This clause repeals section 61 which reads - 
During the pendency of any dispute or matter before the court no resignation of or discharge from the membership of any organization shall have effect. ' 
I hope that the Minister will be able to advance a stronger argument to justify the repeal of section 61 than was given by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  in another place when this clause was under discussion. Section 61 was inserted in the act for a very good reason. It afforded protection to an employees organization whenever a dispute was before the court. Possibly one reason why it is now being repealed is that it has given such organizations a certain amount of protection. The Attorney-General in his attempt to justify the clause said that members of a union might be employed on some other work which would necessitate their leaving one union to join another.  His  argument was lamentably weak. There has never been an instance of a member of an industrial organization being forced unfairly to pay dues to an organization. The rule bearing on this matter requires a member of the union to give three months' notice in writing of his intention to resign, and to pay all his contributions to the end of that period. In some cases members have attempted to defy the rule with the result that legal action has been taken against them and the amount of contributions due has been recovered. Section 61 has proved a useful provision and I hope that it will not be repealed. 
This clause also is an unwarrantable interference with the domestic affairs of an organization. It contains a number of sub-sections which authorize the committee of management, in certain circumstances, to suspend or expel a member of any organization or branch. I hope that the committee will reject it. 
I invite the committee to reject this clause. I admit that it is only right that the court should be free from molestation, interference, or disturbance; but I do not agree that there should be the double penalty of fine and imprisonment, particularly as any disturbance may be unwitting, not wilful, and perhaps unavoidable. Even if it were wilful, one penalty should be sufficient. A penalty of  £5  or  £10  would be sufficient to deter any person from annoying or disturbing the court. 
This is the last of a series of coercive clauses in a measure designed to cripple trade unionism, and destroy the system of conciliation and arbitration that has been in operation in Australia for' some years. I protest against it. It contains a whole list of penalties for all kinds of offences. If honorable senators really desire to help the cause of industrial peace they will vote this clause out of the bill. 
[8.13 a.m.]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I desire to express my appreciation of the way that honorable senators have endured the all-night sitting, and of the patience and courtesy with which their work has been carried out. It reflects great credit upon the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at8.15 a.m. (Thursday). 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister if it is the intention of the Government to pay compensation to the parents of those children who unfortunately lost their lives in the Bundaberg serum tragedy. 
I tale the opportunity which the motion for the first reading of this bill offers to refer to a matter that has been brought under my notice relating to  Mr. S.  A. Webb, a returned soldier, of Holbrook, New South Wales. I am advised that  Mr. Webb  tendered for a plantation in Sopa-Sopa, New Guinea, for the purpose of growing palms and producing copra, and paid two deposits, one of £1,000 and another of £500. The location map accompanying the Expropriation Board's departmental catalogue, setting out the properties available in the third group of estates, showed that SopaSopa was on an island, whereas it is really mainland country in Manus, and is practically useless for copra production. Those who understand the business state that island land is best suited to this form of production.  Mr. Webb  tendered for the property in the belief that it was island land, and he was offered 1,000 hectares of virgin land free of all charges provided he took the whole of the property at the tender price of £10,000. Messrs. J. J. Larkin and N. J. Whitley, two officials of the Expropriation Board, who accompanied  Mr. Webb  on his visit of inspection subsequent to the acceptance of his tender, stated that even with the additional area made available to him the property would be useless for his purpose. They found that a large area of the plantation was swamp land - not indicated in the catalogue - and that the palms growing on it were affected with the disease,  promoccathica antigua,  and were dying out. The following letter which has been handed to me, will give an idea of the position :  - 
Noru, 13th October, 1927. 
To  Mr. A.  Richards, 
Branch Manager, Expropriation Board, Subject: Sopa-Sopa Plantation Hand-over. 
Owing to the above plantation being misrepresented in the third-group catalogue, I have decided not to complete or continue with the taking over of Sopa-Sopa plantation.I consider that, owing to this property being absolutely infested with pests, that the plantation is practically worthless. (Sgd.) S. A. Webb. 
The following letter was sent from Mokerang, tinder date the 10th November, 1927, toMr. Wauchope, Lorengau : - 
I am in receipt of a radio from the Expropriation Board, Rabaul, as follows: - "Advise Wauchope Attorney for Webb purchaser Sopa-Sopa deposit cannot be refunded. If purchaser declines complete purchase deposit will be forfeited. Refer him regulation 49 conditions of sale." (Sgd.) A.Richards, Branch Manager. 

 Mr. Wauchope, the attorney for  Mr. Webb,  wrote from Manus to the  chairman  of the Expropriation Board, Babaul, on the 18th November, 1927, as follows :  - 

 Sir, 

A copy of your radio to  Mr. Richards,  notifyingme as P. A. for S. A. Webb, of the board's refusal to entertain any application for the refund of the deposit paid on account of the tender for Sopa-Sopa (Lot No. 13), Catalogue No. 3, received. 
Beyond drawing your attention to the three following reasons why the property in question was refused, comment at this stage, is unnecessary. 
The map accompanying Catalogue No. 3 showing the position of Sopa is incorrect. It appears us an Island instead of part of the Manus mainland, which is notoriously unsuitable for the cultivation of copra. 
Approximately 7,000 trees, which can never be producers, are planted on worthless swamp-lands embracing approximately onethird of the area. 
The balance of the trees, approximately 20,000 are infested with that destructive pest promoccathica antigua. In view of those facts, confirmed by three experts, the writer fails to see in what way Regulation No. 49 (to which you refer me) has to do with the question of misrepresentation and camouflage of facts in the catalogue issued in the name of the Expropriation Board. 
These facts arc now before my solicitors. 
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.)J. Andrew Wauchope. 
The next letter is from Madang, under date the 22nd November, 1927, and reads as follows :  - 
Dear Webb. 
I wish that I had known that you intended to settle in the Manus District, particularly on the Mainland of that district, for had I known I would have strongly discouraged the project as all the Mainland plantations are exceedingly poor; the soil being most unsuitable, composed of ill-drained, heavy red clay, which is well-known as being the worst kind of soil for the coconut palms. 
The island properties of Manus are better, being grown on coral-land, which is the coconut's natural soil. As you know, I was the Government official stationed on Manus for two years, 1922-23, and during that period I repeatedly inspected all the plantations in my capacity as Administrative Officer, and I assure you that Sopa-Sopa is the last place I could have recommended you to purchase, which more than one-third of the property is swamp, and all of it is exceedingly pest-ridden. 
The only decent plantations in the district are the small island ones, and it is generally agreed throughout the Territory that the few mainland properties are hopeless and never were or can be profitable. 
Kind regards, 
Yours, (Signed) A. Nurton. 
In a letter which he wrote from Manus on the 8th December, 1927,  Mr. Hann.  at one time an official of the Expropriation Board, and now a planter of considerable experience at Malay Bay, stated  inter alia - 
Dear  Mr. Wauchope, 
I think  Mr. Webb  wise in not taking over Sopa-Sopa. The place is now, and always has been a mass of disease. There is also a portion of the planted area a swamp, and this would never return anything, even if it was free from disease. The disease is Promoccathica Antigua, and is most difficult to deal with, and requires drastic treatment to get rid of. My opinion is that if a man got the place for, say, £2,000, and was prepared to wait for a number of years without any return, the place might eventually pay. It would, of course, mean employing a large labour line, and entail a big expenditure. 
Yours sincerely, (Signed) E. Hann. 
The following is a report from  Mr. Kramer,  written from Manus, on the 13th February, 1928- 
A. Wauchope, 
Melbourne. 
Dear  Sir, 
I have to thank you for your letter of January 28th last. As I have already wired you I can only repeat to-day that the conditions on Sopa-Sopa are the same as when you. saw it last, if not worse. 
Sopa-Sopa is a coconut plantation situated on the north-west coast of Manus, and is on the mainland. In front of it is a group of islands which do not belong to Sopa-Sopa. How the board came to show Sopa-Sopa as a group of islands on their map, I do not understand, as it is incorrect. 
The swamps in Sopa-Sopa take up nearly one-third of the planted area, and are to-day worthless, and will be so for the next several years; even if good drains are put in, these swamps will still be a bad breeding ground for grasshopper and other coconut pests. 
The other palms in the firmer ground are infested with promoccathica and grasshopper. Even if it be possible to get the pests right out, it would take several years before the palms recover from the disease and before you could look for a payable return. 
The above facts are well-known to the residents of Manns, and were also known to the board representatives, and, in my opinion, should have received special mention in the catalogue. 
Yours sincerely, (Signed) W. Kramer. 
I understand that  Senator Kingsmill  also has interested himself in this matter. On several occasions he wrote to and interviewed the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page),  whose written reply was to the effect that, as the full particulars were set out in the catalogue, the deposit had been paid, and the contract had been signed, no action could be taken in the direction of returning the deposit. But according to reliable authority the conditions! were not faithfully represented, the plantation is not on our island, but on the mainland, it is pest-ridden, and the tenderer,  Mr. Webb,  was compelled to sign the contract and pay the deposit before he had had an opportunity to see the location. 
It is explained in a letter, but I have not a copy of it with me. The board officials who accompanied  Mr. Webb  on the inspection state that, even with the additional area, the property would be useless. The plantation was allotted on the 27th August, 1927. The inspection on the 20th  October proved that there had been gross misrepresentation. The tender price was £10,000. The first deposit of £500 was paid by  Mr. Webb  on the 15th July, 1927, and the second deposit of £1,000 on the 22nd September, 1927. Carpenter and Company, Sydney, advanced £1,000, and J. Wauchope, Webb's attorney, £500. 
I desire to emphasize the fact that the plantation was not f  faithfully  represented, the map was misleading, and the tenderer had no chance to see the location prior to signing the contract and paying the deposit. Webb is a returned soldier. It will be seen from the correspondence I have read from men who evidently know what they are talking about, that there is no possible chance of making any profit out of this country.  Mr. Webb  has been put to considerable expense, yet the Treasurer has refused to return the deposit. 
My object in bringing the matter up on the closing day of the session is so that the Minister representing the Treasurer may bring it before him in the hope that his decision will be  reviewed  The statements that I have read should be investigated, and some credence be given to them. They have been made by gentlemen who at one time were officials of the Expropriation Board. They contend that an unfair advantage has been taken of  Mr. Webb. 
I have already said that  Senator Kingsmill  has very kindly interested himself in the matter. I met  Mr. Wauchope  in Melbourne, and he asked me if anything could be done. I may be taking an unusual step; but I think it can be safely said that this man has been most unjustly treated. Grievances of this nature should be ventilated in Parliament, particularly when the person concerned is a returned soldier. I leave the matter at that, and I trust the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories will state whether there is any possibility of this matter being reviewed, and the deposit returned. 
I can confirm the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  in connexion with the refusal of the department to return the deposit in the case he has just mentioned. I regard it as a very bad case indeed, and as a result of what has hajjpened, the public faith in the authenticity of catalogues published in connexion with the sale of these coconut plantations will suffer very materially. The main point is the mistake made in the catalogue by describing this alleged plantation as being on a coral island off the coast of Manus, whereas it is a portion of the Manus mainland. It is well known in the islands that there are not many places on the mainland that are very suitable for coconut growing. Some persons have the wild idea that the coconut palm will thrive anywhere in the tropics; they grow, but they do not always bear. The plantation to which the Leader of the Opposition has referred is evidently in one of the worst portions known to the producers of copra, and it must be evident that in this instance the Government has accepted a deposit with the view of ultimately taking £10,000 for this plantation. This is a matter concerning which I have endeavoured to see the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  on several occasions. In one instance I saw him for a few moments when I was able to make an appointment, which I had great difficulty in keeping, but the interview on that occasion was most unsatisfactory. This matter needs a thorough investigation. I believe that both morally and legally the Government is bound to refund the deposit. The land comprising this alleged plantation, according to the reports read by the Leader of the Opposition, is practically worthless. 
I believe so. I do not know if there were any other offers. The gist of the matter is that the plantation was wrongly described in the catalogue. 
It is not always easy or inexpensive to do so. Tenderers for these plantations should be able to place faith in a Government catalogue, and rely upon the description as to the locality, nature of the soil, and general condition. This man placed some faith in such a catalogue, as one should be able to do in any Government publication. 
Yes, but as I said, it is not always easy to do so. 
Yes, but the mainland is not, as the soil consists principally of clay which is unsuitable for the growing of the coconut palm. 
Exactly. The growing of coaconut palms is not regarded from the aesthetic viewpoint alone. It was not mentioned in the hoard's cata logue that the palms in this locality are infested with promocathicai antigua, although, in common honesty, it should have been mentioned. It is a very bad case, and I trust that the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories will review the matter and see if the deposit paid cannot be returned. I hope the matter will be further considered and that justice will be done. 
On Tuesday of this week, I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  whether it was the intention of the Government to establish an aerial service between Tasmania and the mainland, and was informed that reports were being obtained, presumably, I suppose, with the object of establishing a service. I should like to know if anything has been done in this connexion. As a layman, I am, of course, unable to suggest the type of aeroplane most suitable for the service, but . some, whose opinion is worthy of respect, claim that ordinary aeroplanes would be suitable whilst others contend that seaplanes should be used. Honorable senators are all aware of the disabilities at present experienced by Tasmania, owing to its isolation, and I trust this matter will receive earnest consideration. 
I commend the Government for what it has done in connexion with the demand for an improved steamship service. As the outcome of recommendations by the Public Accounts Committee, I understand the Postmaster-General's Department is now calling, for tenders for an improved mail service. The result of the tenders will not be known perhaps for some time; but I emphasize the necessity for expediting the matter as much as possible. The present situation is most harassing to the Tasmanian people, as the service is not as good as it was years ago. The passenger service between Hobart and Sydney has been discontinued, and the Tasmanian people are becoming most impatient owing to the lack of adequate shipping and mail services. 
The Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral said that inquiries were being made into the possibility of establishing a telephonic or wireless service between Tasmania and the mainland; I should like to know if anything has been done in that direction. As the mainland States enjoy the benefits of interstate telephonic communication, and wireless telephony has now reached the stage when it can be used commercially, such a system should be extended to Tasmania. In the opinion of reliable authorities, a wireless telephonic system would be able to handle the work which is now going over the cables. Such a system would bring the Tasmanian people into closer touch with those on the mainland, and also facilitate business between Tasmania and Melbourne and Sydney. The Tasmanian people fully appreciate the assistance which the Government has rendered to that State, but there are still some disabilities which could be removed without the expenditure of a large sum of money. The distance across Bass Strait is only a little over 200 miles, and a land line of that length would have been provided years ago. Improved shipping -and wireless services would add to the attractiveness of the island State. The only shipping service at present in operation is between Melbourne and Launceston, and quite recently the continuance of that service was threatened by an industrial dispute. Frequent representations have been made to the Government on this and other matters, and the Tasmanian people are anxiously awaiting an intimation as to the action proposed to be taken. Efforts have been made to re-establish the Hobart-Sydney service but, so far, they have been  unsucessful 
I also wish to direct attention to our trade between Australia and eastern countries. Through the efforts of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research the Government is endeavouring to increase production. It is too early to criticize the work which has been done; but I venture to suggest that these bodies should also endeavour to exploit new markets for our products, particularly in the East. I have illuminating figures here showing the amount of trade available and the small proportion enjoyed by  Austra-  Iia. In the case of Japan, of 4,200,000 lb. of vegetables, fruits, and nuts imported in otic year, Australia's share was only 433 lb. In 1925 Java imported £157,125 worth of preserved and dried vegetables.Australia's proportion of this trade with Java was only £3,000 in 1924, and £1,240 in 1925. Of 16,875,600 lb. of dried and fresh vegetables, including potatoes, imported into China, excluding Hong Kong, Australia's share was only 6,800 lb. Australia does not supply fruit and vegetables, dried, salted, or preserved, to India, and although in one year Egypt imported 2,464,416 lb. of dried apricots, none went there from Australia. 
The bodies that are investigating the matter of production might also do something on the lines indicated by the honorable senator's interjection. Australia can produce the goods, but it must produce them in such a way that it can compete on equal terms with other countries. If profitable markets were found for our produce, and I am sure they can be, a great many of our present problems would be solved. It certainly should not be beyond the capacity of Australia to supply produce to the countries of the Ea*st to which I have just referred. I trust that the Minister, when he replies, will be able to assure me that attention will be given to the matters I have brought under his notice. 
A little while ago tenders were called for a Northern Territory shipping service, and a contract was let to a  Mr. George,  of- Adelaide, but as a result of representations made to me by interests in Sydney and elsewhere, I was able to show the Minister for Home and Territories not only that the vessel which the contractor proposed to use in the trade was 55 years old, and utterly unsuitable for the service, but also that prominent insurance companies had refused to take any insurance risk, no matter what premium the shippers were willing to pay, on goods forwarded in the vessel. I am now pleased to learn that as a result of the inquiries which the Minister instituted, the successful tender has been withdrawn and the contract annulled. I appreciate the action of the Minister and the department in this respect. I hope that when fresh tenders are called more care will be exercised in obtaining reports as to the suitability or otherwise of the vessels offered for service. 
My relations with Ministers are usually very satisfactory; but one matter in connexion with a question I submitted to the Department of Home and Territories I cannot describe as coming within that description. Some time ago I asked the then Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  what route had been recommended by the North Australia Commission for a railway line, running from the Northern Territory into Queensland. He replied that the commission's report would shortly be made available and that the information I required would probably be found in it. I was satisfied with that reply, but when the report came into my possession I found that it did not answer my question. Thereupon T again addressed a question in this chamber to the Minister for Defence, as representing the Minister for Home and Territories and while I was in Sydney recently I received from the secretary to the Minister for Defence the following letter : - 
With reference to the question asked by you on the 17th May regarding railway extension between North Australia and Queensland, I am directed by the Minister for Defence to inform you that he has brought the matter under the notice of the Minister for Home and Territories, and has received the reply that, apart from the information and recommendations contained in the North Australia Commission's report, nothing definite has yet been determined. 
That letter did not answer my question. I did not want to know whether the matter had been determined or otherwise. All that I wanted to know was at what point the commission recommended the railway should enter Queensland from the Northern Territory.  Mr. G.  Francis, the member for Kennedy, who happened to be in the Federal members' room in Sydney when I received this letter and with whom. I discussed it, told me that he had months previously received a reply in another place that the railway would enter Queensland 40 miles south of Camooweal. This is not the treatment an honorable senator should expect from ti Minister. Of course, I acquit the Min ister for Defence of any blame in the matter, but I think the Government could have been more candid, and at any rate given me the reply that was furnished to an honorable member in another place months ago. 
 Senator Herbert  Hays has mentioned that the Government is giving effect to the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee in regard to Tasmanian communications. The honorable senator's statement is correct in so far as it applies to a number of the recommendations of the committee, but the Government has not yet come to a decision in regard to the most important recommendation, from the standpoint of the people of Tasmania - that dealing with the Navigation Act. The Government says that the proposal to amend the Navigation Act on the lines recommended  is too big a question to decide off hand, and that it is giving the matter full consideration. The people of Tasmania have been waiting very patiently for an announcement of the intentions of the Government in regard to the coasting trade provisions of the act. This measure was placed on the statute-book for the protection of Australian seamen and to encourage the? building up of an Australian mercantile marine. Its effect has been to give a monopoly to the seamen and the local shipping companies. The consumer and the producer are squeezed between the two. It is particularly hard for an island State to distribute its products throughout the Commonwealth when it costs more to send timber from Hobart to the mainland than it does to bring it from the Pacific coast to Australia. The people of Tasmania will not be satisfied until this Government or some other affords them some relief from the provisions of this act. It is monstrous that people who want to board an oversea steamer alongside a wharf in the beautiful harbour of Hobart in order to travel to the mainland are not permitted, under the law, to do so. When we have asked for assistance to establish a shipping service from Hobart to the mainland the Government's answer has always been : " Despite the enormous protection given to the Australian shipping companies and the monopoly the  enjoy under the Navigation Act, they are asking us' to subsidize them to maintain a service between Hobart and the mainland." The Government's reply is a reasonable one, but it emphasizes the need for a revision of the law that permits such a monopoly. Twenty or 30 overseas vessels call at Hobart every summer, but Tasmanians have to be content first with an uncomfortable railway journey, and then a trip across the straits in a small vessel that is often overcrowded. This condition of affairs restricts trade and commerce, and inflicts injury on not only Tasmania, but also Australia as a whole. Control is exercised to-day, not by the shipping companies or the Government, but by the monopoly that has been created under the Navigation Act. That places men like  Mr. Tudehope  and a few other revolutionaries in the position of being masters of Australia. That is positively wrong. I travelled from Tasmania to the mainland the other day in the steamer  Loongana.  There were no union cooks on board, and I may say that the passengers' fared no worse on that account. It seems to me that cold viands are preferable to meals accompanied by the fumes from a cook's galley. The seamen and other members of the crew may need hot meals, but the passengers can do without them on such a short run. The chief steward told me that the men, whose duty it was to put coal in the galley fires, would not do so, lest somebody might cook an egg for breakfast! But on Wednesday morning we had hot porridge and bacon and eggs. I noticed, on reading the Melbourne  Herald,  that orders had been given - probably by  Mr. Tudehope  - that the cook's galley must be locked, and that there must be no more bacon and eggs for the passengers. Perhaps  Mr. Tudehope  will retain the key of the galley. I often wonder if we are living in a free country when men like that can dictate such terms. The position is due to the monopoly that has sprung up under the Navigation Act, added, of course, to a few other causes; but the sooner the position is altered the better for the community. It may be thought that honorable senators from Tasmania are everlastingly complaining, but we cannot remain silent under such injustice. Grievances like this must be ventilated. Owing to the absence of an adequate passenger service to the mainland, the vessels now on the line, which are little more than ferry boats are often uncomfortably crowded. Even in winter it is necessary to book a passage weeks ahead in order to obtain a comfortable berth. I have no complaint to make against the existing service across the straits ; it is as good as can be expected I notice that Western Australia has a weekly steamer service, as well as a regular railway service, to the eastern States. I am glad that that is so, but it emphasizes the unfortunate position of Tasmania. I notice that the Government also proposes to make Fremantle the first aerial port. That will give Western Australia three means of communication with the eastern half of the continent, whereas Tasmania has only one small service. I hope that the aerial service to Tasmania, which the Government has promised, will be expedited. 
Yes; the boat missed its regular trip. But I must say, in fairness, that this was due not to the strike, but to a fog. To do full justice to the seamen, I wish to point out that the two important unions with which Messrs. O'Neill and Moate are associated, strenuously opposed any interruption of the service by the Cooks' Union.  Mr. Tudehope  has now classed those two officials as " blacklegs " and " scabs " for refusing to pull their members out of the Tasmanian service. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE 
Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [4.8], - The matter of communication with Tasmania raised by Senators Ogden and Herbert Hays has' been giving the Government serious concern. If Tasmania's position could be dealt with without relation to the rest of the mainland the problem would be very much simpler than it is. It is easy to say that the provisions of the Navigation Act should be suspended, but it is necessary to consider what theeffect of that would be on all the services round the Australian coast. The Government is giving the subject consideration from every point of view. The Navigation Department is inquiring into what would be the effect on every part of Australia, and I can assure honorable senators from Tasmania that the Government has not lost sight of this important subject. It realizes the desperate position in which Tasmania is often plunged owing to its lack of communication. 
The Government is also expediting its inquiries into communication with Tasmania by means of aviation and wireless. The Minister for Defence  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  authorizes me to say that his department is pushing on with its investigations into this matter. He recently sent the Director of Civil Aviation  (Colonel Brinsmead)  to Tasmania to inspect a site for an aerodrome, and report on various aspects that must be fully considered before the Government can arrive at a decision as to the nature of the air service ' to be provided. Inquiries are being made as to the most suitable type of machines to employ; that is of the utmost importance, considering that the aviators would have to fly for 200 miles over the sea.' 
As to the point raised by  Senator Thompson,  I regret that information which was supplied to a member of another place was not made available to him in answer to his question. The Minister for Defence will see that the matter is brought under the notice of the Minister for Home and Territories in order to avoid a repetition of the occurrence. 
The subject of the opening up of trade between Australia and Eastern countries was raised by  Senator Herbert  Hays, who referred to the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Of course, he knows that those bodies have nothing to do with the opening up of marrkets. I shall see that his remarks under that head are brought under the notice of the Minister for Markets. I have often thought that we do not avail ourselves as we should do of the Eastern markets. 
Now I come to the subject raised by Senators Needham and Kingsmill - the sale of certain properties known as the Sopa-Sopa plantation in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. First of all I take exception to the statement of  Senator Needham  that the tenderer was compelled to sign the contract before he saw the land. 
That seems to be the weakness of his case. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I have been supplied with the following report of the case in question :  - 
A. Webb - Sopa-Sopa Coconut 
Plantation. 
This plantation was advertised as lot 13 in the catalogue of New Guinea properties, third group. The accepted tender for Sopa Sopa was that received from S. A. Webb, of Holbrook, New South Wales, the tender price, which was the highest, being £10,000. 
On the 13th October, 1927,  Mr. Webb  advised the Custodian of Expropriated Properties as follows: - 
I have decided not to complete or continue with the taking over of Sopa-Sopa plantation. I consider that, owing to this property being absolutely infested with pests, the plantation is practically worthless. 
At a later date it was pointed out to the Custodian, on behalf of  Mr. Webb,  that Sopa Sopa, although not as described in the catalogue, appeared on the location map which accompanied the catalogue as an island, whereus it was not an island but was located on the mainland of Manus. 
The Custodian says that no misrepresentations relating to Sopa-Sopa have been made by him in the catalogue advertising the sale, and, whilst it is frankly admitted that, on the location map which accompanied the catalogue to assist inspection. Sopa-Sopa was shown as located on a small island instead of on the mainland of Manns, the point is emphasized that the property was advertised in the catalogue as being located on the northwest coast of the main Admiralty Islands. 
The full trading accounts for the year ending 30th June, 1925, are shown, as well as the trading account for 1924 and 1926. 
The Custodian points out that  Mr. Webb  stated on his tender form that he was prepared to purchase the property with all faults, if any, that he signed a contract of sale after his tender had been accepted, and that he made no objection to the property until he wont to take possession. 
Sopa-Sopa was in the same position as re- gards pests as several other plantations sold and accepted by the purchasers, and the Custodian holds very strongly that Sopa-Sopa is not worthless, or likely to become so. 
The question of the refund of deposits paid by successful tenderers who now wish to withdraw has received full consideration by the Government, which has decided that such refunds cannot be made. 
If we granted  Mr. Webb's  application for a refund we should be creating a precedent that would be likely to prove dangerous during the contract period of twenty years. In that time there might come a period of trade depression. One can easily see that if we refunded  Mr. Webb's  deposit, other tenderers might at any time during the next twenty years claim that there was misrepresentation inrespect of their plantations,, and ask us for a refund. If we make a refund in the case of  Mr. Webb,  there is no reason why we should not also make refunds to other tenderers, and properties sold under contract might come again into the hands of the Custodian of Expropriated Properties. 
There is one other matter, mentioned by  Senator Needham  in connexion with the consideration of another bill upon which I promised to make a statement on the first reading of this measure - the payments to invalid and old-age pensioners in State Government institutions. The Treasurer has supplied me with the following statement with respect to that matter :  - 
The question of pensions in respect of invalid and old-age pensioners who become inmates of hospitals is at present under consideration of the Government. 
When a pensioner enters a hospital his pension is suspended. For the first 28 days ofhis stay in the institution no payment is made. After 28 days the Commonwealth pays the pensioner 4s. per week as a hospital pension, and pays the institution 10s.6d. per week for his maintenance. On his discharge from hospital the pensioner receives payment of ordinary pension for the first 28 days of his stay in the institution. These payments represent the total disbursements by the Commonwealth in respect of pensioners who enter hospitals. 
With a view to removing the anomaly that the increase of the old-age pension brought into being in regard to those pensioners, the Treasurer stated in his budget speech last year that he would consult the States. The matter was discussed with the States after a Loan Council meeting in December last, and the States undertook to make representations in regard to the best method of correcting the anomaly. These representations have now been received from all States. 
Representations have also been made on behalf of pensioners that the amount payable to pensioners in hospital . should be increased. 
The Government is now considering the representations of the States, as well as those made on behalf of pensioners, and expects to reach a decision in the matter at an early date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
Secondreading. 
[4.23].- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill is to appropriate sufficient revenue to carry on the ordinary services of the Commonwealth during the first three months of next financial year. It is anticipated that Parliament will adjourn before the close of this financial year, and willnot resume for some weeks. The amount which the Senate is asked to appropriate is £6,343,635. This sum includes provision for the following services :  - 

<graphic href="119332192806142_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The items in this measure making up the above sums are based on the present year's estimates, and are slightly less than one-fourth of the amount which was appropriated for the present financial year. No new proposal is included. In addition, the usual provision is made for refunds of revenue - £400,000 - and advance to the Treasurer - £750,000. Immediately Parliament resumes after the adjournment, the financial statement will be submitted for consideration. In the meantime, it is fitting that some indication should be given of the results for the present financial year. 
As members are aware, Australia generally has experienced, and is still experiencing a period of financial stringency, due mainly to the adverse conditions which were experienced last season. As a result, the customs and excise receipts, which are the main source of Commonwealth revenue, have shown a decline compared with the budget estimate. When the budget was brought down in September last, it was estimated the receipts from this source would amount to £44,800,000. Op till November, receipts from this source continued to be satisfactory, and were slightly above the budget estimate. Collections for December, January, February and March, however, showed appreciable decreases compared with the collections in the corresponding months of the previous year. In April the decline was much more pronounced, and exceeded £500,000. In March the position somewhat improved, but there was still a decrease. For the eleven months ended 31st May, the collections amounted to £38,521,000, or approximately £2,545,000 below the budget estimate. A further decline is  anticipated for June, and the total shortage for the year will probably be about £3,000,000. It is estimated that other transactions, taken as a whole, will produce a result approximately equal to the budget estimate. There will thus be a deficit of about £3,000,000 for the year, due to the decline in customs and excise revenue. 
The Government, in framing the budget for the present year, fully appreciated the need for economy. In addition, as soon as adverse seasonal conditions were met with, all departments were instructed to review the position of their finances and to take special steps to effect savings where practicable. This economy drive was specially aimed at the ordinary votes and miscellaneous services under Part 1. Apart from these items, the expenditure of the Commonwealth is almost wholly made up of statutory payments authorized by Parliament and the services of business undertakings. No reductions can, of course, be made in the statutory payments, and there' is only limited scope for savings in business undertakings unless services are curtailed. 
The prospects for the next wool and wheat season are so far very favorable, nevertheless, the need still exists for the strictest economy in Governmental expenditure, The position of the customs and excise revenue emphasizes this fact and is likely to make federal finance  difficult in the coming year. As already indicated, a full statement will be submitted immediately Parliament resumes after the adjournment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without request or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[4.33].  -  I shall have the honorable senator's remarks brought to the notice of the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  and shall ask that he be supplied during the recess with the particulars he wishes to obtain. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.36].  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill repeals section 8 of the War Precautions Act, which reads -  8. - (1) No company in which more than one-third of the shares are held by aliens shall, without the consent in writing of the Treasurer, acquire any mine or interest in a mine, or carry on any mining or metallurgical business. 
No alien shall, without the consent in writing of the Treasurer, acquire any share in any company incorporated in the Commonwealth. 
Honorable senators will remember that during the war it became necessary for us to pass legislation along those lines. The biggest part of the War Precautions Act has been repealed from time to time, and the stage is now reached at which it is advisable that this particular provision also should be repealed. Inquiries are being made in regard to the utilization of coal for the production of motor spirit, and it is believed that before very long there will be important developments. When they come about there must be nothing in our legislation that will hinder the introduction of capital to Australia for the purpose of developing some of our coal resources. The Government feels that this legislation has served its purpose and that if a national emergency arose, it could always be . re-enacted. It is not considered wise to keep these provisions any longer on the statute-book, as they constitute a hindrance to the formation of companies in which there may be some foreign capital. I believe that already trouble has been experienced in that regard in connexion with the development of the Mount Isa field. 
I offer no opposition to the measure. During the war the War Precautions Act prevented aliens from acquiring an interest in any mine or having shares transferred to them. Thus, foreign capital could not be invested in Australia. I understand that experiments have been made in the direction of extracting oil from both black and brown coal. We have huge coal deposits in Australia, and oil is rapidly replacing coal in industry. If the experiments in hand prove commercially successful, Australia will derive much advantage from them. For that reason, I support the second reading of the bill. 
 I welcome this measure because it deals with a matter in which I take the most intense interest - the extraction of oil from coal. We have immense coal deposits in Queensland and New South Wales, and there are large quantities of brown coal in Victoria. I am hopeful that the repeal of this section of the War Precautions Act will lead to the introduction of foreign capital to exploit those deposits. I believe that in the realm of experiment the Germans occupy the foremost position in the world at the present time. The other day I read a cable message which stated that by the use of the Bergins process they had obtained in one year,  125,000  tons of oil from coal, and they expect to double that quantity in the present year. Furthermore, the oil is being produced on a commercial basis. 
It can be marketed at a very much cheaper rate than ordinary petrol. I am disappointed that the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has not kept this matter more prominently before it. The latest information is that it is relying upon the experiments that are being conducted in England. It would be better advised to watch the experiments in Germany. I do not like to think that our own people are inferior in any respect to those of other countries; but it appears to me that in this particular matter the Germans are in the van. If the rumour is correct that some Germans are prepared to invest a large sum in this country in developing the process, we should welcome them with open arms. I believe that the bill will pave the way to that end. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.47]. -  I move - 
That  the  bill  be  now read a second time. 
In this measure we are asking Parliament to vote  £20,000  for the purpose of conducting in Australia a comprehensive test of the various geophysical methods of prospecting for minerals, oil, and water. In this connexion we are associated with the Empire Marketing Board, which has undertaken to provide  £10,000  for the first year, and  £6,000  for the second year, on the condition that the Commonwealth Government contributes similar amounts and that the results obtained will be made available to all parts of the Empire. 
There is at present in Australia a distinguished scientist and specialist in this particular branch of science in the person of  Mr. Broughton  Edge, who is organizing a party to conduct a geophysical survey in Australia, and whose activities will be directed by a committee representative of the Development and Migration Commission, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Geological Departments of the various States. The application of scientific prospecting for minerals, oils, or water is a comparatively recent development. It has been remarkably successful in indicating the existence of ore bodies, and thus assisting the prospector in search of minerals. It is not suggested that this system, which indicates the existence of ore bodies, can disclose whether they are payable. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The quality or grade of the bodies, I understand, is not indicated. That is for the prospector, with this aid that science has given him to demonstrate. I shall not attempt a description of the method, because I am not a scientist, and do not pretend to be one. All I can say is that it is claimed that under this system the existence of ore bodies, oil, and water can be determined. 
When  Mr. Gepp,  the  Chairman  of the Development and Migration Commission, accompanied the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  to Great Britain on the occasion of the last Imperial Conference, this subject was brought under his notice, and it was in consequence of the information he then acquired that we first became acquainted with and interested in the system, and subsequently took the matter up with the Empire Marketing Board. At that time the board made certain recommendations to the Government, and when I was in England in August of last year, the Prime 
Minister cabled to me to make inquiries as to the qualifications of  Mr. Broughton  Edge, and also to obtain the views of practical mining men in England on the value of this means of applying ' scientific methods to prospecting. Whilst in London I had the opportunity of conferring with representative men in the mining world, including  Mr. W.  S. Robinson and various others, mostly Australians, who are associated with mining enterprises. Without exception they strongly recommended the Government to co-operate with the Empire Marketing Board in this regard. It is satisfactory to know that this board, which is charged with the important duty of conducting a geophysical survey of the Empire as a whole, has decided that if the Government will grant financial assistance in this great experiment, and it is an experiment, it will be willing to co-operate with it. 
I understand certain investigations have already been carried out by  Mr. Broughton  Edge in Rhodesia and other parts of Africa and that certain ore bodies have been located there. All of which, when opened up, have not proved to be payable propositions; but some consist of payable ore bodies, and are being successfully developed. When we consider the possibilities of mineral development that exist on some of the mining fields which have been properly developed, such as Kalgoorlie, the silver, lead, and tin deposits in Tasmania and also other mining areas, we can easily visualize the results which may follow the application of this system. Valuable ore bodies have been disclosed on some fields, but other valuable mining fields may yet be discovered. 
Honorable senators who read the first  report of the Development and Migration Commission on the gold mining industry at Kalgoorlie will remember that the report was rather pessimistic. It indicated that these mines were on the decline, and that strong measures would have to be taken if the industry  wa3  to be continued. Since that time a new ore body carrying good values has been discovered in proximity to some of the old mines which we thought to be worked out, but which may now  have a new lease  of life. The way in which the value of the shares has risen is an indication of the possibilities which may follow the opening up of new ore bodies in that locality. That is only an instance of the latent possibilities of some of our existing mining fields, quite "apart from new areas. The Government confidently commends the expenditure of this sum of money which is so to be spent in cooperation with the Empire Marketing Board in order to give this system of scientific prospecting a trial in Australia. 
, in as much as I am not an expert in the. matter of geophysical research. I welcome the introduction of this bill, because I think everything possible should be done to encourage the application of science in all its branches to industry. If by means of a geophysical survey of Australia new finds of minerals, oil, or water can be located the expenditure of £20,000 will be fully warranted. 1 agree with the Minister that there are vast areas in Australia which as yet have not been properly prospected for minerals. Even in some of the localities in which mining operations have been carried on for years there is a good deal of latent wealth, and we should be foolish indeed if we did not encourage science to assist us in prospecting for minerals, oil or water, the last mentioned of which is in some cases of greater importance than minerals. I support thi.1 bill. 
I am sorry I was not in the chamber when the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  moved the- second reading of this bill: but I gather from subsequent remarks of honorable senators that it is to provide money to assist in conducting a geophysical survey in Australia for the purpose of locating minerals, oil and water. I think we shall all agree that the system proposed is preferable to assisting the gold-mining industry - that  is  the industry to which I wish to refer more particularly - by paying a bonus of  so  much an ounce on gold produced. That system cannot be defended economically. I am hoping that this proposal, which I  intend to support, may eventually be the means of enabling the great Mount Morgan mine in Queensland to resume operations. In that mine minerals valued at £16,000,000 cannot be profitably mined owing to the heavy costs. When new scientific methods are adopted it may be possible to utilize that latent wealth. In the hope that something in that direction may be done, I support the bill. 
I intend to support this measure because Australia's extensive mineral fields should be more fully developed. In some instances mining shafts in Australia have been sunk to a depth of 1,200 feet and over and it has been found that the ore is not of sufficient value to mine. The Wallaroo and Moonta copper mines on Yorke Peninsula in South Australia were in operation for over 63 years and during that period produced vast quantities of payable copper ore, but they are now closed down. There are at least five other lodes outside the area already worked, the value of which no one has yet determined. Trial drills have been put down in various places, but in conducting tests of that kind valuable ore . deposits may have been missed. A leading scientist visited Yorke Peninsula a few weeks ago, and, I understand, believes that operations should be conducted there. No one would suggest for a moment that the supply of goldbearing ore in Western Australia has been exhausted. It is only by the application of scientific methods that we can determine Australia's mineral wealth. I support the Government's proposal to expend money in this direction, as there are many gold, silver, lead and other mineral deposits that should be exploited.  Mr. Elford,  a clever young South Australian, has interested himself in the matter of having the mines on the peninsula thoroughly tested. I do not regard the bonus system as satisfactory. The gentlemen who have come to Australia to conduct this survey seem to be very businesslike, and I am satisfied that the money the Government will provide will be spent in the interests of the taxpayers of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill bc now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to increase from 2d. to 6d. per lb. the import duty on butter and cheese the produce of New Zealand. The duty of 2d. per lb. was enjoyed by the producers of New Zealand under our tariff agreement with the dominion. Honorable senators will remember that under the Customs Tariff recently passed, the duty on butter and cheese was increased from 3d. per lb. to 6d. per lb. British, 6£d. per lb. intermediate, and 7d. per lb. general. These duties, however, could not apply to butter and cheese imported from New Zealand because of our tariff agreement with the dominion, which required that six months' notice must be given before any increased duty could be. imposed on goods covered by the schedule of the agreement. The requisite notice to increase the duty on butter and cheese was given on the 14th December last, and expires to-day. The bill provides that the new duty shall take effect from to-morrow. The mea.sure consists of one clause only, as follows : - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Customs Tariff 1921-1928 or the Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) 1922-1926, from and after the fifteenth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight, at nine o'clock in the forenoon, reckoned according to standard time in the Territory for the Seat of Government, there shall be charged, collected and paid to the King for the purposes of the Commonwealth on butter and cheese produced or manufactured in the Dominion of New Zealand and imported direct from that Dominion after the time and date above specified or imported direct from that Dominion before, and entered for home consumption after, that time and date, duty of customs at the rate of sixpence per pound. 
In December last these duties were discussed at considerable length. They were imposed because of the large importations of butter and cheese from New Zealand, which last year amounted to £520,000 in the case of butter, and £35,000 in the case of cheese. For the first nine months of this year we have imported from New Zealand £420,000 worth of butter and  £30,000 worth, of cheese. It must be remembered that for every pound of butter or cheese imported a pound of butter or cheese must be exported at a price which does not cover the cost of production. Honorable senators will, I am sure, recognize the urgent need for these increased duties. 
.- Although I am a very strong protectionist I regret that it has been found necessary to impose such a heavy duty on the produce of our brothers and sisters  in the Dominion of New Zealand. Realizing the tremendous difficulties under which our own overworked dairy farmers have to toil in order to earn something like a fair living wage, I am prepared to do anything to protect them against importations even from another dominion of the Empire; but I am surprised that it has been found necessary to impose a duty of 6d. per lb. on cheese which we import from New Zealand at the rate of about £35,000 worth a year, while the duty on Danish, Dutch, or Swiss cheese is only 7id. per lb. The proportion of the New Zealand rate to the foreign rate is altogether too high. We see quite a lot of Dutch cheese on sale in Australia. We often see Swiss cheese labelled as below the Australian standard. I do notlike these foreign cheeses coming into our country. I am reluctant to support the high duty proposed on New Zealand produce, but because I am a staunch protectionist and am desirous of giving a little assistance to our overworked dairy farmers I propose to do so. At the same time I ask the Government to take into consideration the advisability in the interests of our dairy farmers and of trade within the Empire of doing everything possible to make the duty on Dutch and Swiss cheese and on any other foreign cheese higher than it is at the present time. 
A few months ago, when we were considering the tariff, I stated my reasons for opposing the increased duties on butter and cheese. I need not repeat them now. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without request, or debate. 
[7.31]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill, which is complementary to the Supply BiU, is to enable the loan works and services in progress on 30th June next, to be continued during the first three months of next financial year, pending a full loan programme for 1928-29 being brought forward with the next budget. No new services are included in the bill. It provides for a total sum of £1,920,000. 
The loan programme approved by Parliament last year totalled £9,000,000. In December last the Loan Council urged the advisability of economy in loan expenditure and suggested a reduction of one-eighth. The Government accordingly decided to restrict the expenditure for the present year where practicable, and it is estimated that the expenditure will amount to about £7,875,000. It will be seen that the bill now before the Senate represents less than one-fourth of the programme approved by Parliament last year, and about one-fourth of the reduced programme decided upon by the Government. 
The following statement shows the chief items in the measure, together with a comparison of corresponding amounts appropriated by Parliament for the present financial year : - 

<graphic href="119332192806142_15_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192806142_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

There are certain loan services for which provision is not made in this bill. These comprise migration loans to the States and loans for the Federal Capital Commission and the North Australia Commission. Appropriations have already been made by Parliament for migration loans to the States. In the case of the Federal Capital Commission, there is provision under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924-1926 for the Treasurer to make advances from the Commonwealth public account pending the borrowing of moneys either by the Commission itself or by the Treasurer on behalf of the Commission. It is proposed that the requirements of the Federal Capital Commission and North Australia Commission during the first three months ofnext year shall be made by advances from the Commonwealth public account. In accordance with the usual practice, provision has been made in the measure that unexpended balances on the 30th June, 1928, of appropriations made by the Loan Acts of 1927, shall lapse on that date. The intention is that the loan programme of each year shall be dealt with as a whole by Parliament.When Parliament resumes after the adjournment, the full loan programme for 1928-29 will be submitted for approval. 
Realizing that this bill is complementary to the Supply Bill, and makes provision for carrying on works authorized by Parliament, in addition to that made by the Supply Bill for the ordinary services of the Government for the period during which this Parlia ment will be in recess, I do not see any necessity for me to discuss it at length. With the reservation that I intend to refer in committee to an item relating , to the Prime Minister's Department, I support the second reading 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Schedule - 

 Senator NEEDHAM  (Western Australia [7.40]. - I desire to refer to the item under the Prime Minister's Department which provides £75,000 for advances of passage money, landing money, and medical fees of assisted migrants. I do not see why that sum should be expended for such a purpose at the present stage, when we have a wave of unemployment from one end of Australia to the other. In every State capital there are vast armies of men out of work. The trouble has been acute for a considerable time past, and, with winter upon us, it is more intense than ever. Every day the newspapers remind us of it. But the fact is not likely to escape our notice. My opposition to this expenditure is not to be construed as an indication that the Labour party objects to immigration. Its policy in that matter is to welcome to Australia's shores our kith and kin from overseas, and to give them preference over other migrants, provided we are in a position to absorb them, and provided also that we have already placed our own people. So acute is the unemployed problem that a conference of State Premiers is about to be held to grapple with it. It is suggested that they will discuss the advisability of calling a halt in immigration activities in the several States. Surely, in these circumstances, it is not wise for the Commonwealth to embark upon this large expenditure at the present time. 
That is the plea behind which the Commonwealth Government always shelters itself when tackled on this subject. It puts the blame for the continuance of imigration upon  r.he State Governments. It is true that the States are mainly responsible for immigration activities; but I claim that this sum of £75,000 could be used for better purposes than promoting migration at the present juncture. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  claims that, during the past year or so, no migrants have been brought to these shores as a result of Commonwealth activities. But surely the expenditure of £75,000 would result in maintaining the flow of migrants. . How can those who may be prepared -o nominate migrants assure them of employment when we cannot find work for large numbers . of men who are in need of it in Australia to-day? Another phase of the matter is that it falls under the control of the Development and Migration Commission, which, judging by the reports one reads of its activities and its suggestions for the development of this country, should be disbanded at the earliest possible moment. 
[7.45]. - There is a considerable amount of humbug talked about migration. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  is trying to mike it appear that the amount of £75,000 provided in this bill is to be spent by the Commonwealth Government in bringing migrants to Australia. That statement is totally inaccurate. This Government does not bring a single migrant to this country, unless the person introduced has been requisitioned for by the States or nominated by friends or relatives. It does not spend a single penny on the introduction of migrants other than from Great Britain, so that any expenditure under this head is incurred in the interests of our kith and kin in the Mother Country. Persons who nominate British migrants must give an undertaking as to their after care, and see they are placed in employment. These are the facts. The vote is intended for the payment of part of the passage money of British migrants brought to Australia under these arrangements.  Senator Needham  has also said that the Premiers of the different States are about to meet in conference to consider unemployment in relation to migration. There is no necessity for the Premiers to do that, because every State is in this matter master in its own house. If a particular State does not wish to introduce migrants all it has to do is to cease requisitioning for them. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.How can there be uniformity with regard to migration, since the requirements of the several States differ so materially? In certain of the States there has been a bad harvest, and consequently unemployment is more acute in those States than elsewhere. As a result they have practically ceased to requisition for migrants. Western Australia is more fortunate. Tha.t State has had an abundant harvest, and is now going ahead with one of the biggest developmental schemes ever undertaken. It is requisitioning for farm workers. Does  Senator Needham  suggest that they are not needed, or that, because there is a certain amount of temporary unemployment in South Australia, New South Wales, and Victoria, the Premier of Western Australia should cancel his requisitions for farm workers? If he holds that view I invite him to place it before  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia, and see what he will have to say about it. Notwithstanding the unemployment that prevails .in several of the States there is a strong demand for domestic servants. Every State is prepared to take this class of migrant, and so keen is the demand that every migrant of this class can be given employment immediately upon arrival. A certain number of boy migrants are also being introduced, and all the lads are placed on farms. If  Senator Needham  does welcome our kith and kin, what nonsense it is for him to talk about endeavouring to check the flow of this class of migrant to Australia. He and other members of his party are forever denouncing the introduction of Southern Europeans. They say that they do not want that class of people in this country, and that they welcome British migrants, but they are always opposing and criticizing anything that is done to bring our kith and kin to Australia. I cannot understand their attitude in this matter. Migration is not responsible for unemployment. The number of migrants being brought to Australia is fewer to-day than it was before the war. It is worthy of note that whenever migrants are coming to this country in considerable numbers there is less unemployment throughout the Commonwealth, and conversely when migrants are few in number, the unemployment problem is more pronounced. Statistics over a period of years, prepared by the Development and Migration Commission, prove conclusively that migration is not a principal factor in unemployment, so that it is idle for the honorable senator to try to humbug the people of Australia in this way. As I have stated, a bad harvest in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales, is one of the factors. The other, and concerning this  Senator Needham  never has a word to say, is the constant round of strikes in industry. There are thousands of people out of work to-day as a result of the present shipping strike. The ' honorable senator and his colleagues in the Labour party do not denounce these industrial upheavals which are responsible for so much unemployment and distress; but they take every opportunity to assert that the migration policy of the Government is a cause of unemployment. They are totally wrong. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill, read a third time. 
[7.56]. - I move; - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
This bill seeks parliamentary approval for the expenditure out of the Treasurer's Advance for the year 1926-27. As honorable senators are aware, it is the practice each year for Parliament to provide an advance to the Treasurer, and later a bill is brought down giving the. itemized account of the expenditure. The summarized totals in the bill now before the Senate are : - Departmental expenditure and war services payable from revenue, £973,779 ; additions, new works and buildings, £21,379, making a total of £995,158. The details of this expenditure are also set out in the financial statements published in the Auditor-General's report for 1926-27. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without request or debate. 
[8.6]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I ask honorable senators to bear with me while I relate some of the problems that have been and are being attacked by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. During the two years of its existence considerable progress has been made by it. In particular, a satisfactory and fruitful basis of co-operation has been set up with many other scientific organizations abd institutions in both Australia and the other parts of the Empire. 
Perhaps the most outstanding and successful instance of co-operation in Australia is in connexion with work on prickly pear. In this activity the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland are financially co-operating with the council on a 1.1.2 basis. 
There is every indication of this -work being extremely successful and of the ultimate reclamation of millions of acres as a result of the operations of insects found by research to be useful in controlling the pear. Destructive insects are now being distributed in large numbers. It is freely conceded that the spread of the pear, which was estimated a short time ago at 1,000,000 acres per annum, has now been completely checked. Estimating the value of the land so saved at as low as 5s. an acre, the total saving involved is no less than £250,000 per annum. 
Extensive investigations are being carried out in Adelaide into the nutrition of Australian animals of economic importance. That work is under the direction of Professor Brailsford Robertson, and for many years will be confined to sheep. The ultimate aim is to obtain fundamental information on which to base the feeding of sheep in various parts of Australia, so as to increase the yield of wool, their rate of increase, &amp;c. Allied to this work, investigations are being carried out in co-operation with the Waite Agricultural Research Institute and the Empire Marketing Board on the improvement of Australian pastures. This phase is under the direction of Professor A. E. V. Richardson. This combined investigation is of vital importance to the future well-being of the Australian pastoral industry. Our work has also been linked up with similar operations in other parts of the Empire. In that connexion  Dr. J.  B. Orr, the director of the well-known Rowett Animal Nutrition Research Institute, who will also he the director of the proposed Imperial Bureau of Animal Nutrition, has recently visited Australia in order to study Australian conditions. 
After obtaining the advice of leading Australian veterinarians, the Council has initiated investigations into certain diseases and pests of stock, including liver fluke of sheep, stomach worms and lice of sheep, braxy disease, contagious pleuro-pneumonia, and tuberculosis in cattle. 
The work on the Kimberley horse disease has been brought to a successful conclusion, and a means of controlling the trouble has been evolved. That success, I may say, has been achieved in a period of a little over eighteen months, at a total expenditure of about £2,000. The disease had carried off thousands of horses in the northern parts of Australia. It had been in existence ever since there had been horses there, and was found to be caused by a poisonous plant. 
The foregoing work on animal diseases is being undertaken by isolated workers in existing laboratories. At the present time,  Sir Arnold  Theiler, lately the director of the Veterinary Research Institute, Onderstepoort, South Africa, and a world authority on animal diseases, is in Australia, and at a later date he will advise the Council on the whole position. 
Another large group of national problems that urgently require a solution is entomological in its nature. In order that investigations may be actively undertaken,  Dr. R.  J. Tillyard, F.R.S., has been appointed chief of the division of economic entomology of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. He and a staff that is being appointed will make a thorough examination of the possibilities of controlling noxious weeds and insects by the use of beneficial insects. Special attention will be given to St. John's wort, ragwort, blackberry, hoary cress, saffron thistle, the burrs and stinkwort among the noxious weeds, and to sheep blowfly, buffalo fly, thrips, lucerne flea and pea mite among the noxious insects.  Dr. Tillyard  is now on a visit to the United States of America and Europe to arrange for the co-operation of other institutions and for supplies of useful insects. The Council recently formed a division of economic botany, with  Dr. B.  T. Dickson as its chief. The work on bitter pit in apples, tomato wilt, and various other diseases of plants, has already been commenced. A staff for  Dr. Dickson  is now being obtained. Ultimately this division will undertake work on smuts and rusts in wheat, mycology in industry, including brewing and wine-making troubles, and a large group of fungus diseases connected with the transport of food, plant genetics, plant physiology, agrostological  problems, weeds, new plants, &amp;c. 
Another activity of the Council is in connexion with irrigation settlements. Research stations exist at Merbein in Victoria and Griffith in New South "Wales. The station at Merbein has already brought into being many improvements on existing practice, particularly in connexion with the dipping of dried fruits. The Griffith station has not been established for a sufficient time to enable results to be obtained. Closely connected with the work of these stations is the question of soils investigation, which is under the direction of Professor J. A. Prescott. When this work has been completed it will be possible to avoid the placing of vineyard and citrus groves on unsuitable soils, at least in so far as irrigation settlements are concerned. 
The Council has recently decided to form a division of forest products. It is intended that that division shall concentrate mainly on timber seasoning, timber preservation, and the utilization of forest products, which are now utterly wasted. Work of an allied nature has already been carried out by the Council, namely, on paper pulp. It has proved conclusively that despite the previous adverse opinion of experts, high-grade papers can be produced from Australian timbers. Entirely as a result of the work of the council, private interests have erected an experimental plant in the south of Tasmania as a preliminary to the initiation of a paper-pulp enterprise involving a capital expenditure of between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000. A similar company has been formed more recently to work the forest area in the north of Tasmania. 
In addition to the work of the above major divisions, the Council is already carrying out, or is proposing to carry out, a number of miscellaneous investigations, such as dairying research, mineragraphic work, radio research, cold storage work, &amp;c. 
One of ' the most important activities of the Council is its work in acting as the central body for Australia and as a link with other similar bodies of the Empire. A particularly fruitful connexion has been established with the Empire Marketing Board, which has been most generousin its financial contributions to Australian research work of an Empire wide interest. Two members of the executive attended recent imperial agricultural research conferences which evolved machinery for the co-ordination of agricultural research and for a united attack upon agricultural problems of the Empire. The decisions of that conference will undoubtedly play an immense part in the future . economic and scientific development of the Empire. The council is concerned in those decisions as effect may be given to them in Australia. 
Another important phase of the Council's activities is the training of research workers. A vote of £100,000 agreed to some little time ago has been invested, and the revenue directed towards the training of research workers for Australia. Since the interest from that fund became available two years ago, about a dozen research trainees, all of whom are recent university graduates, have been sent abroad for special training in such subjects as entomology, plant pathology, forest products, &amp;c, in connexion with which their services will be particularly useful to the council after their period of training has been completed. 
This is a very useful record of work during a period of two years. Parliament has been most generous, in its attitude and appreciates the value of the work done with the money which has been made available. The £250,000 we are now voting is being appropriated from the surplus revenue of last year, and I believe that it could not be spent in a better way. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is difficult to say. The policy of the Government is to have a research fund so that if we should fall upon a series of lean years there shall be some guarantee that this important work will continue. A certain amount is placed on the estimates annually to meet expenditure; but such amounts are in a sense buttressed by this reserve fund upon which we can draw. Honorable senators will see the wisdom of this policy. The Commonwealth commenced this work and carried it to a certain point, at which it was discontinued, with the result that a great deal of its value was entirely lost, because its continuity was broken. If the work is to.be of any value to Australia, it must be continuous. The amount we are now voting is to be placed into a Trust Fund so that over a series of years the scientists engaged in this important work will be able to carry on without interruption. 
I trust that in future our financial position will enable us to add further to the fund. We are hot spending on scientific research anything approaching the amount per head of population that Great Britain or the United States of America is spending. We have made a valuable start and I trust the good work of the council will continue. I commend the bill to the Senate. 

 Senator FINDLEY  (Victoria) [8.18 J. - The Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  has supplied the Senate with some valuable information. I am sure honorable senators, irrespective of the party to which they belong, are gratified to learn that substantial progress has been and is being made by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. It has set to work on some of the most important problems that confront us to-day, the solving of which will be of considerable moment to Australia. Our finances may be in a somewhat unsatisfactory condition, the Commonwealth being threatened this year with a deficit instead of a surplus as has been the case in recent years, but no one will cavil at the expenditure of money on scientific work. The amount being appropriated appears to be large, but, as the Minister has stated, it is for the purpose of permitting this institution, composed as it is of highly scientific men, to proceed uninterruptedly with its important work. Continuity of effort is essential. It is problematical whether the council will solve some of the difficulties which it has attacked, but in order that it may proceed without interruption funds must be made available to it. 
I have pleasure in supporting the bill. I wish the council all the success it deserves. If it succeeds in the different spheres of its activities, it will not only be gratifying to those who are associated with it, but also will add much to the progress and prosperity of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[10.13]. - In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I take this opportunity to answer the .fol.lowing questions asked by  Senator Chapman  - 
Has the Planters' and Traders' Association of New Guinea been consulted in regard to Ordinance No. 9 of 1928, relating to copra? 
Has the association approved of the terms of the ordinance? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
Before the ordinance was promulgated the Administrator advised that the question of the supervision by the Administration of the quality of New Guinea copra marketed, was discussed with the Planters' Association and that it was agreed that a system of inspection should be instituted. 
The draft of the ordinance, which follows the line of a Samoan Ordinance on the same subject, was prepared by the authorities in Rabaul, but the Minister is not aware whether its exact terms were communicated to the Planters' and Traders' Association. The ordinance was made on the 23rdMay and copies were forwarded to the Administrator on the 1st June, and should now be available for the information of planters. 
I should like to indicate to honorable senators that the probability is that they will be called together again about the end of August or the beginning of September. I also take the opportunity to thank honorable senators for the consideration they have extended to theGovernment during the session. 
, - This morning I asked the Leader of the Senate a series of important questions dealing with certain aspects of the financial position. I should like to know if the answers are yet forthcoming. If not, will it be possible for them to be forwarded to me at an early date? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.15 p.m. till a day and hour to be fixed by the  President. 
[3.4]. -  (By leave'.)  - It is with profound regret that I submit the following . motion :  - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Senator the  Honorable Thomas Givens, and places upon record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their sad bereavement. 
I am sure that the news of the death of  Senator Givens,  which occurred during the recent adjournment; was received with deep regret by all. The late honorable senator had a very long, honorable, and useful public career.  His  entry into public life was in 1889, whenhe became a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly. After serving in that House ho was elected a member of the Senate in 1903, and retained his seat in this , chamber continuously until his death. 

 Senator Givens rendered valuable service as a member of the Select Committee on the Press Cable Service in 1909, and again in 1913 as a member of the Royal Commission on the Pearling Industry. He was elected  President  of the Senate in 1913, and was re-elected on four subsequent occasions, but owing to failing health retired from the Presidency on the 13th June, 1926. 
To most of us the deceased gentleman was not only a political associate, but also a close personal friend. His was a rugged personality. He never went out of his way to say " soft nothings." He was a man of courage and decision, and those of us who were associated with him for any length of time came to value hia judgment and the advice he could give as the result of his long political experience. His ruggedness was sometimes mistaken for austerity, but those who knew him best were well aware that he was a very warm-hearted man. His was an intelligent courage. He was not only widely read, but in addition had learned much in the greatest school of all - the school of human experience. 
I have no desire to revive bitter memories, but in my opinion the finest speech ever delivered in the Senate - and my experience of it dates from its inception - was that on the conscription issue made by the late  Senator Givens  from the President's chair. We may not all agree with the attitude which he 'then took up, but his speech was a masterly contribution to the debate, and one that I shall never forget. It was a characteristic of the honorable gentleman that he always refrained from speaking until he had made himself thoroughly familiar with his subject, and whether we agreed or disagreed with his opinions we could not fail to recognize that they were the result of deep convictions. He never spoke to the gallery. Having made up his mind that a certain course was right, he followed it regardless of the consequences, political or otherwise, to himself. Naturally a strong man of that type must occasionally come into conflict with those holding equally strong convictions; but, speaking as an old colleague of  Senator. Givens,  I can say that by his death Australia has lost a great man, that he rendered distinguished service to his country, and achieved a place in its history of which his family may well he proud. 
I knew  Senator Givens  not only in the world of politics but also in his family life. i.I know that he was a devoted husband and affectionate father, and I realize how much his loss is felt by his widow and children. Honorable senators, I am sure, greatly regret his death and will join with all sincerity in passing this motion tendering our sympathy to his widow and children. 
 I rise to second the motion so feelingly moved by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and to express on hehalf of my colleagues of the Opposition and myself our very deep regret at the decease of  Senator Givens.  It was my privilege to be intimately acquainted with him for approximately a quarter of a century, and I always found him to be as big in heart as he was in stature. As the Vice-President of the Executive Council has said, he was a man of strong convictions, and at all times had the courage to give expression to them. He carried out faithfully every duty entrusted to him, and undoubtedly rendered valuable service to this, his adopted land. As a private member on the floor of the Senate, he was always vigorous in debate, applying himself earnestly to the task of solving the many difficult questions that came before us, and later, during the many years that he had the honour to occupy the chair which you, sir, now fill, he conducted the business of the Senate with conspicuous fair-mindedness and impartiality.  His  loss to Australia ia great, but the loss to bis widow and family is greater still. We on this side of the Senate join with the Government and their supporters in condoling with. them. Australia could ill afford to lose such a man as  Senator Givens,  and I am sure that his memory will always he honored. 
.- As one of the oldest friends of the late  Senator Givens,  I endorse all that has been said by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  I was a member of the Queensland Parliament when the late  Senator Givens  entered public life in that State, and I was associated with him from that time until his death. It has been truly said that he was a man of strong convictions, and believing them to be right he gave expression to them fearlessly, wholly indifferent to what might be the consequences to himself. 
I do not wish to touch upon anything of a controversial nature, but it is only just that I, as a Queenslander, should say that the speech on the conscription issue which was delivered by the late  Senator Givens  from the presidential chair on the occasion mentioned by the Leader of the Senate, had a big influence upon the decision of the State in which he lived. Out of that issue, and many others which arose at the time, there came into existence what is now known as the National party. The stand which the late honorable senator took on that question was most courageous. He knew only too well that it would result in the severing of many long friendships; but despite that knowledge, ho stood by his convictions and gave vigorous expression to them, regardless of what the political consequences to him might be. 
He was always a big-hearted generous man, and although his attacks on political opponents were, sometimes, severe, and always vigorous, they were never at any time personal. Those of us who were members of this chamber during his long presidential term agree that he was a staunch defender of the rights of the Senate, and never allowed any attempted infringement of its privileges to pass unchecked. He administered the duties of his office with absolute fairness. As his oldest friend in the Senate, I offer this brief testimony to his service. 
 The circumstances responsible for my presence in the Senate to-day are such that it would ill become me to allow this motion to pass without adding a few words to those which have already been uttered concerning the death of  Senator Givens,  whose place I now fill in this chamber. As a journalist, and, later as a member of this House some years ago, I knew him well, and found him to be a very fine type of man. I can scarcely recall an occasion, even in heated debate, when he displayed any unfriendliness, and that, as we all know, is difficult to avoid in any walk of life. 
On a motion such as this set speeches are not to be desired; all that is said should come from the heart.. As one of the least worthy of those who have been sent to this chamber by our side in politics, I wish to endorse what has been said in support of the motion, and to tender my sincere sympathy to the relatives of the late honorable senator. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Before putting the motion I desire to associate myself with all that has been said by the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Pearce),  the leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham), Senator Reid,  and  Senator MacDonald.  As the late honorable senator's direct successor to the Chair, I may bc permitted to say a word or two in appreciation of the services which he rendered to this chamber. It is well known that he was a stalwart upholder of the privileges of the Senate, and insisted also on a rigid observance of. the Standing Orders. He presided over our deliberations with conspicuous ability, and following him immediately, as I did, I found it somewhat difficult to observe the high standard which he had set. 
I offer this tribute to his memory as one who did not have to contest the office of President with him. Failing health, compelled him to retire from the Chair; there was no rivalry between us, so that, happily, I have no occasion for regret in that connexion. 
I endorse all that has been said concerning his public and private life, and express my sympathy with  Mrs. Givens  and the members of the family in their bereavement. It will be gratifying to them to know that, at the end of the honorable gentleman's long period of public service, all those who were associated with him joined sincerely in attesting his great worth as a citizen, and in commending the manner in which he discharged every public duty entrusted to him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.27].  -  As a mark of respect to the  memory  of the late  Senator Givens  and  Mr. Corser,  I move - 
That the Senate  do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to ask the 
Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral, the following questions,  without notice: - 
What is the profit or loss of the working of the beam wireless between Australia and England? 
Is the beam wireless now in working order with Canada? What are the charges and was the Government consulted before the final arrangements and, if so, to what extent? 
As the honorable senator was good enough to inform me that he intended to ask this question without notice, the Postmaster-General has supplied the following answers :  - 
The information is not in the possession of the Postmaster-General's Department. The Amalgamated Wireless have been approached and the matter is now receiving their consideration. 
Yes. The charges, of which there are numerous classifications, are 10 per cent, less than cable charges. The Government was consulted before the rates were fixed. 
asked tie Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
For how long has Colonel Thomas been a member of the Federal Capital Commission ? 
What is his salary, and how much has he drawn since appointment? 
What is he entitled to, in addition to salary, by way of travelling and other allowances? 
During the period of his appointment what travelling is he required to do, and when ? 
How much travelling has he actually done, and what is the total sum be has drawn in respect of travelling allowance? 
How long , is it proposed to continue this allowance to Colonel Thomas? 
What other member of the Public Service is entitled, while resident in Canberra, to similar allowances? 
From 22nd June, 1927. 
£1,500 per annum. The total amount drawn is £1,759 8s. 2d. 3, 4 and 5.  Colonel Thomas  is a permanent officer  of  the Commonwealth Public Service, with headquarters in Melbourne. His appointment as commissioner is temporary. The conditions of that appointment prescribe that he shall be paid a travelling allowance at the rate of 30s. per day and that, for the purpose  of  computing the allowance payable, . his home shall be deemed to be located in Melbourne. The amount paid to Colonel Thomas under this allowance up to the 22nd August, 1928, inclusive, was £584 8s. 9d- The  only  travelling away from Canberra by Colonel Thomas since his appointment as commissioner has consisted of visits to Melbourne, and whilst there his allowance has not been paid. 
As the allowance is included in the conditions attaching to Colonel Thomas's appointment, itwill be continued for the present terra of his appointment as a commissioner. 
Officers of the Public Service whose headquarters arc outside Canberra, and who are required to visit Canberra on official duty are paid travelling allowance. 
[3.18]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I had hoped to be able to give the Senate a statement of the budget this afternoon, us the Treasurer proposed to deliver his budget speech in another place soon after it met. I understand, however, that the adjournment of that House has been moved in order to permit of the discussion of another matter. This will prevent the budget from being presented till a later hour in the day. In these circumstances it seems hardly necessary to ask honorable senators to come back to-night, to hear a statement on the budget from me ; especially, as with the business on the notice-paper we should be able to take the statement to-morrow. 
I object strongly to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate at this stage. On Thursdays private members' business takes precedence after eight o'clock. That is our only opportunity to discuss private business. The Senate reassembled yesterday after about three months' holiday; but unhappily owing to the death, during the recess, of an honorable senator and a member of another place, we adjourned without having transacted any business. There is a certain amount of private members' business to be dealt with; but it is anticipated that Parliamentwill prorogue in about four weeks' time, and we shall shortly be informed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that owing to the volume of Government business it will be impracticable to discuss private members' business. As honorable senators are, I believe, prepared to proceed with the discussion of such motions, we should not, at this stage, be asked to agree to an adjournment, particularly as some of those now on the notice-paper could be dealt with between now and the dinner adjournment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  if his attention has been . directed to a paragraph which appeared in the Sydney  Sun  of the 30th August, headed " Challenge - Country Party to Nationalists - Lower Tariff." Is the right honorable gentleman in a position to deny the truth of the statement, which purports to be a report of certain proceedings at a meeting of the Country party? 
[11.5]. - I lay upon the table of the Senate, by command, Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure, Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, &amp;c, and Estimates of Expenditure from Loan Fund, for the year ending30th June, 1929, together with the budget  Papers  1928-29, presented by the Treasurer .  (Dr. Earle Page)  on the occasion of opening the Budget of 1928-29. I move- 
That the papers be printed. 
In accordance with the usual custom, I propose to give the Senate a summary of the financial position as set out in the budget. 
Transactions for the Year 1927-28. 
The transactions of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the year 1927-28 were  as  follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192808312_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
The number of houses erected in Victoria under the Commonwealth Housing Act? 
The rate of interest charged to persons to whom advances have been made? 
The maximum amount advanced to an applicant under the act? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
On what date was the Development and Migration Commission appointed ? 
What is the total salary paid each member of the commission since his appointment? 
The total travelling expenses paid each member for the same period? 
The total expenditure incurred to date in connexion with the commission? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What is the total amount that has been expended by the Development and Migration Commission since its inception? 
What works have been actually carried out or commenced, as a result of the recommendation of this commission? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The information is being obtained. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Have any deportations been made under the Crimes Act; and, if so, how many? 
Have any organizations been disbanded under the Crimes Act; and, if so, how many? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers are as follow :  - 1 and 2. No. The act has been most effective as a deterrent of the activities against which it was directed. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister lay on the table ofthe Senate all the papers and correspondence relating to the alleged mutiny on the  Jervis Bay,  including the report of the captain and any other officer or person? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the amount of money remitted to southern European countries by natives of those- countries who are or were resident in Australia, for the years 1924-28, showing each country separately? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets,  upon notice - 
Will he, in view of the many thousands of pounds lost annually through the rough handling of fruit, have inspectors placed in the holds of sea-going ships to endeavour to stop this practice? 
The matter is having consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Tariff Board's report on the request for assistance to the flax industry been received? If so, will it be given effect to at once in order to assist in the preparation of this season's crop? 
The report has not been received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to provide swimming baths at Canberra? 
If so, when will the work be commenced? 
If not, why? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers are as follow: - 1 and 3. It is the intention of the Commission to provide swimming baths. 
As soon as the financial position permits. Sufficient funds cannot be made available to the Commission for the erection of baths during this financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether tradesmen and business men at Civic Centre and Ainslie are being penalized by the heavy cost of transport from the present station site to their places of business, and arc anxiously awaiting a decision on the question of the re-opening of the line to Ainslie station? 
When is it expected that the line to Ainslie will be re-opened? 
This matter will be inquired into, and a reply will be furnished at a later date. 
asked the Minister re presenting the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government considered the report of the Pastoral Advisory Board appointed to advise the Government as to the best means of avoiding losses occasioned by drought? 
Is the Minister aware that in its report the board has strongly recommended that the best way to overcome a great deal of the difficulties occasioned in drought time, and to avoid the great losses of sheep that occur in Western Queensland, would be to connect by rail Bourke, in New South Wales, with Cunnamulla, in Queensland, and Charleville with Blackall? 
In view of the strong recommendation of this board, will the Government get into touch with the Government of New South Wales and the Government of Queensland to see whether it is possible to apportion the cost of such a project between the Commonwealth and the States concerned, or will it ascertain if it is possible to secure the necessary funds from the money available for developmental work under the migration agreement with Great Britain? 
The answers are as follow: - 
Yes. 2 and 3. The report of the Pastoral Committee indicates the necessity for the construction of some connecting link north and south to join the existing railways in Queensland for the purpose of saving stock during periods of drought. The Government considers that this is a matter of . vital national necessity and would be prepared to discuss with the States concerned the question of taking action in the direction suggested. At present, however, owing to financial stress and the difficulty of obtaining loan money, no action can be taken; but it is hoped that, when there is a better appreciation of the purposes for which loan money is needed in Australia, it will be possible to make arrangements to provide facilities for removing stock in times of drought. When the time is opportune the Government will be prepared to give the matter its earnest consideration. Money for the purpose would be available under the agreement with the British Government; but it would be for the States concerned to submit some scheme for approval. 
[11.36].  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short bill to amend the existing provisions of the Public Service Act in relation to the attachment of salaries of officers. The present act provides that where a judgment has been obtained against an officer of the Public Service, the person who has obtained the judgment may serve a copy of it on the paying officer of the department in which the officer is employed together with a statutory declaration that the judgment has not been satisfied. The paying officer then notifies the officer in writing, and requires him to furnish evidence that the debt has been paid, or, if it has not been paid, to state the amount remaining due. If the officer fails to prove that the judgment has been paid, the paying officer is authorized to deduct from any moneys due to the officer such sums as are, in his opinion, necessary to enable the judgment to be satisfied, provided that the salary of the officer must not be reduced below a specified amount. These provisions apply only to permanent officers of the Public Service, but it is proposed by the bill to extend them to all officers of the Public Service, including temporary officers. They will also apply to another class of officers. Section 8 of the Public Service Act provides that the Governor-General may, on the recommendation of the board, declare that the act shall not apply to any officer or any particular class of officers, or any employee or class of employees. The bill provides, however, that, unless the GovernorGeneral otherwise directs, the section relating to attachment of salary shall apply to such officers and employees. It is also proposed to make a slight alteration in the procedure relating to attachment by authorizing the chief officer to appoint any officer to act as paying officer for the purposes of these attachment provisions. This amendment is intended to meet the somewhat awkward position which might arise if the judgment debtor happened to be an officer senior to the paying officer. In such a case it is proposed that the chief officer shall have power to appoint some other officer to act as paying officer for the purposes of the section, and the officer so appointed may serve notice on the judgment debtor as required by this section, and, where the debt has not been paid, may determine the amount of the deductions to be made, and direct the paying officer to make those deductions from the salary of the judgment debtor. Honorable senators will remember that the principal act enables the salaries of public servants to be garnisheed for debt, the same as the salaries of any other citizens. It was thought that we should not make members of the Public Service a privileged class who were not amenable to  a  law that applied to every other section. The act placed them on an equality with private individuals, but it was found that, as it was not made to apply specifically to temporary employees, a loop-hole had been left. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[11.41]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The New Guinea Act 1920-1926 provides that, until the Parliament makes other provision for the Government of the Territory, the Governor-General may make ordinances having the force of law in and in relation to the Territory. From the commencement of civil administration in New Guinea in May, 1921, until last year, the white population of the Territory consisted mainly of Government officers and quasi-Government officials, such as officers of the Expropriation Board. It was felt that while such a state of affairs existed, the granting of a measure of local government was not warranted. The expropriated properties are now, and Lave been for some time,  in  private hands, and it is considered that the proportion of non-official residents to official residents at present existing warrants the granting of a form of local government. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE There are about 2,070 Europeans, while Asiatics and others number about 1,320, making a total nonindigenous population of 3,399. Tho system of local government which, it is proposed, shall be instituted for New Guinea is similar to that in force in the neighbouring Territory of Papua. At the present stage of development of New Guinea, it is considered desirable to make a commencement on the lines which have proved so successful in Papua, and to await actual experience of the operation of the system in New Guinea before giving consideration to any question of a change in the constitution of the legislative body. The Executive Council is to consist of nine members, who will be appointed, by the Governor-General and hold office during his pleasure. Eight of the members are to be officers of the Territory, and one is to be chosen by and from the non-official members of the Legislative Council. The Legislative Council is to consist of the Administrator, the official members of the Executive Council, eight in number, and five nonofficial members, namely, nine official members and five non-official members. The Legislative Council is empowered to make ordinances for the peace, order and good government of the Territory, but may not impose higher import duties on any goods produced or manufactured in, or imported from, Australia than are imposed on the like goods produced or manufactured in, or imported from, other countries. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. No ordinance has any force until it has been assented to. Within six months after the Administrator assents to. an ordinance, the Governor-General may disallow it. Ordinances relating to certain matters set out in clause 3 of the bill, section 11w, must be reserved for the Governor-General's pleasure, and an ordinance so reserved has no force unless and until within one year from the date of its presentation to the Administrator, the latter publishes within the Territory a notification that it has received the Governor-General's assent. Every ordinance assented to by the Administrator or by the Governor-General must be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 
It is proposed to include in the bill a clause which will guard against the possibility of any interference by the Legislative Council with the obligations imposed upon Australia by the mandate. That accounts for the difference between this bill and the Papua Act. Honorable senators will recognize the necessity for this provision. We could not allow the Legislative Council of New Guinea to pass any ordinance relating to the matters for which we are responsible to the Mandates Commission, unless it had the approval of the Executive Council. In view of the recent alteration of the status o'f dominions, it is proposed that the annual report to the Council of the League of Nations on the Territory of New Guinea shall in future be made by the Minister administering the New Guinea Act instead of by the GovernorGeneral. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
P move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill that I am now submitting to the House deals with the railway between Queanbeyan and Canberra, and its object is to vest the railway in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, properly and legally. In the ordinary course this railway, like all others owned by the Commonwealth would, under the provisions of the -Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-25, be vested in the Commissioner. But the railway was built some considerable time before the passing of the Railways Act referred to, and not being built under a specific railway authorizing act it did not, like the other railways owned by the Commonwealth, become automatically vested in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner when the Commonwealth Railways Act of 1917 was passed by the Senate. Under section 16 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-25 provision is made for vesting in the Commissioner - 
All railways and all rolling-stock heretofore constructed or acquired by or on behalf of the Commonwealth pursuant to any act in force for the time being authorizing the construction or acquisition of railways or rollingstock. 
The railway embraced by the bill now before us, however, was not constructed or acquired pursuant to any act, and, as I said before, did not on the passing of the Commonwealth Railways Act in 1917 automatically become vested, in the Commissioner. This legislation is therefore necessary. The railway was constructed primarily for the carriage of materials for the building of the Federal Capital, and it was proposed in the first instance to construct the line of second-hand material of a comparatively light type, making it more a tramway than a railway. Eventually, however, it was decided to construct the line of a heavier type of rails, &amp;c, than those originally proposed and 80 lb. rails, standard sleepers, ballast, &amp;c, were used. The railway, which is now carrying heavy passenger and goods traffic, was built by the State of New South Wales for and on behalf of and at the cost of the Commonwealth Government, and was first used for traffic on 25th May, 1914. The cost of the work carried out by New South Wales represented approximately £45,000. Since then deviations have been carried out, station buildings, sidings, &amp;c, provided, and the total cost of the railway to the 30th June, 1928, as recorded in the books of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner,, amounted to approximately £87,000. 
There are no peculiar features in the bill. It simply seeks properly to vest the railway property in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. The line being only in a temporary location, none of the lands are permanently vested in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. Under the bill they are. being leased by the Federal Capital Commission for the exclusive use of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner on the understanding that when the railway is placed in its permanent location such of the lands being leased by this bill as are certified to by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner as being no longer required will automatically revert to the Federal Capital Commission. The matter- of vesting in the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner the lands that will be required when the railway is built in its permanent location will be dealt with when the bill for the construction of the railway in the permanent location is submitted to this House. For the present it will be sufficient, as provided in the bill, to set aside for the use of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner the strip of land one chain on each side of the centre line of the railway between Queanbeyan and Canberra and also lands at Canberra for the railway station and sidings, &amp;c, as shown in the schedule of the bill. The Commonwealth Railways Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner of the Federal Capital Commission have been dealing with this matter aud they have arrived at an agreement iu so far as the lands required by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner are concerned. A plan showing the railway lands is now laid on the table of the Senate for the information of honorable senators. The railway does not form part of the Federal Capital Commission property. Its cost is not a liability of the 
Federal Capital Commission nor are the earnings of the railway credited to the Federal Capital Commission's accounts, and the Commission will be charged the same as the general public for transport. 
The introduction of this Railway Bill was contemplated previously, but there were difficulties particularly with regard to the lands which have now been adjusted, and for the time being an ordinance, the Seat of Government Railway Ordinance No. 8 of 1923, was issued. That ordinance, however, does not enable the Commissioner to exercise all the powers conferred upon him by the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-25. The powers under the ordinance are limited, and the only solution is the passing of an act of Parliament. 
As honorable senators are aware, the railway is only a short one, approximately four miles 75 chains, but it has grown in importance considerably since the establishment of the Seat of Government at Canberra. Numbers of trains, both passenger and goods, are already running over the railway daily, and the traffic will largely increase in the future. Until recently it was managed and maintained by the New SouthWales Railways Commissioners for and on behalf of the Commonwealth, but a short time since arrangements were completed for its management and maintenance to be undertaken by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, who now has a controlling officer at Canberra. This arrangement took effect on 1st July last, and is proving satisfactory and economical. 
The bill now submitted for the consideration of the Senate deals with the railway as it is, and does not concern it as it will eventually become. All we are concerned with to-day is the passing of legislation properly to cover the railway in its present position, and the bill is introduced accordingly. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
 One would imagine, from the intimation that has been given by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, that a desire exists to hurry away from this Parliament to do something else. I wonder if the right honorable gentleman will tell us the reason for all this hurry. Why is the Senate to meet an extra day a week in the near future? So far honorable senators have not received any definite information as to the reason for hurry. There have been some rumours about a Federal election in the near future, but we still lack authoritative information on the subject from either the Prime Minister or the right honorable the Leader of the Senate. If the Government has determined that Parliament shall be dissolved this year with a consequent appeal to the people, an official statement could well be made to that effect. I am somewhat surprised that the right honorable gentleman has moved that the Senate do now adjourn, because the business paper is not exhausted. There are two interesting measures on the business-paper, the Post and Telegraph Bill and the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, to which the remainder of this sitting might well be devoted. I am at a loss to understand why the Government will not proceed with the business before the Senate.I am sure that quite a lot of useful discussion could take place on the measures I have mentioned. Will the right honorable the Leader of the Senate indicate why it is not intended to proceed with them? 
[12.1]. - The pose of the honorable senator in professing to be ignorant of the reasons which are actuating the Government in urging the expedition of business reminds one of the attitude of a judge who affects not to see a legal luminary who appears before him without wig and gown, although it is quite apparent to all that he can see him. The honorable senator ' cannot see the reasons which actuate the Government in trying to push on with business, yet he knows quite well what they are. In case, however, the honorable senator's desire to observe punctiliously every technicality does obscure his vision, and he is thus prevented from realizing why Ministers are anxious to expedite business, I may tell him that it is the intention of the Government to advise  His Excellency  the Governor-General to dissolve this Parliament so that an election may be held on the 17th November next. I trust that the information I have now supplied may have a cheering effect on the Leader of the Opposition. In regard to the postal bills referred to by the honorable senator, the Government recognizes that they do not command a majority in the Senate, and therefore does not propose to waste the time of the chamber in further discussing them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.3 p.m. 

I beg to lay on the table of the Senate the annual report of the tariff board for the year 1927-28, together with summary of recommendations. The schedules containing the board's specific recommendations are complete, with the exception of a few which have not yet been considered by the Government. When these have been dealt with they will be laid on the table. Many of the board's reports referred . to in the papers accompanying the annual report have been laid already on the table of the Senate and printed, and formed the basis of action taken in the tariff schedule lately before the Senate. In respect of the board's recommendations in connexion with the by-law items of the tariff, and other matters apart from tariff revision, the action taken is set out on the schedule to the report in respect of each recommendation, and all such by-laws made have been duly published in the  Government Gazette.  Under these circumstances it is not proposed to print the papers annexed to the report. 
On the 31st August,  Senator Elliott  asked the following questions: - 
Is the Minister aware whether tradesmen and business men at the Civic Centre and Ainslie are being penalized by the heavy cost of transport from the present station site to their places of business, and are anxiously awaiting a decision on the question of the re-opening of the line to Ainslie station? 
When is it expected that the line to Ainslie will be re-opened? 
The Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the following answer: - 1 and 2. The whole question of the extension of the Queanbeyan-Canberra railway to the north is being considered in conjunction with the lake scheme, but it is anticipated that it will be at least twelve months before the present investigations are completed. It may bc mentioned that there has never heen a public line for railway traffic to Ainslie. The line which was previously laid was a constructional tramway only and was put out of commission as a result of heavy floods in July, 1 922, when the trestle bridge over the Molonglo River collapsed and the approaches were washed away. 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General a question relating to the installation of telephonic communication between Tasmania and the mainland, and the Minister's reply was that inquiries were being made. I should like to know if those inquiries have been completed and, if so, with what result ? 
I am unable to answer the honorable senator's question at the moment, but I shall hare inquiries made. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister furnish the Senate with a statement showing the different boards, commissions, tribunals, &amp;c, brought into existence by the Bruce-Page Government, together with the annual cost of each board? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
When was the Child Endowment Commission appointed? 
What fee is paid each member per sitting? 
The total expenditure incurred by the commission to date. 
28th September, 1927. 
Chairman - ?7 7s. per sitting in Adelaide, ?10 10s. per sitting away from Adelaide. Members - ff&gt; 5s. per sitting. 
Total expenditure, ?10,782. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
On what date was the Constitutional Commission appointed? 
What fee is paid each member per sitting? 
How many members are on the Commission ? 
How many sittings have been held by the commission? 
What is the total expenditure incurred by the Commission to date? 
18th August, 1927. 
Chairman - ?200 per month. Members - ?5 Ss. per sitting. 
Seven. 
To dato, the commission has had 159 meetings, including 98 public sittings. 
?14,709. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What is the name of the designer of the beautiful coat of arms of Australia? 
What is the name of the architect that had that design placed at the entrance to Parliament House in such a position that members and visitors are compelled to walk on our beautiful symbol? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers are 
The present design of the Commonwealth coat of arms was settled by the Imperial authorities in 1912, after consultation with the Commonwealth Government, the original design having been granted by Royal warrant on the 7th May, 1908. It is not possible to attribute the design to a particular artist. 
The design was incorporated in a mat which was placed at the entrance to Parliament House by the Federal Capital Commission. It is a common practice to include in the design of a mat for that purpose a symbol of ownership. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
How many persons are employed in the sugar industry of New South Wales and Queensland ? 
The number engaged in field work, planting, tending and gathering the cane? 
How many men are employed in the mills and refineries? 
The estimated amount paid in wages and salaries by that industry in each State? 
The information will be obtained as far as is possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Referring to the special adjournment motion moved in the House of Representatives on the 30th ultimo, will the Minister make a statement to the Senate explaining the incident. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Whether he is aware that His Majesty's mails are delivered to the Federal Parliament House of Australia in foreign-made motor vehicles ? 
Whether the Government will not give absolute preference to British trucks and/or cars for use by the various Government Departments ? 
The answers are: - 
Yes. 
The policy of the department is to purchase suitable British vehicles when within reasonable measure of the cost of other available vehicles of similar type. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets,  upon notice - 
What was the number of persons engaged in the pastoral, agricultural, dairying and . horticultural industries in Australia in the years 1906, 1916 and 1926 respectively? 
What was the value of the products of those industries in the years mentioned? 
What was the value of production per head of the persons engaged in each industry for those years ? 
If the information is not available in this form, can it be supplied in any other way? 
The answers are: - 
The Bureau of Census and Statistics was not in existence in the year 1906, consequently no figures are available for that year. The figures for the year 1907-1908 are given instead. 

<graphic href="119332192809056_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

.- I move- 
That Ordinance No. 17 of 1928,  to  amend the Building and Services Ordinance 1924-1925 of the Territory for the Seat of Government, be disallowed. 
I assure the Senate that I move this motion in no spirit of antagonism towards the Commission which is in control of the Federal Capital Territory, but because I believe that a grave injustice is being attempted under this ordinance which has been promulgated by it. For the information of honorable senators, I shall quote from the ordinance. It is an ordinance to amend the Buildings and Services Ordinance 1924-25. Clause 2 reads - 
This ordinance shall be deemed to have commenced on the fifth day of November, 1925. 
I desire honorable senators to make a special note of the date. In a matter of this kind Parliament should be jealous of its rights and privileges. It is not a question merely of kerbing and guttering ; if it were, it might reasonably be said that it was not a matter for consideration by so august a body as the Senate. There is more in it than the mere question of kerbing and guttering. Either ignorantly or deliberately, an attempt is being made to evade an act of Parliament and to circumvent the express wish of Parliament. That is a strong statement, but I shall give my reason for it. 
I do not think so. Should the Government persist in its attitude and force the unfortunate leaseholders who are being attacked in this way by the Federal Capital Commission to take the case to the High Court, it will find itself in " queer street." I want to obviate any such happening, largely because of the expense which necessarily attaches to an action before the High Court. Before  that court could be approached the matter would first have to come before a local magistrate; then on appeal, the case would go to a district court, while a further appeal would be necessary to bring it before the High Court. 
I have seen the considered opinion of one of the highest constitutional lawyers in the Commonwealth to the effect that the action proposed by the Commission is wrong. 
I hope the right honorable gentleman is wrong. I propose to quote from the Seat of Government Act under which the ordinance is made so that honorable senators may see that there is something more than smoke in the statement I have made. Section 12 of the Act reads - 
Until the Parliament makes other provision for the Government of the territory the Governor-General may make ordinances, having the force of law in the Territory. 
Every such ordinance shall - 
be notified in the  Gazette. 
take effect from the date of notification, or from a later date to be specified in the ordinance. 
I direct special attention to the words " a later date." The ordinance provides that it shall be deemed to have commenced on the 5th day of November, 1925, notwithstanding that the ordinance itself is dated the 27th July, 1928. The ordinance is therefore retrospective. I submit that, except in special circumstances, we should be chary about countenancing retrospective ordinances, regulations or legislation. There may be times when retrospective legislation is necessary, but those occasions ought to be very few, and even then they should be confined to great issues upon which there is little difference of opinion. The issue before us is not of that- nature, for with the exception of the unfortunate residents whom it affects, the ordinance is not regarded as an issue by the people of Australia. This Parliament is being asked to countenance what is really an act of repudiation by the Commission. Indeed, should Parliament agree to the ordinance, it also will be guilty of repudiation. In order that honorable senators will be in a position to register an intelligent vote I propose to trace the history of this case. The ordinance applies to lands sold on the leasehold principle either by the Federal Capital Commission . or by the Government prior to the appointment of the Commission. The original sale was conducted by auctioneers acting on behalf of the Government. The only responsible officer of the Government present at that sale was the then Surveyor-General,  Colonel Goodwin,  who has admitted in a statutory declaration that at that sale he stated that kerbing and guttering were not charges which would be levied on the purchasers of the land. That statement, which was made with the object of increasing the competition for the blocks, had the desired effect. It was generally understood by the purchasers of land that they would not be responsible for the cost of kerbing and guttering. Acting on the assurance they had received, people bid for the blocks, and later took possession. 
Colonel Goodwin admits in a declaration that he made the statement in the hearing of others. 
Colonel Goodwin made a sworn declaration admitting that he made that statement. 
 Colonel Goodwin  was the senior responsible officer representing the Government at the sale, and he is not the type of man to make wild or stupid statements. He believed that what he said was absolutely correct. If that, was his firm opinion, how much more forcibly must the idea have been impressed on the minds of the majority of prospective buyers present at the sale? Statutory declarations have been made by other persons present, alleging that  Colonel Goodwin  did make the statement to which I have referred, and that they acted subsequently in the belief that kerbing and guttering charges would not be levied upon them. Still others have made statutory declarations to the effect that they cannot remember such a statement being made. The auctioneer himself declares that he has no recollection of the occurrence, but he will not go so far as to say that it did not happen. When the Commission proposed to levy kerbing and guttering charges, the matter was raised in another place, and the Minister for Home and Territories made a statement in that House. The honorable gentleman had already been waited upon by purchasers of Canberra land, and made aware that a legal opinion had been obtained that the proposed charges were  ultra vires.  In all sincerity those people laid their cards on the table and placed all the facts of the case before the honorable gentleman. The Minister admitted by his subsequent action that they were right in claiming that the original ordinance was  ultra vires,  as he issued the amending ordinance whichI now have in my possession. I submit that the amending ordinance is also  ultra vires,  and as hideously unfair as the earlier action of the Government and its agent, the Commission. The Government, having fired one barrel which proved to be a squib, should have admitted its mistake and abided by the terms of the original agreement. 
I shall deal with that later. Undoubtedly the Government had no legal right to impose kerbing and guttering charges in the first place, and it should have adhered to the terms that were announced on the day of the sale. The original agreement specified the costs that had to be met, and did not in any way mention kerbing and guttering. A opinion has been obtained from  Mr. John  Garlick, one of the- Commissioners of the City of Sydney, and for many years under secretary of local government for New South Wales.  Mr. Garlick  is a recognized authority on such matters, and he said - 
The Sydney Council constructs kerbing and guttering opposite leases similar to Canberra leases without cost to the lessees. 
Similar opinions were obtained from other authorities in Australia, and they all indicate that it is not the practice for municipal authorities in this country to inflict such charges upon lessees. 
I am dealing only with leaseholders. There is no freehold in the Federal Capital Territory. 
I am not familiar with the conditions prevailing in Perth. I am aware that freeholders have to meet such costs ; leaseholders have not. 
There are any amount of leaseholds from the Crown in all parts of Australia, and everywhere in this country the owner of a freehold, whether he be a private individual or the Crown, is responsible for curbing and guttering charges. Leaseholders pay such costs only when that is expressly stated in their leases, which was not done in this instance. In the circumstances, I contend that the action of the Government and of the Commission is unfair.I know that different legal opinions have been expressed on this matter, but it is customary for lawyers to differ. I do not deal with the matter only from the legal point of view. There is an important moral aspect involved, which I hope will have the consideration of this Senate. We are under a moral obligation to them and we have to stand up to any obligation, actual or implied. The Minister denies that this is an actual obligation, but I have said sufficient I think to establish it as at least a moral obligation. 
The lessees are now prepared to organize and submit their case to the court. 
Having once given the Government the benefit of the advice for which they had to pay, with the result that the Government amended its ordinance, the lessees are not now prepared to give the Government the benefit of the new advice for which they have paid unless the Government will meet them in a more impartial way than it has hitherto met. them. I submit that it is the duty of the Government to meet the lessees in the most impartial way. . It is not for the Government to make up its mind and not budge a point, simply saying " That is the position, and you must accept it whether you like it or not." Honorable senators are not in the position of attackers or defenders of the Commission. They are here to see that justice is done and should approach questions of this kind in the most impartial way possible. The Government is in the same position. It must be impartial but it is not if it does not ask the lessees to come to it and state their case fully, and if having done so it is not prepared to say to them " If it is proved that you are right, we shall drop this ordinance." 
The lessees having been once bitten, are not prepared to be bitten twice. They have no guarantee that even if they prove that the new ordinance is wrong the Government will not come down with an amending ordinance to get over all legal difficulties and all the unsurmountable hurdles that the lessees have been able to put up. It is quite possible that the Government may so amend the law that it may be dated retrospectively over a sufficient period to enable it to do what it wants to do. But that is not the proper way to treat the lessees of the Federal Capital Territory. When the Commission proposed to take a certain course which it was afterwards proved to the satisfaction of the Government could not be taken, an amending ordinance was gazetted, and I think that the facts I have given indicate that even that amending ordinance is as  ultra vires  as was the original one. If the Government forces these unfortunate people to fight their case through several courts it will not be just to them ; that is certainly not the proper way for a great Federal Government to deal with its tenants. After all, the people concerned are our tenants. The lessees of the Federal Capital Territory should not be put to the enormous expense which will be involved in testing in the courts the legality of this . ordinance. I hope that the Government will view the matter in a reasonable way so that all the difficulties likely to arise through the course of action now proposed by the Federal Capital Commission, may be avoided. Every one recognizes that there is not in the Territory at the present time the spirit of good will and fellowship between the Commission and the lessees and other residents of the Territory that there ought to be. We have now an opportunity to help to build up a new sentiment of goodwill and co-operation that will make all in the Territory work together for its general benefit and for the advancement of the Commonwealth. I hope that the Senate will see that this ordinance is not allowed to stand. We are, under the statute, given power to disallow any. ordinance that we think is not a fit and proper ordinance. We rarely exercise that power because it seldom becomes necessary to do so. But when it does become necessary we should not hesitate to disallow an ordinance. The Administration may be prepared to come to the assistance of any commission or any body that is acting manifestly in an unfair and improper way, but in this matter I do not cast any reflection on the Government. In all probability it has not been consulted to any great extent about this ordinance to which I object. If the ordinance itself is right it ought to stand, but if it is wrong, and I claim it is, the Senate should not hesitate to disallow it. 
[3.46]. - At the outset I wish to make it perfectly clear that the Government accepts full responsibility for the ordinance which the honorable senator seeks to have disallowed. The honorable senator, at the beginning of his speech, said that he had no antagonism to the Commission. 
That may be so, but the honorable senator is appearing for those who are antagonistic to the Commission, and therefore I, say at once that the Government takes full responsibility for this ordinance. Its very terms indicate that it was passed with the approval of the Government. The honorable senator therefore must direct his attack at the Government and leave the Commission out of the question. The Government does not desire to shelter behind the Commission. I cannot understand why  Senator Duncan  should have appealed to honorable senators to be jealous of the rights and privileges of Parliament. There has been no invasion of the rights and privileges of Parliament. This Parliament, because it did not want to become a mere parliament for Canberra, endowed the Government openly, and with full knowledge, with the right to make ordinances with respect to the Federal Capital Territory. It recognized that the people of the Territory were entitled to have a code of laws but it did not want a Parliament, elected by the millions in Australia, to be occupied in passing laws for Canberra. It therefore delegated to the Government the power to make ordinances for the Territory, and in that respect I regret that too much of the time of this Parliament has already been taken up by Canberra affairs. In fact, there is a danger that the National Parliament may degenerate into a parliament for Canberra. A great many of the matters relating to the Territory that have been brought up here, ought to have been left to the people of Canberra themselves. In that connexion the Government hopes to give the residents of the Territory the opportunity they should have of expressing their own views on municipal matters where they ought to be expressed, and that is on the Commission controlling the Territory. When that is done I hope that less of the time of this Parliament will be taken up in discussing what are purely municipal affairs that ought never to be discussed in a national parliament. My remarks on this point are prompted by the honorable senator's statement that in some way or other the privileges of Parliament have been undermined or given away 
Looking at the matter, apart altogether from the points raised by the honorable senator, is it not a fact that if a person has property in any other part of Australia and the municipal authorities lay down a footpath alongside that property the owner has to pay a share of the cost of making it? The property owner pays his share of the cost of making not only the guttering and kerbing, but also the footpath. It is, as a matter of fact, common knowledge in Australia that that is one of the liabilities of the owner of a property. If a person buys land anywhere in Australia, he does so on the assumption that if the municipality in which the land is situated provides a footpath, he will be called upon to pay his share of the cost of making it. Likewise, the persons who came to Canberra in the days of the first auction sale, came here with the knowledge and on the assumption that if they bought leaseholds here they would have to pay their share of the cost of making footpaths. I venture to assert that all. the buyers who attended the first sale had that assumption in their minds - that the common practice all over Australia would be applied here. I have a very distinct recollection of that first sale, because I' was the Minister who approved of the conditions of sale. I went over them dozens of times with various officers of whom  Colonel Goodwin  was one. He afterwards ceased to be an officer of the department, but at that time was the officer who advised us on land matters. I went over the conditions of sale with the auctioneer. Certain conditions were printed on the forms which advertised the sale. If we were about to effect a revolutionary change, if we were about to do something in respect of properties in Canberra that had not obtained anywhere else in Australia, and would have added considerably to the attractiveness of purchasing land in Canberra, should we not have included it in the conditions of sale? Should we not have starred it on the plans we issued? Should we not have said on those plans, " Here you will have a privilege that you have not enjoyed anywhere else in Australia"? Of course we would have done so, but it was not done, and those who are raising the issue now do not claim that it was done. In fact they cannot point to anything in the conditions of sale to support their present contention. It is true that years after the sale  Colonel Goodwin  made a discovery and told some one certain things, but it is news to me to learn that  Colonel Goodwin  was authorized to tell any one anything at the sale in regard to the conditions. My recollection is that the announcement of the conditions of sale was to be made by the auctioneer. At any rate he was the only person authorized to announce the conditions of sale. I certainly have no recollection of authorizing  Colonel Goodwin  to say anything to any one. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The law in force was the ordinance of 1924. 
I shall come to that point in due course. I have told honorable senators the state of mind in which people attended the first sale.  Senator Duncan  says that an attempt has been made to get round an act of Parliament. Why does he use language which amounts to an accusation against the Minister for Home and Territories? As a matter of fact, no attempt has been made to get round any act of Parliament. No act of Parliament can lay down all the conditions governing the Territory. The Seat of Government Administration Act is simply an enabling act, and in that respect it is just like the Constitution Act. The Federal Convention did not attempt to lay down in the Constitution Act all the legislation that would express what it meant. Year after year since the establishment of federation, there has been passed legislation in which this Parliament has endeavoured to interpret what the framers of the Constitution put into it. Similarly, the Seat of Government Administration Act does not purport to contain all the provisions and regulations under which the people who live in the Territory are to be governed. Parliament directed that that should be done by ordinances. 
-PEARCE.- I am taking the honorable senator's statements point by point, and am now dealing with his statement that there has been an attempt to get around an act of Parliament. I am saying that there has been no attempt to get around an act of Parliament. But there has been an attempt to do what the Government does every time an act is passed by Parliament - there has been an attempt to express the will of Parliament. The ordinances relating to the Federal Territory are an attempt to express the will of Parliament in respect of the powers conferred upon the Government by the Seat of Government Administration Act. 
Of course they must, and we have the power under that act to frame municipal regulations. Does the honorable senator doubt that under the Seat of Government Administration Act the Government has the power to authorize municipal regulations for the Federal Capital Territory? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. Let me deal with that point. The first act was passed in 1924; the honorable senator referred to that passed in 1925. The first ordinance was passed in 1924 and provided, in section 4, that - 
The. Minister may make regulations prescribing 
the charges to be made for services supplied in pursuance of this ordinance. 
It did not specify what the services were. It did not specifically mention sanitary, lighting or other services but gave the Minister a general power to make charges for services. The Minister therefore had power to make charges for guttering, kerbing and footpaths. As there might have been some doubt whether they were included in " services ", we expressly provided for them in the later ordinance. In other words, that ordinance was a declaratory one. It was intentionally brought into operation in the form of an amendment of the Building and Service Ordinance of 1.924. The authorization of 1924 to make charges was intended to cover services such as the provision of guttering and kerbing, but a question having then been raised as to whether guttering or kerbing was a " service ", the amending ordinance was brought down to remove all doubt on the point.  Senator Duncan  urged that in 1925 we did not intend to charge for guttering and kerbing, but that in 1928 we made up our minds to do so and accordingly made the provision retrospective to 1925. That is not so. I repeat that it was intended to charge lessees for guttering  and kerbing in 1024 when the first ordinance was passed ; that we intended the word " service " to cover such charges; and that doubts having arisen on the point, the later ordinance was framed to make it clear that lessees here are so liable, just as they are everywhere else in Australia. The honorable senator has suggested that proceedings will be instituted before the High Court. The Commonwealth will welcome such proceedings. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Why should we compensate people who put us to needless expense? When lessees study the cases already decided by the High Court they will realize that their claim cannot be sustained. Why should we feed the lawyers? The power of the Commonwealth to pass retrospective legislation has been questioned in two cases, particulars of which I shall submit to the Senate for the benefit of those who think of approaching the High Court. 
In the case of the  Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited  v.  Irving  (1906), A.C., page 360, the right of the Commonwealth to collect duties under new rates of tariff as from the date of the introduction into Parliament of a tariff resolution was challenged by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. The view of the Privy Council is stated by Lord Davey at page 366 as follows : - " The Parliament had undoubted power to impose taxation under the express words of section 51 of the Constitution, and it is not now disputed that the Parliament could, if it thought fit, make the act retroactive, and impose the duties from the date of the resolution." 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator, who is a lawyer and also a ratepayer in Canberra, has an opportunity to distinguish himself by taking the case to the High Court on behalf of his fellow ratepayers here. The next case is that of the  King  versus  Kidman,  20 C.L.E., page 425, the headnote of which reads - 
The Crimes Act 1915, which, by section 2, adds conspiracies to defraud the Commonwealth to the conspiracies which by section 86 of the 'Crimes Act 1914 are declared to be indictable offences, and by section 3, provides that the act is to be deemed to have been in force from the date of the commencement of the Crimes Act 1914, is a valid exercise of the power of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. In 1914 an act was passed and in 1915 Parliament passed an amending act creating an offence and provided that that act should be deemed to have come into operation in 1914. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am. The headnote continues - 
So held by the whole court. . . . 
By Isaacs, Higgins, Gavan Duffy, Powers, and' Rich  JJ.,  on the ground that within the limits as to subject matter prescribed by the Constitution the power of the Parliament to make laws is plenary, and' includes the power within those limits to make  ex post facto  laws. .   
On the particular question of the power of the Commonwealth Parliament to enact retrospective legislation Griffith,  C.J.,  disagreed with the majority of the court, but the decision of the other five judges must, of course, be accepted as authority on the question. The Building and Services Ordinance 192S was passed in pursuance of the powers conferred by the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 and the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910. Section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 provides that "until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory, the Governor-General may make ordinances having the force of law in the Territory." The section also provides for the notification and disallowance of ordinances. There can be no question as to the plenary nature of the power conferred by this section and consequently the decision of the High Court in  The King  v.  Kidman  must apply to Ordinances for the Seat of Government. It seems clear, therefore, that the Governor-General has power to provide for the retrospective operation of Ordinances for the Seat of Government. So much for the legal side. Let us now come to the facts. On 20th October, 192? the Federal Capital Commission, purporting to act under the powers conferred upon it by the Building and Services Ordinance 1924-1925, made certain regulations known as the Roads and Footpath Regulations. These regulations, which were published in the  Gazette  on 10th November, 192T, provided, inter alia, for the charging of lessees with a proportion of the cost of the construction of kerbing and guttering adjoining their properties. These charges were resisted by a number of lessees on the ground that it had been officially announced . at the first auction sale of leases at Canberra on the 12th December, 1924, that the cost of these works were included in the reserve prices fixed for the blocks offered. It was alleged that Colonel J. T. H. Goodwin had made the announcement, but he stated that the announcement was made by the auctioneer acting under his instructions. Colonel Goodwin would in the first place have no authority to give such an instruction to the auctioneer. 
Colonel Goodwin would have no authority to give such an instruction to the auctioneer unless directed by me, as Minister, to do so. I say unhesitatingly that he had no such authority. Moreover, the instructions to the auctioneer were given long before the sale at Canberra. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The auctioneer made no such statement although  Colonel  Coodwin  said he did. An exhaustive investigation which was made into the matter led to the conclusion that there had not been any announcement of the character referred to. A member of the Ministry and a. present member of the Federal Capital Commission were present at the sale and had no recollection of any such statement having been made. If a statement of such a revolutionary character - differing as it did from the procedure in every other part of Australia - had been made, it must have attracted considerable attention. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I do not know what statements were made in that connexion. I have referred to the files merely to refresh my memory concerning the instructions which were given on this point. I am confining myself to the specific question raised. Statutory declarations furnished by several officers of the Federal Capital Commission, who were also present at the sale, support this view. The auctioneer,  Mr.  Crammond,  said that the question of kerbing and guttering was never mentioned and that this is confirmed by a search made by him of all the records, including a transcript of his remarks in the newspaper. Barely three months after the sale, when referring to a memorandum to him from the secretary of the Federal Capital Commission, Colonel Goodwin stated that " in making valuations it was considered that the formation of roads would not be a charge against the lessees, otherwise the valuations would have been lower, but that the matter of forming a footpath and kerbing and guttering is quite another matter ". That statement by Colonel Goodwin ip on record on the official file. 
Yes. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, the auctioneer represented the Government.  Colonel Goodwin  was the Lands Officer at the time of the sale, but had no authority to make any such statement as is attributed to him. The conditions of sale were to be announced by the auctioneer. As Lands Officer,  Colonel Goodwin  attended to supervise the arrangements and he had his instructions from me as Minister concerning the conditions of the sale. The statement I have just quoted was made by  Colonel Goodwin  and is on record. It shows that at the time he never contemplated that kerbing and guttering would be supplied free. If he did, why should he have made the statement to which I have just referred? The other alleged statement is not on record. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, years afterwards.  Colonel Goodwin's  statement on this occasion is inconsistent with his averment that the auctioneer, acting under his instructions, announced at the sale that the cost of kerbing and guttering . had been included in the reserve price of the blocks. 
Further, an examination of the figures relating to the reserve prices placed on the blocks shows that it is almost incredible, from a practical point of view, that kerbing and guttering had been taken into account. This contention having been disposed of, certain lessees took up the attitude that the owner of the land - the Federal Capital Commission - and not the lessees should be charged with the cost of kerbing and guttering. In this connexion, it is pointed out that the freehold of land in the Territory cannot be sold,  vide  the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924-1926, but a 99 years' lease in the Territory is regarded as equivalent to freehold elsewhere. 
In such a case, the lessee is regarded as owner and liable for a proportion of the cost of construction of kerbs and gutters. It has been ascertained that, so far as the city of Sydney is concerned, kerbs and gutters were constructed by the council before leases were sold. The prices of the leases would, naturally, bo adjusted accordingly. Further inquries made elicited the information that, id respect of two large leasehold estates, namely, the Holt-Sutherland estate and the Cooper estate, which were subdivided by the lessors and sold on long term leases, kerbs and gutters were constructed by the local councils in each case, and that in both cases, the lessees, not the lessors, had met the payments involved. Some doubt was cast upon the legality of the action of the Commission in imposing charges for kerbs and gutters and it was alleged that the roads and footpaths regulations made under the ordinance were  ultra vires.  There was, at least, some doubt whether the definition of the word " services " covered the regulations made by the Commission, but it is quite clear that it was intended that the term should bear a wider meaning than that placed upon it by objectors to the imposition of the charges complained of. It is not considered that any technicality should outweigh the moral considerations which spring from the intention underlying the principal ordinances, the understanding which evidently prevailed prior to the raising of the technical point now taken, and the inherent reasonableness of the claims made against the lessees. To put the matter beyond doubt, the ordinance objected to, No. 17 of 1928, was ac-' cordingly promulgated, to take effect as from the 5th November, 1925, the date of ordinance No. 9 of 1925, which gave the Commisison power to make regulations dealing with the supply of services. Among the points raised this afternoon was one that there is no provision in the leases for these charges. If that contention is to hold, we might as well say that the residents of Canberra shall not be called upon to pay rates, because at the time of the sale there was no provision for the levying of rates. In fact, if that argument is to hold, the lessees of land in Canberra should not be charged for anything which is not specifically set out in their leases. There are charges for other services than kerbing and guttering. 
It has also been objected that the definition of kerbing and guttering as services would involve lessees in payment for maintenance of kerbing and guttering as well as the contribution of half the original cost. This is erroneous, as under the definition of " services " in the amending ordinance now under consideration the reference is to the construction of footpaths, kerbs and gutters. There is no reference to maintenance. The maintenance of kerbing and guttering will be met from the general rates which are levied annually under the Rates Ordinance. 
I ask honorable senators to remember that there are two parties to this case - the residents of this Territory and the general taxpayers of Australia. 
They should not want something for nothing. 
.- Some of the legal reasoning of the Minister is beyond my comprehension. The Constitution gives to this Parliament certain absolute powers. Should Parliament attempt to exceed those powers the High Court may intervene. The Seat of Government Administration Act is similar to the Constitution in this connexion. 
The powers of the Federal Capital Commission are limited by what is in effect its constitution, the Seat of Government Administration Act, which states emphatically that retrospective legislation shall not be passed. The Minister quoted the decision of the High Court to show that this ordinance must be interpreted in the same way that the Constitution is interpreted. If that be so, what is the meaning of the words in the act, " every such ordinance shall be notified in the  Gazette  and shall take effect from the date of notification, or from a later date to be specified in the ordinance." 
That ordinance did not extend to the so-called " services " now sought to be included. 
Then what is the necessity for this further ordinance? 
Then let the doubt remain, and not place the burden on the unfortunate lessees, some of whom have, paid as much as £135 a foot for their land. 
Throughout Australia private subdivisions are now constantly being made on the distinct understanding that roads and footpaths will be constructed by the vendors. The Commission does not deny that the auctioneer stated that purchasers would not have to meet the cost of making roads. Technically, roads do not include footpaths; but to an ordinary layman a statement that the vendor will construct roads is taken to mean that he will also provide footpaths. I had an instance « few months ago at St. Kilda, of an owner, on whose behalf the auctioneer had stated that roads would be made by the vendor, refusing to take advantage of the technicality and insisting that he was in honour bound by the promise to make the footpaths as well. 
Council does not charge for the making of footpaths? I myself have paid for footpaths in St. Kilda. 
I said nothing of the kind. I mentioned a case in which the owner of freehold land which was being subdivided insisted on providing footpaths, because he knew that the purchasers understood the auctioneer to include footpaths when he stated that the vendor would construct the roads. The land at. St. Kilda referred to did not bring anything like the price extorted from purchasers of land at Canberra. 
That is not so. With only twenty blocks available, and 60 or 70 people requiring laud, the price realized is not a true indication of the value of the land. That is shown by the action of many lessees in forfeiting their leases. The Minister said that he hoped the lessees would take the case to the High Court. Apparently the Federal Capital Commission is not so confident. Some time ago the Commission was asked if it would state a case for the opinion of the High Court in order to avoid the delay and expense which otherwise would be incurred by having the case dealt with in the lower courts. The following is the reply of the Commission :  - 
In further reference to your letter dated the 10th July, I desire to inform you that the regulation dealing with kerb and gutter charges was issued under the authority of the Building and Services Ordinance 1924-25. Some question was raised as to whether the regulation referred to was  ultra vvrex.  Although there appeared to be no real doubt on the question, the Government decided that, as a charge for the half cost of kerbing and guttering was obviously a fair and just one and in line with universal practice, to remove all possibility of doubt by an amending ordinance, that ordinance has recently been gazetted, and I forward you a copy herewith. 
With regard to the question which you ask as to whether you may expect any and what further charges of this nature, so far as the Commission is able to foresee there are no other services of a similar nature proposed to be provided and charged for, but you will appreciate that it is impossible to make any Specific statement on this point. 
With regard to the last paragraph of your letter, I am directed by the Commission to say that it is advised by the Crown Law Department that there is no room for doubt as to the validity of the regulation, and under these Circumstances you will appreciate that the 
Commission could not consent to a friendly action in the High Court for the purpose of considering the matter. 
In this connexion I desire to quote from the Local Government Act of New South Wales the following definition of " owner " :  -  " Owner," in relation to land, includes every person who jointly or severally, whether at law or in equity - 
is entitled to the land for any estate of freehold in possession or 
is a person to whom the Crown has lawfully contracted to grant the feesiinple under the Crown Lands Act. 
That is the position there. Section 243 of the same act dealing with the cost of paving, kerbing and guttering, and footways, reads - 
Where the council constructs or paves any footway or constructs kerbing or guttering in any public road, the council may recover in any court of competent jurisdiction from the owner for the time being of the land on the same side of the road as and adjacent to the work an amount to be fixed by the council not exceeding one-half the cost of so much of the work (and any other incidental thereto) as is opposite and adjacent to the land. 
This section shall not apply to any renewal or repair of any paving, kerbing, or guttering in respect of which a contribution has previously been paid. (3 The provisions of this act with respect to- 
the charge of a rate under this act on the land in respect of which it is levied; and 
the time within which proceedings for the recovery of the rate may be taken shall,  mutatis mutandis,  apply to any judgment recovered under this section by thec ouncil and recorded in the books thereof, as if the amount of the judgment and of any costs awarded to the council in respect of its claim were a rate levied under this act in respect of the land concerned. 
This section shall bind the Crown - 
except in respect of public reserves;  and 

 b ) except as provided in sub-section 3 of this section. 
Undoubtedly if the Crown or any statutory body such as the Federal Capital Commission operated in New South Wales and offered land for auction under the conditions that prevailed at the original sale in Canberra, the owner of a freehold but not of a leasehold would- have to pay kerbing and guttering charges. Presumably it was the intention of the Government at the time to pass a Local Government Act, but no definite provision then existed, and purchasers naturally concluded that the provisions of the New South Wales Act would apply. That act makes it perfectly clear that if a man buys a leasehold from the Crown, the Crown has to pay kerbing and guttering expenses. That contention is borne out by the opinion which has been received from one of the commissioners of the city of Sydney, who stated that in circumstances such as prevailed in Canberra at the date of the original sale, purchasers in New South Wales would not be called upon to meet these charges. 
But I understand that the Sydney Council grant leases for 99 years and that tenants who build are not asked to pay the cost of kerbing and guttering. 
I fail to appreciate the difference. I do . not know whether the Minister is familiar with the terms of Canberra leases, but I find that these charges are not to be limited to those holding 99 year leases. There is now an endeavour to make lessees with shorter terms pay, so that the simile drawn by the right honorable gentleman between freehold and leasehold fails. 
Here is another serious aspect. The Minister has talked about footpaths, but I am afraid that he does not understand the position. Those familiar with the Civic Centre know that it embraces a very extensive and elaborate arcade which has a footpath running under it. That footpath has been constructed and paid for by the tenants, and under the terms of their lease they must maintain it in perpetuity. Now, they are asked to bear the cost of additional footpaths which run at right angles to the shops, and naturally they have rebelled. These are really ornamental' paths and clearly should be a charge only upon the Commission. It was certainly not the fault of the tenants that elaborate geometrical paths were put down. There again the parallel attempted to be made by the Minister fails. Again, under this ordinance the Commission may charge for kerb crossings. In the case of a lease with which I am familiar, which originally consisted of four blocks, but is now consolidated into one, and has only one entrance, the lessees have been charged £20 for four kerb crossings. Yet an inspection discloses that not even one crossing is provided. After making a number of threats about prosecution the Commission, at the last moment, experienced a spasm of pity and wrote the following letter on the 1st August :  - 
 I certainly have an open mind on this subject, upon which I have not arrived at a considered opinion inasmuch as I have not had an opportunity to give it lengthy consideration. There appears to be a difference of opinion as to what Colonel Goodwin said, but that does not seem to me to come up for consideration, because if he declared that tenants would not have to meet kerbing and guttering charges, he apparently did so without the authority of his Minister. I am concerned about the power conferred by the Seat of Government Act to make ordinances; whether the ordinance should be allowed or disallowed on account of its retrospective character. The Seat of Government Act says distinctly that ordinances made under it shall take effect from the date of notification or at a later date.  1928  is admittedly a later date than  1925. 
I have a great deal of respect for the opinion of the Attorney-General, and do not think that it is altogether fair to ask honorable senators to pit their opinions against those of lawyers. But the act seemsto be very clear to me. It says - 
Until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory, the Governor-General may make ordinances having the force of law in the Territory. 
Every such ordinance shall - 
be notified in the  Gazette; 
take effect from the date of notification, or from a later date to be specified in the ordinance. 
That does not imply that it shall take effect retrospectively. 
I can merely say that if I were called upon to interpret the Seat of Government Act I should say that an ordinance would take effect from the date of notification and not previously. Otherwise there would be a stipulation for retrospective action. 
Then why the necessity for a fresh ordinance? 
I merely wish to record a fair vote, and in my opinion the act seems perfectly clear. I will consider the matter. 
.- I am not at all concerned about the dispute between the tenants of the Federal Capital Commission . and the Commission. That is a matter to be fought out between the parties themselves. I am concerned, however, about the points raised by  Senator Duncan  and referred to by  Senator J.  B. Hayes - the wisdom of passing a retrospective ordinance, and whether the ordinance itself is constitutional. If  Senator Pearce  is correct in saying that the Commission had power under an ordinance of  1925  to impose the kerbing and guttering charges, to my mind it would be much better for the Government to withdraw its later ordinance and' rely entirely on the original one. 
It is an undesirable practice to legislate retrospectively. 
The fact remains that there is a doubt about the constitutionality of the ordinance, although, as I say, that is a matter to be fought out between the tenants in the Territory and the Commission or the Government. I do not want to have the territorial quarrels brought into this chamber. 
Probably not; but the residents of the Territory may have no other court of appeal.' As a matter of fact, the best course for the residents of the Territory to take, if they feel they have been badly treated in this matter, is to test the legality of the ordinance in the courts. 
I think the whole position has been badly handled. That has been proved" by the necessity for gazetting an ordinance retrospective in character. I feel disposed to support the motion, but I have no desire to embarrass the Government. I would rather the Government withdrew the recent ordinance and relied entirely on the old one. 
When  Senator Duncan  put forward the point about the constitutionality of the ordinance which he is asking the Senate to disallow, I fully expected the Government to seek an adjournment of the debate with a view to consulting the Crown Law officers. 
I am inclined to think that  Senator Duncan's  contention is unanswerable and that the Government is trying to do by ordinance what the statute prevents it from doing. I am not at all anxious to embarrass the Government although I suppose I am on safe ground when I see  Senator Duncan  rising and speaking in opposition to something the Government has done; but I am on safer ground when I am in opposition to a body that is not responsible to the people. I refer to the Federal Capital Commision which is not responsible to the residents of the Territory. On this, the first occasion that the Senate has been asked to defend the interests of the community of Canberra from some action taken by the Commission, I think it would be well advised to take steps to prevent the Commission from seeking legal authority to make charges retrospective as far back as 1925, possibly on the ground that it has found that those charges cannot legally be imposed under the old ordinance. I realize the responsibilities of the Commission, but I have my own responsibilities and one of those is to defend a body of people who are not represented on the body that governs them. The people of Canberra having no representation on their governing body must look to this Parliament for protection from possible danger, and one danger that threatens them is that the Commission is desirous of charging lessees for the construction of kerbing and guttering. I know the practice of municipalities in New South Wales. If a municipality provides the kerbing and guttering in front of my property it promptly bills me with half the cost, but I am in the happy position that the kerbing and guttering adds to the value of my property and I reap the benefit of that increased value. The value that the Federal Capital Commission adds to the land by the provision of kerbing and guttering does not go to the occupier or lessee, because as soon as a new valuation is made the occupier, who has borne the cost of the work is compelled to pay an increased rental. By this ordinance the Commission is thus seeking to compel the residents of Canberra to expend money that will ultimately compel them to pay more rent. To my mind tha.t is not fair, and in the interests of the residents of Canberra I think the Senate could well force the Government to hold this ordinance in abeyance until the legal points raised by  Senator Duncan  have been cleared up. Otherwise the courts may declare that what we have done is illegal and the whole of the cost of any law proceedings that are taken may fall on the Government. We should give the matter serious consideration before we permit a doubtful ordinance like this to be gazetted and become law. I candidly confess that I have not given the subject the time or attention I should have given to it. Had I paid more attention to  Senator Duncan's  remarks I possibly could have spoken more clearly on the subject. But I ask honorable senators either to hold their hand and allow the matter to be adjourned until the opinion of the Crown Law Office is obtained or to order the ordinance to be withdrawn with a view to its re-gazettal in an amended form. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Speaking to this motion it is my intention not only to criticize the budget, but also to review the work of the Government during the last three years. In doing so it is possible that I may be going over some ground that has already been traversed; but the record of the Government is so bad that many of its defalcations cannot be over-stressed. Many of its acts of mal-administration, and much of it extravagance, ought to be brought once more to the attention of the people. When the Treasurer was introducing the budget in another place he did not give any evidence of modesty. He applied the brush of self -flattery very thickly. He praised himself for many things he had done. I gather from a perusal of his speech that he does not place much reliance on the old saying that " self-praise is no recommendation." He spoke about the excellent record of the Government, and about " his statesmanlike financial schemes." If the financial administration of  Dr. Earle  Page is statesmanlike, I have yet to learn what the administration of a statesman would be. The only chance of learning what statesmanship would be like is to relieve  Dr. Earle  Page of his present position. The Commonwealth might then secure a Treasurer who would act in a statesmanlike way. The right honorable the Prime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  is also not averse to self-flattery. A little while ago he and his lieutenant,  Dr. Earle  Page, issued a statement, in which they laid the flattering unction to their souls that they had done a lot of good to Australia during the time they had been the responsible heads of the Bruce-Page Ministry. Referring to that statement, the Melbourne  Age  said - 
In throwing bouquets at themselves the writers are taking serious liberties with the virtues of personal modesty and the cause of political truth. 
Despite this self-flattery I am here to state that the finances of the Commonwealth are not in a sound condition, that they are far from sound, and that the longer we have got  Dr. Earle  Page at the head of the Treasury, the less sound they will become. There is throughout Australia a general wave of condemnation of the financial record of the Bruce-Page Government. 
We are informed by financial experts that we are borrowing too much money overseas, and from whatever aspect this matter is viewed we must admit that our present financial position is anything but satisfactory. A leading article in the  Age  of the 27th August states - 
Financially Australia is simply drifting. The drift has been most marked during the lifetime of the present Government. Unfortunately, its members hold out not the slightest hope that the process is likely to stop. 
The only way in which to stop the financial drift with which we are confronted to-day is to change the present Government. When the present Treasurer was a private "member he strongly condemned  Mr. Bruce,  who was then Treasurer, and with whom he is now associated, for the  manner in which the budget was compiled. Shortly before the Treasurer became associated with the Prime Minister he stated - 
Is the slovenliness of the budget a reflection of the irresponsibility and general methods of the administration of the Leader of the Government? 
The Treasurer has held office for some years, and the Auditor-General has levelled stronger criticism against the method in which he compiles his budgets than  Dr. Page  levelled against the present Prime Minister. The Auditor-General in his 1927 report said - 
I say unhesitatingly that the method of presenting the accounts is such as to obscure the true position. . . . Last year I criticized, on the ground of want of clearness, the method which has been adopted of separating the main account of Consolidated Revenue Fund into three parts. That criticism I consider well founded, for it requires considerable study to ascertain the true position of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and its transactions. 
As the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth has stated that the method of presenting the accounts is such as to obscure the true position, it is necessary for honorable senators to analyse very carefully the Treasurer's financial statement. The financial year which closed on the 30th June last shows a deficit of £2,628,743, so that during a period of twelve months we have drifted to the extent of £5,263,743. At the end of the financial year of 1927 we had a surplus of £2,635,000, but at the end of the last financial year we were faced with a deficit of £2,628,743. Although confronted with this large deficit, with the prospect of an early general election the Government is endeavouring to find a way out of the difficulty without offending any section of the community. It is afraid to increase taxation, and it declines to reduce expenditure. 
When I occupy the position of Treasurer I will tell the honorable senator which course I shall pursue. What does the Treasurer suggest? He intends to suspend the deficit and to mortgage future surpluses. If that is the kind of business acumen that the Treasurer would display in a private concern he would soon find himself in financial difficulties. I repeat that neither the Treasurer nor the Government has the courage on the eve of a general election to attempt to balance the ledger by increasing taxation or by reducing expenditure. Ever since the inception of federation no Treasurer has handled such substantial amounts of revenue as has the present occupant of that office. In a school-boy fashion he is running away from the financial problem he is supposed to overcome. Since the war Australia has, with two or three exceptions, enjoyed prosperous seasons, and our revenue has been buoyant, as the following figures show - 
Revenue, not including interest on loan? raised for States: - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

When the present Treasurer was a private member he strongly criticized every budget that came before Parliament, and on more than one occasion trenchantly condemned the then Treasurer for not attempting to stem the stream of extravagance. 
Yes, and he constituted himself the high priest of economy. One would have thought that on becoming a responsible Minister he would practice the economy which he so frequently preached. In one of his outbursts as a private member, when speaking on the 1922 budget he said - 
I own to being very disappointed that . .  . . . there is the same old wartime scale of expenditure, and that there is no cessation of new appointments, and that the Commonwealth has not even begun to follow the example of Canada, New Zealand, and Great Britain in trying to get back at the earliest possible moment to something like a prewar standard of finance. 
If the Treasurer was disappointed with the conditions then prevailing, I wonder if he realizes how the taxpayers of Australia feel to-day when they study the financial position, as disclosed by his latest budget. Perhaps the  Age  in a leading article of the 27th August best expressed the feelings of the community when it stated - 
The Bruce-Page Government has administered national finance in a glaringly spendthrift fashion. 
Some of the gentlemen who support the Government, of which the Treasurer is a member, have endorsed every word which that journal publishes in its leading article. 
In the matter of new appointments the present Government has broken all records. 
No Government, Federal or State, has been guilty of shirking its responsibilities as this Government has. It has appointed commissions, boards, and committees galore. The honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Gullett),  a staunch supporter of the Government, has already condemned the Federal Treasurer for his extravagance, but notwithstanding his condemnation, he still continues to support the Administration of which the Treasurer is a member. A study of the expenditure since 1923, when the Treasurer first took office, will give honorable senators an idea of how the money has been squandered. The figures are - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_19_2.jpg"></graphic>

From these figures it will be seen that during the period the present Government has been in office expenditure has increased to the extent of approximately £16,500,000. As our expenditure has increased so has our debt per head of population. The figures are: - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_19_3.jpg"></graphic>

We have thus had an increase of £78,000,000 in our public debt since the Bruce-Page Government took office, and an increase of £4 10s. 7d. a head. 
Let us now deal with the net debt which shows our financial position more accurately than does the public debt. Our net debt in 1921-22 was £339,002,000. In 1927-28 it had grown to £347,168,000, an increase of nearly £8,166,000. The Treasurer stated that the increase in the net debt since 1926-1927 was £6,189,025. He pointed out that, of that amount, £3,477,176 represented the difference between the amount of purchase money outstanding in connexion with the sale of the  Comomnwealth  ships, and the face value of the debentures of the Commonwealth Shipping Board held by the Treasury. Let us examine that statement in its relation to our present financial position. Allowing for this adjustment it will be seen that our national debt has increased by £4,688,000 since 1921- 22, despite the fact that the Treasurer has received £33,000,000 more revenue than he would have received had the revenue remained on the 1922-23 level. In addition he utilized the £7,428,574 surplus that existed in 1922-23. 

 Dr. Earle Page has again emphasized the reduction in our war debt which, on the 30th June, 1922, amounted to £333,093,834. On the 30th June last it was £293,420,106, a decrease of £39,673,728. It is true that the war debt has been decreased to the extent mentioned, but in emphasizing that decrease,  Dr. Page  conveniently omitted to mention " other debts " which, excluding debts incurred by the States, amounted to £31,745,756 on the 30th June, 1922. Up to the 30th June last " other debts " amounted to £79,363,982, an increase since 1921-1922 of £47,618,226. Thus, it will be seen that "other debts" exceed by approximately £8,000,000 the reduction in the war debt during the same period. 
During his term of office, the Treasurer has enjoyed a total revenue of about £33,000,000 more than he would have received had the revenue remained on the 1922-23 basis. In addition, he has dissipated an accumulated surplus of £7,428,574, which existed when he assumed office as Treasurer. That is the record of this high priest of economy - this man who, as a private member, was a thorn in the side of governments. Since he became Treasurer and assumed control of the public purse, he appears to have run wild. 
The Treasurer continually boasts of the reduction in taxation brought about by the Bruce-Page Government. Let us examine the figures to see whether that boast has any substantial foundation. It is true that taxation on personal incomes has been reduced, but it is equally true that during his term of office as Treasurer taxation as a whole has increased. 
I disagree with the right honorable gentleman. The people who have enjoyed the bigger incomes have indeed had the burden of taxation lessened, but the men and women on the bread line have had to take it up. 
A man receiving the basic wage can scarcely afford to ride in a tram, let alone in his own motor car. I submit the following interesting table dealing with direct and indirect taxation since 1921-22 : - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_20_4.jpg"></graphic>

That is my answer to the Treasurer's statement that the present Government has reduced taxation. While direct taxation during this period has decreased by approximately £7,000,000, indirect taxation has increased by nearly £14,000,000, a net increase of approximately £7,000,000. It would be well to consider this matter on the  per capita  basis. Taking the average taxation per head of the population, we have the same position - 
Here we see that whilst the direct taxation has been reduced by £1 lis. 3d. per head, indirect taxation has increased by £2 12s. 7d. per head, whilst both direct and indirect has increased by ls. 4d. per head. 
The attitude of  Dr.. Earle  Page toward financial matters has changed considerably during his term of office. 
I understand that his health is good, but the finances of Australia while under his control have got into a very unhealthy condition. Seeing that the Country party has been absorbed by the Nationalist party, I am not surprised at the startling changes which have taken place in the Treasurer's outlook. I remind honorable senators that the present Minister for Works and Railways, allegedly a member of a hypothetical Country party, stated according to the Melbourne  Age  of 9tb February, 192-8- 
The two parties in the composite Government were now practically the same. That is how they will go to the country, and that is how they will come back. 
A few years before that, the present Treasurer said, as recorded in  Ilansard  of 12th October, 1922- 
The electors must know, and will know as far as it lies in the power of the Country party to inform them, that the proposed reduction in taxation cannot continue unless there is a permanent reduction in the cost of government. 
I presume that the Treasurer, adopts the same attitude as the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, who, when confronted with some of his earlier statements, said " It is not what I said yesterday, it is what I said now." 
I would be the same in every way as far as my principles are concerned. A principle is something to which one should adhere staunchly. Unfortunately, some individuals accommodate their conscience to changing circumstances much the same as the chameleon changes his colour to harmonize with his environment. 
The honorable senator has had some experience in such gymnastics. 
Unhappily for the country) our expenditure has increased during the term of office of the present Government by approximately £16,500,000. In passing, I may say that I am curious as to the reason for the  volte face  of members of the Country party. On the 13th October, 1920, the Treasurer said - 
I make no complaint of the incidence of taxation. 1 do not complain of its being high because, in my view, now is the time  when  we should tax ourselves with the object of reducing our public debt. 
In 1921-22 the amount received from income tax amounted to £16,790,000, while last year the Treasurer collected £10,165,000 from the same source, a reduction of over £6,000,000. Again, I contend that the people in receipt of smaller incomes received no advantage from that reduction ; it benefited the wealthy classes exclusively. It would have been far better to continue the taxes and apply the amount collected to a reduction of the war debt. 
It is preposterous for this Government to boast that it has kept thousands of people in employment. Its policy has been to deprive the workers of employment, and it has failed lamentably to keep its promise to the electors in this respect. In his budget speech of 1924-25 the Treasurer pointed out that the Federal income tax was imposed to meet war necessities, apropos of which he said - 
These are continuing obligations, and though the war is over there are still heavy commitments for war pensions, interest, and sinking fund on the war debt. 
That statement is as true to-day as when it was uttered. That is all the more reason why our finances should be more carefully guarded. Had Germany won the war and collected reparations from us the rich man would have suffered. The rich man had more to lose if the Allies lost, and victory was more to his advantage than to any other section of the community. That being so, he should have been prepared to contribute more than he has done towards the cost of the war. Actually, he is paying less and less taxation each year. 
I come, now to our trade balance. I have in my possession a quotation from a speech made by the present Treasurer, on the 30th October, 1920, when he was a private member. The honorable gentleman stated - 
It seems to me that it is not very creditable to Australia - either on the part of the Commonwealth or the States - to be continually appealing to the Old Country for money when so in udi is needed there for the purpose of building up industries and the reconstruction of her commercial stability. 
At that time the Treasurer condemned the practice of overseas borrowing. Great Britain is in an even worse position today than, in 1920, both as regards unemployment and her industrial problems. Yet we find the Treasurer perpetuating the policy of overseas borrowing which he so strongly condemned when a private member. The following figures showing the amount of our public loans floated abroad since the present Treasurer took office indicate whether he was really sincere when he deprecated oversea borrowing : - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_21_6.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures show conclusively that during the six years of the Bruce-Page regime our borrowing overseas has increased by approximately £80,000.000. 
We receive it in goods, and that is what concerns me so greatly. Last year  Mr. M.  Sayre, a leading New York banker, when speaking on Australian loans, said - 
It seems to me that Australia is borrowing too much money for current expenses. 
Another recognized financial authority,  Sir S.  Raws, when addressing a meeting at the Rotary Club in February, 1928, declared - 
Oversea, borrowings by the Government are primarily responsible for the Australian adverse trade balance, and the financial depression which is affecting commerce and industry. 
That statement can be well understood when we read it in conjunction with the following one by  Mr. Winston  Churchill, Chancellor of the Exchequer in Great Britain, who said - 
I have always been led to believe that loans must leave the country in the form of goods. 
That, I contend, is one of the greatest contributing factors towards our existing unemployment. 
I merely quoted the statement of the Treasurer, who then condemned the policy of overseas borrowing, but who has since borrowed £80,000,000 more than his predecessors. 
I remind the honorable senator that, when the toscin of war sounded and we were in financial difficulties, over £400,000,000 was raised in Australia. Here is a statement of our overseas trade since 1923-24: - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures disclose that we have experienced an adverse trade balance aggregating £32,500,000 since the present Treasurer has been in office. 
Another feature of the budget that is worthy of attention is our loan expenditure. One of the complaints of financial critics is that the Commonwealth Government is spending too much loan money on unreproductive works. That state of affairs should not be allowed to continue. The Treasurer himself, as a private member, condemned the idea of spending loan money on unreproductive work, yet I find that in 1921-22 our expenditure from loan money on works, &amp;c, was £5,246,000, whereas last year it was £6,888,000, an increase of £1,642,000. Each year the expenditure from loan funds on works has increased while expenditure out of revenue on works has decreased, as the following figures will show :  - 

<graphic href="119332192809056_22_1.jpg"></graphic>

Of course it is obvious that the less the Government spends out of revenue on new works the more money it will have to spend on other things and the better surplus it will show. While this Government has been in office, nearly every year it has spent approximately £2,000,000 less out of revenue than was spent in 1921-22. Reduced to simple language it means that the Government has borrowed to show its surplus. 
While the Labour Government was in power all those facilities were provided out of revenue. But even with this glaring anomaly we find the Treasurerwith a deficit of £7,500,000 for the last financial year. It is not to be wondered at that he is called a spendthrift, and that we are in such a financial muddle to-day.  (Extension of time granted.) 
I have completed my review of the budget, but there are one or two other matters I wish to mention. The Government has definitely decided to go to the country, and on the 17th November next will appeal to the people for a renewal of power. There is every indication that it will resort to somewhat similar tactics to those it employed three years ago, when by false pretences and misleading statements it secured the suffrages of the people. On that occasion the Prime Minister, assisted by his lieutenant, the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, put forward the red bogey. He saw red, talked red and dreamt red. So to speak he played a game of political billiards and "got in off the red." He is now starting another game of political billiards, and will again endeavour to "get in off the red." At the last election he said that the paramount issue before the people was the maintenance of law and order and the supremacy of constitutional government. Having gained a majority in both Houses, having appealed successfully to the people for power to crush the extremists, the communists, the revolutionists, who he declared were a danger to the country, he passed a Crimes Bill, but that measure has not been of any avail. He said that the people stood on the edge of a volcano which at any 'moment might belch over them its lava of red revolution, that there were in our midst men who were a source of danger to Australia, and that these men would have to be deported and their illegal organizations dealt with. Yet not one man has been deported; not one illegal association has been dealt with. Unless the Government has been false to the pledges it made to the electors, it is clear that no one has been a danger to Australia and that there have been no illegal organizations in existence in Australia. Yet Ministers, I presume, will go to the country again on a similar election cry. When introducing the Crimes Bill in the Senate,  Senator Sir George  Pearce said - 
He would . be a bold man who would say that there is no necessity to take legislative action with regard to unlawful associations. 
He went on to say that there were associations that declared themselves to be against law and order and against constituted society and proclaimed their intention to wreck and change existing society. In his concluding remarks the right honorable gentleman said that the Government did not intend to place the Crimes Bill on the statute-book, and allow it to remain there unused. The Ministry had told the electors that the communist party was one of the associations to which they referred, and that the methods of communism were revolutionary. Addressing a meeting at Loch in Victoria, the Prime Minister said - 
I am determined to see that these false doctrines which can only lead to ruin, shall not be allowed to permeate our people further. It is for mc to see that the activities of these few men are definitely stopped. 
But according to an answer given to me by the Leader of the Senate, the Government has done nothing in that regard. 
The Crimes Bill which was drafted and introduced to enable these associations to be dealt with and suppressed, gave the Government unlimited and autocratic powers. The Attorney-General was given the sole right to say whether a person convicted under the act should be deported. But years have elapsed and we are still in the same position to-day. On the 30th August last I asked - 
Have any deportations been made under the Crimes Act? 
Have any organizations been disbanded under the Crimes Act? 
The answer was - 
When speaking of national insurance, the Prime Minister said - 
One of the main causes of industrial unrest in Australia is the ever-present dread that haunts the worker of the misery that will be brought upon his dependents in the event of sickness, unemployment and old agc. 
He further said it was the desire of  his Government that the misery and destitution that followed in the wake of unemployment should be prevented, and that it was his intention to remove that dread by legislation. The people of Australia were led to believe that this Government would provide a system of national insurance against unemployment. The introduction of a measure to give effect to its promise in the dying hours of a parliament is not a fulfilment of its pledge. We have yet to learn that the National Insurance Bill, which we have been informed will be introduced before Parliament prorogues, will contain provision against unemployment. The Prime Minister further stated - 
His Government recognized its duty in this regard, and as soon as the further report on unemployment is received the Government will legislate on such lines as will enable the worker to be insured against this most deadly cause of his anxiety and unrest. 
The commission that was appointed in 1923 presented its final report in March, 1927, or fifteen months after the Government was returned to power. The Government has, however, taken no steps whatever to fulfil its promise to pass the necessary legislation, despite the fact that the report has been in its possession for eighteen months. If this promise had been fulfilled a great deal of the destitution and misery which follows unemployment would have been avoided. 
The Minister has stated that the people of Australia were not promised a system of child endowment. 
When appealing to the people in 1925 the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of a child endowment scheme, and stated that this question was one of vital importance. He said that a man with a family was the greatest asset to the community, and that it was essential and desirable that the greatest encouragement and assistance should be given to such men. With that statement we all agree. Our children should be so reared and trained as to be well fitted to carry on the burdens of life, and so be able to assume the responsibilities of citizenship. The Prime Minister, as I have said, stated in his policy speech that the question of child endowment was of vital importance. 
Although the Prime Minister promised to. refer the subject of child endowment to Commonwealth and ' State Arbitration Court judges, he has not done so. 
He said that child endowment could not be adopted by the State governments individually without dislocating interstate trade and commerce, and that the matter would have to be considered on a national basis. Although the Prime Minister said that child endowment was a vital question, and that a man with a large family was an asset to the Commonwealth, the Government of which he is the leader has not made any effort to give effect to his promise. 
It is true that the subject was discussed at a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers, but at that gathering the Prime Minister said it was a matter for the States and not the Commonwealth. The right honorable gentleman further stated that, under such a system, industry could not carry on profitably on the existing basis and wages would have to be adjusted. 
In a full page advertisement in a Sydnew newspaper these words appeared: " You and yours are safe under a National Government which ' provides for motherhood endowment." Was not that a definite promise? That statement has never been refuted. In another portion of the same publication the following appeared - 
Australian womanhood. Reasons why you must vote Nationalist - because I will legislate to protect the mothers of our race through motherhood endowment. 
Notwithstanding that definite promise nothing has been done. In the opening remarks of his policy speech of 1925 the Prime Minister said that he would not make elaborate promises in order to get different sections of the community to support him. Indeed, he strongly deprecated the practice of political parties endeavouring to outbid each other for the people's favour, stating that such promises appealed to the cupidity and the lowest instincts of the community. Let me quote his exact words - 
That course I refuse to follow. The times are too critical. For any national leader to-day todeceive the people by promises which, either for financial or constitutional reasons, he could never redeem, would constitute a betrayal of the obligations and duties resting upon him which would never be forgiven. 
I say definitely that the people of Australia were led by the Prime Minister's statement to believe that, if returned to power, he would introduce a scheme of child endowment. The Prime Minister has betrayed his trust as anational leader. When he made that statement no mention was made of constitutional orfinancial limitations. It was only when he met the State Premiers in conference that he turned a political somersault. After the election the Prime Minister stated that any scheme of child endowment would have to be introduced by the States, because the Commonwealth could not finance the scheme. If, with its annual surpluses, the Commonwealth could not finance such a scheme, how could the States be expected to do so when, even now, they are at their wits' ends to balance their ledgers?  Mr. Bruce  also said that industry could not afford to pay for an endowment scheme, and suggested an adjustment of wages to provide the necessary funds.  His  proposal was that the men on the basic wage should bear the cost of the scheme. In this connexion I wish to emphasize that any system of child endowment must be kept entirely separate from the basic wage; there must be no confounding- of the two things. Industry must pay its proportion of the cost, and the general community the rest. More than rights and privileges, for the preservation of which it is said that the recent war was fought, are involved; there are also the maintenance of proper living conditions, and our duty to our children. All political parties in Australia agree that a scheme of child endowment is essential. Indeed, they all advocated it during the last election campaign. Had the Labour party been returned to power, a scheme of child endowment would now be in operation; but the present Government has made no genuine effort in that direction. 
The State Premiers agreed to the question being referred to a royal commission. I am, however, not concerned so much with the views of  Mr. McCormack  as with the broken pledges of the Prime Minister. Before the election he said that child endowment was a matter for the Commonwealth, but after his return to power he said that it was a matter for the States, and that as industry could not bear the expense, the wage-earners would have to shoulder the burden. 
Whenever the subject of national defence is mentioned in this chamber, honorable senators opposite charge the Labour party with having no defence policy. T shall show not only that this party has always had a defence policy, but also that its policy is sound. 
That is not so. The Labour party, hating war with an intense hatred because of the suffering and misery it causes, has always striven for peace, and advocated the adjustment of international disputes by peaceful methods. In that view it does not stand alone, for in a statement made in London recently,  Sir Ian  Hamilton said " Once I loved war; now I want to stop it." The policy of the Labour party in international affairs has been justified by recent events in Paris, where the representatives of the great powers assembled to sign a pact for the outlawry of war. America's great  President,  George Washington, discussing the militia, once said - 
If I were called upon to declare on oath whether the militia had been the most serviceable or hurtful upon the whole, I would subscribe to the latter. 
Coming to more recent times, Lord Beading, speaking in the House of Commons, said - 
 For the first time the Powers were asked to agree with the United States of America, that in future every dispute, whatever its origin and implication and consequences, should bo settled by pacific means by some tribunal to be agreed upon. 
That has been Labour's attitude throughout. I express the hope that what was accomplished recently in Paris is but the forerunner of greater achievements towards universal peace. Between the signing of the armistice in November, 1918, and June, 1919, Australia spent about £3,000,000 on defence. Since June, 1919, a further sum of approximately £55,000,000 has been expended for defence purposes, making a total of about £58,000,000 since the cessation of hostilities. One might reasonably expect that Australia would have something to show for that huge expenditure, but that is not the case, for the defences of Australia to-day are in a worse condition than ever before. I make that statement on the authority of  Sir John  Monash and others in a position to speak with authority. 
Speaking a little over a year ago,  Sir John  Monash summed up the position when he said "We are less prepared for war to-day than we were in  1914." 
All we have is a couple of cruisers and a number of submarines. The report of  Sir Harry  Chauvel, Inspector-General of the military forces, bears out my statement that we have very little to show for the vast expenditure for defence purposes. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

This Government stands condemned for its incapable handling of the finances of Australia, for its reckless borrowing and its extravagant spending policy. Last year it proposed to raise  £62,725,000,  and this year it budgets to raise  £63,310,000.  Actually it collected last year  £1,441,000  more than was estimated. It was estimated that the Post Office would show a surplus, which hope has not been realized. It was also estimated that the Commonwealth railways would show a shortage of  £227,000,  whereas the actual deficit was  £438,000.  The sooner that the finances of Australia are stabilized the better. The sooner that we have as Treasurer a man with a better idea of controlling the public purse than the present occupant of the office, the sooner will Australia journey along the road of progress. The time is not far distant when the Government, its supporters, and those in opposition will have to render an account of their stewardship; and I am confident that the people will then decide in favour of a party that can establish more effective control over the finances and destiny of this country than is evidenced by the present Government. 
 I take it that although many of us hold certain differences of opinion we believe unanimously that a swift, accurate and cheap means of communication throughout the British Empire will tend to assist Empire trade and migration, and consolidate our great empire. Until quite recently the only way in which we could have swift and accurate communication between countries separated by oceans was by cable. For many years the cable systems of the world were in the hands of private companies which held an absolute monopoly, because in every case where these lines traversed the same route they entered into an agreement amongst themselves that they would not compete unnecessarily one with the other. They used that monopoly ruthlessly. They had but one object : to wring as much as possible out of their customers in order to make their dividends as large as possible. It is known to all of us that that monopoly was used so ruthlessly that at last the business people protested. Those who protested were not bolsheviks, or even associated with the Labour movement, but hard-hearted business men. They made repeated requests that the governments of their countries should break up the cable monopoly, but it was a long time before the British Government acquiesced in the proposal, apparently because it had more thought for the dividends of capitalism than for the welfare of the Empire.  Sir Joseph  Cook, when a private member of the House of Representatives, said - 
I have repeatedly pointed out that we should never have had the Pacific Cable but for the way we were treated by the Eastern Extension Company. They would make no concessions to us, but the moment arrangements were completed for the construction of the Pacific Cable, the Eastern Cable Company rushed in, and by a bribe - for that is what it amounted to - in the shape nf reduced rates, they obtained concessions that have enabled them to relegate the Pacific cable to the background. It was no part of our duty to put this weapon into the hands of our opponents to enable them to flog us as they are now doing. I believe that all the great cables, such as the Pacific cable, should be owned by the governments interested. However patriotic and lenient a company may be, we should not allow it to hold us at its mercy. 
As the outcome of a good deal of agitation, the Pacific Cable Board came into existence, and rates were slightly reduced. Owing to the fact that it was necessary for a message from Australia via the Pacific to travel over a privatelyowned telegraph line in Canada, and a privately-owned Atlantic cable, the Pacific Cable Board was very seriously handicapped. Now these handicaps have been removed to some extent, and the Pacific Cable has been more able to stand - alongside the other cable companies. %&gt; 
In the last few years wireless has come into the arena, and is not merely challenging the supremacy of the cable companies, but jeopardizing their very existence. In the other House the PostmasterGeneral recently made this statement, which is curious, emanating as it does from the Government - 
We have a cable system which operates between different places, and if we take the value of those cables operating to Australia we find that it amounts to £12,000,000 of money. Who is going to operate a £12,000,000 machine when they can get a £120,000 machine which will give the same service? 
The cable companies, realizing the strength of the competition of the wireless companies, moved hell and earth in order to endeavour to come to an agreement with the wireless company. To be in a better position to do so the companies bought up a large number of shares in the Marconi and wireless companies in order to secure some say in their control. I do not wish this evening to object to the amalgamation of private companies in the ordinary way, as that is their own concern. But in this case a conference was held between the wireless and cable companies, at which the British and Australian Governments were represented, and the cable companies expressed a desire to lease from the British Government its rights in respect of beam, wireless in Great Britain. That completely altered the position. We in Australia are not justified in dictating a policy to Great Britain, and if that Government is prepared to hand over to the merger the beam service, we cannot question its action. But as a citizen of the British Empire, I should regret the action. It may lead to a proposal that Australia should hand over its control of the beam service to the merger. Due to the genius and foresight, of the Eight Honorable W. M. Hughes, the Australian Government has 501,000 shares in the beam service - a controlling interest - and Parliament should certainly have a voice if the handing over of that interest to the merger is contemplated. I shall read an article from the  Sydney Sun  which covers the ground far more ably than I can do. It says - 
When the public reads a cabled despatch to the effect that a conference' has been arranged between the Eastern Cable Company and Marconi for the purpose of making a report for submission to the two boards ' regarding a possible arrangement for the protection of their mutual interests," the full significance of the proposal may not at first strike home. Even when it is observed that Marconi shares have risen on the Stock Exchange, the public may be but mildly interested. Yet these things affect the Australian people directly and adversely in a substantial measure. Even' the Postmaster-General, "although impressed by the rise in Marconi shares," is inclined to scepticism regarding the rumoured merger between the two companies, which practically control communication with the world from and to Australia. He has not been advised. Beyond a passing suggestion that in a matter of such immense importance, affecting so closely his department,  Mr. Gibson  should become advised as soon as possible, it is not necessary to dwell on that part of it. Millions of pounds have been spent by the Eastern Telegraph Company and allied corporations in laying cables, and upon that capital excellent dividends have been made. When the possibility of world-wireless was considered only a few years ago, the company was not perturbed. Wireless, with its lack of secrecy, and its uncertainty, would not interfere with the cable traffic - that was the comfortable opinion. Now that wireless has arrived, and it is possible to build a transmitting and receiving station which will cover much of the globe for as many hundreds of thousands of pounds as it takes millions to lay a cable across one ocean, the danger to the company which has sunk so much capital, literally in the sea, is that a cheaper means of communication may render that capital in part useless. While it is possible to sympathize with the point of view of the shareholders and directors of the cable company, there is another and larger point pf view - that of the people of Australia. It may be to their misfortune that, a number of investors shall lose part or all of their capital because science has moved on, but such accidents happen every day. The cable company seeks, therefore, to do what many  other companies have done, to buy in its competitor and acquire a monopoly which enables it, in the gentle language of commerce, to arrange " for the protection of mutual interests." It is an old trade device for keeping up prices. It will be astounding if the British and Australian Governments, both interested as they are in wireless communication, stand quietly by while an amalgamation so adverse to their interests is proposed and completed. A scientific discovery instead of being used for the benefit of mankind, may be used to bolster up old interests and capital. If the history of the mismanagement of wireless by the 'Marconi Company be now completed by a characteristic action, which will hamper communication all over the world - and particularly in Australia - the people will call governments to account. It is certainly time that the governments of the dominions and of Britain took steps to decide whether the people's interests or the interests of a few shareholders in two companies, shall be the determining factor in the future of wireless. 
I think that article puts the case very clearly. The question is whether we ought to consider chiefly the interests of the cable companies or those of the community in general. If we brought the price of wireless messages down to one penny a word, as no. doubt we could do, and thus place this means of communication within the reach of the ordinary householder we are told that it would mean the scrapping of the cables. I believe that I am correct in saying that the cable companies have threatened to go out of business - I do not think they would do so - if wireless competes with them, as they describe it, unfairly, by "accepting messages at Id. a word, a rato which would pay. 
During the recess I read a very interesting article by  Sir Godfrey  Clark who was for many years in charge of Posts and Telegraphs in India. The article was reprinted in the  Sun  from the  London Times.  It must have beeu written twelve months before the Beam service was able to do what it is doing at the present moment. The writer pointed out that there were, people who argued that if wireless were to be allowed to have full fling the cables would have to go, but he said that in certain circumstances the cables could still compete with wireless in some parts of the world. The writer of the article contended that both cables and wireless should work side by side, but that the cables must not be allowed to prevent wireless from doing its full work, because if wireless were allowed to do its best it could send 100 words for 10s. or about 11/4d. a word. He claimed that if the cost of messages could be reduced to a price approximating11/4d. a word there would be such a tremendous traffic throughout the Empire that there would not be enough cables and wireless services to carry it. Thus it does not necessarily follow that cables will have to go even if wireless is allowed to do its very best. 
The cable companies tell us that they will have to go and that if the cables are scrapped it will be a very serious thing for the Empire in time of war. I think the real fear is that the dividends of the shareholders in cable companies will have to go. Obviously it would not be a good election cry for a conservative government in Great Britain or a Nationalist Government in Australia to raise, that the cables must be kept going because of the dividends of the snareholders of the cable companies. It is, therefore, necessary to get another cry, and that cry is that the Empire will be in danger in time of war if the cables are scrapped because wireless is not secret. Marconi says that wireless is secret but the cable companies say that it is not. In order, therefore, that secrecy may be observed in time of war we are told that the cables must be retained ! It is amusing to read the objections that are always raised when a reform is advocated. For a number of years it was thought necessary that commissions in the British army must be obtained by purchase, and when some people advocated that it would be better to allow people to earn their commissions by their merits so much opposition was raised that even the House of Lords threw out  Mr. Gladstone's  bill to abolish the practice of buying commissions.  Mr. Gladstone  had subsequently to bring about the reform on the warrant of Queen Victoria. On that occasion so eminent a man as  Sir Walter  Scott asserted that it would be a terrible tiling to do away with the buying of commissions; that the British constitution would not stand the strain and that the very safety of the Empire depended on the purchase of commissions. When opals began to compete with diamonds the people interested in the latter started the cry that it was unlucky to wear opals. There are people to-day who still think that it is unlucky to wear opals. I suppose that there are quite a number of people who' on being asked who introduced penny postage into England would reply : " Rowland Hill." As a matter of fact in the reign . of Charles II., practically 200 years before the time of  Sir Rowland  Hill, private enterprise was carrying letters in London at1d. each. It was a successful venture but vested interests was up in arms against it and one of the arguments used in opposition to it was that if letters could be carried at1d. each the Jesuits would more easily be able to issue propaganda for their religion. 
The business men of London disregarded that cry, and had the advantage of penny postage until vested interests successfully interfered. The Duke of York, who was a brother of - Charles II., received a pension from the Postal Department, and as the reduced rate affected his pension, it was discontinued, and the British people had to wait 200 years before they were again able to derive the benefit of penny postage. I am always sceptical when I hear cries of the Empire being at stake owing to any interference with the cable or any other system of communication. 
Certainly not. I am only giving some illustrations of the absurd nature of the objections raised to certain reforms. 
That may be so; but at the same time I have my doubts concerning the suggestion that the retention of the cable system is absolutely essential in the interests of the Empire. 
It all depends upon the aspect from which it is viewed. E am of course strongly in favour of the interests of the Empire being safeguarded in every way; but I object to the statements that have been made that the retention of the cable system is essential in the Empire's interests when those who make such statements are more concerned with the dividends of the cable companies. I agree with the utterances of a great ambassador who once said that if rapid and cheap communication is provided we shall have greater cordiality between nations. If there is every facility for cheap communication, it will naturally lead to more cordial relations, which must, of course, reduce to a minimum the possibility of international disputes. The inference to be drawn from the utterances of some interested persons is that while high cable rates are maintained, the security of the Empire is assured; but that with their disappearance the British Empire, like many great empires of the past, will totter and fall, and be but as the memory of a mighty pageant. When reading the other day of the death at Dubbo of a young immigrant, who had no relations in Australia, but a widowed mother and sister in England, I could not help feeling what a blessing it would have been if that mother had been able to communicate by wireless with those who had been in close touch with her deceased son, at the low rate I have suggested. But the introduction of Id. a word messages would endanger the Empire, whereas a charge of ls. lOd. a word' ensures its safety! 
Vested interests are already at work. 
And they won. Have honorable senators considered the arguments used by those who were on the winning side? One of their slogans was " Liberty is at stake ". Over twenty years ago the late  Sir Henniker  Heaton advocated cheap communication throughout the Empire, and when being banquetted  prior to leaving for a visit to South America, suggested in the course of a speech, a rate of Id. a word for cable and telegraphic messages. A very distinguished person who was present at that gathering said to  Sir Henniker  Heaton "Your case is unanswerable; but there is one difficulty which is insurmountable and that is vested interests." I sometimes wonder whether that was the reason why the PostmasterGeneral of Australia, when asked to institute Id. a word wireless system, said that' it was impracticable. 
As I have said, the introduction of cheap wireless communication would tend to consolidate the Empire, and be largely instrumental in the prevention of war.  Sir Herbert  Samuel, a very distinguished and able Postmaster-General in Great Britain, when speaking at a dinner of the Pilgrims' Society - a society consisting of 
Americans and Englishmen who hold an annual dinner alternately in London and New York - said that his idea was to bring the nations closer together. He stated that the American people and the British people were united by a common language, common laws and by religion. He also said that the postal service was a means of bringing the two nations closer together. This remark caused some laughter; but he supported it by saying that if there was an absence of cable communication and of interchange . of letters, lettercards, postcards and magazines, cordial relations would not last very long between the nations. With that I agree. A deputation comprising a number of Great Britain's leading journalists waited upon  Mr. Asquith  when he was Prime Minister of Great Britain after the Boer War and before the Great War, and  Mr.  Moberley  Bell, the manager of the London  Times,  speaking on behalf of that journal, said, in pleading for cheaper communication, that before the Boer War he sent a cable in code to  Mr. Cecil  Rhodes, but unfortunately it was not decoded satisfactorily. Later he sent a letter confirming the cable. Some time after the Boer War he met  Mr. Cecil  Rhodes, who told him that if the cable could have been properly decoded, in all probability the position in regard to the Boer War, which cost Great Britain many millions of pounds, as well as a large number of valuable lives, might have been different. He did not say that  Mr. Cecil  Rhodes told him that the war would actually have been avoided; but that the position would have been very different. He would have sent the cable in plain language if the rate of Id. a word had been in operation.  Sir Henniker  Heaton on one occasion said that be wished the telegraph system to be used a great deal more than it was, and that he had been told that in time of war the telegraph lines might be cut. There are, of course, he said, long periods in which such a service could be effectively utilized. He also said " Wireless is coming, and will be able to do the work." 
Whenever we speak of the cable companies being concerned in the interests of the Empire, we naturally wish to consider the patriotism which they have displayed in times of peace. Prior to the Great War - I do not know what the conditions are now- if one wanted to send a message from London to India, it cost 2s. a word for traversing a distance of 6,000 miles .by cable. Cable messages could, however, be . sent to the Continent and then, by using a land line of 3,700 miles, to India. The cost in Australia to-day of constructing a land line is about £70 a mile, but in those days I suppose a similar line could be erected on the Continent for from £20 to £30 a mile. The cost of sending .a message from London to India over this line of only 3,700 miles was, however, 2s. a word, the same as the charge for sending a message over 6,000 miles of cable costing £200 a mile, the reason being that the Eastern Extension Telegraph Company also had a controlling interest in the land line. They maintained a charge of 2s. a word in order that there should be no competition with the cables. A Britisher in London wishing to do business with a fellow Britisher in India had to pay 2s. a word whereas he could send a message from London to Vladivostock, in Siberia, a distance of 7,000 miles, for 6£d. a word. That is an example of the patriotism of the cable companies. Were it not so tragic, the Government's treatment of the wireless and cable companies would be amusing. 
So far I have been unable to get the information I desire regarding the profits made by the wireless company. The Minister said that, having handed over the control of wireless communication to a private company, the Government would not interfere with the directors, and that we shall have to look to  Senator Millen  and  Mr. Hughes  to safeguard our interests. I should like to know whether the Government interfered in connexion with the charge for messages to Canada. It was consulted, we are told, and it would be interesting to know whether there was . any stipulation that the rate should not be brought below a certain amount per word or whether it should be raised. 
If the policy of the Government is to retain both the wireless and the cable, it seems foolish, from that  point of view, to allow the wireless company to charge even. 10 per cent, less than the cable companies, because the lower rate will attract the business. Even now the Beam wireless is competing more than satisfactorily with the cables. The Beam system has not yet been in operation eighteen months, yet of 14,000,000 words sent between England and Australia it has transmitted 8,000,000 words. By permitting the wireless company to charge 10 per cent, less than the cable rates, the Government is condemning the cable companies to a lingering death. So long as the charges remain what they are now, neither the wireless nor the cable will attract business from ordinary citizens, but if the price per word of wireless messages is reduced there will be a greater volume of business, of which the Government will reap' the advantage. We should know whether the wireless company has a free hand in the matter of price. If the position were reversed, the Eastern Extension Cable Company would not consider the interests of its competitor. 
I enter my emphatic protest against any attempt to hand over the Beam system to the merger. In a long discussion in the House of Commons in relation to this matter,  Mr. Baker,  the member for East Bristol, in an impassioned speech, objected to handing over our means of communication to a private company.  Sir Hamar  Greenwood, who in the Coalition Government was Secretary for Ireland, said during the debate - 
The great experiment of State-owned cables and beam system has been excellent, but it was time it was transferred to private enterprise. 
He concluded his speech by saying that the time was opportune to make a good bargain on a rising market. What an idea!  Mr. President,  the great object of companies is to earn large profits, and to pay their shareholders huge dividends; but the policy of maintaining a profitable monopoly is not always compatible with great public needs. In the present case, the progress of the Empire and the requirements of the British people have far outstripped the narrow policy which best suits private companies. 
I have listened with great interest to the speech of  Senator Thomas,  who has dealt with a fresh subject in a thorough and interesting manner. He has given us some food for thought. That wireless messages should be sent for a Id. a word may at this stage of wireless development appear rather fantastic, but in the years that have gone other proposals, no less idealistic, have been realized in time. It may be that another four or five years will see the realization of  Senator Thomas'  dream. If so, he will then get the credit that is his due. 
Unfortunately, all honorable senators do not approach the consideration of the budget in the right spirit. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  was characteristic of the hourorable senator. He condemned the budget, the Treasurer, as well as the Government, its friends and supporters. He could see nothing but ruin before this country unless there was a change of government, and he and his associates were placed in control of the destiny of this fair land. The consideration of the nation's balance-sheet should be above party considerations. 
For the sake of illustration, I shall probably be compelled during this speech to refer to the way in which various Labour governments have handled the finances of the country. 
It should be ; but, unfortunately, the speech of the Leader of the Opposition has placed the discussion on another plane. The statements made by him must be answered. I propose to refer to one or two of them. 
When considering this budget we should bear in mind the extraordinary circumstances in which the Treasurer finds himself. The honorable gentleman, before he can give his attention to finding money for the pressing problems of our national life, such as defence and development, must first make provision for certain statutory and other obligations. These  absorb such, a considerable portion of our total revenues that the Treasurer has left at his disposal but a comparatively insignificant amount. It is' easy to criticize and attack a Treasurer. Apparently every honorable senator imagines that he is a potential Treasurer, equipped with the necessary wisdom to control the financial destinies of the country.  Senator Needham  has intimated that he could do the job better than the present Treasurer, but he did not explain how he would do . it. I thought that, speaking as he did on behalf of the Labour party of Australia, the honorable senator would indicate how Labour would initiate reforms in the existing system. 
No doubt  Senator Needham  is keeping the informa-tion  a secret until after the election; but if its publicity is contingent upon his attaining ministerial power, I am afraid that it will remain a secret for evermore. All who are fair-minded will admit that the Treasurer has a very difficult task to perform, a task that was particularly difficult during the year that is just closed. There has been a big falling off in revenue, principally in customs receipts. 
That is so. The Treasurer is not to blame for that, as it is the result of the considered judgment of this party. Evidently it also has the approval of the Labour party, because that party does not favour the collection of heavy revenue through the customs. Honorable senators opposite even consider that too much revenue is now being collected through the customs. Apparently it is impossible to please the party opposite. Had there been a big increase in customs revenue we should have been told that the duties were too low, and that it was most improper to allow overseas goods to come in so freely. They cannot have it both ways. Either our policy of protection, with its consequent falling off of customs revenue, is a good thing or it is not. If it is a bad thing, as one is led to believe by the speech of  Senator Needham,  why does not the honorable senator's party pluck up sufficient courage to declare that they do not favour it, and fight the forthcoming elections on that issue. 
If they take either action how will they finance the affairs of this country? By the imposition of direct taxation? 

 Senator Needham told us that this Government is extravagant. I assume from that that if a Labour government came into office its first economy would be to reduce our public expenditure, no doubt the first big reduction being in connexion with defence. My belief is that we are not spending sufficient on defence in Australia. 
A great deal, in-, deed. Had the party that the honorable senator represents had its way we should not be so nearly advanced as we are today. We certainly have the nucleus of an effective fleet, which would not have been the case had our ships been built at Cockatoo Island. We know that the Labour party has discarded its old defence plank, but it is not prepared to tell the people of Australia exactly where it stands in that regard. Would  Senator Needham  reduce the amount expended to assist industry generally? Does the honorable senator contend that that money has not been wisely spent? Would he reduce the amount that the Commonwealth is finding to assist the States? I do not believe that he would. The honorable senator claimed that Western Australia is not receiving enough assistance. No doubt if he had his way - that is before the elections take place - he would not limit the amount given to the States, but that would be only a temporary expedient. Would the honorable senator reduce expenditure on the constructional work that this Government is undertaking throughout Australia? Would he dare to tell the trade unions that, if his party came into office, he would reduce the vote for postal and other construction works, and throw hundreds, and, perhaps, thousands of men out of employment? He would not have the courage to do so. Therefore, it is idle for him to attack the Treasurer and the Government, and say that they are doing wrong in spending far greater sums of money than the condition of affairs in Australia warrants. For the purpo.se of saving money would the honorable senator advocate reductions in the Civil Service, reductions in pensions, or reduced assistance to the primary producers? 1 do not believe that he would be in favour of a reduction in any of these directions. But, when we consider these matters in relation to the speech which has just been  delivered by the honorable gentleman, we see just how little there is behind the high-sounding words he uttered, and how empty were the criticisms he directed at the Treasurer and the party behind ihe Government. 
Of course he did, and I shall have quite a lot to say about what has been done by his friends who, in the various States, have had the opportunity to do what he would be prepared to do in the Commonwealth, and quite a lot to say about the result of their efforts on the various States. 
I have referred to the headings under which the Commonwealth Government has been committed to expenditure in the budget now before us. There is very little room for the suggestion that expenditures have been too heavy under those headings. A great expenditure is involved in paying interest on borrowed money and in other directions that could be mentioned; but the fact remains that, despite all he said,  Senator Needham  made not one suggestion as to where he or his party would be able to reduce expenditure. In spite of his very violent criticism of the Treasurer as to the amount of money spent last year, the honorable senator said that he was opposed to the reductions that had been made in the income tax. He said that we lost revenue by those reductions, and that the financial position of the Commonwealth would have been different if these reductions had not been made. Will the honorable senator be honest enough to tell us that, during the coming campaign, his party will advocate an increased income tax for the Commonwealth, and that, if his party is returned to power, there will be an immediate heavy increase in the rate of the tax? Such honesty would be magnificent, hut the honorable senator is not foolish enough to tell us that he would advocate an increase in the income tax. While telling us that the income tax should not have been reduced, he would rather go before the electors and say, "Look what this wretched Government is doing. It is imposing all this taxation." While complaining that the present Government is getting in taxation more than any other government, he says that taxation should not have been reduced to the extent to which it has been reduced. Let me remind the honorable senator that the income tax has been reduced, not by the Government on its own authority, but by the authority of both Houses of Parliament. A great majority in both chambers agreed that the time had come when not merely because the revenue was not required - we can always find something to do with the revenue we receive - but for other reasons of policy, it was well that the income tax should be reduced. It was felt that the imposition of a heavy income tax meant that we were taking out of industry money that should remain in it, and that it was far. better to leave in the pockets of the men who were engaged in industry as much money as possible, so that they ' might extend their enterprises and thus enhance the wealth of the community and make Australia a better place to live in. That course, which was followed by -Parliament as a matter of definite policy, was endorsed by a great majority of the people of Australia, and certainly by almost the whole of the press of Australia. Yet  Senator Needham  tells us that we should not have reduced the income tax. I do not remember  Senator Needham  making any particularly strong protest against the action of the Government when the bill to reduce the tax was before this chamber. I cannot remember any herculean fight put up by him. At any rate, the fight, if any, he did put up was not worth remembering. I believe that I should have remembered it if he had fought against the proposal with half the zeal and earnestness that he has shown in opposing other proposals. 
The honorable senator ought to answer the question - Will Labour, if it comes into office increase again the income tax which this Government has decreased ? But before he answers that question I want him to ask himself who pays taxation. The man who pays income tax is not the man who runs a big business. The capitalist, as the honorable senator's friends describe him, is merely an agent for the collection and payment of the tax. The man who pays is the consumer, and as the workers of any country constitute the great majority of the consumers, it is the workers who pay practically the greater part of the taxation levied by the Government of any country.  Senator Needham  thus claims that the burden upon the shoulders of the workers should be increased, and that the Government was wrong when it decreased the income tax. 
Inferentially, the honorable senator said that the burden of taxation should be increased because it was wrong to decrease it. 
I thought that when the honorable senator had time to reflect he would be sorry for what he said. In fact, I think he is already extremely sorry, and when he has another opportunity to speak on the financial proposals of the Government he will tell us that he did not mean what he said in his speech this afternoon. 
The honorable senator waxed very indignant about the policy of borrowing overseas, and he quoted figures to support his argument that all our borrowings from overseas came into Australia as imports. I hope I am not misquoting the honorable senator. 
Even with the substitution of the word "major" the statement made by the honorable senator is quite wrong. Most of the borrowing by the Treasurer during the past year has been for the redemption of existing loans, either on behalf of the Commonwealth or on behalf of the States. 
If I keep on, we shall know exactly what  Senator Needham  did mean. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator must withdraw that statement. 
Order! 
The honorable senator must not make a personal reflection on another honorable senator. 
The honorable senator must make his objection in accordance with the Standing Orders. 
The honorable senator has already attacked the Government . for referring to what he has called the red issue at the elections. He has accused the Government - I think he used the words - of telling untruths to the electors and of deliberately misleading them. He urged that what we said about the red issue was entirely unjustified, and that there was no reason for it - in fact that there was no such thing as a red menace in Australia to- day. It is strange, but nevertheless true, t hat in this connexion the honorable senator finds himself out of step with a very considerable section of his own party.  There is to-day from one end of this country to the other a growing realiza- tion on the part of all men who really understand the position that this menace is a thing which does exist and must be met. Will  Senator Needham  tell his colleague,  Senator Barnes,  general  president  of the Australian Workers Union, that there is no red menace in Australia to-day? Will he say that the Australian Workers Union is not fighting for its continued existence against that very menace ? When the executive of the Australian Workers Union - the greatest labour organization in the Commonwealth - is compelled to take the drastic steps it has to effectively fight this insidious influence which is working into their organization and tending to destroy it, the Leader of the Opposition should realize the seriousness of the situation. Would  Senator Needham  say to the Premier of Queensland, another Labour colleague of his, that there is no red menace in that State? Would he deny that there is in South Australia and in other States certain individuals who hold such extreme views that they are a danger not only to Labour organizations, but also to Australia? Does he say that there is nothing in this menace? Of course there is. The statements made by the members of this party during the last election campaign and which are being made to-day are fully borne out by facts. There are good Labour men, it is true, who see the position just as clearly as we do, and, to their credit, have pointed out to the people the danger confronting them. 
The Leader of the Opposition made a similar statement a few months ago when I submitted a motion to the Senate in relation to the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Congress. The honorable senator even went further and credited the Labour party with having originated the idea of a Pan-Pacific Congress. He also said that I was wrong in bringing the matter before the Senate, and that I did so in order to make an unjustifiable attack upon the Labour party. Since that time the people of this country have learned a great deal about the congress, who is organizing it, and what is its objective. We have gained more information, and possibly the Leader of the Opposition now knows a good deal more about the matter than he did when he last spoke on that subject in the Senate. Does he still say that the Labour party should take the credit for the Pan-Pacific Congress and what it stands for? Will he now repudiate the hideous policy that that organization advocates? Upon reflection and the exercise of more mature judgment, I do not think he will repeat the statement he made on that occasion. He is adopting the same attitude in regard to the red menace. It is time that the Leader of the Opposition and those associated with him realized that the red menace does exist instead of closing their eyes to facts. The honorable senator is quite out of step with a considerable section of the organization which he represents, and is, I am afraid, proving to the people that his judgment upon this matter, as it is on finance, and a few other subjects, is not as reliable as it might be. 
I wish now to refer to the subject of child endowment. The Leader of the Opposition charged the Prime Minister, the Government and its supporters, with not having kept their promise to the electors on this important matter. It is true that we made certain promises - not quite as the Leader of the Opposition said - during the election campaign in regard to child endowment. The Government, with a view to arriving at some  modus operandi,  referred it to a conference of Commonwealth and State. Ministers because it found that some of the 
States had committed themselves to certain schemes and had very definite plans as to the way in which the system should be conducted. During the discussion at that conference the Prime Minister endeavoured to discover a means whereby the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with the States could introduce a scheme acceptable to all parties. What happened? The action taken was not at the instigation of a Nationalist Premier. The representative of the Queensland Labour Government at that conference,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, said that the problem of child endowment was very intricate, and as the introduction of the system would cost a lot of money, the Governments would have to be very careful. He therefore moved that the subject be referred to a royal commission. That action was not proposed by the Prime Minister or the leader of any Nationalist administration, but by  Mr. Forgan  Smith, a member of the Queensland Labour Government. The Prime Minister acquiesced, and the question was referred to a royal commission. It is hoped that when a report is received, and is considered by the Government in conjunction with the representatives of the States, it will be possible to devise a scheme whereby child endowment may be brought into operation. The Government has done everything possible, in the circumstances. There has been no breach of any pledge, and I feel sure that when the 'supporters of the Government place the position before the electors their action will receive the endorsement of the people of Australia. 
I have endeavoured to answer briefly some of the attacks made upon the Government by the Leader of the Opposition, particularly in connexion with the budget, which, in the circumstances, I regard as very satisfactory. It is certainly not as attractive as some of us would like, but there are exceptional circumstances which have to be considered, and over which neither the Treasurer nor the Government has control. The budget has been well received throughout the country, and the criticism levelled against it has not been serious, due largely to the fact that it covers an extremely difficult period. I regard it as a good budget, and I feel that the Treasurer and the Government should be congratulated upon it. I am confident that when the people of Australia have an opportunity to consider its contents, the Government need have no fear that it will not secure the support of a great majority of the people of Australia. 
 I endorse all that  Senator Duncan  has said, but more particularly the concluding portion of his speech, in which he congratulated the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  upon the clarity of the budget which has just been presented to Parliament. It is a matter for regret that the financial year closed with .a deficit, but, owing to the unsatisfactory season and to the difficulty in estimating the revenue, that was not surprising. It is, however, pleasing to note that the Treasurer has been able to budget for a small surplus this year. He will perhaps be criticised for not budgeting in such a way as to wipe out last year's deficit; but the only -way in which that could be done would be by raising more revenue or by reducing expenditure. The raising of additional revenue would necessitate higher taxation, which is undesirable, and the difficulty in reducing expenditure is apparent. Fully 60 per cent, of bur Commonwealth expenditure is represented by statutory commitments in the form of interest, repatriation, pensions, and other charges. Expenditure in that direction cannot be reduced, and some of it may possibly have to be increased. It is necessary, however, to study our loan expenditure very closely. At the present time a reduction of loan expenditure also presents some difficulties, since a large proportion of the workers in Australia are obtaining their wages on works provided by loan moneys. Unfortunately, at present, there are a large number of men out of work, and although some of us may feel disposed to vote against some of the items on the loan estimates, it is extremely difficult to reduce such expenditure unless we wish to create further unemployment. 
Our present position is due largely to the fact that we have been legislating on wrong lines. I have spoken on this subject before, and I wish to repeat that our  high customs duties are seriously interfering with primary production. High customs duties increase the cost of living, which results in an appeal to the Arbitration Court for higher wages, which are invariably granted, and these in turn lead to still higher duties, and so it goes on. I do not wish it to be thought for a moment that I am an advocate of low wages. I am not. I should like the workers to receive real wages, and not sham wages. The system we have been pursuing in the past has resulted in men receiving, say, an additional 2s. a day, and the cost of living at once being increased by 2s. 6d. a day. This is simply throwing dust in the people's eyes. 
I do not believe in the day-labour system. I hold the view that men should be paid for the work they do, not for the time they take to do it. The day-labour system means that the cost of a job is determined not by the amount of work to be performed, but by the time it takes. We have reached such a position that a full and careful consideration of the effect of our tariffs and arbitration laws is imperative. We shall not progress towards real prosperity until there is a lowering of the cost of production. There is scarcely a thing which can be exported from Australia without assistance of some kind. Even wool, which is our best exportable commodity, is getting perilously near the stage when it will not show a profit. Some time ago an inquiry was made into the pastoral industry. I commend to honorable senators the very fine report issued as the result of those investigations. In 1911, the average price received for wool grown on certain stations was 8.71d. per pound. That left a profit of 3.32d. per pound. In 1925, although the average price of wool grown on the same station was 15.26d. per pound, the profit was only 2.8d. per pound. The tendency throughout the world is for prices to revert to pre-war levels. While at the present time the price of wool has not reached a dangerous level, I desire to point out that with the tendency towards lower prices any product which brings twice as much as it did before the war is in danger of seeing a reduced .price. 
Australia enjoys natural conditions favorable to the growing of wheat. 
Our wheat, therefore, should be able to compete in the world's market. In addition, we have probably the best machinery in the world for the cultivation of wheat. The price of wheat in the world's market is declining. Wheat in England is about 5s. 5d. a bushel, which would give us 4s. or 4s. Id. a bushel at the sea-board. After allowing for railway freights there is no margin of profit. Although it is rather early to forecast, the indications point to a bumper wheat harvest this year, but, unfortunately, the price of wheat is not encouraging. Canada expects to produce 600,000,000 bushels of wheat this year. Should Russia and Siberia re-establish themselves in the world's wheat market Australia's wheat farmers will be working at a loss. Our costs of production must be reduced. The first thing to be done is to amend our tariff. I do not suggest any drastic legislative amendments, such as freetrade, for that would cause chaos. But we must start to round off the edges. 
Although Australia exports large quantities of butter, that would not be possible were it not for the Paterson stabilization scheme. I believe in that scheme, although I would rather see a reduction in the cost of production. Were it not for the 4d. a lb. assistance to butter under the Paterson scheme, and the fact that dairy farmers work for much less than the rates awarded to ordinary labourers by the courts, we should export no butter. 
This year Australia exported about 3,000,000 bushels of fruit. From the time the fruit was picked until it was sold, handling costs represented about 9s. a case. Yet a large proportion of that fruit realized much less than 9s. a case; some of it brought only 7s. 6d. a case. In pre-war days 9s. or 10s. a case represented a fair margin of profit, but to-day that is not so. Tasmanian members of this Parliament have asked for a bounty on dried fruit, but so far without success. I do not like bounties; but the fruit industry is in need of some assistance, and is as much entitled to a bounty as are other industries which have been helped by that means. In Tasmania we have some of the most up-to-date fruit evaporating factories in the world. The cost of production, however, is so great that it does not pay to evaporate fruit for export, and as soon as the Australian market is supplied they shut down and the rest of the fruit rots. 
The potato industry in Tasmania is also in a bad way. Thousands of tons of potatoes will not be dug this year in Tasmania because of the high cost of handling them. Labour and machinery are expensive, while the high freights due to the Navigation Act make it unprofitable to ship potatoes to Sydney. Digging, bagging, cartage and rail charges and steamer freights represent from £4 5s. to £4 10s. a ton, whereas the price of potatoes in Sydney is from £4 to £5 a ton. That leaves absolutely nothing for the grower for all his work. There are thousands of people in Australia to whom those potatoes would be invaluable; but production costs force growers in Tasmania to let them lie in the ground or to be used as food for stock. 
The idea of the Commission is to obtain the same crop from a smaller acreage. If anything should make the people of Australia think, the present position of the coal industry should do so. While coal is imported from England, coal-miners in the Newcastle district are out of work. 
Probably the " freight on coal from England to Adelaide is less than from Newcastle to Adelaide, owing to the Navigation Act. It is possible to convey Scandinavian timber to Adelaide for about one-half the cost of shipping it from Hobart. The same thing probably applies to coal. High costs are killing everything. The  chairman  of directors of one of the best mines at Broken Hill, which has shut down, said recently that he could find employment for 1,000 men if they would accept wages which would enable the company to compete in the world's market. Metals had come back to pre-war prices, and as labour costs had kept up the mine was shut down, and the men were thrown out of work. 
Until we face the position squarely, we shall not achieve real prosperity. The greatest barriers to progress are the tariff, the Arbitration Court, and the Navigation Act. Of these the greatest obstacle is the Navigation Act. It has created two big monopolies - the steamship owners and the seamen. They are both relentless. Southern Tasmania is worse off than it was 60 years ago in the matter of steamship services. A majority of the members of both the Navigation Royal Commission and the Public Accounts Committee reported_ in favour of the repeal of the coastal sections of the Navigation Act. I hope that the Government will give effect to their recommendation. I do not want to use extravagant language, but I say unhesitatingly that no better scheme to cripple Tasmania could have been devised than the passing of that legislation. In speaking of these matters, I speak of that which I know. I have been forced to travel from Hobart overland by night to another port in order to catch a small boat to take me to the mainland when, were it not for the Navigation Act, I could have boarded a well-appointed passenger steamer at the first port. People from other parts of the world doubt our sanity when they see the effect of the Navigation Act, and wonder why we submit to it. Tasmania, being an island State, should have the best means of sea transport possible. The coastal sections of the Navigation Act should be repealed immediately, so that Tasmania may have free intercourse with the rest of Australia and other parts of the world. I am prepared to take any steps and go to any length to have them repealed. Tasmania is dependent upon shipping, yet it has always been badly off in this respect. It is faced continually with the handicap of Bass Strait, and it is the duty of this Parliament to minimize that handicap as much as possible. Some little time ago, as a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, I was associated with an investigation into the Tasmanian shipping problem. That committee recommended that three services should be established. Some people believe that one service is sufficient, but Tasmania now has several ports in order to  give access to its producers, and it needs an adequate shipping service. It is not right that Tasmania should be worse off under federation than it was previously. Had there been a desert instead of a strip of water between Australia and that State the Commonwealth Government would certainly have constructed a railway to afford the necessary communication, and it is but fair that it should give effect to the various recommendations that have been made for the provision of proper shipping facilities. One of the recommendations made by the Public Accounts Committee was that an old vessel, which has been 40 years in service on the northwest coast of Tasmania should be replaced. I should like honorable senators to travel in that vessel as the representatives of Tasmania have to do - sometimes twice a week - in order to appreciate her extraordinary condition. It was also suggested that when the boats at present on the Launceston service are due for replacement, steps should be taken to provide better vessels. In regard to Hobart, it was recommended that a subsidy should be granted during the summer months in order to effect a better service. At the time when that committee inquired into the matter at Hobart a very good service was running. Had it discontinued then as it did a few weeks afterwards, I have not the slightest doubt that the committee would have recommended an alltheyearround subsidy. I understand that the Government has received a tender for these services, and that the amount quoted is large. Whether it is too large is a matter for experts; but we want better services. Ordinarily my advice is to "sell, rather than purchase vessels, but being .so keenly aware of the suffering to which the people of Tasmania are subjected owing to the lack of communication I advise the Government to take any steps, even to the extent of purchasing boats, in order to afford relief. I urge the Government to give every consideration to the reports that have been submitted, feeling confident that if that is done there will be a repeal of the coastal sections of the Navigation Act, and the subsequent establishment of satisfactory communication between Tasmania and the mainland. 
After a long series of conferences and examinations the Government sent  Sir 
Nicholas Lockyer to Tasmania to inquire into the disabilities which it suffered under federation, and as a result of that inquiry the Commonwealth made an annual grant of £378,000 to Tasmania for two years. It was urged at the time that the grant should be extended to five years, but the Government proposed to review the situation at the end of two years. I understand that that has now been done, and that the grant has been cut down to £220,000 per annum. I admit that the Tasmanian Government showed a surplus this year. But there is very little incentive to show a surplus if, as a result, the Commonwealth grant to that State is to be cut down. A great many people in Tasmania will be very disappointed that the grant has been reduced. This Government also sent the Development and Migration Commission to Tasmania to make inquiries and devise a scheme to increase the prosperity of the State. That commission did excellent work. Finally,  Dr. Findley  was instructed to inaugurate an agricultural bureau scheme, in order to strengthen the Agricultural Department. I take the keenest active interest in the work of that bureau. Everybody in Tasmania was under the impression that its upkeep, amounting to something like £30,000 a year, was. to be paid for by the Federal Government. Now we have received the bombshell that the Tasmanian Government has to meet that amount, which actually cuts down its grant of £220,000 to £190,000. There is not the slightest doubt that the Tasmanian Treasurer will now have to budget for a deficit instead of a surplus. I have no idea how the amount of £220,000 was arrived at. Although Tasmanian representatives in the Federal Parliament were at all times anxious to assist in the matter, the basis of the calculation was determined in private conference between the Treasurers of the Commonwealth and Tasmania. 
I ask the Government, in justice to the island State, to be a little more liberal in supporting the grant to Tasmania, and I urge that, as the Development and Migration Commission has been instrumental in instigating the existing agricultural drive in Tasmania, the Federal Government might see its way to pay for it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Verran)  adjourned. 
 I should like to ask the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral whether he has yet received the reply to the question I asked about 'a fortnight ago, relating to the profits of the beam wireless service? 
I regret that the information is not yet available. 
 I can only presume that the information is not available in the department of the PostmasterGeneral, and has to be sought for elsewhere. 

 Later : 

In view of the time that has elapsed since I first asked for the information relating to the profits of the beam wireless service, will the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral ask the honorable gentleman to communicate with Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. and see if he cannot secure a reply to my question ? 
As the PostmasterGeneral has already been informed of the nature of the honorable senator's question, and as there is no reason for doubting that steps have been taken to obtain the information required as early as possible, I see no need for making the further request to the Postmaster-General suggested by the honorable senator. 
I should like to know if the Leader of the Senate  has  yet obtained the information for which I have asked in connexion with the Development and Migration Commission? 
Is the Leader of the Senate yet supplied with an answer to the question I asked some time ago relating to the expenditure of the Development and Migration Commission! 
In view of the many statements that have been made with regard to the amount of unemployment in Australia, I should like to ask the Leader of the Senate if his attention has been directed to a statement published in the Sydney press, and reported to have been made by  Mr, Farrar,  Minister for Labour and Industry, in New South Wales. . According to this statement,  Mr. Farrar  is convinced that many people have discovered that they can live comfortably without working, because they are getting food relief and child endowment from the Government ; that, in fact, they are imposing on charitable institutions and the Government.  Mr. Farrar  has also shown that during the week before last, out of 2,250 men called for by the Labour Bureau, only 145 men responded, and of these 56 refused the work offered. In these circumstances, I should like to know if the right honorable gentleman will have inquiries made so that the public may know what is the actual extent of the bona fide unemployment in Australia ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator has drawn my attention to the statement made by  Mr. Farrar.  In regard to the question of unemployment, two inquiries have already been made - one by the Royal Commission -on National Insurance and the other by the Development and Migration Commission. Both bodies have drawn attention to the unsatisfactory nature of the data upon which our unemployment statistics are founded. The Government is giving consideration to the question of extending the Statistical Bureau, with a  view to getting more complete and more accurate data as to the extent of unemployment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Whether he will take the necessary action to place Tasmania in the same position as the other States in regard to the establishment of a sugar depot in the capital or some other city in Tasmania? 
This matter rests with the Queensland Sugar Board, and that bodyis not prepared to establish a sugar depot in Tasmania. It has, however, arranged that Tasmanian customers, at the beginning of each summer, could order a reserve of, say, four to six weeks' requirements to go into their stores, and then continue ordering each week in accordance with their current requirements; payment to be made only on the quantity of the reserve stocks actually used each week; the current weekly orders to be paid for in the usual manner. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is , it the intention of the Government to give effect to the promise made by the Prime Minister to give the citizens of Canberra representation on the Federal Capital Commission? 
If so, when will the exact form of representation be announced, and when does the Government propose to amend existing legislation to give effect to it? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I refer the honorable senator to a statement made by the Prime Minister in another place on the 30th August, indicating that it is proposed to take action in this direction during the present session of Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What was the value of munitions imported during the years 1926-27 and 1927-28? 
The information will be obtained and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice-' 
Will the Minister state the amount of bounty paid to each industry in the Commonwealth for the year 1927-28? 
The information sought is as follows :  - 

<graphic href="119332192809060_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Can he say . whether the Queensland Government has decided not to administer the Commonwealth Government's Housing Act? 
If such is the case, and in view of the fact that Queenslanders would thus be deprived of the benefits of this act, is it possible for the Commonwealth Government to make other arrangements to have the scheme administered ? 
It is understood that the Queensland Government is not prepared to amend its laws so as to enable its housing authority to become eligible to receive advances under the Commonwealth Housing Scheme. 
The matter is being considered. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister consider the question of reducing the cost of trunk-line telephone charges on Sundays to the ordinary rates? 
What would be the estimated loss in consequence of such reduction, due allowance being made for increased business? 
Is the number of Sunday calls increasing or otherwise under the present policy? 
The replies are - 
Investigations in this connexion are already proceeding. 
and 3. Pending completion of the inquiries it is not possible to estimate the financial results of reducing the charges or the effect on the volume of business. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has he seen a statement in the press, alleged to have been made by  Senator Barnes,  to the effect that trouble which recently occurred in Cairns and other ports on the Queensland coast was caused by certain individuals, and also that he had learned that certain Nationalists were hatching a plot to dislocate steamer traffic during the Melbourne Cup period? 
Would such action on the part of individuals be punishable under the Crimes Act? 
Will the Government ascertain from  Senator Barnes  who are these persons he referred to, so that action may be taken; or do they regard this statement as mere idle talk? 
I wish to make a few remarks relating more particularly to what is not in the budget rather than to that which it actually contains. The criticism of a budget is a very difficult task for one who is inexperienced in finance or who is not fully acquainted with the financial activities of the Commonwealth. I appreciate the efforts of  Senator Thomas  to induce the Government to introduce a system of cheap wireless communications. We have to realize that our environment is changing, and that if we are to progress we must take advantage of the development in wireless telegraphy and other scientific discoveries. The telegraph system which has been in operation for many years has been of wonderful service to the community, but there appears every reason to believe that the adoption of a system of cheap wireless communications would be of inestimable benefit to the whole community.  Senator Thomas  is to be congratulated upon his effort to induce the Government to establish such a system, and I trust that it will not be long before the rates are reduced in the direction he suggests. 
The construction of the north-south railway has been agitating the minds of the people of South Australia for a considerable time. Many of them are still wondering whether the promise given by the Commonwealth Government concerning the construction of that line will be honoured. From what has appeared in certain newspapers there seems to be a strong desire on the part of some persons to take the line into Queensland. " He that entereth not by the door into the sheep-fold but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber." 
The honorable senator and others from Queensland want the north-south line to be diverted from South Australia to Queensland. I had a part in the handing over of the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth, and have no reason to be ashamed of my action; but I want the promise contained in the agreement to be honored to the letter. The line must be constructed from north to south. Queensland is the most richly endowed of -the States; but it does not necessarily follow that the north-south line should be diverted from the route agreed upon in order to serve that State. The agreement for the transfer of the Northern Territory was signed by the late Honorable Thomas Price on behalf of South Australia, and by the late Honorable Alfred Deakin on behalf of the Commonwealth - men whose honesty and integrity no one will question.  One  of the members of the North Australian Commission,  Mr. Hobler,  who, I understand, is a Queenslander, has urged that the northsouth line should pass through the  western district of Queensland. I do not blame  Mr. Hobler  for advocating the interests of Queensland generally; but he should not endeavour to influence any one to break a solemn promise. I hope that the Government will . honour its agreement with South Australia in this connexion. 
Some time ago the duty on galvanized iron pipes was increased, with the result that the pastoralists of Australia were adversely affected. In order to make it unnecessary for sheep to travel eight or nine miles to obtain water, many pastoralists have laid down lines of pipes - some of them six or eight miles in length - to convey water for their stock. Others would follow their example, but the high price of pipes since the imposition of the increased duty has prevented them from doing so. All honorable senators recognize the value of our pastoral industries; and while the squatter is at times envied because of his wealth, we must remember that to all of us is given the opportunity to engage in pastoral pursuits. 
That is true. Even if they were, I should not complain. Wool and wheat are our two great staple products. I should like to see the duty on galvanized iron pipes reduced. 
I do not want a ghost of a chance; I want a reality. I ask the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, who knows Australia from one end to the other and is acquainted with the difficulties encountered by these men in the outback regions, who at times are wealthy and at other times are poor, to give this matter his serious consideration. It is cruel to expect dumb animals to travel long distances to obtain water when we have it in our power to render it unnecessary. 
A good deal has been said during this debate regarding the financial agreement with the States. Now that it has been signed by all the States we have no option but to endorse it. At the same time, I direct the attention of the Government to the unfortunate position of South Australia. Unemployment is rampant there, and nothing but an excellent season can rectify matters. A 50,000,000 bushel wheat harvest is anticipated, but of course that is merely supposition. Much depends upon the rainfall during the next few weeks. I hope that the Development and Migration Committee, which is investigating the position of South Australia, will recommend to the Commonwealth Government that additional financial assistance be granted to that State. I did not vote for federation, as I did not believe in it, but now that it is established I realize that it is my duty to co-operate and endeavour to make it a success. That is why I urge the Government to recognize its responsibilities to the States. 
I listened yesterday to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  condemning the Government. The honorable senator would not admit that the Government possessed one good quality, and characterized it as the worst that he could conceive. I cannot, as a result of my observation of the activities of this Government, endorse the opinion of  Senator Needham.  Long before I entered this chamber I believed that Australia had in office a sound constitutional Government, one that proved its worth during the dark days of financial stress that followed the war. After all, a government is akin to a gypsy's tent, which is supported by long ropes and weak stakes, and it does not take much to blow it down. The man who is out wants to get into office, but he is not prepared to explain how he would better conduct the business of the country. In thinking of the Leader of the Opposition, I am reminded of a wheel barrow in one's back yard. It is a very handy contrivance if controlled, but otherwise is of little use. I gathered from the arguments of  Senator Needham  that if he were in office he would need a lot of control. 
What a howl went up from honorable senators opposite and their supporters when this Government sold the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. 
-If I have an old coat that is of no further use to me, I discard it, and do not care if I receive no compensation for it. In my opinion those ships were of no further use after the expiration of the war. 
That is so, and in addition they had become the plaything of a certain class of individuals, who, through their medium, were holding up the progress of Australia. 
The least said about that the better. One could paint a very extraordinary picture of the action of those men when the Government owned these ships. The unfortunate producer was compelled to stand by and see his produce rot, when it should have been  en route  to the various markets of the world. This Government proved its wisdom and demonstrated its backbone when it sold those ships to the highest bidder. Thank God they have gone. 
Does the honorable senator recollect the formidable combine that was controlling and holding up those ships? Could one conceive a more dangerous body of men, who were always eager to engender ill-will and anger? 
The devil and his crew. 
The wise action of the Government in selling the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers evoked world-wide admiration. It also proved its worth when it introduced the bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Employer and employee had lost confidence one with the other and the problem was how to restore that confidence. With broad vision, and high ideals, the Commonwealth Government initiated that amending bill, which was strongly in favour of the interests of the workers of this country. I have been associated with the industrial movement in Australia all my life, ever since its inception here, and I left it only because I had an opinion of my own. 1 hold that the Commonwealth Government has been legislating in the best interests of the home life and for the general welfare of the workers. It has proved its good will towards the people by providing security for the rank and file of the trade unions. It is prepared to make the best out of the financial position without asking the people to pay more taxes. What better administration could we have in Australia than our present National Government? We have at our service the 'brains of Australia. Since the federation was established we have had a series of brilliant men in charge of the administration of our affairs. Among others I could mention  Sir Edmond  Barton,  Mr. Christopher  Watson,  Mr. Andrew  Fisher,  Mr. George  Reid,  Mr. Alfred  Deakin and  Mr. W.  M. Hughes. To-day we are blessed by having as the Leader of the Government a man of high intellect with a brilliant analytical mind. I should like to see the day come about when parties will disappear and Parliament will consist of men who are at liberty to vote according to their individual opinions - men who are not chained like a lot of prisoners. I have never felt so free in my life as I do to-day. 
I am not chained. I belong to a party which stands for liberty, freedom and individuality. 
I follow no one to-day so long as I abide by the fundamental principles of the platform to which I give my adherence. Australia, with its vast, wealth and potentialities, ought to be able to make progress, but it is held back by a small minority, a few men full of political microbes. In a country like this  Ave  ought never to have unemployed. 
What can we do if we abolish the capitalists ? Who would pay the wages, grow the wheat or breed the sheep? 
But the minority wants no one to work. It wants everybody to be the boss. I have read all the doctrines of the minority. 
No doubt I have advocated a lot of foolish things but as I get older I am undergoing a change. Revelations have shown me the insufficiency and the worthlessness of many of the doctrines to which I formerly gave my support. 
I am a believer in revelation and not revolution. 
I am not prepared to go back as far as that, but if the honorable senator denies it I can quote from Genesis what the Lord God said: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." If the Leader of the Opposition had set out to makea scurrilous attack on the Government he could not have done better than he did yesterday; but in the course of his attack he proved nothing; neither did he advance anything that he and his party would be prepared to do if returned to power. In Australia we cannot keep up our high standard of wages and improve our efficiency, unless we have greater production. The more a country produces the higher are the wages in that country. The less a country produces the more unemployment there is in it. Capital must always remain with us; and likewise, labour, but the tragedy of our social scheme of to-day is that the employer and employee cannot come together. They must come together to work for the common good of the country and so that we as a people may become more efficient. We are now suffering from inefficiency. We cannot raise our production unless we become more -efficient. Take the Mount Morgan mine. Would it not have been better if the workers had worked in co-operation with the employers to find a solution for the trouble at Mount Morgan and thus have enabled the wealth that still lies in that mine to be taken out of it? A reduced wage does not necessarily mean that there will be less in the home. If we are prepared to accept a lower wage and become more efficient we can produce more. Had that policy been adopted at Mount Morgan the mine would have been working to-day. 
The price of commodities would fall in ratio to the reduction in wages. What is the advantage of getting higher wages to-day? If a man gets an increase of 2s. per week, or1s. a day, the storekeeper immediately adds to the price of his commodities and the man is no better off. The working man must have a good living wage, a decent home and not a hovel, and the best conditions he can secure, and no section of workers ought to be better paid than' miners. I was a miner for 40 years. I struggled underground away from the sunlight and fresh air at eighteen years of age, and was earning 15s. a week; I was a slave to my work. We have a Commonwealth to develop. We are responsible for its success or failure. We have mines at Broken Hill, but the wealth that is in them cannot be taken out, because the cost of production is too high. Wages are too high to enable a profit to be made. I was leading the miners at the Moonta. The mines there could have been worked for five years longer, if the men had been willing to accept the sliding scale of wage, but the men said they must have a standard wage although the industry could not pay it. 
The position to-day in Australia is that there are a number of industries that cannot pay a standard wage. It is unreasonable to expect men 60 years of age to do as much as men 30 years of age can do. But under the present system all must receive the same wage. This Government, which is attempting to make the great Australian Commonwealth a progressive country, is not responsible for the present industrial position. The Leader of the Opposition may laugh and try to show that taxation has not been reduced as claimed by the Treasurer. Australia is the greatest country in the world, and we should not complain at the taxation now imposed when we consider the conditions we enjoy, and the  honest effort that is being made to keep Australia a white man's country. No people in the world are more independent than we are. 
And rightly so, too. Adam was driven out of the Garden of Eden because he disregarded the command given unto him. There are a lot of fellows who, because of their disregard of the law, have been compelled to leave this country, and Australia has not lost by their departure. There is a certain type of man in Australia who should be deported. 
The honorable senator is, I suppose, prepared to say unkind things concerning that gentleman because he has seen the error of his political ways. 
We have been kicked out of the Labour party. There was a time when I was not much better than Tom Walsh of old, and the people of Australia know it. 
I came out of the garden and am now in a city. It is unfair to attempt to ridicule Tom Walsh because he has changed his convictions. 
I have been a member of the Church of God for 5S years, and I stand or fall by the word of God. The tragedy of this age is that the workers of this country do not know God. If they prayed as much as they swore we should not have any industrial trouble. Tom Walsh has as much right to change his opinions as any other man. Intelligent readers and thinkers must change their opinions as they grow in wisdom. The difficulty of to-day is that too many people want others to think for them. The average man can only think clearly for himself. If  Mr. Walsh  has seenthe error of his ways I shall be one of the first to give him a helping hand to become a bigger and better citizen. 
I do not know much about him. I know that he was a parson in the Church of Christ, and it is a pity that he ever left the church. 
Australia is a great producing country, and if we wish to maintain our present standards of living we. must put forth greater effort to bring about increased production. As intelligent citizens, we should ask ourselves what we should do. This is an age in which efficiency is imperative. Most men want to take more wealth out of the country than they put into it. What would happen to a man if he sought to adopt that policy in connexion with his banking account? I remember a conversation I had years ago with a mate of mine with whom I had a settlement every eight weeks. On every settling day he put £4 behind the lining of his hat, and I asked him what it was for. He replied, " That is beer money." How could a man with eight children afford to spend £4 every eight weeks on beer? There are very few men to-day with wives and families to support who can afford to waste their money in that or any other way. It is our duty to assist in building up this great Commonwealth, and in doing so to exercise all the intelligence and energy at our command. 
.  - I have been wondering how I should commence to address myself to the question that the budget papers be printed, in view of the fact that they have already been printed and are actually in circulation. I appreciate, however, the courtesy of the Leader of the Government in the Senate in submitting this motion which gives us an opportunity to speak on not only what is included in the budget papers, but also what is not. In the remarks I have to make, I shall devote my attention principally to matters that are not mentioned in those papers. I do not know that my observations will be few ; rather do I think they will be limited only by the time allowed me under the Standing Orders, because in making the  last speech on important questions that I shall have the opportunity to make in the Senate for some time, I shall he disposed to dwell on several that are of outstanding interest. With the instinct of a party fighter, I feel a strong desire in joining in the debate, to attack this Government for its failure during the six years it has been in office, to place the Australian Commonwealth in the position it should rightly occupy. I am, however, wondering if it would be worth while to do so because all my predictions before the last general election were falsified, and the Government secured the support of the great body of the community. On the eve of the last election, I fiercely and savagely attacked this Government for the way in which it was attempting to break down one of the first principles of British law in this country by appealing to the people for the right to deport men from Australia without a trial by jury. I was convinced that the people of Australia would agree with me, but to my sorrow they did not. They returned the Government to power, but the High Court agreed with my view and in its judgment discredited this Government in its attempt to deport innocent citizens under laws specially devised by it for the purpose.- I was defeated at the election. The decision of the High Court had not been given when the result of the poll was declared, and in thanking the electors for the support they had given me, I said that perhaps even  while  I was speaking, the High Court was giving a decision supporting my contention that free citizens of this country should not be dragged away from their homes by a Government which appointed its own tribunal to try them with a view to their deportation. When I received the first edition of the afternoon paper, I found that my prediction had been verified. The court had decided as I said it would, and one journal was good enough to say that I must have been "in the know ". I was " in the know " so far as the rights and privileges and liberties of our people are concerned, and I still maintain that no other judgment could have been given by the High Court. I submitted at the last election that the attempt of the Bruce-Page Government to deport Australian citizens without trial by jury - to treat them as they might have been 600 or 700 years ago - was  ultra vires  of the Constitution. But my appeal to the people was unsuccessful. That, however, is a thing of the past, and I have taken my defeat, as I take all defeats, philosophically. I have, however, suffered a worse defeat since then. Notwithstanding that I have served my party loyally for very many years, the only use it now has for me is that of a doormat. I am not going to ventilate my personal troubles in the Senate, but I find it difficult to address myself to a question such as this which gives one the fullest scope for discussion, without bubbling and boiling with indignation at the thought that a private letter, written by me to a private citizen, was responsible for my being driven out of the Labour movement with which I had been associated for 37 years, and during the greater part of that time in public life. I shall, however, leave that to the electors. 
What can I say that will be of advantage to the people of this country? If I cannot say anything that will be of benefit to them, I have no right to take up the time of the Senate. I would ask the Government, even at this late hour, to remove the restrictions that they have placed upon the trade of this country with the rest of the British Empire and the outside world, and to break down those trade barriers which, year after year, have been made higher and higher. What has been the result of these increasing barriers? Reduced trade, uncertainty, increased debts, and more unemployment. When will this Government recognize the disastrous trend of the policy it is following by restricting the trade of this country in the hope of benefiting secondary industries? I am not an enemy of our secondary industries. Ear from it. I am an Australian, and I want Australia to do everything that she can do as well and efficiently as other nations. But is the policy of high protection that we are following taking us in that direction ? Does the so-called protection really protect our secondary industries? I could show not only that it does not do all that its supporters claim for it, but that it actually does the reverse. A high tariff induces other countries to send their products to this country. If that was its only effect, I should not complain, for it would increase our trade, but a high tariff does more than that. It so increases the cost of the protected article that local manufacturers are able to set up in business and if one man or one industry can be protected the article produced is made so valuable that other nations send their goods here to obtain the high price obtainable. Who pays the tariff? It certainly is not paid by the foreign manufacturer; it is paid by the man here who buys the article or the commodity for his own use. There can be no escape from that reasoning. 
I can, perhaps, best illustrate my point by referring to the sugar duties, and I shall do so by using figures supplied to me by an honorable senator now sitting on the Ministerial bench, in reply to questions 1 asked him when I was previously a member of the Senate. I am bringing this matter forward now in an endeavour to show that a high tariff does not protect Australian manufacturers, but that, on the contrary, it leads to further imports, and, what is most disastrous of all, makes the cost of production so high that our local manufacturers cannot pay the wages necessary and thus are unable to compete with manufacturers in other countries. 
I could quote dozens of instances to the same effect, but shall confine my arguments to one item to show that a high tariff means more imports until the limit of the purchasing power of the people is reached. A high tariff means less consumption, because it reduces the purchasing power of the people. In 1921 I asked the following questions - 
What was the amount of sugar imported into Australia during the years 1918, 1910, and 1920? 
What amount of sugar was exported from  Australia during the same periods? 
I asked those questions because the influence of the Labour party had resulted in coloured labour being removed 'from the Queensland sugar fields. At that time the sugar industry of Queensland was handicapped because employers of coloured labour had to pay excise duties whereas employers of white labour did not. Years passed, and a Labour Government in 1913 wiped out that impost. In 1915, when the country was at war, the sugar industry needed assistance. An agreement was entered into between the Queensland Government, the Commonwealth Government and the growers and refiners of sugar. That agreement pro- ' vided that the growers of sugar should be paid an additional £5 a ton for their sugar. It takes about 81/2 tons of cane to produce a ton of sugar. The agreement meant that sugar-growers were paid an extra £5 for every 81/2 tons of cane they produced. The conditions were so satisfactory that the people of Australia were able to obtain sugar for 3d. or 31/2d. per lb. retail. That agreement remained in force for three years, with the result that both the area placed under sugar and the production of sugar were increased. I do not overlook the fact that had the producers of -sugar been allowed to export their product they could have sold it for1s. a lb. My point at the moment is that while the agreement was in force the sugar industry flourished. At the end of the three years' period the acreage under sugar cane was the greatest on record and, thanks to a good season, there was also a record production. In the public interest - I hope that my manner will never suggest a sneer - the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  and the then Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Theodore),  not satisfied with the splendid success of the agreement, wanted to benefit the industry still further, and therefore agreed to put an additional1/2d. per lb. on sugar. The result of the alteration was that whereas in 1918 we imported 128,729 cwt. of sugar the £5 a ton duty made sugar so valuable that during the next year Australia imported 1,966,736 cwt. of sugar, and in 1920 1,991,341 cwt. 
When  Mr. Hughes  and  Mr. Theodore  found that, instead of protecting the sugar industry, their action had resulted in a flood of imports, they met the situation by prohibiting the importation of sugar. That was done in order that the sugar interests in Australia should he able to get the price they wanted for their products. Honorable senators have only to see this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  to realize the effect of the embargo on the importation of sugar. Those who benefit from it are not the Queensland sugar growers, but the shareholders of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company. Shares in that company, of a nominal value of £20, are selling to-day for £60, because the Government has continued the agreement compelling the people of Australia to pay £4,500,000 a year more than they would pay for their sugar if there was no legislation prohibiting its importation. 
I do not wish it to be thought that I have no interest in the sugar industry; I am as careful of that industry as of any other industry. 
It would pay this country to grant to every man engaged in the sugar industry £750 a year for life rather than to continue under existing conditions. No industry in this country is worth such a price. 
If the White Australia policy means that Australia is not to trade with any nation whose people are not of the same colour as we are, then I say emphatically that I do not stand for that policy. I understand the White Australia policy to mean that we shall keep these shores inviolate against an influx of those races which cannot mingle with our own. I repudiate the suggestion that the White Australia policy means that we shall not trade with countries such as India, China, and Japan. No public man in Australia is prepared to stand on a public platform and urge that Australia should not trade with any nation other than those belonging to the white race. What did  Mr. Bruce  say at Moree when he was asked a question about the influx of Italians into this country?  His  reply is enough to cause one to shudder. He said that he could not stop the migration of Italians to this country, that Australia was already condemned in the eyes of the world because of its white Australia policy, and that even the Labour party of England was opposed to that policy. What a miserable attitude for the Prime Minister to adopt ! To think that people belonging to the great Italian nation, which has watched the infancy, childhood, youth and development of civilization, and has nursed the arts and sciences of civilization, are not fit to enter this country as our equals, is repugnant to me. The right honorable W. M. Hughes felt so strongly on this question that at a recent Nationalist conference in Sydney he saw fit to attack the Italian people in this country. Surely the mere fact of 8,000 Italians entering Australia in two years should not have affected the country's progress with such a Government in office! A good deal is said concerning the hundreds of thousands of southern Europeans who are supposed to enter this country each year. If those who make those wild statements would only acquaint themselves with the official figures, they would find that during the last two years for which statistics are available, about 12,000 Italians came to this country, while over 3,000 of them left it during the same period. 
Does that affect the industries that have been built up by protection in Australia. If it does, I urge that we wipe out the barriers of protection and allow our industries to grow naturally and strongly. Let the Australian manufacturers say " We can compete with the world. We want no barriers to protect a superior race from an inferior race." I shall contrast  Mr. Bruce,  an Australianborn Prime Minister with another true Australian who was Britishborn, to the great disadvantage of the former.  Mr. Bruce  said that he was afraid to do anything drastic against the Italians, as it might incur their enmity. Against that I cite the attitude of that grand Australian,  Sir Henry  Parkes, on the occasion of the influx of Chinese into Australia, in 1884. At that time Parkes was Premier of New South Wales, which had not, as Australia has to-day, a population of 6,000,000 people, which was not a nation whose success on the battlefield had proved its worth, but was only a small State of under 1,000,000 people. When threatened by Baron Knutsford, Secretary of State for the Colonies, by the Governor and the daily press, supported by the guns of  Her  Majesty's ships of war, that, if he refused the Chinese a landing that landing would be enforced,  Sir Henry  Parkes manfully stated " Not for  Her  Majesty's ships of war; not for the Secretary of State for the Colonies, nor  Her  Majesty's representative on the spot, will the Government be turned from its purpose  !" And it was not. Compare that with  Mr. Bruce's  cowardly, trembling answer that we have to be very careful because we might incur the enmity of the world. I join neither with  Mr. W.  M. Hughes nor with any section in condemning a race which stands as high in the social order as the Italians, but I tell the workers of Australia that we need a policy that will not throw people out of work when a few foreigners are imported. The protectionist policy of Australia has made employment so difficult that if a few thousand people come here from Great Britain or any other country our unfortunate workers are compelled to tramp the streets, unemployed. 
Recently  Mr. Scullin  when speaking in Melbourne said that unemployment in Australia was now at a worse stage than it had ever previously been within his recollection.  Mr. Fenton  - and, by the way, had I been able to dictate who should be Leader of the Labour party I would have selected  Mr. Fenton  - when speaking in another place a couple of days ago, said that there were at least 100,000 unemployed in Australia. The last census disclosed that 159,000 men and women usually accustomed to work were out of work. Just realize what a tremendous failure our protectionist policy has been. If it will not afford employment to the community, why pay £40,000,000 a year to maintain it? 
Some may answer that Great Britain under its freetrade policy suffers from stupendous unemployment. Undoubtedly Great Britain has its unemployed, but it does not pay £40,000,000 a year to maintain its policy of freetrade. Under that policy, and in competition with the ' world, Great Britain has established its industries and brought them to the highest pitch of efficiency. One has only to read the record of that country under protection to realize that its experience was one of the most pitiful in the annals of history. Starvation was rampant, and forced child labour of the most cruel kind universal. Adam Smith, in my opinion one of the greatest economists, lamented in 1770 that the shackles of protection were so firmly placed on the people of Great Britain that he feared they would never be removed. It was another 70 years before those shackles were removed, 70 tragic years of dreadful toil and unrequited labour, during which thousands were starving. I shall quote a number of questions and answers given before a select committee which was held into the matter in 1832, about thirteen years before the shackles of protection were finally struck from the people of Great Britain. The following is taken from the examination of a  'Mr. Samuel  Coulsen  before a Parliamentary Committee in England in 1832. Coulsen had children in the mills - 

 " At what time in the morning, in the brisk time, did those girls go to the mills ? " - A. " In the brisk time, for about six weeks, they have gone at 3 o'clock in the morning and ended at 10, or nearly half-past at night." 

 " Had you not great difficulty in awakening your children to this excessive labour?" -  A.  "Yes, in the early time we had to take them up asleep and shake them, when we got them on the floor, to dress them before we could get them off to their work; but not so in the common hours." 

 " What was the length of time they could be in bed during those hours ? " -  A. "  It was near 11 o'clock before we could get  them  into bed after getting a little victuals, and then at morning my missus used to stop up all night for fear that we could not get them ready for the time." 

 " Were the children excessively fatigued by this labour ? " -  A. "  Many times ; we have cried often when we have given them the little victualling we had to give them; we had to shake them, and they have fallen to sleep with the victuals in their mouth many a time." 
If we continue the policy of protection in Australia our children's children will suffer the same misery and starvation. Make no mistake about it. You cannot crush the people, you cannot destroy trade, you cannot destroy a nation and expect the workers ' at the same time to live under decent conditions. And we are now endeavouring to destroy a nation. 
I shall quote from the remarks of a modern man of business on the effect of a protectionist tariff, a man who, in my opinion, is the greatest business man and manufacturer in modern times. I refer to Henry Ford. He said - 
 But it is a noteworthy fact that none of the really great businesses of this country - those who strive to their utmost to render service - have arisen because of the tariff or stand in the slightest need of its protection. Those businesses which claim that they need tariff protection will usually be found to bc buckward in method, producing poor stuff with ill-paid men ; and this is inevitable, because they have not had on them the pressure to do better, and instead of creating markets for their products among their own employees, they have been satisfied to sell to limited markets or to take advantage of the artificial tariff-created, high-priced market at home to sell at lower prices in foreign countries. One of the great steps which the United States of America might take would be to wipe out all tariffs on imports. That would be a real contribution to American industry. 
The same man also said - 
The tariff began in an effort to protect jobs of working-men and render the country selfdependent; it ended in the disgraceful spectacle of non-competitive trusts. From a fence to keep out harm the tariff became a stockade which kept out the benefits of fair competition. 
I think  Mr. Ford's  opinions worthy of consideration. Some one may-say, " Look what a big concern his is. Tariffs cannot affect him." But he carved his success from his own genius, and from a small beginning. 
Does our tariff enable manufacturers to produce and send their products to the markets of the world on a competitive basis ? The following extract relating to sugar production in Australia is interesting on that point. It is taken from a statement made by  Sir Sydney  Henn,  a member of the Empire Parliamentary Delegation, during his visit to Australia, and reads - 
I found that last year, with a production amounting to 300,000 tons, the producers had been paid at the rate of £26 per ton for 300,000 tons consumed in this country, and at the rate of £11 10s. for the 200,000 tons which hud to bc exported. 
I recognize that we are a great and a generous people. But, personally, I am a bit too selfish to let our own people buy sugar wholesale at £26 a ton and the foreigner buy it at £11 10s. a ton. 
I am sorry that the Minister contradicts my figures, as it will force me to go to the trouble when I have the opportunity of producing the price at which the British Government purchased 3,000,000 tons of sugar from another country at a much lower figure. I do not wish to say anything offensive to the honorable senator, but he is really the Minister representing the sugar interests of Australia, and, naturally, is bound to contradict anything adverse to those interests. If my figures for the sale of that 200,000 tons of sugar are not correct, I ask the honorable senator to supply the correct figures. I have already asked him for figures in regard to the employment in the sugar industry, but have not yet received them. I particularly wanted them for this debate, but was forced to rely upon statistics which are recorded for 1921. Those figures indicate that 6,000 people were then employed in the sugar industry. It is interesting to recollect that certain New South Wales newspapers quoted the figure as 100,000 employed in the industry. 
During the last three years this Government has made an attack on the working people of Australia through our food supplies. I cite specifically the items, butter, sugar, and fruit. Can any one deny that the Government has made the price of those three commodities so high that the worker, the poorest paid unit in our community, is compelled to regard them as luxuries, and deprive himself of their use. Butter, the greatest body-building food and substance we use, has had its price increased by what I call the curse of the Paterson scheme. There is a weed where I live which we call " Paterson's curse." The Paterson scheme is to impose a levy on butter for the benefit of the dairying industry, and its effect is to make butter dear all the year round. If the Government could only realize it, we could develop in Australia double the market for sugar, butter and fruit by bringing the purchasing power of the people to such a mark that they could buy all they required of these commodities. To-day we have Queensland with its great production of sugar, and Tasmania with its great fruit industry. But why are the people of Tasmania compelled to pay such a high price for sugar? If there were no embargo on its importation and the people of Tasmania were free to buy their sugar requirements free of duty, I venture to say that double the amount of the fruit they produce could be sold in Australia. What home is there where a good housewife does not wish to make her own jam? But what home is there where to-day it will pay to make jam in large quantities? The trouble is that, for the sake of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, the Commonwealth Government has prohibited people from trading freely in sugar. Some people will say that all this leads to the argument that we must have cheap labour. But I stand by Henry Ford's declaration that the way to bring prosperity to a country is to pay high wages and cheapen commodities. We increase the purchasing power of the people by cheapening the commodities they use and by paying them high wages. Yet here in Australia we have governments taking the bread and butter and fruit from the mouths of Australian children. I think we want something better than that. 
My investigations at one time led me to inquire closely into the consumption of potatoes. If there is one Australian State supreme in the production of potatoes it is Tasmania. But I found this remarkable result, that twenty years after the founding of the Commonwealth, our consumption of potatoes was less than it was at the beginning of federation, although in the meantime the population had increased by 2,000,000. I know that protectionists can bring forward splendid arguments to explain this away; but the one  explanation  that occurs to me is that the purchasing power of the people of Australia has been reduced, and that potatoes are one of the commodities the consumption of which has had necessarily to be reduced. It is an old story that, whenever the purchasing power of the people is reduced, the first people compelled to cut down the consumption of commodities are the poor. I venture to say that, in building a nation, it is a statesmanlike action to see that the poorest child in the community is assured of sufficient sustenance so that it may grow to maturity physically fit. Henry Ford says that a strong, healthy man is a capitalist, who, if he uses his health and strength well, will soon become a boss, and, if he uses his position as a boss well, will soon become a boss of bosses or a leader of industry. 
If we could make capitalists of all Australians: if, by giving them the essentials that they require, we could double the consumption of these commodities, the fruit-growers, the sugar-growers, and the butter-producers would benefit and the future development of Australia would be assured. But we are told that we cannot build up industry without a protectionist tariff. In 1870, the State of Victoria, which had been protectionist for five years, had a population about half as large again as New South Wales, which was freetrade. In those days Victoria did not have a scientific tariff, and when the years showed that what was regarded as a scientific tariff did not cure the evils that it was thought it would cure, the people of the State set out, just as we have done in the Commonwealth, to try to get a properly scientific tariff that would do so. But the simple fact is that every increase in tariff has led not only to an increased cost to the consumer, but also to a huge increase in unemployment. Every thoughtful man will admit that an increase in a tariff does exactly what the protectionist expects it to do - it increases the cost of production. The protectionist hopes that it will increase the price of the article sufficiently to enable the local manufacturer to compete against the foreigner, but the actual result is that it leads to an increased cost of production and to such a consequent decrease in the purchasing power of the community that the people leave off purchasing. When people leave off purchasing the employers leave off employing the men who have been making the goods that the people have been purchasing. That is the process which is going on year after year. On one occasion I asked a worldly wise friend of mine how he accounted for the manufacturers wanting a protectionist tariff that injured them more than anything else by preventing the growth of their industries. He explained that their case was parallel to that of the man who was duped by the confidence man who has a rich uncle in Fiji. He explained that some of the shrewdest men in every walk of life fall victims to the wiles of confidence mcn, and likewise these manufacturers, in the belief that the tariff would improve their position and enable them to compete with outsiders and sell their goods, had asked for increased protection. 
I propose to give honorable senators some examples of the way in which the tariff has affected manufacturers in Australia. One man in a small way of business in the iron trade was anxious to import a shearing and punching machine, a recent wonderful German invention. He realized that the man who installed such a machine could do the work cheaper than any one else. He could land it from Switzerland at £200, but found that he had to pay 45 per cent, duty. 
If the Honorary Minister will return to this manufacturer all the duty he paid above 10 per cent, he will be the most grateful man in Australia. In another case a circular saw landed at a cost of £180 had to pay duty at the rate of 45 per cent. It was a magnificent piece of machinery. It would be useless to talk about producing it in Australia. We could not do it. It was the very latest thing in circular saws. 
First, because it is protected by patent rights, and secondly because no manufacturer in Australia would be stupid enough to set up a plant to produce a machine of which he could not sell more than ten a year. I am trying to point out that the biggest sufferer from our tariff is the manufacturer who is progressive. Is there any progressive secondary industry in Australia that is not anxious to replace its plant every ten years? The industry that does not do so is out of date. In every factory to-day we find that the old steam process is being replaced by electrical machinery, on which a duty of 45 per cent, has to be paid. That is how we are helping the manufacturers of Australia. I do not blame the Government, because the manufacturers are asking for these heavy duties. Henry Ford has told us that twelve years ago he installed machinery which he regarded as perfect but which to-day has all been scrapped. 
Some will say " But that is a big concern." It may be a big concern to-day, but it grew from a small concern; it grew from the brain of a genius; it grew by the individual efforts of one man who has the courage to say now to the great protectionist country of the United States of America that the tariff has never done anything to help any industry. Henry Ford declares that he needs no tariff to protect him from outside labour, But here in Australia we have a set of men who declare that Australians need such protection. I am a lone voice crying in the wilderness that the Australian working man is the equal of any other working man in the world, that if he is given decent conditions he cannot be ground down to the low level of low-wage countries. Superior men and superior intellects will be needed to conquer Australians if we take from our workers the shackles that now prevent them from increasing production and developing industries. From whom do we want protection? From people who have never had the chances of development that we have had? From people who have never had the national and intellectual advantages that every man and woman in Australia enjoys to-day? From people who have free food and untaxed clothing? 
I can only answer that by quoting again the experience of my hero, Henry Ford, who says that the way to get the best out of men is to pay them high wages and work them short hours. He works his men eight hours a day for five days a week. During the last fifteen years he has more than doubled the rate of wages paid to them. Commencing with a minimum of 2.40 dollars, he is now paying a minimum of 6 dollars a day. Success lies along the route of short hours and high wages. 
There is no piece-work in the Ford factories. 
Ford's works are merely assembling shops. 
Recently I read a pamphlet entitled  Conditions of England under Protection,  which contained some very interesting facts from which I would quote if time permitted. A committee under the chairmanship of the late  Mr. Alfred  Deakin, inquired into the conditions of labour in Melbourne factories in 3S84, when it was found that some females were working sixteen hours a day. This deplorable state of affairs prevailed after 25 years of protection in Victoria, but it is only fair to say that the conditions of labour which then prevailed in that State compared very favorably with those ruling in Great Britain where children were working eighteen and nineteen hours a day when Britain had a protective policy. I am not altogether blaming the employers for those harsh conditions, as many of the children engaged in weaving were working under the supervision of their parents on the piecework system in their own homes. The conditions imposed were even worse than those for which some harsh capitalistic employers were responsible. England, however, passed through that period and was eventually forced to adopt a different policy. Honorable senators will recall the incidents of starving farm labourers in England setting fire to the hay ricks, and when  Sir Robert  Peel changed the conditions which had existed for so many years by giving manufacturing industries of Great Britain an opportunity to prosper. We recall the great political struggle in England with which Cobden and John Bright were prominently associated. The Reform Bill gave an impetus to the new movement, trade restrictions were removed; and Britain blossomed forth into the greatest manufacturing nation in the world. About 1838, before the final crash came, and when Britain was prohibiting the importation of silk goods from France, a member of the House of Commons flourished a French silk kerchief in the chamber and said he had no doubt that every other member had one in his pocket. Great Britain soon afterwards removed the prohibition on the importation of French silk goods, and during the first year the new policy was in operation Britain sent £60,000 worth of silk to France. That is an historical fact, and from 1845 to 1914 the development of industrial Britain was such that in 1914 Britain was the master of the world. Financially strong, and industrially organized, Britain most substantially helped the other nation to win the greatest conflict the world has ever seen. If its protective restrictions had been continued from 1845 to 1914, we would not be standing here to-day as free subjects of a mighty Empire, but rather as helpless persons under the control of a dominant foreign power. 
We must have up-to-date machinery in our industries, and if my voice could reach the manufacturers I would ask them to cut themselves free from something that gives them nothing. I have to thank  Senator Thomas  for some charming reading matter. He has reminded me of the fable in one of Macaulay's essays of the Brahmin who proposed to sacrifice a sheep to his god. On his way to the place of sacrifice he met a man who, pointing to a dog, said, " This is a sheep." The Brahmin replied,  " Not  at all. That is a dog - an unclean cur." The man, however, repeated his assertion, and was supported by a third scoundrel, who also declared that the "unclean cur" was a sheep. The Brahmin, thus disregarding the testimony of his own eyes, took the unclean cur, believing it to be a sheep, and offered it as a sacrifice to his god, who punished him by inflicting upon him a dreadful disease. The protectionists have been telling the manufacturers of this country that protection is a sheep, so to speak, but it is an unclean cur, and the gods to whom we offer this sacrifice are infecting us with the dreadful disease of partial industrial paralysis, which results in men, women and children not getting even the food to which they are entitled. 
I do not wish to continue too long in this strain, because honorable senators know very well the views I hold on protection.  [Extension of time gr anted . ]  It may be said that under a protectionist tariff the Government has been able to reduce the taxation on the income of the rich man, and to place the burden upon the worker. Of the £60,000,000 of revenue now collected, no less than £40,000,000 is paid by the toilers of this country. This is not a wild statement. Those who advocate wiping out customs duties have to face the fact that revenue has to come from some source. It gives me a certain amount of pleasure to endeavour to suggest a means of raising revenue. In the Senate this session. I am filling the position of the late  Senator Grant  who, if he were here, would have something to say on the subject upon which I now intend to speak. I shall follow the example he set for many years by showing how additional revenue could be raised if we dispensed with customs duties. I do not know whether, by means of a tax on unimproved land values, we could raise at the outset the whole £40,000,000 that we should require to replace the customs revenue, but there is this to be said for such a tax that the unimproved value of land is created by the presence and needs of the community. Some will say that we could not obtain sufficient revenue by a tax on the unimproved value of land, but I shall quote the enormous increase in unimproved land values in Sydney, which indicates the extent to which the unimproved value of land generally has increased. In  Nev/  South Wales we have a Valuer-General. That officer does not value the land in the city of Sydney; that is done by the City Council's Assessor. But he and his staff have assessed the unimproved value of land in one-half of the shires and municipalities of the State, excluding Sydney, and have shown that the unimproved value of land under the control of those municipalities and shires is £149,000,000. Realizing the value of land in the city of Sydney, I went to the Assessor's office and asked him if he could supply me with figures for public use concerning land values there. It is interesting to note that for many years the City Council has been under the control of the Labour party. It was the Labour party that was responsible for the introduction of rating of unimproved land values, and if honorable senators wish to see the result they should inspect some of the buildings in Sydney which are now restricted to a height of 150 feet, because land owners found it cheaper to build up than to pay high taxes on large areas. The figures are - 
In 1921 unimproved rateable land values were £35,887,412; 
In1924 unimproved rateable land values were £44,663,151; 
In 1927 unimproved rateable land values were £61,352,508. 
In that small area bordered by the Glebe Municipality, Redfern and Paddington, the unimproved land values have increased during a period of six years, by £26,000,000. A very small tax on the whole of the unimproved land values of Australia would readily enable the Treasurer to balance the ledger, and to withstand the sudden loss of customs revenue which the removal of the high tariff would involve. 
A friend said to me some time ago that it was unjust to tax unimproved values. He instanced the case of a man who had purchased a farm for £10 an acre unimproved value, and had only just paid for it when he was called upon to pay a tax on it. In that case, he said, the man who reaped the benefit was the first seller of the land. The way to meet such a situation is to tell the man who purchased the land that if he paid its unimproved value to the first owner we will not treat him as we should treat a man found with stolen property in his possession. A land-holder cannot be accused of having stolen his land ; but unfortunately, the community has permitted the land-holder not only to take the unimproved land values, but also, in some cases to farm them out. I know of a man who bought land in a Sydney suburb for £3 a foot. The laud had a frontage of 240 feet to two streets, but he paid for only one frontage. After he had held it for some years he leased one-eighth of it to another man for the erection of a factory, and received as rent £2 a week. Honorable senators may say that he was entitled to whatever profits he received, that they were a reward for his enterprise. Values of land are increasing so rapidly that the time has arrived for the Government to say that in cases where human effort has not increased its value, the Government will retain to itself the value created by the people generally. In the case of the man with a farm I do not suggest that the Government should confiscate the money he paid for its unearned value. Let us suppose that a man paid £10 an acre for his farm, and that the tax is 3d. an acre. I should tell him that he would be called upon to pay no further taxes until at the rate of 3d. an acre the £10 had been wiped out, and that thereafter he would be called upon to pay only a small amount as tax on the value added to his land by the industry of other people. 
If we set ourselves to develop our primary industries, no other country in the world could compete with us. Canada, United States of America, and Scandinavia have not the genial climate that we have for the production of butter. In Australia, cows have not to be sheltered at night: all the year round they can graze in the open fields. Yet butter can be produced only with the aid of an artificial system known as the Paterson stabilization scheme. Surely the time that the Government has been playing with this " unclean cur " should be sufficient to convince the people that protection does not provide employment. Our wool and other primary products have kept this country going. High tariffs have killed the mining industry, and they are threatening our agricultural industry as well. I do not object to the payment of high wages. Labour is so entrenched in this country that men must be paid a fair wage. Australia is not like England, where the working man can be starved into subjection. Here we have a highspirited, well-informed and highlyorganized working class, to whom high wages must be paid or they will not buy the goods the sale of which makes high wages possible. Australians will not submit to the conditions which obtained in England 100 years ago, or in Melbourne 40 years ago. There are 50,000 fewer workers in our  primary  industries today than there were ten years ago, but the responsibility for that state of affairs does not rest with the Arbitration Act, or with the migration authorities, who have admitted into this country some of our kinsmen from Great Britain and a number of Italians. 
Work which previously was done by man is now being done by machinery. 
There are those in the community who taunt us with the statement that all the efforts of Labour are futile. They are wrong. Labour faces its opponents squarely; it looks the employing class in the face, and demands for the workers a share of the profits of industry and a chance to enjoy the reasonable comforts of life. Labour may be kept back for a while, but eventually the tide will turn. The trade unionists cannot be driven out of the unions, and no one should attempt to do so. When the history of Australia is written, the work done by the trade unions will stand out prominently. 
In another place a discussion has taken place during the last few days in connexion with old-age pensions. Some honorable members there have claimed that the Labour party was not responsible for the granting of such pensions. I have a clear recollection of the early struggles for old-age pensions by organized labour. A number of Labour members waited on the then Premier of New South Wales, the late  Sir George  Reid. and asked for legislation providing for old-age pensions and early closing. The Premier replied that his government had done more for the workers in four years than any previous government had done in twenty years. He was, however, prepared to grant the request if those who made it would, in return, agree to the imposition of 3d. per lb. on tea. The deputationists  then approached the late  Sir William  Lyne, and told him that if he would grant old-age pensions and early closing they would assist him to throw the Reid Government out of office.  Sir William  Lyne accepted the offer, with the result that the Reid Government was defeated.  Sir George  Reid was indeed defeated on an issue closely  connected with old-age pensions. A statesman who once held a seat in this Senate - I refer to the late John Cash Neild - had returned from Europe with a mass of information he had collected, at his own expense, in relation to old-age pensions.  Sir George  Reid valued his report so highly that, without consulting Parliament, he paid £500 for it. The Labour movement, determined to put into office a government willing to grant old-age pensions, supported a vote of censure on the Reid Government for spending that money without having first obtained parliamentary sanction. The motion was successful and the Reid Government was defeated. Soon afterwards a law providing for old-age pensions was placed on the statute-book of New South Wales. The credit for that legislation belongs, not to the National or Liberal party, but to organized Labour. The history of old-age pensions in the Federal sphere is somewhat similar. A government with a party of seventeen members was kept in office by 27 or 28 members of the Labour party until . old-age pensions became the law of the land. Among those Labour members were some whose names will long be remembered in this country. Two of them are present with us to-day in the persons of  Senator Pearce  and  Senator Findley. Mr. Andrew  Fisher was another of them. During the forthcoming election campaign I shall probably adopt as my slogan, " Back to the ideals of Andrew Fisher and John McGowan." When we get back to the ideals of the Labour party there will be hope for this country. Almost the last public utterance of Andrew Fisher in my presence was to the effect that he feared that the Labour movement had lost its soul. There are many to-day who share his fear. I urge the Government to give this country a chance to develop. Honorable senators probably remember well the promises of the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  to wipe out the sugar agreement when the opportunity arrived. But when the time came for him to do so, he bowed the knee to the sugar interests, and renewed the agreement. It will probably be renewed from time to time, notwithstanding that its renewal will mean the crippling of the jam and the fruit-canning industries. 
The dried fruits industry of Australia is subsidized in order that other nations may be supplied with fruit cheaper than we can obtain it in Australia, and the Australian butter industry is subsidized by a tax upon producers so that Australians may eat the same butter at a higher cost than is paid for it by those in other countries. That is not the way to progress. It is simply monopoly striving to hold its head up and make the Australian people pay to the last penny for its pampered industries. If only the tariff barriers were taken away our industries would rapidly develop - as did the industries in Great Britain - into strong and powerful concerns able to resist the attacks of outside interests. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[5.27]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short bill to provide for the more efficient working of the Bankruptcy Act 1924-1927. As honorable senators know, that act was brought into force on the 1st August of this year, and is now in operation. This bill does not affect the main principles of the principal act, but proposes to remedy a few slight defects in it. 
Section 8 of the principal act provides that the Governor-General may declare that the act shall extend to any territory. It is probable, however, that this section would be construed as relating only to territories within the Commonwealth, and it is proposed to make it clear that the act may be extended to territories outside the Commonwealth. 
Section 18 of the principal act provides that bankruptcy jurisdiction may be exercised by such State courts or courts of a territory as are specially authorized by the Governor-General by proclamation to exercise that jurisdiction. The power to issue such a proclamation implies a power to revoke, and it is quite possible that it may be necessary from time to time to revoke these proclamations in order to take away jurisdiction from one court and confer it on another. The bill provides that in such circumstances matters pending may be determined by the court originally authorized to exercise the jurisdiction or transferred to the court to which the jurisdiction has been transferred. 
The bill also proposes to amend section 18 by providing that where bankruptcy jurisdiction is conferred on a State court, that jurisdiction may be exercised by any judge of a State court. The principal act provides that one or more judges may be appointed to exercise bankruptcy jurisdiction. The amendment will make the system more flexible, as more judges will be available to deal with bankruptcy matters. It is also probable that the proposed alteration of the system will be more convenient to the judges of thp State courts exercising this jurisdiction. 
Section 91a of the principal act exempts from bankruptcy proceedings electric lines, meters, accumulators, fittings or appliances let on hire by or belonging to any local authority. It is proposed by the bill to extend this section to similar appliances and fixtures ' used in connexion with the supply of gas. Provision is also made for the protection of water pipes and meters. 
The remaining clauses of the bill are purely drafting amendments. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[5.30].  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second  time. 
This bill relates to one matter only - a proposed new section in the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to deal effectively with State debts. The Constitution has always contained a section authorizing the Commonwealth to take over State debts, and originally that section gave authority for taking over the debts existing at the establishment of federation. It was inserted because the founders of the Constitution believed that substantial sa.vings in interest could be  secured by the Commonwealth arranging for the consolidation and conversion of the debts of the States. 
In 1910 the electors approved a referendum for widening that authority and authorizing the taking over of all the State debts, including those incurred since federation. This extension of the Commonwealth power shows that the electors strongly favoured the idea of the Commonwealth taking over the State debts, but that power to take over State debts has lain dormant for 28 years because no acceptable scheme for dealing with the debts could be framed. The difficulty in the way of framing a suitable scheme has always been that the power contained in section 105 is incomplete, as the section merely authorizes the taking over of the debts. That step in itself confers no benefits. It must be accompanied by a sound debt redemption plan, and a scheme for the management of debt and future borrowings. These two things are essentials. Section 105 gives no authority for the establishment of a sinking fund for the redemption of State debts, neither does it provide any means by which debt and borrowing can be managed. These are the reasons why the long-standing desire for taking over the State debts has never been realized. 
The position now is that because of the lack of adequate authority in the Constitution, there is no means by which any plan for dealing with State debts can be put into operation. The first thing to be considered by the people of Australia is whether it would be advantageous to mobilize the credit of Australia by securing cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States in the flotation of loans and the establishment of sound sinking funds. If the benefits of such a scheme are established, we can then consider the means by which it can be brought into operation. The Commonwealth and the States to-day have debts totalling over £1,000,000,000. It will be necessary foc them  to  borrow further for the development of Australia, and any action which will enhance the credit of Australia will thus result in substantial savings. 
In the past the general plan has been for each State and the Commonwealth to act independently in the flotation of loans, the result being that they competed against one another for the available money, which undoubtedly led to the payment of higher rates of interest. There is definite experience to illustrate this. In the third quarter of 1923, the Commonwealth carried out a large war conversion operation in Australia at 5 per cent., at 98 - the effective rate of interest being £5 9s. 3d. per cent., subject to Commonwealth, but free of State income tax. Almost immediately afterwards, the States endeavoured to raise money in Australia, and soon began to compete against one another. Within four months one of the States paid 6 per cent, for a loan free of both Commonwealth and State income tax. Soon afterwards the voluntary Loan Council was formed. For a period adverse financial conditions prevented an improvement in the rate of interest, but by the middle of 1925 the rate fell to 51/2, and early in 1926 a further fall brought the rate down to 51/4 The Loan Council, of course, was not the only factor in these falls, but it is acknowledged by all financial authorities that it was a most important factor. The withdrawal of New South Wales from that council provides another illustration of the evils of competition between governments for loan money. In 1927, New South Wales increased the rate of interest in Australia from 51/4 to 51/2 per cent., and seriously prejudiced the £36,000,000 Commonwealth war loan by delaying our approach to the market. New South Wales, when outside the Loan Council, was unable to obtain in the oversea market terms nearly as good as those obtained by South Australia as a member of the Loan Council. 
If we do not amend the Constitution to provide for the proper mobilization of our credit, the alternative is a return to open competition between State and State, and between the States and the Commonwealth. It is not enough to have a voluntary Loan Council from which any State or the Commonwealth can withdraw at any  moment,  and jeopardize the interests of the whole of Australia by paying unduly high rates of interest, and for these reasons it is almost universally agreed that we should have a comprehensive loan management and debt redemption p'an, which raises the question as to the method by which such a plan could be put. into operation. As I have already stated, it could not be made effectual under the Constitution as it stands to-day. There are three methods by which action could be taken: - 
By inserting the whole plan for debt redemption and management of borrowing in the Constitution ; 
By inserting in the Constitution a new section authorizing the Commonwealth to deal with the matter as it thought fit; 
By inserting in the Constitution a new section authorizing the Commonwealth to deal with the matter in co-operation with the States by agreement. 
The third method is the only practicable one and is the one already approved by the Parliament of the Commonwealth and all the States. The first method would be too rigid. It would be unworkable, and its provisions would swamp the Constitution. They could not be adapted in the least degree to meet changing conditions, except by referendum. It is not the purpose of a constitution to set out powers in full detail but rather to define in broad outline, leaving it to Parliament to enact laws covering the subject. The second method is most undesirable as it would involve interference in the financial powers of the States, and such a plan could not be contemplated for a moment. 
The third plan is the one now proposed. It provides that the Commonwealth may enter into agreements with the States in regard to State debts and afterwards may make laws for carrying out such agreements. Under this plan the States are amply safeguarded, as the Commonwealth cannot act unless the States first agree. It is necessary to remember that the extended power now sought relates only to State debts,as the Commonwealth Parliament already has full power to deal with payments of Commonwealth revenue to the States. The referendum, therefore, does not directly deal with the financial agreement already entered into, except in so far as it gives Parliament power to validate that agreement and to make laws for carrying it into effect. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[5.37]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill that usually accompanies the budget, and the customary practice is for both Houses to put it through almost simultaneously, because it provides the money for works in the Commonwealth, and as many of those works are in the early stages of development there is good reason why there should be no delay in putting the bill through. I do not press that action, but unless honorable senators consider that strong reason exists for adjourning the debate I ask that the bill be disposed of immediately. Its purpose is to provide out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund the sum of £383,785 for additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c, for the year ending 30th June, 1929. The amount which Parliament provided last year for similar services was £317,649, and the actual expenditure that year amounted to £229,626. The amount which Parliament is now asked to provide is, therefore, £66,136 more than the amount voted for 1927-28, and £154,159 more than the actual expenditure for that year. 
The total of the bill is made up as follows :  - 

<graphic href="119332192809060_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

Under Part I., the principal items contained in the bill are - 

<graphic href="119332192809060_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

The balance is made up of sundry items for various departments, mainly Trade and Customs and Health. Reference to the schedule will show that all the items are a repetition of those contained in the Appropriation Act for last year, with one exception, the erection of the Australian War Memorial at Canberra. With regard to Part III., Territories of the Commonwealth, the total amount contained in the bill, £139,750, is made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809060_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

Ministers will be glad to furnish further information on any of the items when the bill reaches the committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
Standing Orders suspended and bill read a third time. 
[5.45]. - I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to extend the benefits conferred under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. In the first place it is proposed to extend a concession to incapacitated ex-soldiers who are in receipt of war pensions by providing that in future these war pensions shall not constitute income for the purposes of a claim for an old-age pension by an incapacitated soldier or his wife. In the second place it is proposed to increase from 4s. to 5s. 6d. a week, 'the amount of pension payable to pensioner inmates of benevolent asylums and hospitals. 
With regard to the first proposal, honorable senators may remember that in 1917 the act was amended to provide that war pensions payable to dependants of deceased or incapacitated soldiers should be exempted from computation as income in dealing with claims for invalid or old-age pensions. This concession was, however, not extended to incapacitated soldiers themselves, who werein receipt of war pensions, and up to the present war pensions payable to ex-members of the forces have been treated as income. Hitherto this limitation has not affected the soldiers to any appreciable extent, because very few of them have yet attained the qualifying age for old-age pensions. The time is approaching, however, when old-age pension claims will be received from incapacitated soldiers, and it seems desirable, therefore, to remove the present apparent anomaly. The effect of the amendment will be that war pensions will not be treated as income in any case where a soldier or a soldier's wife applies for an old-age pension. It is not proposed to extend this amendment to claims for invalid pensions. If a soldier is in receipt of a war pension, he is already being compensated for his war injury, and it is not necessary to provide for the payment of an invalid pension in respect of the same incapacity. 
Coming to that portion of the bill dealing with the proposed increase of pensions to inmates of charitable institutions, honorable senators may be aware that under the original act, pensioners who become inmates of charitable institutious received no payment during the period of their stay in the institutions. In 1916 the law was amended to provide for payment of pensions of 2s. a week to pensioners who became permanent inmates of benevolent asylums. No provision was, however, made for payment to pensioners in hospitals. In 1923 the rate of these pensions was increased from 2s. to 3s. a week, and, at the same time, provision was made for the payment of 3s. a week to all inmates of charitable institutions, including hospitals, who would have been eligible for pensions if resident elsewhere. In 1925, as the result of legislation introduced by the present Government, this payment was increased to 4s. a week, at which rate payment is now being made. The present bill provides for a further increase in the rate of pensions to inmates of charitable institutions from 4s. to 5s. 6d. a week. In addition to increasing the rate of pension to inmates of ' charitable institutions, further consideration has been given to the payments to hospitals and benevolent asylums for the maintenance of pensioner inmates. 
In the early days of pensions administration the Commonwealth agreed to make payments to charitable institutions. The actual rate of payment differed in the various States, but in 1912 a uniform rate of 7s. 6d. a week was adopted throughout the Commonwealth, and later in the same year this rate was increased to 8s. a week. In 1916 the rate was still further increased, when 10s. 6d. a week was paid, and this rate has been paid ever since. Under the present system, therefore, the Commonwealth pays only a total of 14s. 6d. a week in respect of pensioner inmates of institutions, although those persons, if resident outside, would, generally speaking, be receiving pensions of £1 a week. This anomaly is due to the fact that successive increases in the rate of pension have not been accompanied by corresponding increases in the rate of payment for maintenance. In 1916, when the rates of asylum pension and maintenance were fixed at 2s. and 10s. 6d. a week respectively, the maximum rate of ordinary pension was 12s. 6d. a week. Pensions have since been raised by successive amendments of the law to £1 a week, but, although the rate payable to pensioners in charitable institutions has been raised to 4s. a week, payment for maintenance has remained at 10s. 6d. a week. The matter has been discussed with the State Treasurers and others interested, and the Government has decided to increase the rate of payment made by the Commonwealth to the institutions for the maintenance of pensioner inmates from 10s. 6d. to 14s. 6d. a week. If this bill is passed, therefore, the total payments made by the Commonwealth in respect of pensioner inmates of institutions will amount to £1 a week, made up of 5s. 6d. a week paid to the pensioner for his own persona] use and 14s. 6d. a week paid to the institution for the pensioner's maintenance. Thus the total liability of the Commonwealth in respect of pensioner inmates of charitable institutions will be equal to the maximum rate of pension payable to pensioners resident elsewhere, namely, £1 a week. The total cost of this concession is estimated at £56,000 per annum. 
It will be noticed that it is proposed that the amendment of the law shall be brought into operation on a date to be proclaimed. This practice has generally been followed in connexion with amendments of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, the object being to enable the amendments to become operative as from a pensions pay-day, thus obviating the necessity for calculations over broken periods of a fortnight. The Treasurer has informed me that he desires to have an amendment inserted in committee to authorize payments to pensioners in institutions during the first four weeks. At present no payments are made during this period, but the amendment will enable some payment to be made so that pensioners may be in a position to buy tobacco or anything else they need during their first four weeks in an institution. 
I welcome this measure. It will fill a long-felt want. Time and again in the Senate I have advocated that income from war pensions should not be set off against old-age pensions. Men who are drawing war pensions earned them on the field of strife. Again, I have always contended that income from oldage pensions should not be a set-off against war pensions. It is a step forward that one part of this principle has now been recognized. The re-allocation of the amount payable to pensioners in institutions is also something that I have been advocating for a long time. I have frequently pointed out that the Treasury was retaining money which should not have been retained. The allocation of recent years has been 10s. 6d. to the institution and 4s. to the pensioner, the balance of the 20s. being retained by the Treasury. The institution in which the pensioner is resident has been unfairly handicapped by the small amount paid for his maintenance. There has been considerable comment by honorable senators and honorable members of another place on this phase of our pension system? and I am pleased to see that an alteration has now been made. It would, perhaps, have been better to allow a little more than 5s. 6d. per week to the pensioner, and a little less to the institution; but I welcome this measure, as the extra1s. 6d. a week will enable a pensioner to receive some small comforts which the institution does not provide. On the other hand the increased amount to be paid to the institutions will enable them to provide the inmates with a little more than is possible under the present rate. For these reasons I support the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The object of the bill is to extend the long arm of the law in the matter of the attachment of salaries of public officers. I understand that the Government was under the impression that the, present law was applicable to all public servants, including temporary officers; but it has since discovered that it applies only to permanent public servants. The garnishee system is not now, and operates in all avenues of employment. As every man should pay his legal debts, I do not offer any objection to the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
This measure is to amend the New Guinea Act 1920-1926. The main features of the bill are contained in proposed new sections 11a and 11b in clause 3. Proposed section 11a reads - 11a. - (1.) There shall be an Executive 
Council for the Territory, to advise and assist the Administrator. . . (2.) The Executive Council shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed by the Governor-General and shall hold their places in the Council during his pleasure. 
Proposed section 11b refers to the appointment of a Legislative Council, consisting of a similar membership, and appointed in a similar manner. I am glad to see that so much progress has been made under the mandate that the Government realizes the necessity of changing the form of administration from that of a sole administrator to a system whereby the administrator will be assisted in the direction provided in the bill. While I welcome that degree of progress, I am not enamoured of the system of appoint ment. A new system would probably result in a greater development of the territory. The right to nominate men to assist the Administrator in its government should not be confined to the Governor-General, but should be shared by the white residents of the territory. In the early stages of the mandate an elective system of government would probably not have been practicable, but that stage of development has passed. The white population has increased considerably during recent years - it now numbers nearly 2,000 adults - and the time is opportune for them to be given at least an instalment of local government. The white residents of the territory are not illiterate people, but men and women of good education, acquainted with various phases of governmental activities. If they had a voice in the Government of the territory in which they reside the task of the Administrator would be made easier. It might be said that an elective system of government is unwise in a mandated territory; but I cannot agree that there is any reason why a democratic system of government should not be put into operation there. I feel certain that a plebiscite of the white residents would indicate unmistakably their desire for somebetter form of government. These pioneers in an outpost of the Empire resent being forced to pay taxation while  having no representation. On the 15th May, 1924, the late  Senator Grant  moved the following motion :  - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate it is desirable in the best interests of the progress of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, that immediate steps be taken by the Government to make provision for the election by the local adult residents of a committee of nine of their number, for the purpose of considering and advising the Administrator on all matters affecting the territory. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  moved an amendment which, if carried, would have made the motion read - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate it is desirable in the best interests of the progress of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea that when the numbers of the non-official population justify it, action be taken by the Government to make provision for an Advisory or Legislative Council, consisting of nominated or elected representatives for the purpose of considering and advising the Administrator on all matters affecting the territory. 
That amendment is an indication of what was in the mind of  Senator Pearce  at that time. It is true that he did not say definitely that there should be an elective form of government in the territory ; he advocated either an elective or a nominative system when conditions justified it. Whether a population of some 2,000 white residents is sufficient to justify an elective system of government may be debatable, but, at least, that system could be given a trial. In committee I propose to test the opinion of honorable senators in this matter, because I feel that if the white residents were given some voice in the government of the territory its progress would be more rapid than has been the case under the system which has operated so far. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8. p.m. 


 Private business taking precedence after 8 p.m., 

I rise to say a few words on this motion because I believe that it is of great importance that the problem which it raises should be tackled without delay. Every one will agree that we have reached a time in the history of this country when we should manifest extreme caution before beginning any large financial undertaking such as railway construction, and other works of national development, involving the expenditure of large sums of money. We should make quite sure that such schemes are economically sound and will make for the development of Australia in a way that will bring an immediate return one way or another. There are quite a large number of works in which the Commonwealth Government is at present interested, and we should ask ourselves seriously if they are in the category that I have mentioned. I instance the railway from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs. No one, in his wildest imagination, believes that that railway will give an economic return on the outlay for many years to come. I doubt very much whether it will be of any material benefit even to the State that has pressed for it so long and so strenuously - South Australia. It taps an area which at its best can never be more than the lightest stock carrying country, and our only hope of an adequate return for the money invested is that the line will develop the mineral resources of the territory that it traverses. Even that is extremely problematical. 
We are also involved in very large expenditure on irrigation. Personally, I am very doubtful whether that is at present an economical proposition. We have  only to regard the existing irrigation settlements of Australia to realize the tremendous difficulties that are experienced by the people pursuing agricultural activities in those areas. I believe that the real development of irrigable areas of Australia can take place economically and soundly only as our population grows. 
But here is a proposition of an entirely different nature. I shall not concern myself to-night with the route that the line should take. Upon that there has been a great diversity of opinion. I am inclined to the belief that it should be from Bourke to Cunnamulla,  thence  north to Charleville, Blackall, Longreach, "Winton, and so north and west. That would link up the country in the best way, and do the greatest amount of good. But it is a matter for full inquiry by the investigating body, which will be charged with the responsibility of recommending to this Parliament the route to be followed. No one who has had any knowledge in the past, and particularly - recently, of the tremendous losses that have been sustained in the area through which this line would run can fail to realize that every season Australia is subjected to the loss of millions of pounds because of the climatic vagaries of that area. As a result its over-productivity is reduced very materially. It is a progressive loss that is, more or less, always with us. It will be admitted by those who have made any study of the climatic conditions of Australia that the area which this line would serve is always, in some place or another, more or less subject to drought conditions. The monsoonal influences upon which the area, is entirely dependent for its annual rainfall, come from quite a number of directions. The monsoon which gives abundant rain in one portion of the territory, might never affect other portions of it, and it is only when there is a combination of more than one monsoon working across Australia at one time that that great territory gets general rain. The consequence is that there is practically always a shortage of feed in one or another portion of the territory, which stretches pretty well from central New South Wales to the gulf country of North Queensland. 
The primary object of this motion is to serve the Northern Territory. One feels so hopeless at times about that Territory as to wonder whether anything can effectively give it relief. Its tremendous distance from the centres of population and the extraordinary difficulties that are encountered when taking stock out of it, make it almost hopeless to conduct any industry there. Yet I do not think that a railway line in 'the Territory at this moment would be of any benefit. What is needed is a means whereby stock could be taken from the Territory direct to the southern markets. It is our experience that the vast majority of our people for many years to come will be settled along the eastern littoral of Australia, stretching from Adelaide around the southern corner, and right up the eastern side. It is, therefore, clear that it is to that part of Australia that we must look in the future for a market for the whole of the cattle from the Northern Territory. It is equally clear that the great bulk of our population will be east of Adelaide, and that South Australia will be a comparatively small market. The great markets run from Melbourne around the southern corner of Australia, and north along our eastern littoral. For that reason we should devote our energies to making the market available by the shortest route. I am setting aside for the time being the development of the sheep industry in the Territory, although I believe that will be possible later, and am surveying the problem solely as a cattle proposition. We are rapidly approaching the time when the export of beef will be a more or less negligible factor. Our beef export trade is diminishing year by year, and that will continue as our population increases. The tendency will be to rush young stock from the Northern Territory to the southern pastures, and there fatten them. Therefore, it is of the greatest importance that a rapid route should be found, along which that stock will be brought to the southern markets. Owing to the uncertain climatic conditions of the Northern Territory, it is difficult to drive stock direct to the southern market, and at times they have to be taken by an extremely circuitous route. For instance, I know of an instance this year where stock had to be taken right up  into the Gulf, then south out of the Northern Territory, and on to a line hundreds of miles out of their proper route. That condition of affairs has been going on for many years, and has always presented grave difficulties to stock raisers. We should, as soon as possible make available a railway route from the Queensland border abutting on the Northern Territory so that the progress of cattle to the southern market may be facilitated. This proposition which  Senator Foll  has, I think, with great wisdom, brought before the Senate, is, in my judgment, one of those which deserve the most serious consideration of the Government and Parliament; it is one of those means we have ready at our hand to improve very materially the condition of a great territory, and which, while doing great service to a vast area of pastoral country would, I believe, save the lives of millions of sheep in the course of years to come along the course of the line. I suppose that the average rainfall in the Winton district of Queensland during the last eighteen months has not been more than 5-J inches a year, and what has fallen has come in such dribs and drabs that it has afforded very little relief. The whole of the Winton district is, to all intents and purposes, denuded of stock. Some stockowners had the money and the temerity to shift their sheep in the early stages of the drought, and a glance at the map showing the route they had to take - from Winton to the coast, thence down to Brisbane and out to Warwick, and thence to the south-west districts of Queensland - clearly demonstrates that only a few men with big resources could undertake the task. The risks were enormous. The chances of losing a vast number of stock on a long trek of that kind are well known to stockmen, and it is a marvellous tribute to the manner in which the undertaking was handled by the people responsible and the Queensland railway officials that some succeeded in doing it. But to the great majority the expense was an impossible bar to their undertaking such a trek. A few stock-owners tried to save their sheep by feeding them on the stations. A great number of them lost their all in doing so. 
The proposal put forward by  Senator Foll  is one of the few matters outstanding at the present time which Australia could well afford, even in the present stringent financial position, to seriously tackle. I believe it would repay the Commonwealth a thousandfold to have this railway built. It would increase the material wealth of the country. It would make possible, from time to time, the utilization of vast areas of pastoral country which now, owing to their inaccessibility to stock starving in other places, it is impossible to use. This motion apparently contemplates extending the railway into the Northern Territory, but I believe that the right policy to adopt in regard to the development of the Northern Territory at the present moment is to open a port at the Pellew Islands, at the mouth of the McArthur River. Comparatively little expenditure there would make a deepsea port available that would not require many facilities for many years to come; and, given a reasonable dry road - not a wet weather road, because no one can move about that country during the wet weather - and petrol supplies at the mouth of the McArthur, I believe the Barkly Tablelands could be opened up for sheer) more rapidly than in any other way. 
I ask the Government to give this matter its most serious and earnest consideration and to lose no time in following the course of action which  Senator Foll  has suggested : that of getting the various States concerned and the Development and Migration Commission busy in obtaining a full report on the services which I believe this proposed railway would be capable of rendering. When that report is presented I believe this Parliament will not have the slightest difficulty in making up its mind that it would be a judicious undertaking even at the present juncture. 
.- I do not wish to traverse the ground already covered by other honorable senators who, in the main, have supported my motion, but I should like to make some reply to the criticism offered by  Sir Henry  Barwell, when he was a member of the Senate, and I think one other  honorable senator representing South Australia. I can assure those honorable gentlemen that I do not regard this as being in any way a competitive railway with the line which they are continually advocating, that running north and south between Oodnadatta and Darwin. The line I propose would have a reasonable chance of conferring some material benefit on Australia, whereas all the reports that have hitherto been obtained in regard to the Oodnadatta-Darwin line indicate that there is very little prospect of that railway being an asset to the Commonwealth. The reason for that is that the north-south telegraph line runs through very light stock country, and a railway following that route would not connect with the main cattle markets of Australia. 
I am pleased to note that since I submitted my motion, a considerable time ago, the Federal Pastoral Advisory Committee, appointed by the Government for the purpose of investigating means whereby some of the appalling losses that occur in drought time may be avoided, has submitted a comprehensive report. 
The report was signed by  Mr. N.  W. Cater,  Mr. Peter  Tait,  Mr. Ben  Chaffey,  Mr. K.  N. Mall, and  Mr. Anthony  Brunskill, all well-known men in the pastoral industry who have firsthand knowledge of the country through which the railway I propose would pass. In the earlier part of their report, they speak of the difficulty experienced in removing starving stock in drought time in Queensland and New South Wales, and they ascribe much of the difficulty to the shortage of rolling stock. They report that many complaints were made to them that it was impossible for the existing railways to provide people with facilities to shift their stock, but their main recommendation is that a railway should be built somewhat on the lines of the route advocated by  Senator Greene,  a route which would run from a point near the end of the New South Wales railway system at Bourke, and run northwards through the north-west portion of New South Wales and along the western portion of Queensland, entering the Northern Territory in the neighbourhood of Camooweal. They suggest an alternative route running from Bourke through Hungerford, Thargomindah, Eromanga, and Boulia to Camooweal; but they prefer what they describe as the easterly route, beginning at Bourke and passing through Barringun to Cunnamulla, to form part of the scheme to link up the existing railways by connecting Charleville with Blackall. The reasons advanced by them for their recommendation of the easterly route are as follows : - 
It would serve better class  country. (The average rainfall of the country to be traversed by this route ranges from 1G to 23 inches, whereas the average rainfall of the country through which the westerly route would pass, would not exceed 10 to 12 inches.) 
It would tap the country which carries almost the whole of Queensland's sheep. 
It would be more availed of and be a more payable proposition as it traverses the centre of the State, thereby being accessible to a greater number of stock. 
It would cost considerably less. The cost of connecting Bourke with Cunnamulla, and Charleville with Blackall, is estimated to be approximately £2,000,000, a sum which is insignificant in comparison with the enormous losses of stock that have taken place in Queensland and New South Wales in the past and a large proportion of which would have been saved had the proposed connexions been in existence. It is estimated that in 1926-1927 sheep and cattle to the value of not less than £15,000,000 perished in Queensland alone. 
If a railway were built as suggested enabling stock to be removed to better class country, the cost of the line would probably be saved in one drought period. Some years ago it was my privilege to traverse the Barkly Tableland. The visit was paid in a normal year a few months after the monsoonal season had passed. As  Senator Greene  has pointed out, drought is practically unknown on these tablelands. Times out of number when the far western Queensland country has been in the grip of drought, the appearance of the Barkly Tableland has been that of a wheat field under favorable climatic conditions, but because of lack of transport facilities, starving stock could not be taken to the agistment country available for them there. The proposal I have made is not an original one. 
The construction of a line on the route I have suggested has been before the public of Australia for the last 40 or 50 years. Other parts have been served by railways, but the area in the west of Queensland has been sadly neglected. Prior to his departure this evening,  Senator Guthrie  told me that there were 70,000 merino sheep on the Avon Downs station when he was managingdirector of the company that owned that property. He also informed me that on one occasion the wool from that locality topped the London market, and that wethers. from Avon Downs station had brought the highest price in the Adelaide market. I mention that fact to show that those who have said that sheep will not thrive there have yet a good deal to learn concerning the possibilities of the Barkly Tableland. The country is not carrying sheep in any number at present owing to the absence of transport facilities. When  Senator Guthrie  had an interest in that territory, he informed me that the whole of the transport had to be conducted through Burke town, and that, in consequence, a vast tract of territory which is vitally important to Australia was not being developed. 

 Senator Gardiner said this afternoon that we are riding to prosperity on the back of the sheep. The wool industry is one of our greatest primary industries. 
I do not wish the honorable senator to think that I am suggesting that the sugar industry is not a great asset to Australia. It is a highly important industry, and deserves the support of every Australian. The latest statistics show that the wool producers of Australia are providing 40 per cent, of the taxation collected. The wool industry is one in which there is no overproduction, and there is not likely to be in the future. That being so, we should do everything possible to facilitate its development. The construction of a railway in the direction I have suggested would be one way of increasing our wool production, and thus assisting the general prosperity of Australia. A reference to statistics will show that, instead of our flocks increasing by millions during recent years, there has actually been a decrease owing to the ravages of drought at different periods.  Senator Greene  referred to the position in certain parts of Western Queensland. There are portions of Queensland which in normal years are eminently suitable for fattening stock, but on which there has not been a good fall of rain for four years. The serious climatic conditions ' which have prevailed have had a very serious effect upon many pastoralists, and have indirectly been responsible for a good deal of the unemployment that exists in Queensland. 
Surely the honorable senator realizes that if a railway service were available, instead of stock being allowed to die during drought periods, it could be removed to the Barkly Tableland, where there is usually feed in abundance. 
If a railway were available, they would be able to obtain supplies of vermin-proof netting at much more reasonable prices than prevail at present. Moreover, the wild dog problem is not as serious on the Barkly Tableland as it is in other parts of Australia, as there is very little scrub to provide shelter for dogs. When I was in Camooweal a few years ago, station owners out west told me that it cost between £40 and £50 a ton to obtain netting from Cloncurry. 
Yes, because it would tap that portion of the Territory which is awaiting development. It seems ridiculous to undertake the construction of a railway to develop a portion of the Northern Territory that is capable of only light stocking. If the Northern Territory is to be properly settled, the Government should concentrate its activities on that portion which shows the possibility of an immediate return, instead of spending millions of pounds in constructing a railway through comparatively poor country. 
At present I am referring to the North-South line, which, in my opinion, will never pay the cost of axle grease. 
If the Leader of the Opposition were to visit the country north of Alice Springs he, too, would object to the construction of a direct north-south railway. I do not think that a railway over the route I have suggested could be regarded as a competitor with the northsouth line, because the two routes are hundreds of miles apart, and each would serve an entirely different class of country. The North Australia Commission, which has travelled extensively in North Australia in order to become fully acquainted with its possibilities, has submitted to Parliament a report advocating a railway - not following the route I am suggesting - in an easterly direction. The Federal Pastoral Advisory Committee has also taken evidence from nearly a hundred witnesses, many of whom have had practical experience in Western Queensland and in the Northern Territory for many years. This commission has submitted a unanimous report in favour of the construction of a line in the direction I am advocating. 
The report is based on the evidence of many witnesses who gave impartial evidence. The honorable member for Riverina  (Mr. Killen),  who is regarded as one of the best judges of land in Australia, went over the country to be served by the north-south line, and said that had he known the nature of the country which the proposed line is to serve he would not have supported the authorizing bill. 
 Senator Greene,  who has a first-hand knowledge of the country in Western Queensland, and knows the difficulties which exist during periods of drought, will agree that the construction of a line such as I suggest is one of the most urgent public works which could be undertaken. When the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  was in Brisbane some months ago, I introduced to him a most influential deputation consisting of pastoralists, graziers, and members of the Chamber of Commerce, all of whom were acquainted with the country. Although these gentlemen would have to contribute somewhat heavily towards the cost of constructing a railway, they strongly advocated the Commonwealth Government taking some interest in the matter. The Prime Minister pointed out that, generally speaking, it was a matter for the State. The members of the deputation, however, referred to the Beaudesert-Kyogle railway in which the Commonwealth was interested. The Prime Minister pointed out that the Federal Government was associated with that line, and also the construction of the east-west line, because they were regarded as part of a general scheme of unification, and were also valuable for strategic purposes. He further said that if the proposed railway could' be placed in the same category, or would assist in the development of the Northern Territory, it was another matter. He said that it was not the responsibility of the Federal authorities to construct railways in a State; but that if such a line would assist in the development of the Northern Territory, it was a proposal which should come under the purview of the Federal Government. This line would benefit not only New South Wales and Queensland; it would be an advantage to the whole of Australia. During the last two or three years the losses in stock in the district it would serve are estimated at £15,000,000. That loss has necessitated additional taxation being paid by the people of Australia. 
Were it not for the drought which caused the loss -of many hundreds of thousands of sheep, their owners would have contributed considerable sums to the public revenue as taxation on their incomes. That deficiency had to be made up from other sources. 
I was glad to hear the Leader of the Senate say, when this motion was previously under discussion, that the Government realized the importance of railway communication in the area which this railway would serve, and that when the financial position improved, it would give the matter its serious consideration. It is useless to expect the States of Queensland and New South Wales to construct this line ; their finances will not permit it. I maintain that this is a matter for the nation as a whole, because of its important bearing on the pastoral industry. Although the works now being undertaken along the Murray river will benefit directly only South Australia, Victoria, and New South Wales, it cannot be said that the other States have no interest in them. The completion of these works will benefit the whole of the Commonwealth. Similarly, the construction of this line of railway would be of advantage to Australia as a whole. I therefore urge honorable senators to view this proposal from a broad national standpoint. It is one which might well be investigated by the Development and Migration Commission. 
The  chairman  of that commission,  Mr.- Gepp,  has already travelled extensively in different parts of Australia, and I understand that he favours the development of this part of our territory. 
I am prepared to take that risk. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
Motion," by leave, withdrawn. 

 .- Senator Thomas is to be congratulated on having brought forward a proposal to cheapen communications with other parts of the world by means, of the Beam wireless. But, although the honorable senator has submitted a mass of figures in an endeavour to show that his proposal would be a good business proposition, I am unable, at this stage, to support his motion. The Beam wireless system has not long been in operation. A good deal of inquiry and investigation was necessary before it was eventually decided to build the existing station. I am gratified at the success which has attended the company's efforts. The reduced rates charged by it have attracted a large proportion of the business, but at this stage of wireless development I am not prepared to agree to those rates being reduced to Id. a word. Many thousands of pounds of the people's money have been invested in this company, -and a reduction in the charges, to the extent advocated by the honorable senator, might have serious results. 
I admit that that would be so; but I consider that it would be unwise to reduce the charge to Id. a word forthwith. Some of the figures supplied by  Senator Thomas  could not have been supplied by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, and I feel certain that the manager of that company would not be prepared to accept them. While I am always prepared to give the people the benefit of public utilities at the lowest possible rate, I feel that in a matter1 'of such importance we4' should rely largely on the advice of those who are responsible for the administration of the department. It would be easy for any honorable senator at this juncture, when a Federal election is about to be held, to advocate a reduction of postal, telegraphic and telephonic charges. I do not infer that  Senator Thomas  is actuated by any electioneering desire. I am aware that his motion has been on the notice-paper for some considerable time. As representatives of the people we should give careful consideration to the subject before registering our vote in favour of a motion of thisnature. It would not be wise for the Senate to carry such a motion until we had an assurance from those responsible that it would be possible to carry out the scheme without involving the country in heavy financial loss. I should be just as pleased as  Senator Thomas  to see wireless communications between Great Britain and Australia made possible at1d., or even 1/2d. per word - provided it was economically sound to do so. Wireless has revolutionized long distance communication, and it is even yet in its infancy, so that we may expect much from it in the future. This Government has a controlling interest in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, and is represented on its directorate, but it would be a drastic step for Parliament to instruct those directors to reduce the cost of wireless messages between Australia and Great Britain to1d. a word. 
Would  Senator Herbert  Hays advocate that our postage should be reduced to1/2d., and that the charge for interstate telegrams should be 8d. instead of1s. 4d. for sixteen words ? 
I should have no hesitation in supporting the motion if I thought that, it would be economically sound to effect the innovation ; but we have not had sufficient evidence to justify the conclusion that the cost of wireless messages should be reduced to1d. a word. I believe that  Senator Thomas  introduced his motion in good faith; but until more satisfactory evidence is forthcoming I do not feel disposed to support his motion. 
The ideal of one penny a word wireless messages between Australia and Great Britain is one which we should all like to see realized. But this is a matter of business, and we must recognize the practical difficulties in the way. We should provide ourselves with a very poor testimonial to our qualifications to deal seriously with the business affairs of the country if we supported  Senator Thomas's  motion. At present the charges for telegraphic communication between Australia and Great Britain is very much less than it was a few years ago. One can now send a message from Australia to Great Britain in the form of a lettergram for 9d. a word, or a week-end message for 7d. a word. 
That indicates that the tendency is continually downwards. But 5d. a word is a long way above1d. a word. It must be realized that even these reasonable charges are far above the means of a great many people, and it is doubtful whether they can be substantially reduced. One must also remember that it may not be the desire of the average individual to indulge in friendly communication per medium of wireless. That method lacks the personal touch afforded by letters. 
I do not think that makes a letter the less acceptable. It must be recognized, even by those possessing the most superficial knowledge of wireless, that there are a great many expenses in addition to those incurred by the bare operation of the system. There is interest on the cost of installation, depreciation on the plant and maintenance, and the cost of receiving and delivering messages. I am informed that even in the centre of any of our big cities the costs of delivery amounts to no less than 3d. a message. There are two parties interested in the fixation of rates. It is not for Amalgamated Wireless alone to say what shall be charged for transmission. A reciprocal arrangement is in force between the receiving and transmitting stations, and the fixation of rates must necessarily be the result of negotiation between the two parties. 
When discussing wireless we cannot altogether disregard the cable services between this and other countries. As we are aware, the Imperial Government is at present engaged in negotiations to co-ordinate the cable and wireless services. Those who have given the matter thought must agree that we cannot dispense with our cable services, as on numerous occasions it is impossible to communicate by wireless between Great Britain and Australia, and many messages received for transmission by wireless have at such times to be sent by cable. 
The Government has given a great deal of attention to the cheapening of telegraphic communication between Australia and Great Britain. Five years ago the charge for ordinary messages by cable was 3s. a word. In 1924 that was reduced to 2s. 6d., and before the Beam station began to operate it was further reduced to 2s. a word. Now the wireless rate is ls. 8d. a word for ordinary messages. I trust that honorable senators will not support this motion, as  Senator Thomas  has not justified his plea for such a reduction in the charges. Honorable senators may rest assured that, whether the motion' is carried or lost, the Government will continue to pay the closest attention to this problem with a view to having telegraphic rates reduced as low and as soon as possible. 
This motion has afforded honorable senators a chance to glean a great deal of information in connexion with telegraphic communication. It has ventilated the matter thoroughly, and has given a great many people outside the chamber some opportunity to learn what wireless really means to the Commonwealth, so that even if the motion is not carried the efforts of  Senator Thoma's  will not have been in vain. After listening to the remarks of  Senator Thomas,  who has undoubtedly devoted a great deal of time and given a great deal of thought to the subject, it occurs to me that there is something in his contention that it should be possible to make very substantial reductions in the charges for wireless messages between Australia and Great Britain.  Senator Crawford  has referred to the cost of delivering messages at either end, presumably in Great Britain and Australia, but the same costs are involved in the delivery of telegrams. If it costs 3d. to deliver a wireless message, it must cost the same to deliver a telegram. I was hoping that the Minister would promise that the matter would be looked into seriously to see if some reduction in the rates could be made. I am not in a position to say that the drastic reductions proposed by  Senator Thomas  could be made; as a matter of fact, I should hesitate before supporting the honorable senator in such a proposal; but I should be interested to learn the views of the directors of Amalgamated Wireless upon the point. It seems to me that the Government should seriously consider the possibility of utilizing wireless for telephonic communication with Tasmania. We know that owing to frequent shipping troubles the delivery of mails between Tasmania and the mainland is often interrupted. A lot of our difficulties in this respect would be avoided if we had the same facilities for telephonic communication as are now available between the mainland States. The earnestness with which  Senator Thomas  has taken up this matter justifies some inquiry to see if substantial reductions cannot be made in the wireless rates, and I should be interested to learn the views of the directors of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited upon the honorable senator's proposal. 
As honorable senators know, when I moved my motion two or three months ago in favour of Id. a word wireless messages between here and Great Britain,  Senator McLachlan,  who was then representing the Postmaster-General, was good enough to reply to my remarks. He made no attempt to reply to my arguments or to refute my figures - they may not have been worthy of a reply - but he paid me the compliment of delivering a prepared speech, although very little of it referred definitely to what I had said. It is a greater compliment to pie that to-night  Senator Crawford,  another Minister, has spoken against my motion. Ministers are evidently afraid that  Senator McLachlan  did not put the case properly. 
I do, and it was a still greater compliment when the Government Whip  (Senator Poll)  was put up to make an intelligent speech on the subject.  Senator McLachlan's  statement, which was more elaborate than that just made by  Senator Crawford,  referred to the good work that had been done by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. I agree with all that the Minister said as to the good effect of wireless in Australia, and I have not an unkind word to litter against the operations of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited in Australia, but the Minister simply told, us that we should leave the matter to the goodness of the company, and trust the directors who represent the Commonwealth. He made no attempt to, analyse or refute the figures I had quoted, which, realizing that this was not a matter of sentiment, and that in this chamber I had to deal with business men, I had taken considerable trouble to compile. The issue can be stated very clearly. We can send a telegram from Broome to Cape York, a distance of 7,500 miles, at a cost of Id. a word. That telegram has to be handled several times - from Broome to Perth, from Perth to Sydney, from Sydney to Brisbane and from Brisbane to Cape York.  Senator Crawford  has referred to the cost of handling wireless messages. I am asking for one handling only, from Australia to London, at a cost of Id. a word. The distance is considerable, I admit, but has not wireless annihilated not only space but also time? A wireless message goes from here to England in onefifteenth of a second and there are no relay stations. If there were it would be another matter altogether. When  Senator McLachlan  was replying to me he said - 
I take it that men of that type are sufficiently alert to their own interests to take every advantage of the cheaper rates imposed for week-end messages, or the daily letter telegrams. 
I had been referring to immigrants who have come here to help us to build up a great continent. Those people have no money to waste, but of course the Minister would have us believe that they could make use of these week-end messages or daily letter telegrams at a cost of 8s. 4d. or 10s. I should like to know what telegraphic traffic we should get in Australia if the minimum charge for a telegram was 8s. 4d. We must remember that it is far more costly to transmit telegrams than to send wireless messages. 
Certainly. I made the statement in my original speech, and it has not since been refuted, that the Beam service could easily send 86,000,000 words a year from here to Great Britain. I admitted that it would be difficult to send 100,000,000 a year, but claimed that 86,000,000 a year could be sent with ease. The people who represent Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited have not claimed that I was exaggerating. My statement was that 25,000,000 words a year would pay and 25,000,000 words a year at Id. a word, would mean a revenue of £104,000.  Senator McLachlan  ridiculed the idea that 25,000,000 words would be despatched and he laughed me to scorn when I said that very soon the number would increase to 50,000,000. Last night I quoted  Sir Godfrey  Clarke's opinion that if the cost of cable messages was reduced to 10s. for 100 words, which means about lid. a word, the volume of business that the cables and the Beam service would have to undertake would be such that all existing services would not be able to cope with it. As a matter of fact  Senator McLachlan  did not know what he was talking about. To-night  Senator Crawford  says that he does not know if there is any likelihood of social telegrams being despatched. There was a time in London when the charge for a telegram was 6s. When the charge was reduced to 6d. the volume of traffic immediately increased by thirteen times.  Senator Crawford  says that there is a personal touch about a letter which is lacking in the case of a cablegram or wireless message. Some time ago one of the leading officers of the National Association visited England with his wife, and now and then it was necessary to send him official cablegrams. Whenever an official cablegram was despatched a brief message was included concerning the children. When the official's wife returned she told her friends how delighted she was to receive brief messages by cable, as they were infinitely better than a letter for which she had to wait many weeks. A good deal could happen during the period in which it takes a letter to reach England; and as a cablegram was received within four or five hours of its despatch she was kept in close touch with her home. That is a striking illustration of one of the advantages of quick communication. As I have said on previous occasions, cheap cablegrams would assist to consolidate the Empire. A young migrant to Australia was asked what he thought of a Id. a word cable messages, and he replied, " Penny a word cablegrams to England would be the most wonderful thing that ever happened. I should feel near to my dear mother and father, and I am sure it would assist migration, as to be away from the loved ones is all that holds many satisfactory migrants away." In the June number of the journal issued by the Royal Colonial Institute, in commemoration of the 60th birthday of the institute, I noticed a very interesting article written by Hugh Gunn, entitled " Then and Now," from which I quote the following : - 
Possibly the most potent factor that lias built up the British Empire is the tie of kinship between the working classes and their relatives overseas. 
What are we doing to maintain that tie? Can we maintain kinship within the Empire when 8s. 4d. is charged for a wireless message? When speaking on this subject some time ago, I said that the wireless plant in operation in Australia, which cost £120,000, could send 86,000,000 words to Great Britain, and the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  in the course of a very carefully prepared and elaborate reply gave the cost of such a plant as £300,000. It is interesting to note the discrepancy in the figures. 
The balance-sheet of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited gives the cost as £119,000, and the Postmaster-General in another place gave it as £120,000. According to  Hansard  of the 8th December, 1927, the PostmasterGeneral said - 
We have a cable system which operates between different places, and if we take the value only of those cables operating to Australia we find that it amounts to £12,000,000. Who is going to operate a £12,000,000 machine when we can get a £120,000 machine which will give the same service? 
The Honorary Minister in this chamber said it cost £300,000, and the PostmasterGeneral gave the figures as £120,000. On one occasion Lord Melbourne said to his colleagues at the close of a cabinet meeting when the question of freetrade and protection was under consideration, "We are either going out of this place all freetraders or all protectionists. I don't care which it is, but we have all to tell the same story when we go before the public." In this instance I think it would be well for Ministers to also tell the same story. In the report of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, the costs of the company are given as £214,000, a substantial part of which,  Mr. Fisk  said, represents the cost of the research and experimental investigations which have been carried out here. That experimental work will not be carried on indefinitely, and when I made reference to this aspect of the question on previous occasions, I was alluding to the actual cost of the plant. From the  Financial News,  of 17th January, I quote the following: - 
There exists an immense potentiality of traffic awaiting to be nursed into actuality by facilities and rates. 
It costs £80,000 a year to conduct our Beam wireless system; with a charge of Id. a word the revenue would be £104,000. We have been informed that with a low rate the service would have to be extended, which would involve a great deal of additional expense. A reference to the annual report of the Postmaster-General shows that the department is now transmitting 10,000,000 words for £30,000. Although it costs Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited £80,000 to handle 10,000,000 words, we are safe in assuming that the traffic could be. handled for £30,000. There must be a mistake somewhere, or the authorities do not know how to handle their business. The Minister said to-day that it cost something for the delivery of telegrams - perhaps 3d. a message. We are informed that 75,000,000 words are being despatched and delivered throughout the Commonwealth at a cost of1d. a word. 
SenatorHerbert Hays. - Telegrams are delivered only in the metropolitan area. 
An overwhelming majority are delivered. 
Yes, but 30,000,000 words are despatched at the rate of1/2d. a word. If the honorable senator studied this question he would know that lettergrams are despatched and delivered for1/2d. a word. 
SenatorCrawford. - But there is a loss. 
Yes, of £250,000, because we are delivering a tremendous number at1/2d. a word. If we handled all the traffic at1d. a word we would not be losing anything. 
I do. A charge of1d. a word would, I think, be a payable rate. On several occasions  Senator Herbert  Hays has displayed a keen interest in the installation of a wireless telephonic system between Tasmania and the mainland. I think he is on the right track, and that sooner or later the Government must comply with his request. To-day I telephoned to my wife in Sydney, and other honorable senators enjoyed the privilege of speaking to friends in some of the other mainland capitals. The Tasmanian senators, however, were denied that right. 
SenatorCrawford. - It is reasonable to assume that full use would be made of such a service. 
Yes. What is the difference between despatching a wireless message to Tasmania and to London ? A wireless message goes to London in 1-15 th of a second. 
SenatorCrawford. - It would require a more powerful plant to send messages to England than to Tasmania. 
The Government would not dare to charge more than a1d. a word for a wireless message between the mainland and Tasmania, and the same rate should apply to messages sent to England. On 8th March, 1899, Marconi wrote to the late  Sir Henniker  Heaton in these terms: "I sincerely hope that the good work to which you are now devoting your efforts - he was referring to a1d. a word cables and telegrams - may be crowned with complete success, and that before long your desire for a service of1d. telegrams to New Zealand may be realized by means of wireless telegraphy." I am not speaking in the interests of the cable companies, or even of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. I plead, not for vested interests, but for the welfare of the people. In conclusion, I desire to quote the words of Lord Rosebery - 
If you want to bind the Empire closer together your first and main means must be by the cheapest means of communication. 
I submit my resolution to a Senate, elected not as the mere echo of a party, nor as the representative of a class, but composed of men sent here to guard the interests of the nation. 
Question - That the motion be agreed to - put. The Senate divided - 
I shall accept the advice of the Leader of the Government and withdraw my amendment, with the intention of moving it when we reach proposed new section 11h. It might, perhaps, be too much to ask for an executive council elected by the people; but there is some reason in my contention.  Senator Pearce  says that the Executive Council of the Mandated Territory will be similar to the Government which he is a member, but I remind him that he could not become a member of any government in Australia without first being elected by the people. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
[10.6].  -  Proposed new section 11d reads -  (1.) The Administrator shall preside at all meetings of the Executive Council at which he is present. (2.) In his absence, such member as he appoints, or, in default of such appointment or in the absence of that member, the senior member of the Council who is present, shall preside. 
I move - . 
That after the word " senior ", proposed new section11D (2), the word "official" be inserted. 
That is merely a drafting amendment, and provides that the senior official member of the Council present shall preside in the absence of the Administrator. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The officials are public servants and their seniority is set out in the Public Service list. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 Sub-clause 11h reads -  (1.) There shall be a Legislative Council for the Territory. (2.) The Legislative Council shall consist of - 
the Administrator; 
the official members of the Executive Council ; and 
five non-official members who shall be nominated by the Administrator and appointed by the GovernorGeneral. 
I move - 
That all words after the word " members ", proposed new section11H (2) (c), be left out. 
I dealt with this matter previously. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [10.8].  -  I ask the committee not to accept this amendment. The Government is merely amplifying the governmental machinery that has been set up in Papua and that has worked so well, and it is following the precedent adopted in every other British community outside of the British Isles. First of all a nominative form of government is established and, as settlement progresses, a semi-elective and then a fully elective system is established. At present the population of the Mandated Territory is small and of a transitory nature, a large proportion being officials. The stage has not been reached when it is advisable to grant a fully elective legislature, but this bill is an initial step in that direction. Provision is made for five nonofficial members in the Legislative Council. The Governor-General, when selecting such representatives, consults the people and is in the most favorable position to select satisfactory representatives. He selects a representative of the plan- . ters, another for the mining interests, one for the commercial interests and also one to represent the missions. I suggest to  Senator Needham  that his proposal savours of using a steam hammer to crack a nut. I hope that before long the Territory will evolve into a fully elective system, but the time is not yet ripe for that.  Senator Needham  said that it might be thought that the Government opposed the granting of an elective legislature to the Territory merely because it is a Mandated Territory. The Government has no reservations of that kind, and is quite willing, when an opportune time arrives to give elective representation to both Papua and New Guinea. I ask the honorable senator not to press his amendment. 
 Having had a trip to New Guinea recently, I should have liked to see the Government go further than it has done in this matter. I am aware that it is necessary that some form of government control should .operate,, but there are in the Territory a number of intelligent returned men, the backbone of New Guinea. They produce the whole of its copra, which represents 90 per cent, of the export trade of that country, and I consider that they are entitled to have an elected representative, as are the missions, also the traders, business men and others who have a vital interest in the Territory. Although I do not think at this stage I should go as far as  Senator Needham  proposes, I consider that there should be some direct representatives elected by the people themselves. 

 Senator NEEDHAM  (Western Australia [10.15].  -  The position outlined by  Senator Pearce  as to early settlement is not analogous to the position in the Mandated Territory to-day. A hundred years ago, when people were pioneering a new country, they were not as fitted for the task of self-government as are people today. They were not as highly educated as are the white residents of New Guinea to-day, and had not the experience of selfgovernment possessed by those Australians who have settled in the Mandated Territory. Surely the returned soldiers mentioned by  Senator Chapman  who are struggling to develop the Territory, and are not living under the  mo3t  congenial conditions, should have some voice in the administration of their affairs and in the expenditure of the revenue to which they contribute. In 1914, when they enlisted, they were told they were going to fight for the preservation of the liberties they enjoyed in Australia, but the liberties for which they fought and the rights that were preserved by the shedding of the blood of our soldiers are now denied to them under the British flag in the Mandated Territory. I am not asking too much when I urge that these men should have a voice in the system of government under which they are living. I hope the committee will support my amendment and take the first step towards establishing a system of selfgovernment in New Guinea. 
 I cannot see my way to support the amendment, because the course provided for in the bill is the natural course which has been followed through the centuries by Great Britain in the government of its Crown colonies. The territories of Papua and New Guinea occupy in relation to Australia very much the same position as Crown colonies do to the Motherland. The stage of selfgovernment which the bill proposes is an apprenticeship period before the selfgovernment proposed by  Senator Needham  can come into being. Papua, which is in an advanced stage of development compared with the Mandated Territory, and the Solomon Islands, which are a Crown colony administered from Fiji, will convince honorable senators who have visited them, as I have done, that the form of government they have is a very fit and proper form of government during the apprenticeship period of the Mandated Territory. If we take the experience of Papua, where the administration is most excellent, I think we shall agree that the system proposed in the bill is a very good start for New Guinea. The pity of it is that Papua, which has always been Australian New Guinea, is not nearly as fine a country to develop as the Mandated Territory, but that, of course, is just a mischance. To plunge at the first stage into a form of government for New Guinea which Papua has not yet achieved would be too venturesome a step, and I am quite behind the Government in its proposal to give the Mandated Territory the system of administration indicated in the clause with which we are dealing. 
; - I have a prior amendment that I should like to submit, if  Senator Needham  would temporarily withdraw that moved by him. 
Amendment,  by leave,  temporarily withdrawn. 
, - I should like to see three members of the Legislative Council of New Guinea elected by the missions, the planters, the traders and others. I move - 
That the word " five ", proposed new section 11 H (2) (c), be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " three ". 
It is hard for us to know how to legislate for the people of New Guinea. In a brief visit I paid to the Mandated Territory, I found that it was almost impossible to gather sufficient information as to what should be done for the people there.  Senator Kingsmill  has advised us to follow the precedent set up in the government of British Crown Colonies, but it does not follow that a precedent is always right. Time brings many changes. I am inclined to lean towards the democratic principle of trusting the white population of the Territory to elect at least a portion of the body that has to govern them. In Australia we elect the whole of our governing bodies, and I should be inclined to bestow the same privilege upon the white residents of New Guinea ; but if they are permitted to elect at least, five members of the Legislative Council it should bring about the result desired by  Senator Chapman.  When I was atRabaul I suggested that the governing body should be elected by the white residents, but a Government official pointed out that if that were done the whole of the representation would probably go to the planters who are in the majority, and they would legislate for themselves. I readily realized the danger feared because the planters would seek to gain full control of the native labour. The same danger might exist if we adopted  Senator Needham's  amendment. 
If the Executive Council would prevent the planters from using their majority to serve their own interests there should be no danger in accepting the honorable senator's amendment. It may not be deemed wise at present to give the residents of the Territory the right to elect the whole of their governing body, but I certainly think that if there is no danger in the direction I have suggested they should at least be given the opportunity to elect five members of the Executive Council. We could even follow the advice of  Senator Kingsmill  and follow precedent. The people of Great Britain and the various selfgoverning dominions have the right to elect their self-governing bodies, and I think' we should give to the people who are living in New Guinea the right to elect at least a portion of their selfgoverning body. 
SenatorSir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [10.29].- The bill provides for a Legislative Council of fourteen members, consisting of the administrator, eight officials, and five non-official members. The effect of carrying  Senator Chapman's  amendment would be . to limit the number of non-official members to three and make the Legislative Council a body of eleven members, eight of whom would be officials. The preponderance of officials would thus be greater than is proposed in the clause. Apart altogether from the principle of whether the non-official members of the Council should be elected or nominated,  Senator Chapman's  amendment is inconsistent with the remarks he has made on the clause. I ask the committee to reject the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
I wish to remove a doubt which exists in the mind of  Senator Hoare  concerning the danger of any particular section in the Mandated Territory assuming control if the amendment of which I have given notice is carried. According to the bill the proposed Legislative Council will consist of nine members one of whom will be a nonofficial member. As there will be nine against five there will not be the risk which the honorable senator suggests. I move - 
That all the words after " members ", proposed new section 11H (2) (c), be left out. 
Question -That the words proposed to be left out be left out - put. The committee divided - 
Ayes . .  . .  6 
Noes . .  . .  . . 13 
Majority . . 8 

<graphic href="119332192809060_40_1_5_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192809060_40_1_4_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192809060_40_1_6_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
[10.35]  . -  I move - 
That the word " and ", proposed new section 11 w, paragraph ; ', be left out and the following new paragraph added - " Any ordinance relating to any matter specified in section15 of this act." 
The object of this amendment is to en- sure that any ordinance relating to any  matter in respect of which the Commonwealth has given a guarantee under the terms of the mandate shall not come into operation until submitted to the Governor-General for his assent. It is the Commonwealth Government that is responsible for carrying out the terms of the mandate and not the government of the Mandated Territory. The amendment provides that matters for which the Commonwealth Government is responsible to the Mandates Commission shall be reserved for the assent of the GovernorGeneral. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause also verbally amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
[11.1]. -  (By leave.)  - I regret to announce the death of  Mr. W.  H. Lambert, member for West Sydney in the House of Representatives, which occurred last night. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of William Henry Lambert, member of the House of Representatives for West Sydney, and places on record its appreciation of his public service, and tenders to his widow its deepest sympathy. 

 Mr. Lambert was first elected to the House of Representatives at a by-election  on the  3rd September, 1921, and was returned to Parliament at the subsequent general elections of 1932 and 1925. Before his election to the House of Representatives, he occupied prominent positions in the Australian Labour party. He was president of the Australian Labour party executive and. the Australian Labour party conferences for five consecutive years from 1917 to 1921, and was also president of the Interstate Australian Labour party conference for one year.. From 1919 to 1924 he was an alderman of the Sydney City Council, and during the year 1920-21 occupied the distinguished position of Lord Mayor of Sydney. 
Once again the Grim Reaper has been at work in our parliamentary ranks, and I am afraid this Parliament will be remembered as having suffered greater loss by death than any Parliament since the inception of federation. I submit this resolution as a mark of the Senate's respect for the memory of the late honorable member, and of our sympathy with his widow in the loss she has sustained. 
I rise to second the motion moved by the right honorable the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce).  On behalf of my colleagues and myself I wish to express our heartfelt regret at the. untimely death of  Mr. Lambert,  and to extend to his widow our sincere sympathy in her bereavement. It is approximately twelve months since the Parliament first assembled in this, the National Capital of Australia, and during that short period the dread visitor of death has made his calls with regrettable frequency. To begin with, two very able and competent officers of the House of Representatives,  Mr. Gale  and  Mr. John  McGregor passed away. Then came the death of the Minister for Trade and Customs the Honorable  Mr. H.  E. Pratten, and a few weeks ago  Mr. E.  B. C. Corser, the member for Wide Bay, died. The Senate has also lost through death, since first we met here, the valuable services of  Senator McHugh, Senator Grant  and  Senator Givens.  The death of  Mr. Lambert,  another member of the Legislature, makes a total of eight in the short period I have mentioned. 
The deceased gentleman lived an active and useful life. He took a keen and prominent part in the industrial affairs of this country, in the higher sphere of municipal government, and in the still more important sphere of our parliamentary life. He has now passed away to his reward at an age when in the ordinary course of events one would expect to he enjoying the prime of life. It is indeed sad to mourn the loss of another comrade, and I am sure all honorable senators join with me in expressing regret, and in extending sympathy to his widow. We can only hope that the Great Arbiter of all our destinies will sustain and comfort her in her hour of trial. 
It was with extreme sorrow that I heard the news of the death of  Mr. William  Lambert, and I wish to associate myself with the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  concerning the late honorable member. I was his senior by many years, but our birthplaces were within a few miles of each other, and I was able in. our early political struggles to watch the growth of his intellect which, backed by resolution and determination, might have carried him almost anywhere. Now he is no more. I join with other honorable senators in expressing sympathy with his widow in her loss.  Mr. Lambert  was in the prime of life, and had he lived, might have been of great service to his country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[11.8]. -  As a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Mr. Lambert,  I move: - 
That the Senate  do  now  adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.9 a.m. 
On the 31st August last,  Senator Thomas  asked the following question: - 
What is the profit or loss of the working of the beam wireless between Australia and England? 
I intimated to the honorable senator that the Amalgamated "Wireless had been approached and that the matter was receiving their consideration. I am informed that the board of directors are now giving this request attention and their reply is awaited. On receipt of advice any information thus placed at the disposal of the Postmaster-General's Department will be made available to the honorable senator. 
On the 6th September last,  Senator Herbert  Hays asked whether the inquiries regarding the installation of telephonic communication between Tasmania and the mainland had been completed and, if so, -with what result. 
The Postmaster-General has furnished the following reply: - 
The detailed technical requirements are being assembled in order that tenders for the equipment necessary to establish a telephone service may be invited. The provision of a telephone service between Tasmania and the mainland is a subject receiving the most earnest consideration, and no effort will be spared to bring about a realization of this desire at the earliest possible date. 
[3.7]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
It is not intended to carry this bill through all its stages to-day, but honorable senators are aware that towards the close of the session it is sometimes inconvenient to have to postpone the various stages of a measure in order to comply with the requirements of the Standing Orders. The suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders will enable us to fit in this bill when opportunity occurs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) read a first time. 
A scrutiny of this amending measure indicates that it contains only two important features, neither of which is of a controversial nature. One is to extend the provisions of the principal act to territories not within the Commonwealth, such as Papua and the Mandated Territories, and the other is to give power to judges of the Supreme Courts of the States to deal with bankruptcy cases which may be pending or which may later arise. The bill is to strengthen the law relating to bankruptcy while, so far as its administration by the Commonwealth is concerned, it is in its embryonic stages. For those reasons I do not think there is any necessity. to discuss the measure further. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
In discussing the second reading of this measure, which is to obtain by means of a referendum, authority for the Commonwealth to enter into agreements in connexion with the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, and also to enable the Commonwealth  Government  to take over and consolidate certain State debts, I wish to remind the Government and honorable senators supporting it that some time ago the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  promised that a constitutional session would be hold for the purpose of reviewing the Commonwealth Constitution. It is admitted on all sides  of  politics that the Constitution under which we have been operating for over 27 years, requires vital amendments in directions which experience has shown to be necessary. Recognizing that necessity, the Prime Minister stated in his policy speech in 1925 that a constitutional session should be held, and in 1926 he made the much more definite statement that a constitutional session would be held, to enable Parliament to review the Constitution in all its ramifications. Instead of summoning Parliament for that purpose, as the right honorable gentleman promised on two occasions, he has followed the usual practice of his Government by referring the matter to a royal commission. This Government makes a fetish of royal commissions  and  loses no opportunity to refer matters of importance to alleged experts. Similar action has been taken by the Government in connexion with child endowment and national insurance. I shall  not refer to those matters in detail, for that, would not be permitted under the Standing Orders; but I point out, in passing, that there was nothing indefinite about the Prime Minister's promises in relation to these three subjects. He said distinctly that he would legislate for child endowment and national insurance, and would arrange for a constitutional session of Parliament. In his policy speech the right honorable gentleman made specific reference to Western Australia in the following terms : - 
Recently the Government appointed a royal commission to examine the position in Western Australia inside the federation. The Government is giving careful consideration to the questions raised, and purposes, in the near future, to invite the States to attend a conference for the purpose of reconsidering the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. Fending the holding of this conference, the Government proposes to submit to Parliament legislation to provide for the payment to the State of Western Australia of the subsidy of £450,000, recommended by the royal commission, for a period of one year. After this conference has been held, the Government proposes, if necessary, to hold a constitutional session of the Federal Parliament. From time to time suggestions have been made that a convention should he held to review the constitutional position in Australia, but, after the closest examination, the Government has come to the conclusion that this idea is impracticable, and lias rejected it. It believes that tlie national parliament of the Commonwealth, representative of the whole people, is the proper body to consider these fundamental questions, and proposes to invite it to undertake this great task. 
There is nothing ambiguous about the Prime Minister's statements; he said clearly that this fundamental question of the alteration of the Constitution would be considered by the national Parliament. 
Many things to the contrary might have been said; but they would not absolve the Prime Minister from honouring his definite promise. It would have been better for all concerned had the Prime Minister kept his promise. Then this Parliament, not a body appointed largely from outside Parliament, would have considered the important question of altering the Constitution. Notwithstanding that this matter is one to which the commission must have given much thought, the people are to be asked to decide it without the assistance which the publication of its report would give them. 
The purpose of the referendum is to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make agreements with the States for the purpose of taking over the State debts and to control future borrowing, and to pass laws to validate any such agreement. Many people throughout Australia believe that if the referendum is agreed to, the financial agreement already entered into between the Commonwealth and the States will forthwith be placed in the Constitution. That is not so. This bill merely provides that the Federal Parliament shall have power to make agreements with the States to take over the debts of the States. The carrying of the referendum will not mean that the financial agreement entered into will be embodied in the Constitution. Nor does it mean that that agreement  will necessarily be validated. The agreement will still have to come before the Commonwealth Parliament for final acceptance or rejection. 
That is so; but many people are not aware of the position. Many of the electors believe that with the carrying of the referendum the agreement entered into will have the effect of law. In this connexion I desire to quote from the speech of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Latham),  when moving the second reading of the Financial Agreement Bill in another place in March last - 
At the end of two years the temporary provisions of the measure will be exhausted, and the permanent provisions of it can only come into operation if tlie agreement has already been accepted by every Parliament in Australia, the Commonwealth Constitution has been amended, and the next Commonwealth Parliament has passed a validating act. 
It will be seen from that that three things are necessary before the temporary financial agreement now existing between the Commonwealth and State Parliaments can be validated. First, it has to be agreed to by the Commonwealth Parliament and the Parliaments of the States; secondly, a referendum has to be held and the agreement approved by the people; and thirdly a validating act  must be passed by the next Commonwealth Parliament after the referendum has been taken. My colleagues and I intend to support this measure so that it may be referred to the people, in-order that they may decide whether this Parliament shall or shall not have the extra powers that are sought. I am in favour of additional powers being granted to this Parliament, and particularly the powers now sought. But I make it perfectly clear that whilst we support the measure and seek those additional powers, we do not support the financial agreement recently entered into between the Commonwealth and State Parliaments. Probably it will be said that that agreement was approved by the Premiers of the various States. I admit that, but reiterate what I said during the debate on the financial agreement itself, that their approval was obtained under duress, after their chief source of financial supplies had been cut off. This Parliament, rightly or wrongly, abolished the  per capita  payments to the States and the Prime Minister and Commonwealth Treasurer, in conference with the State Premiers, refused to consider a continuation of those payments, offering in their stead some of the conditions later embodied in the financial agreement. Notwithstanding their unenviable position, and the fact that this Government literally held a financial pistol at their heads, the State Premiers made the best of a very bad bargain and obtained the most advantageous conditions in the circumstances. However, those conditions were forced upon them, and are not a satisfactory substitute for the  per capita  payments. When I and my colleagues are upon the hustings during the course of the forthcoming election campaign we shall make it emphatically clear that we do not favour the financial agreement. Should the verdict of the poll bring about a change of government and place this party on the Treasury bench we shall not validate what is really the subject-matter of the referendum, if it is carried. Instead, we shall revert to the system of  per capita  payments and also enter into negotiations to inaugurate a scheme for taking over all State debts. My remarks should make perfectly clear the attitude of myself and my. colleagues in this matter. 
.  -  The Leader of the Opposition referred to the financial agreement which has been accepted by the various States of Australia. I do not desire to enter into the merits or demerits of that agreement, but I shall refer later to some observations made on the subject by the Prime Minister in his policy speech, three years ago.  Senator Needham  contended that we should have had a constitutional session to review the whole matter of the Constitution and effect such amendments as were thought necessary, in the light of the experience gained in the working of the Constitution over a period of more than a quarter of a century. I believe that the Government has taken the proper course. It must be admitted by all honorable senators that it was most desirable, before holding a constitutional session, that a specially selected commission should hear evidence from all sections of the community throughout the Commonwealth, in order to ascertain how the Constitution has operated in all its aspects. I shall not comment upon the personnel of the royal commission that was appointed for the purpose, as I am not in the position to say whether the Government did or did not select the best material available. But I believe that it was essential that that preliminary investigation should take place in order that all concerned might ventilate their opinions upon the working of our Constitution, and also that the selected commissioners should record their views, after having heard voluminous evidence on the matter. I agree with  Senator Needham  that the time is ripe for an alteration of our Constitution, but honorable senators must be aware that, although this is a democratic country, its people have always been most conservative in regard to the amendment of the Constitution. 
When certain questions were submitted to the electors three years ago all honorable senators and members of another place were in agreement as to the urgent need for the amendment of the Constitution along the lines then proposed. Whilst there may have been some room for difference of opinion concerning the wisdom of an affirmative vote for certain of the questions, there was certainly complete unanimity as to the desirableness of the Commonwealth Government being empowered to carry on essential services if occasion ' required such action. That was regarded as the outstanding issue at the time, but even on that question the people of Australia displayed a considerable amount of conservatism. Although there had been experience of the dislocation of trade and commerce, and although it was generally acknowledged that something should be done, the people were reluctant to vest this added power in the Commonwealth, indicating that in regard to fundamental issues they are as conservative as the people in any other part of the world. The Leader of the Opposition contends that the Government has broken its pledges to the electors.  I  have no doubt that the Leader of the Senate will answer that charge when he closes the debate.  I  can conceive of no better way to crystallize the Government's policy than by the passing of this bill, and  I  have no doubt that it is the intention of the Ministry, in due time, to honour the promise made by the Prime Minister three years ago. As far as  I  can recall, the right honorable the Leader of the Government did not definitely state that a constitutiona.1 session would be held during the life of this Parliament; but that steps would be taken to give the fullest consideration to certain constitutional amendments found to be necessary. The first steps have now been taken.  I  take it that if returned to power after the next election, the Government will give members of the new Parliament an opportunity to consider the amendments of the Constitution in the light of recommendations that may be made by the royal commission, which has been considering this important matter. The evidence given before that body will be useful to the Government and helpful to the Senate when the suggested amendments to the Constitution are being considered. 
I  shall oppose the bill. This measure will give me an excellent opportunity, during the next few weeks, to visit all the States and place before the people the issue as  I  see it; and as the electors, in my State particularly, appear to have acquired the habit of voting "No,"  I  have no doubt that the time is opportune to urge them not to give an affirmative vote on this proposal. I do not pretend to be a great authority on finance, nor do  I  claim that  I  have given much consideration to the reasons actuating the Government in introducing this bill; but  I  have read the speech of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  in introducing it, and  I  can find in his utterances nothing to justify its introduction. It has been argued that, by joining together in the Loan Council the States seeking money overseas for developmental purposes have been able to secure better terms. To my mind that is self evident. The Leader of the Senate also pointed to the shocking example of New South Wales in hesitating to join the Loan Council, thereby causing an increase in interest charges on loans raised. I challenge the statement that the action of one State in standing out was responsible for the increase of  i  per cent, in the interest rate on money raised overseas, or that it would materially affect the rate at which Australia could borrow. The Government appears to be ignorant of the factors influencing market rates for money. I am satisfied that those who control the market are not influenced to any appreciable extent by the action of any individual State. What they are concerned about is the security. If it is not considered ample, the money will not be made available. The policy of this Government in making the Commonwealth the only borrowing authority for overseas loans, is likely, in the not distant future, to place those who control the money market in an exceedingly strong position in that so far as Australia is concerned, they will have only one authority to deal with and to me it is as clear as daylight that the next step will be not a decrease, but an increase in interest charges. No members of the present Government - I go further and say, no members of the present Parliament - can prophesy what will be the position of any one of the States five years hence. I invite honorable senators to consider the probable needs of Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, the three States most likely to progress during that period. I make no reflection on any of the other States when I say that, so far as their development is concerned, it appears to me that the need for large sums of money in the immediate future is not likely to be great. In travelling through Western Australia and Queensland I have been impressed with the possibilities for immense development, if suitable opportunities are provided and for the investment of loan money on essential public works, if the affairs in those States are in the hands of men and women with vision and power to make available the vast spaces that are crying out for development. In proportion to her meagre population, meagre in comparison with her  3ize,  Queensland has gone to an enormous expenditure in the construction of railways. Yet her resources are practically unknown; they have hardly been scratched or touched. Those of Western Australia are possibly more unknown. One can look with pride and pleasure on what is being done by the western State to develop her wheat area. This Parliament having driven gold mining out of existence, by making the cost of production so high that with the decrease in the value of the ore the mines cannot be profitably worked, the people of the State with determination and energy, and with that spirit which the pioneers brought to Australia, are now turning their attention to wheat growing, so that in the long run I do not know that it will not prove more profitable than even the enormously rich gold-fields of the State proved to be. If we are to hand over to the Commonwealth and the States the power to enter into agreements in regard to the borrowing of money, it is not hard to imagine what may be done by the respective governments, be they Labour or National. One can imagine three of the States with large areas to develop by borrowing huge sums of money for the purpose of developing what is now called a desert by means of irrigation schemes which will make that desert blossom like a garden. It is quite within the range of possibility that such works will be undertaken. As a matter of fact, they must come, if we desire to see the centre of Australia develop; and when that development does take place Australia will provide employment for all overseas Britishers who care to come here. There will be no need then for us to cry out about a few surplus thousand migrants. We can let our kith and kin come here in their hundreds of thousands. I know that it will cost millions of pounds - possibly hundreds of millions of pounds - to develop the interior of Australia. I also know that at the present moment there are not in either the Federal or State Governments men with sufficiently statesmanlike vision to venture upon such undertakings, but the time may come when two or three or more States may get an inspiration to make an effort to throw open the mighty resources of this continent. Forty years ago Queensland with a meagre population had the courage to embark on an enormous expenditure on railway construction. Forty years ago also, New South Wales had the courage to borrow money to build railways everywhere. But we lack that courage to-day.  Senator Sir George  Pearce has told us that the combined debts of the Commonwealth and the States amount to a thousand million pounds. If I had my way I would make it an offence for any public man in Australia to mention our public debt without at the same time stating what our assets are. The thousand million pounds referred to by the Leader of the Senate have been chiefly borrowed for the construction of developmental works. To-day  the  State of New South Wales has railways that cost over £100,000,000 to build. Built to-day those railways would have cost twice the whole of the public debt of the State of New South Wales. Money has been borrowed by New South Wales not only for railways but also to provide water supplies and build roads and bridges to open up the country. But men and women are our best asset. The thousand million pounds borrowed by Australia has been spent in such a way that in a very brief period this country will carry three times the population it has to-day. I may not hope to live to see the time when the population of Australia is 50,000,000, but there are men alive to-day who will perhaps see this country with a population of 100,000,000. 
I have looked carefully at the proposed amendment of the Constitution and I have asked myself the reason for it. I  do not say that the proposal has been put forward in the interests of the money lenders of the world, but it would certainly seem that we are adopting the parrot cries of those people who control the loans the world over. Almost every time we seek to borrow money we hear the same old cry, *' Money is tight, some of you are too extravagant. Your credit is being seriously affected and as we shall have to put a brake on you we will not advance you any money on this occasion." As a matter of fact the money lenders have nothing to fear when they take heed of the enormously increasing value given to Australia by the expenditure of the money already borrowed. In my opinion, therefore, the Commonwealth Government is not. wise, in submitting this proposal to insert a new section in the Constitution. I ask honorable members to compare the proposed new section with the existing sections of the Constitution. The language of the latter is clear and definite. The reader may grasp their meaning as he runs. I am wondering what the proposed new section means. If it makes me wonder what it means, and if I cannot understand the reason for proposing it, how much more confused will the people be when in eight weeks' time they are asked to vote' upon it? How can they understand what it means? When fresh power is required in our Constitution it should be given in brief and clear sentences that every one can understand. I have no doubt about the capacity of the Parliamentary Draftsmen, but the Government has to accept the responsibility for what it puts forward. If it has gone out of its way to make the amendment indefinite, it has succeeded in doing so. But that, perhaps, is only a minor objection. I am inclined to think that the Government is trying to impress the world with the idea that it is trying to stop wild borrowing, by confining the authority to 'borrow to a council on which the States are represented. In days gone by I said that. I was prepared to go the whole distance for a unified system of Government, and it is my belief that Australia would be better off with one government instead of seven administering its affairs. That would mean one borrowing authority; but while the States retain their sovereign powers I am not one to join in any movement to whittle away those powers, unless very good reasons are advanced for doing so. The only reasons now advanced are that in the past there has been extravagant borrowing, and that combined borrowing will load to borrowing more cheaply than is possible through individual State action. Those reasons are not sufficient to justify me in saying that the Constitution needs alteration. In any case the power sought for in this bill has already been obtained by agreement between the Commonwealth and the States; but evidently it is the desire to bind the States so that no one State will be in a position to borrow without the authority of the Commonwealth. Whether we like it or not we must remember that the Commonwealth derives its authority from the States. It was the sovereign States that conferred upon this Parliament the Constitution under which it works, and prescribed the matters upon which this Parliament could legislate. This proposal is being rushed through Parliament, and although the speech delivered by  Senator Pearce  was clear, as his speeches always are, it did not advance sufficient reasons why we should agree to such a huge alteration to the Constitution, let alone the huge expense involved in asking the people to vote upon this issue. Had the Government put before the people something affecting their daily lives, such, for instance, as a question relating to the total prohibition of the use of intoxicating liquors, it would have evoked their interest. 
I have given consideration to the question of submitting to the people something that is likely to evoke their interest, and to that end I shall seek to amend the title of the bill by adding the words: - and further to permit an agreement to be entered into enabling Tasmania to withdraw from the Federation. 
To give Tasmania that opportunity would be to confer a great blessing not only on the island State, that " precious stone set in the silver sea but also on the Commonwealth itself. It is not right for strength to control weakness. It is not right, therefore, for Tasmania to have the feeling that the heavy hand of the mainland is pressing down upon the growth of its industries and its development generally. I do not speak from knowledge gained by a visit to the island, but I know that there is a feeling of unrest in Tasmania, a feeling amongst its people that they are enduring hardships because of their compulsory connexion with the Commonwealth. I should like, therefore, to give them an opportunity to show whether it is really their belief that they are being oppressed, and whether they want the link with the mainland to remain or not. I do not pretend to be acting unselfishly in this matter. There are in the State of New South Wales a great many growers of apples who realize that if Tasmania could be kept outside the Commonwealth, the importation of apples from the island could be restricted, or perhaps prohibited, just as Queensland has succeeded in having the importation of sugar prohibited. There are indications that the people of Tasmania are developing feelings of animosity towards those on the mainland - I am not going to say whether that is wise or unwise - and that they undoubtedly have a grievance. For over 700 years the Irish people lived in a state of unrest and dissatisfaction, but since they have been given political freedom, discontent is disappearing, and Ireland will, before long, be one of the most important portions of the British Empire. As I do not wish the men and women of Tasmania to be cultivating strong feelings of dissatisfaction, merely because they are compelled to remain members of the federation, I want to give them an opportunity to record their opinions. Even New South Wales, which is the most populous and prosperous State in the federation, has had to shoulder many burdens, but Tasmania and Western Australia have suffered even more than New South Wales. With the increase of population in that State, secondary industries have come into existence - they would have done so to the same extent without the aid of protection - and the promising young men of the less populous States have naturally drifted towards those centres where the prospect of employment is greater and wages are higher. 
I do not wish to unduly delay the Government in this matter, neither do 
I wish to talk at great length on an amendment which may not be adopted by the Senate. As there have been instances, however, when three or four questions have been submitted to the electors at the same time, there does not appear any valid reason why the Tasmanian people should not be given an opportunity to express their opinion on the question of remaining in the federation. I repeat that the States should not be bound in the matter of their financial negotiations as the Government now propose, and that this ill-judged action of the Government in attempting to provide a hard and fast rule may have the effect of injuring those whom they desire to benefit. During the approaching election campaign I shall use all the ability at my command to influence the electors to vote against the referendum, as I believe a greater benefit will be conferred upon Australia, if they refuse to hurriedly agree to constitutional amendments concerning which they have little or no information. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I have to inform  Senator Gardiner  that his amendment cannot be moved at this stage. I direct the attention of the Senate to Standing Order No. 194, which reads - 
Amendments may be moved to such question 
The second reading of a bill - by leaving out " now " and adding " this day six months ", which, if carried, shall finally dispose of the bill; or by referring the bill to a select committee. . . . 
Standing Order 195 provides - 
No other amendment may be moved to such question except in the form of a resolution strictly relevant to the bill. 
Under the Standing Orders, therefore; the honorable senator is not entitled to move to the question now before the Senate such an amendment as he has outlined. 
As you, sir, have ruled that  Senator Gardiner's  amendment is irrelevant, I would, of course, be out of order in debating it. I may, however, be permitted to say that during the period  Senator Gardiner  has been with us this session he has- shown that he has not entirely lost that f acetiousness for which he was noted when previously a member of the Senate. The honorable senator knows how to joke, and I am afraid that he was attempting to " put over " the Senate something in the nature of a joke, which you, sir, have prevented. 
I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of this bill, under which it is proposed to increase the powers of the Commonwealth by providing that certain financial agreements may be made between the Commonwealth and the States. That, I think, will make for the greater financial stability of the Commonwealth and the States. Clause 2 of the bill reads - 
The Constitution is altered by inserting after section 105 the following section: - 105a. ( 1 ) The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States, including - 
the taking over of such debts by the Commonwealth; 
the management of such debts; 
the payment of interest and the pro vision and management of sinking funds in respect of such debts; 
the consolidation, renewal, conver sion, and redemption of such debts; 
the indemnification of the Commonwealth by the States in respect of debts taken over by the Commonwealth; and . . . ' . 
I agree entirely with the provisions which I have just enumerated, and which I contend will ensure greater financial stability to the Commonwealth and the States. Paragraphf, however, requires a little more explanation than was given by the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  in introducing the bill.  Senator Gardiner  referred to the indefinite nature of the bill, but I fail to see in it any indefiniteness with the exception of paragraphf, which reads - 
The borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth, or by the Commonwealth for the States. 
Honorable senators should read that paragraph in conjunction with the commencement of proposed new section 105 a, which reads - 
The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States, including . . . 
the borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth, or by the Commonwealth for the States. 
There should be a distinction between money borrowed by the Commonwealth presumably for its own purposes, and that borrowed by the Commonwealth for the States. I agree that in certain circumstances money borrowed by the Commonwealth for its own purposes or for the 
States should be after consultation with the States, as this enables one borrowing authority to operate in the money market. Despite what  Senator Gardiner  said that course is desirable because it enables one borrowing authority with a more or less complete knowledge of the financial requirements of the country to operate when the conditions are most suitable. 
Yes.  Senator Gardiner,  who referred to the position in New South Wales, should remember that  Mr. Lang,  when Premier of New South Wales, once said that he would have nothing to do with the Loan Council, because he could do better than he would be able to do if his Government were associated with the Loan Council. 
The financial obligations of the Commonwealth differ from those of the States which require money for redemption and developmental purposes. Their commitments are readily understood, but money may be required by the Commonwealth in cases of a great national emergency. In these circumstances I do not think it should be obligatory upon the Commonwealth to confer with the States before it is able to go on the London or any other money market for the accommodation it requires. If that is the meaning of the paragraph I intend to move that the words " or by the Commonwealth " be left out so that the paragraph would read " the borrowing of money by the States, or by the Commonwealth for the States." 
It covers all purposes, and to me the words " or by the Commonwealth " are redundant. The inclusion of those words may lead to difficulties resulting in the High Court having to interpret their meaning. A measure of this kind should be drafted in such a way that it can be readily understood by even a layman. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  referred to the promise made by the Prime Minister to hold a constitutional session ; but the exigencies of the position did not permit of such a session being held during the life of this Parliament. There were very good reasons for not holding a constitutional session.  Senator Needham  spoke deprecatingly of the members of the royal commission, whom he described as " experts." 
The honorable senator appears to doubt the qualifications of some of the members of the commission. I remind him that, so far as was possible,, it was appointed to represent all sections of the community. Whilst it probably was not possible to obtain constitutional experts among every section of the people, it was right that the trade unionists, the primary producers, and the other interests in the community should be represented thereon, so that the view-point of the section of the community each represented would not be overlooked. 
Previously, when amendments of the Constitution have been proposed, they have been framed on the advice of Cabinet, based, probably, on the report of a sub-committee of Cabinet. Such amendments are liable to the objection that their scope is limited - I do not say it offensively - and have not behind them the force of public opinion which is necessary if they are to be embodied in the Constitution.  Senator Needham  will admit that by referring this matter to a royal commission the Government at least ensured that every person in the community who felt that he had a suggestion worth considering, would be given the opportunity to make it known. The Government expected that the report of the commission would have been made available in time for a constitutional session of this Parliament to be held prior to the alterations being submitted to the electors, but, unfortunately, that was not possible. For that state of affairs, neither the Government nor its supporters is to blame. Had the report of the royal commission been made available, in time, the Prime Minister would, no doubt, have arranged for a constitutional session, and thus honored his promise. What the Government is now doing is outside the scope of ordinary constitutional amendments. The amendments proposed to be submitted to the people have already been agreed to by the governments of the Commonwealth and the States. The partners conducting the business of Australia Unlimited agreed upon certain things for the better conduct of the affairs under their control. The Commonwealth and State governments having arrived at an agreement, the Commonwealth Government has taken the earliest opportunity of submitting that agreement to this Parliament, and of consulting the people regarding its acceptance or rejection.  Senator Needham  says that that procedure is wrong. In a constitutional session of this Parliament, we should not have had before us much of the valuable information which was at the disposal of the State Premiers when they met the representatives of the Commonwealth Parliament in conference. It would appear from  Senator Needham's  remarks that he favours postponing the submission of this question to the people. Yet he is not opposed to the bill. The honors able senator is not quite so logical as he usually is. 
There is nothing in this bill to justify  Senator Needham's  reference to the  per capita  payments; it deals solely with State debts. 
During one slight digression,  Senator Needham  gave us  some valuable information, when he said that, if the Labour party was successful at the next election, it would restore the  per capita  payments to the States, and oppose the ratification of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. At the time I interjected that that was a complete reversal of form. The first proposal in this Parliament for the wiping out of the  per capita  payments emanated from the Labour party, which for a number of years advocated that policy. I do not know whether the Labour party has publicly announced its intention to restore the  per capita  payments if returned to power, but, in any case, that is not a matter covered by this bill. 

 Senator Gardiner differs from other honorable senators sitting opposite, in that he is opposed to the measure root and branch. Probably his will be the only voice raised in the Senate against the bill. He says that he is not prepared to whittle away the sovereign powers of the States. I have already shown that the powers of the States are amply safeguarded under this bill. Proposed new section 105a provides that the Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to certain matters. Any alteration of the Constitution in terms of this bill will do no more than empower the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States. Is that taking away the powers of the States? Rather, . it is guaranteeing that the powers of the States will be safeguarded. I hope that  Senator Gardiner  will not endeavour to persuade the people that, by voting for the referendum proposals, they will be voting to take power from the States. The honorable senator is too big an Australian to adopt that attitude. 
Even if the honorable senator were to take that stand I feel certain that his efforts would be unsuccessful. I hope that the Minister will give serious consideration to my suggestion for deleting the words " or by the Commonwealth which appear to be redundant. If not redundant, they restrict the powers of the Commonwealth and should not be included in a measure of this kind. With the exception to which I have referred, I support the measure wholeheartedly. 
[4.32]. - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  referred to the proposal to hold a special session of this Parliament to deal with the amendment of the Constitution. Most honorable senators have concluded long since, however, that in amending the Constitution, we must make haste slowly. If matters of this kind are rushed, and the people do not understand exactly what they are asked to vote upon, they will adopt the policy of voting " No " when in doubt. That is what happened in the case of many thousands of the electors on the occasion of the last referendum. The Constitution can be amended only when the people have been educated to realize not only the wisdom, but also the urgency, of the alterations submitted for their approval. It is true that the Prime Minister originally looked forward to the holding of a constitutional session of this Parliament; but when the matter came to be considered in detail, it was seen that the alterations desired covered so wide a field and involved so many interests - the interests of both Commonwealth and State governments, and of trade and commerce and business generally - that it was wise to appoint a royal commission to investigate the whole subject, so that all persons interested could bring forward their proposals. A royal commission was appointed, and its work will, in itself, be a means of educating the public as to the necessity for the alterations to be submitted to them. The commission is gathering a vast store of information and opinions which cannot, be other than of great value to this Parliament when it proceeds to deal with constitutional amendments. In the circumstances, the course which has been adopted is undoubtedly a wise one. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Senator Needham, on more than one occasion during this debate, has made a statement which is entirely inaccurate. I am quite sure that he did not do so deliberately; but it is entirely inaccurate to say, as he did, that the Prime Minister in his policy speech promised that he would legislate to bring about child endowment. I have here a copy of the policy speech in question. It was made at Dandenong on the 5th October, 1925, and this is what the right honorable gentleman then said in regard to child endowment - 
Tl is matter can only be dealt with nationally and by co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. It is proposed to refer this question also to the Commonwealth and the State arbitration judges, with a view to  their  recommendations being considered at a conference between the Commonwealth and State Governments in the hope of evolving a national policy. 
There was no promise that the Government would legislate to bring about a scheme of child endowment. The promise was that inquiry would be made by Commonwealth and State arbitration judges. When the Government investigated the proposed method of inquiry, many, objections arose. One was that the Commonwealth arbitration judges were already overworked. They were confronted with vast arrears of work with which they could not cope, and, as a matter of fact, it was necessary to appoint additional judges to the Arbitration Court Bench. Hut in July of 1927 a conference was held in Sydney between the State and Commonwealth Governments. This,  Senator Needham  appears to have forgotten. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.At that conference, Queensland was represented by the Honorable W. Forgan Smith, then acting Premier and Treasurer; and when the subject of child endowment came up for debate that, gentleman said, as reported at page 42 of the official report of that conference - 
I suggest that the Commonwealth Government should appoint a royal commission to make a complete economic investigation of the whole subject. 
He outlined the matters on which that commission should report, and when asked by the Prime Minister if he had any suggestion to make as to the composition of the proposed commission, he replied - 1 th ink that men with sound economic knowledge should be appointed. 
At. page 67 of the report appears the names of all the representatives who attended the conference, and one discovers that out of the six State Governments represented four were Labour Governments. Apparently those gentlemen agreed unanimously that an inquiry should be held by a royal commission, and they also agreed to the terms of reference. That course was adopted, and is the explanation of the present investigation by the royal commission. 
Another statement made by  Senator Needham  was of extreme interest to me. He said that whilst the Labour party will support the passing of this Bill - and I presume will advise its supporters to vote for it at the referendum - it will, if returned, repeal the States Grants Bill, which we passed last year, and restore the  per capita  payments. May I ask the honorable senator whether his party would restore those payments at the rate of 25s. per annum? The honorable senator is silent, and for a very good reason.  Senator Needham  and his party intend, during the forthcoming election campaign to promise the people schemes of unemployment insurance and childhood endowment. But where are they to obtain the money to provide for them? Do honorable senators know what would be the cost of a childhood endowment scheme on a basis that would be acceptable to my honorable friends opposite? If they turn to page 35 of the report of the conference to which I have referred they will find that  Mr. Bruce,  who had investigated the matter, said - 
It is estimated that these adult  wage-earners  numbering, as I have said, 1,470,000, have dependent upon them 1,125,000 children under fourteen years of age. To provide for all those dependent children child endowment at the rate of 5s. a week, would require an annual amount of approximately £15,000,000. 
The commission which is now making its investigations has probed the problem of how that money could be raised. All the representatives of labour who have appeared before the commission have opposed the suggestion that the money to provide for child endowment should be obtained by any adjustment of the basic wage, and have contended that it should be raised through the Treasury. That being so, honorable senators opposite, to honour one of their promises, will have to find £15,000,000 per annum out of the Commonwealth Treasury, a Treasury that was not able last year to  balance  its ledger, and had a deficit of £2,600,000. 
If the Labour party were to honour their further promise to provide a scheme of unemployment insurance, it would cost the people of Australia at least another £5,000,000 annually. They are opposed to the adoption of a contributory basis for such a scheme, saying that it is not fair that the worker should have a deduction made from his wage to provide unemployment insurance. Taking the experience of Queensland, which has a scheme on a contributory basis, the provision of unemployed insurance for Australia would, run into many millions, and this too, according to the Labour party's policy, would have to be found from the Commonwealth Treasury.  If  honorable senators opposite inaugurated those two schemes on the bases which they intend to promise the people of Australia, it would mean a charge on the Treasury of at least £20,000,000 annually. Honorable senators will, therefore, understand the silence of  Senator Needham  when I inquired whether he and his colleagues will promise the people of Australia the restoration of the  per capita  payments at the rate of 25s. per annum. 
Regarding the point raised by  Senator Duncan,  I ask the honorable senator to remember that legal terminology always appears to laymen to be more or less involved. This bill has been drafted by legal experts and has had the scrutiny of not only the Federal, but the State legal authorities. I take it that if there had been any doubt about the meaning of .the words to which  Senator Duncan  referred, the question would have beer raised by one or other of the experts. The honorable senator will see that proposed new section 105a also deals with the States debts. The agreements that the Commonwealth will make with the States, and which we are asking the people to give us power to make, will deal with - (]) Debts, both Commonwealth and State; (2) Sinking Fund; and (3) the borrowing of money. There are three ways in which money may be borrowed - (1) by the Commonwealth; (2) by the States, and (3) by the Commonwealth for the States. Whilst, the agreement provides and contemplates that loans within Australia generally shall be raised by the Commonwealth - whether they be for the Common-' wealth itself or for the Commonwealth and the States - honorable senators will appreciate that there is a clause in the agreement which permits the States in certain circumstances, with the consent of the Loan Council, to borrow overseas in their own names. Already several such loans have been raised on the London market. Then there are the loans raised by the Commonwealth for the States, as for instance that raised under the £34,000,000 migration scheme. Such loans are raised in the name of the Commonwealth, but arc for the States. During the past year one Commonwealth loan covered money not only for the Commonwealth, but also for the various States. 
Certainly. It must be an agreement that cuts both ways. One could hardly expect the States to come into a Loan Council in which the Commonwealth had a free hand, while they themselves were bound. Proposed new section 105 a provides for the establishment of the Loan Council and enumerates its duties, and provision is also made for a contingency such as that which arose in 1914, when the Great War started. In such a contingency the Commonwealth will not be bound by such a restriction. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That would be provided for in the agreement itself. 
I assure the honorable senator that these words have been closely examined and have been found satisfactory. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands)  [4.46]. - Perhaps honorable senators will permit me to say a few words in explanation of the latitude I have allowed them in discussing the motion for the second reading of this bill. The bill relates to an amendment of the Constitution, and is to some extent associated with a royal commission that is at present taking evidence on that subject. I therefore allowed  Senator Needham  to refer fairly extensively to that  commission, and later allowed  Senator Duncan  and. the Leader of the Government in this chamber to reply to those references. I was not unmindful of the Standing Order bearing on the point, but in view of the importance of the bill, and of the relation which it bore to the subjectmatter of inquiry by the commission I did not insist upon its strict observance. I mention this at the present stage so that it may not be thought that I was not sufficiently alert, and allowed honorable senators to stray beyond the subject actually under discussion. I was perfectly alive to the situation, and the freedom I have allowed honorable senators in dealing with what is undoubtedly a very complex and important measure, must not be regarded as a precedent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
The Constitution is altered by inserting after section 105 the followingsection: - 105a. - (1.) The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States, including - 
The borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth, or by the Commonwealth for the States. 
, - During the second-reading debate. I indicated that it was my intention to move for the deletion of the words, " or by the Commonwealth," first occurring in paragraph  (f)  of proposed new section 105a. In view of the explanation given by the Leader of the Senate, in reply to my remarks, I shall not press that amendment. The right honorable gentleman has assured the Senate that those words were included in the bill after the fullest investigation by legal experts. 
That being so, I withdraw my opposition to the inclusion of the words in question, although I still do not think it wise that the loan activities of the Commonwealth should always have to be submitted to a Loan Council, consisting of representatives of all the States, who may at any time stultify the efforts of the Commonwealth. I feel that there is in it something that is not quite right; but in view of the explanation of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, I am not now apprehensive about the matter. 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
[4.54]. - When the bill was before honorable senators last week, I intimated, in reply to the debate on the second reading, that the Treasurer desired to have inserted an amendment to enable payments to be made to pensioners who are inmates of hospitals and other institutions during the month in which they became eligible to receive the amount set out in the hill. It is not possible, however, to introduce the amendment in this chamber. It is necessary to have a message from the Governor-General; but the Government intends this session to bring down a bill in another place to give effect to the promise made. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted.' 
I understand that the bill proposes to vest in the Commonwealth Commissioner of Railways the railway line between the Federal Capital and Queanbeyan. Since I believe that the Commonwealth Commissioner should have complete control of all Commonwealth railways, I have no opposition to offer to the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[5.0]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
We are not quite ready to proceed with the Patents Bill. I understand that certain representations are being made with regard to it by the Institutes of Patent Attorneys, and the Government would like a little time to consider them before passing the measure. This is the reason why the bill is not being proceeded with this afternoon. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  5.1 p.m. 
-Is the right honorable the Leader of the Senate yet in a position to lay on the table the papers and correspondence relating to the  J ervis Bay  incident? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What was the value of British goods imported into Australia in 1901 ? 
What was the value of British goods imported in 1927? 
What amount of extra duty, approximately, would have been paid in 1927 if duty had been collected at the general tariff rate? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers.- - 
1901 (calendar year)  -  £25,236,677. 
Statistics are  now  recorded in financial years- 1926-27- £67,795,177. 
1926-27- £8,479,706. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that  members  of the Federal Capital Commission and its employees have a preference over members of the Public Service in regard to rentals of their homes in Canberra? 
What is the extent of such preference; how many homes areso preferentially occupied; and how long is the preference to be continued? 
What is the loss to the taxpayers of the Commonwealth  by  reason of the occupation of houses  by  the members of the Commission and its employees instead  of by  members of the Public Service  or  the public? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Has any provision been made for the reservation of land in the Capital Territory as sites for denominational colleges, as in Melbourne ? 

 lt not, will the Government make some provision at an early date for same? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What is the name of the officer whose duty it was to give notice to tenants, under the Roads and Footpaths Regulations, of intention to carry out kerbing, guttering, &amp;c? 
Is not the omission to perform such a statutory duty punishable under Common Law as an indictable offence? 
Will the Minister notify the AttorneyGeneral of any such omission, so that appropriate action may be taken in the matter ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Home and Territories has supplied the following answers: - 
The honorable senator's attention is invited to section 5 of the Roads and Footpaths Regulations. 2 and 3. In view of the fact that litigation is threatened, the Minister is not prepared to answer these questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Was the Attorney-General personally consulted in respect of the legal opinions enunciated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  in the Senate on the5th instant, in regard to Ordinance No. 17 of 1928 for the Seat of Government, or did such opinions merely emanate from his office without his actually seeing them? 
If the Attorney-General's opinion was obtained, will such opinion and the case upon which it was based be laid on the table of the Senate ? 
Was any notice given, as required by section 5 of the Roads and Footpaths Regulations - which provides that before any work is commenced notice shall be given to the tenant - in all or any cases where work was done? 
If not, why not? 
In the event of any tenant proceeding to litigation and thereby establishing that the ordinance and/or regulations are  ultra  wires, will the Governments- 
Pay the costs in full of the successful litigant; 
Undertake not to introduce into Parliament legislation reimposing liability? 
That the meaning of the provision that an ordinance made under the Seat of Government Act takes effect from the date of notification in the  Gazette  or from a later specified date, is that the ordinance becomes law from the date notified or specified ; 
that this provision accordingly prescribes the point of time from which the ordinance becomes the law of the Territory, but that it does not restrict the operation of the ordinance to questions arising out of the relations of persons after that date. 3 and 4. In view of the fact that litigation is threatened, I am not prepared to answer these questions. 5. (a) If litigation takes place the Commonwealth will be bound by any order as to costs made by the court. 
No such undertaking will be given. On the contrary the Government will take any steps which further consideration may show to be desirable in order to prevent the true intention of the ordinance being defeated by any argument based upon a verbal technicality. 
 I move - 
That sub-clause 2 be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof - " 2. The Federal Capital Commission may grant to the Commissioner the right to the exclusive use of any other lands vested in the Commission which the Commissioner certifies to be required for the purposes of the railway. " 
This is merely a drafting amendment. The clause already provides that the Federal Capital Commission may, in the name and on behalf of the Commonwealth, grant to the Commissioner certain rights in land in the Federal Capital Territory, being Crown lands. As, however, the Seat of Government Administration Act provides for the vesting of land in the Federal Capital Commission, and as most of the land in the Territory has been vested in the Commission, the clause, as drafted, is not quite accurate. It is proposed to amend the clause to provide that the Commission may grant the rights specified over landsvested in the Commission. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill  read a third time. 
[3.18].  -  I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspeuded as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
It is my intention to move the first and also the second reading of the bill, at which stage the debate, if honorable senators so desire, may be adjourned. The suspension of the Standing Orders will save a day in dealing with the formal stages of the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Peabce) read a first time. 
[3.20].  -  I move - 
That  the  bill be now read a second  time. 
I have no wish that the debate on the second reading of this measure shall be adjourned; on the contrary, if honorable senators are prepared to proceed with the discussion to-day, I shall be very pleased. The bill provides for granting financial assistance to Tasmania to the extent of £220,000. As honorable senators arc aware, the Commonwealth has granted financial assistance to Tasmania for a number of years because the financial position of that State has been such as to justify it in looking to us for assistance, and because, also, of our recognition of the fact that federation has imposed certain financial disabilities ' upon the island State. 
About  two  years ago the Tasmanian Government applied for a further grant and the Commonwealth Government decided to have a special investigation into the financial position of the State. The first inquiry was made by  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer, and this was followed by an investigation by the Development and Migration Commission. These inquiries showed that the burden of taxation upon Tasmania was very high, and that the capacity of the Tasmanian people to pay taxation was not high. They also revealed that losses were occurring in certain specific avenues, and that it was possible by  a  reconstruction of  Tasmania's internal  policy to overcome some of those losses. These two authorities found that Tasmania was faced with difficulties arising from heavy losses incurred on the railways, large expenditure on roads and bridges, initial losses connected with the Hydro-Electric Works, and a general decline in production and population. The losses on Tasmania's railway system have recently been the subject of further investigation by a transport committee appointed by the Development and Migration Commission. The State Government was consulted as to its personnel. An attempt was made to obtain a committee of experts who could study the whole question of transport including railways, roads and bridges and the facilities available at Tasmanian ports and harbours. This committee has carried its inquiries almost to completion and is about to present its report. 
In connexion with its expenditure on roads and bridges, the position of Tasmania is rather different from that of any of the other States. She has, per head of population, the most complete roads system of any State. These roads have been constructed largely out of loan moneys and there is consequently a heavy charge upon the taxpayers of that State who have to find- the interest on the money so expended. In recent years owing to its straitened financial position the Tasmanian Government has not been able to find the requisite amount of money for road maintenance. That particular phase of the question is receiving the consideration of the transport committee with the object of ascertaining whether there is not occasion for an even greater discrimination in the case of Tasmania with respect to the Federal Aid Roads' Grant than is provided for in the present act. Tasmania is unlike some of the other States which require more roads; what she requires is to be able to maintain the splendid system of roads that she already possesses. The initial losses on the hydro-electric works have passed away and that department is now showing a profit. 
Coming to the decline in production and population, I may say that perhaps the least spectacular but most useful service which the Development and 
Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research have rendered to Australia is the expert assistance it has given the State in ascertaining the causes of the falling off in production. It is a singular anomaly that while the production per acre of most of the main crops of the mainland States has been increasing during recent years, the production per acre of most of the main crops in Tasmania has been decreasing. That also it attributable to the fact that the financial position of Tasmania made it imperative that a policy of reduced expenditure should be brought in. In the carrying out of economies the staff of the Agricultural Department was reduced to such an extent that the expert technical and scientific assistance, which has done so much to assist production and increase the yield per acre in the mainland States, has not been available to Tasmania with the inevitable result that its production has decreased. On the advice of the two bodies I have mentioned the Tasmanian Government has since incurred expenditure in re-staffing the Agricultural Department with expert scientific officers whose assistance is now being made available to the farmers of that State. The system of agricultural bureaux which has done so much in disseminating scientific knowledge amongst the farmers throughout the rest of Australia has been rehabilitated there. It has been taken up with great enthusiasm by the farmers of Tasmania and is to-day doing very valuable work. 
In consequence of these inquiries the Commonwealth Government continued the existing grant of £68,000 and made a further grant of £310,000 or £378,000 in all for two years, on the understanding that the whole question would be reconsidered at the end of that time. That two years' period was fixed upon because it was felt that the inquiries by the two Commonwealth authorities to which I have referred would then have reached such a stage that the Government would be able to ascertain the effect of their recommendations in rehabilitating Tasmanian production and so increasing her ability to meet her own requirements through her own taxation. The period covered by the grant of £378,000 expired on the 30th 
June last and the position of Tasmania has, as promised, been further examined. As the result of Commonwealth assistance the State Government has been able to show surpluses instead of deficits. In 1926-27, Tasmania had a surplus of £185,000 and in 1927-28, a surplus of approximately £95,000. The position of the citizens has also improved, largely as a result of a substantial reduction in taxation. One of the main grounds advanced by Tasmania some two years ago for special assistance was that heavy taxation would otherwise be inevitable. It was claimed that the continuance of abnormal taxation imperilled the maintenance of production, and also the maintenance of revenue which the taxation was designed to secure. It was further claimed that heavy taxation was one of the causes of loss of population by migration. To ease this serious position Tasmania asked that the assistance to be provided by the Commonwealth should include a sum of £130,000 to enable Tasmania to grant taxation relief. Examination shows that, as the result of Commonwealth assistance, Tasmania reduced her taxation by approximately £140,000 in 1926-27. The taxation figures for 1927-28 are not available, but a further reduction, estimated at £S0,000, was made. The chief reason for this reduction was the relief of approximately £70,000, which Tasmania obtained from sinking fund charges under the terms of the financial agreement. It will be seen, therefore, that the total reductions in taxation amount to £220,000, or slightly more than £1 per head of population. That is a recurring annual benefit. 
Unfortunately, the position of the railways shows no improvement; losses of over £250,000 a year are being incurred. Examination has shown that the main cause of Tasmania's present difficulties is that of internal transport. Arising from railways and roads the State revenue account is bearing a burden of nearly £500,000 a year. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I think there are worse instances of hope less railway propositions in Tasmania than there are in any of the other States. 
The Commonwealth has, therefore, suggested the advisability of having the whole position of internal transport in Tasmania specially investigated by experts, and has offered to co-operate with Tasmania in arranging such investigation. This suggestion has been concurred in by the Government of Tasmania, and preliminary action has already been taken in the matter. 
The benefit of this independent inquiry to Tasmania is that, had an examination been made by a committee appointed by the State Government for the time being in office, there would have been the possibility of a charge that the element of party politics had been allowed to creep in. There can, however, be no question as to the impartiality of the Commonwealth in this matter, or of the body which has been appointed to undertake the investigation. Assistance was given in order that Tasmania might reduce her losses without inflicting any injury on the State. Whatever the result of the investigation, no political party will be able to gain an advantage over another party. 
There has also been a careful examination of the finances of Tasmania in order to arrive at the amount of assistance which it would be reasonable to grant. 
This examination has shown that a substantial saving should be made by Tasmania this year as a result of the application of sinking funds to the cancellation of public debt, as contemplated by the financial agreement. 
About £1,100,000 of Tasmania's sinking fund is represented by Commonwealth securities. Arrangements are being made for these securities to be handed over to the Commonwealth, and an equivalent amount of the debt due by Tasmania to the Commonwealth cancelled. It is anticipated that this transaction will result in a saving of over £60,000 to the revenue account of Tasmania this year. A further saving, estimated at about £13,000, can be made by applying the balance of Tasmania's sinking fund in cancellation of debt. A saving of £53,000 will also be made by Tasmania this year in the provision for railway depreciation. This saving was agreed to by the Commissioner for Rail; ways and the Under-Treasurer of Tasmania after fully examining the position. The ex-Premier of Tasmania  (Mr. Lyons)  also agreed that £7,000 extra revenue could be raised by removing certain taxation anomalies. 
It is also necessary to have some regard to the surplus for 1927-28. The examination, to which I have referred, took place before the close of last financial year, and the whole position was discussed by the Treasurer and myself with the exPremier of Tasmania and his Treasury officials.  Mr. Lyons  agreed that it would be reasonable to deduct £40,000 on account of the estimated surplus for 1927-28. As already stated, the actual surplus was £95,000; but the Government did not propose to make any further reduction beyond the sum of £40,000. Against these deductions, allowance must be made for the further expenditure necessary to carry out the remedial suggestions of the Development and Migration Commission. The budget of 1927-28 already carried a charge of approximately £18,000 as the result of these suggestions. This expenditure will be repeated this year and an additional sum of approximately £12,000 will be required to give effect to further suggestions. The suggestions referred to are mainly directed towards* improving agriculture. 
The position may be briefly summarized as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809126_5_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192809126_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

After considering all the facts, the Government has decided that a grant of £220,000 is reasonable, and that this amount should enable Tasmania to carry on without increasing taxation. The bill, therefore, provides for a grant of £220,000. 
It has been suggested that by reducing the grant we are penalizing Tasmania for her virtue in keeping her expenditure so low that at the end of the last financial year her Treasurer was able to announce a surplus. My reply is that, as in the case of a private citizen no Government or. State is entitled to claim credit for the display of honour or virtue. Honour and virtue are expected of all, and it is the duty of every Government to conduct its affairs as economically and carefully as possible. Moreover, it is not the duty of the Commonwealth Government to tax the citizens of Australia in order to provide a surplus in the revenues of any one State. The ground of Tasmania's application was that, without it, burdensome taxation would have to be imposed if the State was to pay its way. It is admitted on all sides that the grant made to Tasmania has enabled that State so to reduce taxation that its citizens are not now taxed so heavily as are the citizens of some of the other States. It would be manifestly unfair for the taxpayers in the rest of Australia, who in some of the States are paying heavier taxes than are the people of Tasmania, to be called upon to provide funds to enable the people of that State to obtain still further reductions in taxation. The best assistance which can be given to any State is assistance that will enable it to pay its way without any further outside help. That position was put plainly by the Prime Minister in his first speech on this question.  Mr. Bruce  then said that the assistance which the Commonwealth would give would be of two kinds, first, assistance to enable Tasmania to reduce taxation so as to check the drift of population and to enable its industries- to expand, and, secondly, such technical assistance aa the Commonwealth could render through the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research to enable Tasmania to increase her production and thus to increase the ability of its people to pay taxes. Upon those considerations the grant to Tasmania was based. I ask the Senate in considering this matter not to lose sight of the sound principles underlying the grant. A grant based on these principles is unchallengable - on any other basis it would be a charitable dole - and can be accepted by any State without loss of self respect. It is indeed a form of assistance which a State is entitled to receive from the Commonwealth if the condition of its finances warrant it. 
 This is one of the very few measures which have been introduced by the Government on which I find myself in agreement with the right honorable the Leader of the Senate. In order to show the goodwill of the Opposition towards both Tasmania and the Commonwealth Government I have not asked for the adjournment of the debate. I desire to assist the Government to hasten to its doom. We are asked to appropriate the sum of £220,000 as a grant to Tasmania for the financial year 1928-29. That sum, according to the Leader of the Senate, is the amount by which taxation in Tasmania was reduced during the financial year just ended. No honorable senator can cavil at Tasmania receiving a grant from the Commonwealth to compensate that State for its geographical and other handicaps, if that grant is made only on the condition that the State Government first places its own financial house in order. During recent years Tasmania has honestly endeavoured to fulfil the promise made when first it sought financial assistance from the Commonwealth. While not endeavouring to make political capital out of Tasmania's disabilities, I think that all honorable senators will agree that the ex-Premier of that State  (Mr. Lyons)  and his Government did excellent work in the direction of placing Tasmania's finances on a sound basis. I am confident also that the present occupants of the Treasury bench in Tasmania will endeavour 'to effect a solution of that State's financial problems. We all realize the serious handicap under which that State labours, through its isolation from the remaining States of the federation.  Senator Gardiner  yesterday suggested as a way out of the difficulty that the people of Tasmania should be given an opportunity to vote on the question of whether or not it should withdraw from the union; but the Standing Orders did not permit him to elaborate his plan. I believe that the honorable senator was not serious, also that Tasmania and the other States of the Commonwealth have no desire that there should be any secession. The true spirit of federation is to encourage cooperation, and not to breed antagonism, and if any of the unfavorably situated States labour under financial difficulties it is only right that the Parliament of the Commonwealth should come to their assistance, provided always that the States concerned try to help themselves. 
I have been a member of this Senate for a number of years and it has always been my endeavour to view such problems from a broad Australia stand-point. I shall not alter that attitude if I have the honour to be returned for another term of office. If I am a member of the Senate when South Australia is beset by financial stress, and its claims come before this chamber for consideration - provided that South Australia can put up as sound a case for assistance as has Tasmania - I assure  Senator Robinson  that its application will receive fair treatment. The sum to be granted to Tasmania is in no way excessive. I understand that that State anticipates a deficit of £30,000 for the current year, and I think that, without being in any way unfair to the taxpayers of Australia, this Parliament could have been a little more liberal and made the grant £250,000. That would have given Tasmania a better chance to right its affairs, and regain a sound financial position.. 
I support the bill, and I hope that Tasmania, by the proper development of its resources, and careful attention to its finances, will have no need to come again to this Parliament for another grant. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania! [3.50].  -  The matter of financial assistance to Tasmania has engaged the attention of a number of Commonwealth Parliaments. Eighteen years ago a royal commission was appointed to inquire into the disabilities suffered by Tasmania as a result of federation, the chief disability, of course, being its deprivation of customs revenue. That commission recommended that the Commonwealth Government should grant to Tasmania an amount of £900,000, the payments to be spread over a period of ten years. Since then further investigations have been made into the financial embarrassment of Tasmania, and bills have been introduced from time to time making provision for assistance to that State. Those inquiries have proved beyond dispute that Tasmania is in need of substantial financial assistance, as its position of isolation, and the lack of adequate interstate transport communication, subject it to disabilities that are unknown to the other States of Australia. I am confident that if satisfactory shipping services were established between the - mainland and Tasmania, the position of that State would be stabilized, and its finances placed on such a sound basis that it would enjoy, in very large measure, the prosperity that is common to the other States of the Commonwealth. That brings me, quite naturally, to the hardships placed upon Tasmania  by  the operation of the coastal sections of the Navigation Act, about which the people of Tasmania hold very emphatic opinions. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! The honor- able senator is not in order in introducing the operation of the Navigation Act into this  debate. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr. President  ; I was dealin  With  the subject of coastal transport, which is closely interwoven with the financial position of that State, and I thought that I was quite in order. At the request of the Commonwealth Government,  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer investigated the position of Tasmania, and the people of that State expected, as a result, that a grant would be made by the Commonwealth Parliament to Tasmania for a definite number of years. Unfortunately, this Parliament determined that the grant should bc reviewed yearly. After the last payment of £90,000, the final instalment of the grant of £900,000,. was made, the grants to Tasmania, with the exception of those for the years 1926-1927, have been reviewed yearly. That,' places the State Treasurer in an unenviable position of uncertainty when preparing his Estimates. "Western Australia has been much more favorably placed, as the Commonwealth grant to that State was fixed for a five-year period. I appreciate the fact that the Estimates of  Mr. Lyons  promised a surplus. It is also quite true that in March  last  the State Treasurer anticipated a surplus of £40,000, and that at the end of the financial year he found himself in the fortunate position of having a surplus of £90,000. But it is necessary to remember that the estimated expenditure for this year has been substantially higher than was anticipated. That has entirely changed the position of affairs that was submitted to the Commonwealth Treasurer. 
Regarding the scheme for the reorganization of the Tasmanian Agricultural Department, which was recommended by the Development and Migration Commission, honorable senators should bear in mind that when the special grant of £370,000 was under consideration it was distinctly understood that additional  expenditure  incurred in carrying out the recommendations made by the Development and Migration Commission or the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research would be a charge against the Commonwealth. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate and the Prime Minister in another place intimated  that  in addition to providing a special grant to Tasmania  for two  years,  the  Government would make available to the State the services of the Development and Migration Commission as well as the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. to help the State Government in connexion with its agricultural and developmental problems. It was never contemplated that any expenditure incurred in that connexion would be a charge against the special grant. 
It was £18,000. Although the sum of £12,000 is set aside this year, I am informed by those who should be in a position to know, that the expenditure will be approximately £40,000. Everyone appreciates what the Government has done and what it is attempting to do in the reorganization of the Agricultural Department in Tasmania. I am sure, also, that the State will profit from the investigations that are being made by those two bodies. Although Tasmania is the smallest State in the Commonwealth the  per capita  expenditure on roads and railways,  as  well as for the development of water power for industrial purposes is higher than in any other State, and certainly those public works may be regarded as a valuable asset to the Commonwealth as a whole. If the figures presented by the Minister this afternoon were analysed and if it were possible to make a comparison of the position in March last and the position to-day, I am sure that the Government would reach a very different conclusion as to the amount of the special grant to be set aside for Tasmania. I realize, of course, that it is useless to attempt to alter the Government's proposal , that we must accept the position as we find it and be satisfied with an assurance 'that the State's expenditure on roads and railways will be reviewed by the Government with a view to relieving the State of some portion of the interest burden. This is the greatest difficulty which the State Treasurer has to overcome. The loss on railway working is really responsible for the deficit in Tasmanian finances. If that problem can be solved satisfactorily the position of Tasmania will be materially improved. I- protest strongly against the disallowance by the Government of the £50,000 set aside by the Tasmanian Railways Commissioner for depreciation. I believe that the Government is under the impression that similar provision is not made by Railways Commissioners in other States. That is not correct. Tu at least two other States, provision is made for payment to a special fund for depreciation, and I am assured that the Railways Commissioner in Tasmania intends to adhere to this practice. 
I regret that the amount of the grant has been reduced. An additional £30,000 would have enabled the State Treasurer to balance the ledger. The Leader of the Senate has argued that it is no special virtue for any State Government to exercise economy. I agree with him, but [ do not admit that economy should be carried to the extent of preventing ordinary developmental works from being undertaken. I feel sure that the' fullest consideration has not been given by the Commonwealth Government to the estimated -expenditure on the Federal scheme of road construction in Tasmania. As the Leader of the Senate must know the functions of State Ministries are continually increasing. The activities of every State are continually expanding, and expenses on administration are increasing in a corresponding ratio. Outside tribunals have been constituted to fix the rates of pay for State public servants and employees of private firms. To the extent that this power is exercised, the State Government has lost control of its financial policy. It cannot be argued that there has been laxity in administration or that the Government of Tasmania has not safeguarded the interest of its taxpayers. Actually the position in that State will bear favorable comparison with any other State in this respect. I repeat that I regret very much that the amount asked for has not been granted, but I am pleased to know that it is the Government's intention to consider favorably any representations that may be made with regard to the interest charge on expenditure upon roads and railways. 
 When I was speaking on this subject last week I said I did not know how the figures had been made up, but believed that they had been considered at  a conference of Treasurers. If that statement, has given rise to the impression that I thought an agreement had .been reached between the Treasurers concerned, I should like to correct it, because I have been told since that at least some of the items were not agreed to by either the Treasurers or their officers. What I had in mind was the basis of calculation and the way in which the figures were compiled. 
Honorable senators will recollect that two years ago, we dealt with a proposal to make grants to Tasmania and Western Australia owing to the disabilities which those States suffered from federation. At that time Parliament agreed to give Tasmania a grant of £378,000 for two years, and Western Australia a grant of £450,000 for five years. 
How much was to be paid for the five years ? 
I am pleased that the honorable senator has corrected me because I tried to get accurate figures. However, whatever the amount may be the fact remains that the grant is payable to Western Australia for five years, and that is the point to which I wish to refer. I have no desire to play off one State against another, but I must refer to Western Australia in order to emphasize the position in Tasmania. I listened very attentively to the right honorable the Leader of the Senate when he was introducing this bill, and having also read the speech delivered by the Treasurer in another place I have come to the conclusion that the Government seems to have regarded a payment of £378,000 to Tasmania as a fair one, because of the disabilities suffered by the State, but that certain reductions have been made under various agreements and conferences which have brought down the grant to £220,000. I propose to show that this reduced amount is not a generous payment and that some of the deductions are questionable. The first deduction I take is the £60,000 which it is claimed Tasmania will save by reason of the new sinking fund arrangement. Tasmania has a sinking fund of £1,100,000, but it is now claimed that under the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, which inaugurates a new sinking fund arrangement to which the Commonwealth will contribute, the State oan apply this £1,100,000 to the reduction of its indebtedness and thus avoid an annual payment of £60,000 in interest. That may sound very reasonable, but Western Australia also has a sinking fund which amounts to £9,000,000, and if the same rule had been applied to that State it would have wiped out their grant altogether - if the £9,000,000 had been used for the reduction of that State's indebtedness, it would have brought about an annual saving of £450,000, reckoning interest, at 5 per cent., which would have been more than the amount of the Commonwealth's grant to that State. But Western Australia will now be £450,000 a year better off, and will still retain its federal grant, while the Commonwealth Government has debited Tasmania with the £60,000 which it will save annually through the utilization of its sinking fund for the reduction of its indebtedness. Western Australia suffers no such deduction. ,In this connexion it is only fair to say that all the States will save money by the new financial agreement relating to the State debts. It would be useless to have a financial agreement if no such saving were to be brought about, but Tasmania will derive no advantage from it, whereas Western Australia will be better off to the extent of £450,000 a year. In this regard, therefore, the proposed grant to Tasmania is not as generous as it might reasonably have been expected to be. There is another sinking fund which the Commonwealth Government has discovered in Tasmania. Unlike some other States, Tasmania has a system, authorized by the Local Government Act, of lending money to municipalities. The law requires the municipalities to wipe out their indebtedness to the State by regular contributions to a sinking fund which is controlled by the State sinking fund trustees, and the State Government is obliged to pay interest on the amount held in the fund. If this is not done the indebtedness of the municipalities would not be extinguished. Even if the Commonwealth Government deducts the £13,000, which is the annual payment of the State Government towards this particular sinking fund, the State Treasurer will still have to keep faith with the municipalities and budget for the amount. I have made inquiries and have been told that the local governing bodies derive no advantage from the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, and in consequence the statutory requirements of this sinking fund for the extinction of municipal indebtedness will still continue. Thus, the State Treasurer will be obliged to provide this £13,000 a year and this amount, together with the £60,000 to which I have already referred, make a sum of £73,000 in respect of which a deduction has been made in the grant by the Commonwealth to the State. This is a deduction* which is, to say the least of it, arguable, and which in my opinion should not be made. 

 Senator Herbert Hays has referred to another deduction amounting to £53,000 which represents the sum annually set aside by the State Government for depreciation on its railway rolling-stock. A railway is a business concern and must be run in such a way that the ledger will balance. At least that has been our object in Tasmania, although in many instances we have not succeeded in achieving it. I do not think that any one has ever heard of a business concern that does not set something aside each year for depreciation of plant. How can we keep our rolling-stock up to standard unless we set something aside to keep our plant up to date? Engines become obsolete, trucks wear out and carriages become dilapidated and out of date. Without a depreciation fund how can we renew plant that becomes obsolete? If we were to dip into tho State sinking fund every time we wanted a new engine or a new truck we should never get out of debt. A sinking fund is a fund into which small payments are made periodically in order to extinguish a debt over a long period of years. A depreciation fund is quite a different matter. Its purpose is to keep plant, rolling-stock and so forth up to a standard of efficiency, and the better managed or more conservative a business concern is the larger is its depreciation fluid. But because some States have no depreciation funds in connexion with their railways the Commonwealth Government declares that Tasmania ought not to set aside £53,000 a year for a railway depreciation fund, and consequently it has reduced the grant to the State by that amount. If nothing is allowed for depreciation of plant our railways will run down and the rolling-stock will get out of order; everything will go wrong. I am surprised that the Commonwealth Government should suggest to the Tasmanian Government that in order to relieve the Commonwealth of the necessity of finding £53,000 this year, Tasmania should not follow the example of every well conducted business and set aside an amount for depreciation of its railways rolling-stock.  Senator Herbert  Hays has already told honorable senators that the Tasmanian Commissioner of Railways says that he must have this £53,000 and I believe that the State Treasurer is budgeting this year to provide not the whole of this amount, but a fair proportion of it so that the Commissioner may make some semblance of keeping up his railways on a proper business footing. 1 cannot think  that the Commonwealth Government has considered this matter as fully as it might have done. Otherwise it would not have asked the State Government to cease paying this annual contribution to a depreciation fund which is so necessary to keep our railways in proper working order. The next point to which I wish to refer is Tasmania's last year's surplus of £40,000. 
The anticipated surplus was £40,000. The Leader of the Senate knows that the additional £55,000 on a turnover of £3,000,000 does not represent more than  per cent. No Treasurer has ever been able to budget within  per cent, of his receipts and expenditure. I believe that every Treasurer does his best to make an honest forecast of the following year's revenue and expenditure, but sometimes his forecast is a few pounds over and sometimes it is a few pounds under. Even the Commonwealth Treasurer in his last forecast was astray to the extent of £2,600,000. It is almost impossible to budget correctly. What private business man could say within a few pounds what his revenue and expenditure would be for the forthcoming year? If the Tasmanian Government was lucky enough to get more revenue than it anticipated it was a fortunate stroke for the State. 
Yes, it came largely from that source. But the fact that, the State Treasurer received £55,000 more than he anticipated is held up against the State, and it is claimed that it is useless to take notice of the State's budgets because the revenue is always a little more than is anticipated. The position in Tasmania is not as hopeful as it was last year. Production has certainly been large but on the other hand prices have been extremely low. Fruit, oats and potatoes are returning very little to the producers, and this will find its reflection in the income tax returns. I trust that I am wrong, but I do not anticipate any surplus in the Tasmanian treasury this year. We ought not to be guided by last year's figures. We ought not to deduct £40,000 this year because there was an anticipated surplus of £40,000 last year. What we should take into consideration is what the State Treasurer forecasts to get next. year. If that is done in the case of Tasmania it will easily be shown that no £40,000 surplus is anticipated for the present year. 
When the Development and  Migration  Commission went over to Tasmania no one welcomed it more than I did. I attended its first meeting and all its most, important meetings. The commission in an endeavour to place the State Agricultural Department and the producers of Tasmania on a sounder footing laid down a scheme which will cost from £25,000 to £30,000 a year more than was the cost of running the Agricultural Department previously. I do not know that it was actually said, and if I am pinned down I cannot indicate any one who said it, but it was absolutely understood by Tasmanian farmers that the Commonwealth Government was going to finance this new scheme. I heard the question asked a dozen times, " Where is the money coming from ?" and the answer always given was " From the Commonwealth, through the Development and Migration Commission." Now we find that we are not to get a copper of the money. I said last week in this chamber that the Commonwealth Government was finding £12,000 of this money. I was fully under the impression that it was doing so. Not having had the correct figures supplied to me I had to glean the information from somewhere. I find, however, that the Commonwealth in this grant is making no provision for the increased expenditure of the Tasmanian Agricultural Department. There is a sum of £11,600, which the Leader of the Senate referred to in round numbers as £12,000, which has been added to the grant, and the Commonwealth Treasurer says that this amount is for agriculture. I, find that £5,000 of it is to be devoted to mining and £5,000 to forestry. These are new directions for expenditure, and no doubt it is highly desirable that mining and forestry should be developed and that the money should be provided out of this grant, but the farmers are getting nothing out of the grant. I contend, therefore, that the deductions from the grant are arguable, and that the Commonwealth Government could certainly have been more generous to Tasmania. 
I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Senate say that a transport committee was now at work in Tasmania. Because the State is an island, transport difficulties, both internal and external, are our greatest disability. We have been obliged to make roads where other States have been able to do without them. Up to 1916 Tasmania had spent as much loan money on roads and bridges as was spent in the same direction in all the other States put together. That seems almost unbelievable; nevertheless it. is true. I had the figures taken out for that year. We had at that time 7,000 or 8,000 miles of metalled roads. We could not develop the island without metalled roads. Every acre of land sold imposed on the State an obligation by implication to make a metalled roadway. When large areas of new country in the mainland States are opened up it is unnecessary to construct metal roads as in most cases owing to the dry nature of the country a five-chain track serves the purpose for many years. But in Tasmania the position is totally different; the boggy nature of the soil necessitates the construction of metal roads.  Up  to the present from £5,000,000 to £6,000,000 has been spent for this purpose, the interest on which the Tasmanian taxpayers have .to carry in the form of a dead-weight debt. A similar amount has also been spent on railway construction on which the people of Tasmania have, so far as is practicable, to pay the interest. I was pleased to hear the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce")  say that the Government will take this aspect of the matter into consideration, and if this is done I believe that if we can only get through this financial year, the grant to Tasmania will, in the future, be much more substantial than that now proposed. The Tasmanian people are not pleading for a dole, but are advancing a legitimate claim. I do not want the people in the mainland States to say that we are discontented, and are anxious to withdraw from the federation. I want to hear people say that they are glad to be members of the federation, and not that they would be glad to get out of it. This can be achieved by giving us not only a fair but a generous deal. The Commonwealth Parliament is largely responsible for the position which is confronting Tasmania to-day, because much of its legislation, although it may be of benefit to a majority of the States, presses with extreme severity on Tasmania. There are some who will say that our protective policy is largely responsible for the unbounded prosperity which is usually prevalent in Melbourne and Sydney, and also for the rapid increase in population in New South Wales and Victoria. But the high protective tariff at present in operation, and the Navigation Act, which have been approved by the Commonwealth Parliament, have operated with undue severity upon Tasmania. Although measures such as I have mentioned have been passed in the belief that they would benefit the whole of the people, I do not think there is an honorable senator who believes that any legislation by this Parliament should be allowed to press with undue weight upon one section of the people. The Tasmanian taxpayers wish to operate in conjunction with those of the mainland, but the only way in which they can function effectively as members of the partnership is by the Commonwealth Government dealing fairly and generously with them. 
I have been very much interested in certain phases of this debate. In the first place it is somewhat easier for me to -support this measure since the representatives of Tasmania are doing so, although I do not know whether it is a case for sorrow or rejoicing, seeing that the measure provides for a reduction in the amount previously paid. From the general point of view, Tasmania ought to be rather proud that her circumstances have so much improved, as stated by the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  that a reduction is to be made- without imposing any great hardship upon the Tasmanian people. There are, however, some phases of the debate which have given me a good deal of food for thought. For instance it has been stated that certain costs incurred by the Development and Migration Commission are to be deducted from the grant. I should like to know to what extent that is being done. 
That cuts away the ground upon which I was about to tread. I was beginning to have some suspicion concerning the virtues of the Development and Migration Commission of which I, as a representative of Western Australia, have a very high opinion, because in Western Australia, as in Tasmania, that commission has rendered very valuable service. As  Senator J.  B. Hayes will remmeber,  I had an opportunity, a little over twelve months ago, of seeing a good deal of Tasmania. A newcomer to a country usually knows more concerning its possibilities than one who has lived in it for many years, and with that impetuosity characteristic of a newcomer I formed the opinion that the principal difficulty of the Tasmanian people was in their means of external communication. I believe that a good deal could be done to overcome the present difficulty by removing those irksome restrictions which Tasmania, in common with other States and countries, is experiencing. If that were done the necessity for a special grant would disappear altogether. 
Let us remove them for the sake of Australia, because when one State suffers, other States must also suffer. If the recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission are adopted, even at the cost indicated by  Senator J.  B. Hayes, a good deal will be done to enable Tasmania to dispense with financial assistance from the Commonwealth. Tasmania's products are peculiar in that they consist largely of perishable commodities which have to be sold on a fluctuating interstate market. A great deal can be done if the recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission are carried out in the direction of changing the nature of production. I noticed, for instance, that dairying plays a" very small part in the agricultural life of Tasmania. Although the sheep, to my mind, were distinctly good, it was apparent even to a layman, that the dairy herds were not of high grade. With the exception of one or two places in Tasmania, the dairy cattle would not be favorably commented upon in other parts of the Commonwealth. I feel sure that if the recommendations of the Commission concerning the breeding  and nutrition of dairy cattle are carried out, Tasmania will be on a sounder basis in the matter of production than she is at present. 
It is a slow process in any State, and that being so the sooner a start is made the better it will be for Tasmania. Perhaps I am somewhat presumptuous in making this suggestion, but I feel sure that those intimately concerned will forgive me because I am only backing up the opinion already expressed by experts in the service of the Development and Migration Commission. At all events, I feel that the principal trouble- in Tasmania, Queensland and Western Australia is due to the restrictions imposed in the matter of sea transport. If these are removed we shall be in a better position to deal with the natural difficulties with which we are surrounded. 
Exactly. In the circumstances nothing remains for me but to support the bill, and to express the hope that it will not be long -before Tasmania and Western Australia will be able to carry on without a special grant. 
I cannot allow this measure to pass without saying a few words from the viewpoint of Queensland. Although Queensland has not received financial assistance such as it is proposed to grant to Tasmania under this bill, our industries have received assistance from the Government in the form of bounties. When I was a member of the Senate some years ago, Parliament passed a measure providing for the payment of a bounty on meat exported, because of the slump in the outside market. Other Australian industries have also received assistance in that form. 
It is entitled to some consideration. I do not wish to get away from the subject matter of the bill, but I think honorable senators will agree with me that some States receive greater consideration than others. For instance, the post office in Brisbane is hopelessly out of date, whilst the postal buildings in Melbourne and Sydney are magnificent structures. 
Yes, but there are other Commonwealth buildings upon which public money has been spent of which there is no counterpart in Queensland. It is time that the Brisbane post office was rebuilt or remodelled so as to provide facilities similar to those available in Melbourne and Sydney. As a representative of 
Queensland, I submit that we must have some sympathy with Tasmania and also with Western Australia in matters of this kind. Whilst Tasmania's principal difficulties are due to inadequate transport facilities, it seems to me that with an increase in the manufacturing industries the financial position of that State would improve. The manufacturing industries of New South Wales and Victoria have developed ; but the removal of customs barriers under federation has not helped Western Australia, Queensland or Tasmania. 
 The sugar industry is of benefit to the whole of Australia. 
 Does  Senator Thomas  wish the sugar cane industry to be developed by Kanaka labour? Will he say he is against a White Australia? As Queensland has had to pay for its place in the federation, I have some sympathy with Tasmania and Western Australia. Until recent years Tasmania was governed by successive conservative governments. I do not wish to emphasize that point too much in view of the attitude adopted by my leader towards this measure, but it cannot be gainsaid that the administration of Tasmania prior to the Labour party assuming the reins of office, lacked that measure of success which honorable senators opposite boast is associated with Tory administration. Not many years ago the control of Tasmania's finances was handed over to a Labour Government to be placed on a proper footing. In her time of need, Tasmania called upon Labour to save the country. While I do not object to another State receiving financial assistance from the Commonwealth, when necessary, I consider that greater consideration should have been given to Queensland's industries. It is true that the sugar industry of Queensland has been assisted; but there were special reasons for consideration being given to that industry. In their relations with the manufacturing 
States the primary producing States aru in the same position that confronts Australia in her relations with the Mother Country. Just  aB  Australia,, being Britain's best market, is entitled to consideration from Britain, so the primary producing States of Australia are entitled to consideration by the manufacturing States. Like Tasmania and other outlying States with small populations, Queensland cannot compete successfully in its manufactures with New South Wales and Victoria, because the latter States have the benefits of larger or mass production. While urging that the Government of Tasmania, and, indeed, all the Governments of Australia, should exercise the most rigid economy in administration, I feel that Tasmania is deserving of assistance. I shall, therefore, support the bill. 
 I scarcely like to break in on the harmony of such a pleasant gathering, and probably some honorable senators will consider that my remarks this afternoon are entirely uncalled for. It was my privilege to be a member of a party which, when that clause in the Constitution providing for assistance for Tasmania for ten years was under consideration, determined once and for all to settle the financial troubles of that State. A royal commission was appointed to ascertain the exact position of Tasmania's finances. When that information had been obtained, a proposal was brought before Parliament to terminate the grants to Tasmania. In those days when we had no war debt to face there was a surplus almost every year, so that experiments in various directions could have been made without serious loss. The Government of the day decided to grant to Tasmania a sum of about £900,000 in annual instalments, which were to diminish each year so that at the end of ten years, when the payments ceased, Tasmania would not feel the loss. Thenceforth Tasmania was to shift for herself. I do not know what happened at the end of the first ten years, but I do know that the Commonwealth Government has been making grants to Tasmania ever since. I shall not discuss the merits or demerits of Tasmania's claim for assistance, except to say that the position of that State is not more serious than that of the larger States. Queensland has over 6,000 miles of railway to maintain, and Kew South Wales nearly as much. Owing to the increased cost of running those railways, due largely to the legislation passed by this Parliament, heavy annual losses are incurred. Tasmania has no such huge liability. 
Some of the smaller States have already felt the financial burden, but the larger States are not exempt from similar difficulties. Where is this policy of crippling the wealth-producing States to assist the other States to end? I speak as a representative of New South Wales, which State . has to find practically onehalf of the taxation of the Commonwealth. That means that onehalf of the gifts to the other States is paid by the people of New South Wales. Reluctant as I am to oppose my leader on this occasion - I am not disobeying the dictates of caucus because I am not allowed into the caucus meetings of the Labour party, and can, therefore, speak with perfect. freedom without imperilling the position of the Labour party at the next election - I feel that I must do so. As the untrammelled representative of New South Wales, I enter my protest against money being given away when the financial position of the State I assist in representing, and, indeed, of the Commonwealth as a whole, should receive the serious attention of this Parliament. In 1911 or 1912 the Fisher Government decided to settle for all time Tasmania's financial problem. The gift then made to Tasmania was granted only after the fullest inquiry. If the decision to assist Tasmania had been arrived at after the dissolution of Parliament had been announced, my voice would have been raised in protest then as strongly as it is raised now. Having announced an appeal to the people, the Government now proposes to make a gift to one State. Only one term can properly be applied to such an act; it is no other than open bribery and corruption. I do not say that honorable senators are being bribed. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! I understood the honorable senator to say that the Government is guilty of bribery and corruption. If he made the remark, I ask him to withdraw iti 
I do not think that any other construction can be placed upon my remark. 
Then I ask the honorable senator to withdraw it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council)  [5.4].  - I am surprised at the extravagant language used by  Senator Gardiner.  The honorable senator knows perfectly well that Tasmania received a distinct promise from the Commonwealth Government that, whilst the grant was originally given for two years, the position would be reviewed before the expiry of that period, and, if necessary, the grant would be continued. This bill is merely a redemption of that promise. It is ridiculous to assert that the Government is introducing a bill in order to obtain an electioneering advantage. Actually, the Government is reducing the grant, and is laying itself open to censure on that account. In the circumstances I consider that  Senator Gardiner  spoke most inadvisedly. 
I shall deal briefly with the remarks of Senators Herbert Hays, and J. B. Hayes, who appear to be under a misapprehension.  Senator J.  B. Hayes urged that every business should have a depreciation fund. I quite agree with him in that, provided that the business can afford it. Unfortunately, many businesses can not. The biggest activity in which the Commonwealth Government is engaged, the post office, has never been able to afford a depreciation fund. It certainly has a sinking fund, but  Senator J.  B. Hayes differentiated between a sinking fund and a depreciation fund. Queensland, with its great State railway system, has been unable to afford a depreciation fund, yet  Senator J.  B. Hayes would have the taxpayers of Queensland contribute towards the establishment of a depreciation fund for the Tasmanian railways ! Neither the State of Tasmania, nor any other State, has a right to ask the taxpayers of the rest of the Commonwealth to provide something for that State, which its own taxpayers are not able to provide. We must not think that the' Commonwealth Government has the purse of Fortunatus, out of which it can contribute  largesse  to States which cannot help themselves. It must be remembered that we are the caretakers of the money of the taxpayers of the Commonwealth. It is unfair to ask this Government to provide a depreciation fund for a State railway when the taxpayers of that State cannot afford to provide such a fund. If Tasmania feels that it ought to have a depreciation fund for its railways there is nothing to prevent it being established, but it would be most unfair to include in this grant an amount for that purpose, contributed by the taxpayers of the Commonwealth as a whole. 
There is another point which I desire to elucidate.  Senator J.  B. Hayes contrasted the grants made to Western Australia and Tasmania, pointing out. that the one was for five years, and the other for only two years. The grant to Western Australia was based upon entirely different grounds from those on which the grant was made to Tasmania. In the first place a principle common to both States was involved, that they suffered certain disabilities as a result of federation; but, in addition, there was a second consideration governing the grant to Western Australia, namely, that that State, in area, is the biggest in the Commonwealth, and the second smallest as regards population, so that its task of development and cost of government are much greater than similar charges on other States. Those factors are unlikely to change for some years, whereas it is possible that Tasmania's disabilities may disappear within a few years. That is why the differentiation was made. As  Senator Kingsmill  said, there is nothing that Tasmania can hope for more than that the time will come speedily when that State will be in no further need of Commonwealth assistance.  Senator J.  B. Hayes referred to the Western Australian sinking fund of £9,000,000, but he omitted to mention its accrued deficit of approximately £7,000,000. If the one receives attention, the other must also be taken into consideration. 
Regarding the recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission as to the reorganization of the Agricultural Department of Tasmania, it was never understood that the payment of experts appointed to carry out that work should be a charge upon the Commonwealth Government. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The whole of those costs have been found by the Commonwealth Government. The salaries of  Dr. Findley  and the scientists sent across by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research were all met by the Commonwealth Government. But if the costs of maintenance were borne by this Government it would mean that some of the costs of that reorganization would be borne by Tasmania, while others would fall on this Government. Obviously that would be unsound. I remind honorable senators that the cost to Tasmania of carrying out these recommendations was taken into consideration when providing this grant. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[5.16].  -  I move - 
That the bill be  now  read a second time. 
This is a machinery measure introduced to remedy certain defects in the Land Tax Assessment Act. The first amendment relates to the exemption from taxationof showgrounds. It. has been the practice of the department to allow exemptions from taxation of showgrounds provided they are not carried on for the purpose of profit. In nearly every case a showground is used, not only for the purpose of an agricultural show, but also as a sports ground. Nearly every society obtains a little revenue from grounds used for this purpose. It was not intended that the use of such grounds for sports purposes should be a bar to exemption. I understand that in some of the States the grant of a ground for show purposes contains a provision that the society shall make it available for use as a sports ground. As honorable senators know, most showgrounds are occasionally used for other purposes, and it is proposed by the bill to amend the act so as to authorize the continuance of the present practice of exempting all showgrounds from taxation, even if the societies controlling them obtain some revenue from their use for such purposed. 
The second amendment relates to the Land Valuation Board. This board consists of three persons, who usually come from different States, and the object of the amendment is to prevent the time of the board from being wasted through the failure of the taxpayer to appear at the time fixed for the hearing of his objection. The amendment provides that if the taxpayer fails to appear personally or by representative and fails -to submit a reasonable excuse for his nonattendance, the board may determine the objection against him. 
Clause 4 of the bill is intended to prevent taxpayers from delaying indefinitely the payment of disputed tax. In 1927 a section was inserted in the act providing that where tax has been paid and an objection or appeal has been lodged, the tax paid must be refunded if the matter is not finally determined within six months after the payment of the tax. It has been found, however, that some persons are attempting to abuse this provision. After payment of tax they lodge objections or appeals and then endeavour to delay the determination of the matter until the expiration of the period of six months when they are entitled to receive a refund of the tax paid. After they have received this refund it is obviously in their interest to postpone the final settlement of the matter as long as possible. These cases cause trouble and expense to the Taxation Department, and it is proposed to amend the law to prevent the abuse of this provision relating to refunds by extending the period of six months in cases where the taxpayer causes delay by failing to furnish information requested by the Commissioner, and the amendment will also provide that the appeal may be struck out in cases where the taxpayer has caused unnecessary delay by failing to set down the appeal for hearing. Where an order of this kind is made, the appellant may also be compelled to pay the costs in connexion with the Commissioner's application to have the appeal struck out. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[5.20], - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
In June last Loan Act No. 1 was passed to meet expenditure on works and other services chargeable to the Loan Fund during the first quarter of the current financial year. When that measure was being considered, the Treasurer promised that the full programme for 1928-29 would be submitted for the approval of Parliament after the adjournment. The total of the programme for loan works and services submitted with the budget for 1928-29 is £9,024,375. Last year the programme of Commonwealth works submitted with the budget was £9,000,000, and the actual expenditure was £7,780,157. The amount of £7,780,157 just quoted represents the actual expenditure last year, before deducting a repayment of £163,216 on account of the sale of the Commonwealth ships. The net loan expenditure for last year was, therefore, £7,616,941. The estimated expenditure for 1928-29  compares with the actual expenditure last year as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809126_19_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192809126_19_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="119332192809126_19_2.jpg"></graphic>

The increase of £1,047,417 in war and repatriation expenditure is mainly due to the altered practice referred to in the budget speech, under which all widows of soldiers will be entitled to a pension of £2 2s. per week. To recoup the Federal Capital Commission for expenditure incurred by it in connexion with the construction of Parliament House, £638,500 is provided. The loans to be raised for the Commission will be reduced accordingly. No provision is made in the bill for loans to be raised for the States for development and migration under the migration agreement, as authority has already been given by Parliament under another act for this service. The total amount included in this Loan Bill is £10,422,025. The total loan expenditure for the year is made up as follows : - 

<graphic href="119332192809126_19_3.jpg"></graphic>

The amount of £3,000,000 provided for loans for the Federal Capital Commission is mainly to cover advances made to the Commission pending the raising of a loan. These advances amounted to £2,942,060 at the 30th June. The provision for loans to the North Australia Commission is required to meet an estimated expenditure of £100,000 for the current year, and advances previously made. Clause 2 gives authority to the Treasurer to borrow moneys not exceeding, in the whole, the amount of £10,700,000. This amount is arrived at by adding to the amount provided in the bill, namely, £10,422,025, the sum of £277,975, which represents the estimated cost of raising loan moneys to. cover the amount of expenditure authorized by the bill. 
There are two phases of this Loan Bill to which I propose to direct attention. If honorable senators will turn to the Department of the Prime Minister, they will observe that we are asked to provide £300,000 for advances of passage money, landing money and medical fees of assisted immigrants. On many occasions during the last year or two, I have protested against this expenditure of Commonwealth money on migration, only, to be assured by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate that migration is a matter entirely for the States, and further that the Commonwealth Government is not responsible for the bringing of a single person to these shores. Nevertheless, recent loan bills have contained provision for this purpose, so that if the Government is not directly responsible, certainly it is responsible indirectly for the introduction of migrants. I remind honorable senators that the Government has closed down expenditure on important public works on the score of economy to the extent of approximately £1,200.000. Hundreds of men have been thrown om of work in the various departments for this reason. The ballasting of the transAustralian railway line has been stopped and men have been dismissed from the 
Postal Department because money has not been made available for certain ne.cessary expenditure. It seems anomalous therefore that, whilst thousands of Australians are out of work, the Government should .be making provision in this Loan Bill for £300,000 to assist persons to come to this country to swell the ranks of our unemployed. Goodness knows the rank are full enough already. The policy of holding up public works such as the ballasting of the transAustralian railway, and dismissal of men from other services, is not wise economy, especially if the works curtailed are essential to the successful carrying on of public services. The ballasting of the trans-Australian railway will have to be done sooner or later in the interests of public safety. It is not economy to dismiss men from postal construction works which have to be undertaken sooner or later and which cannot return interest on capital cost until they are in actual operation. It is not right for the Govern ment to bring people to our shores, either directly or indirectly, while at the same time it is dismissing Australian workers. A word of warning is due at the present time that, while we have such a volume of unemployment in our midst, nothing should be done to intensify the position by bringing other people here. We are not alone in this contention. Similar objection to the Government's migration policy has recently been taken by some of its own supporters. I have no desire to deprecate Australia in the eyes of the world, but migrants tell us that alluring pictures are drawn in the Old Country as to their prospects on arrival here, despite the fact that never has unemployment been worse in Australia than it is to-day. In every State there are armies of men out of work, and it is wrong for the Government to spend money in bringing people here to swell the ranks of the unemployed. It is quite possible that the right honorable the Leader of the Senate will repeat the statement that he has often made, that the Commonwealth Government does not bring people to Australia. That may be so, but the Commonwealth Government is spending money on the payment of passage money, landing money and medical fees for assisted migrants, and it is my intention in committee to move for the deletion of this particular portion of the vote under the control of the PrimeMinister, as an indication of the opposition of the Labour party to a continuance of the insane migration policy now beingpursued. The Labour party is not opposed to immigration but it is opposed to the indiscriminate policy of immigration that has been carried on for sometime, and thinks it ought to be stopped. 
In the schedule to the bill I find an item of £43,000 towards the cost of machinery and plant for the manufacture of munitions not now produced in Australia. In my opinion Australia should be self contained in regard to munitionsof war. It has been proved beyond doubt, that with perhaps one exception, Australia has the wherewithal to be self contained in this respect; but while I realize that it is necessary that munitions should be manufactured in Australia, I donot think it right that loan money should be spent in this direction. Why cannot we . follow the example of the Fisher Government and provide for the whole cost of defence out of revenue? It has been said frequently by ministerialists that the richer portion of she community benefited most by the war. Yet we find the present Government reducing the taxation on the richer portion of the community and at the same time borrowing money to carry on and perfect our defence scheme. 
If that is so, why is there need to borrow £43,000 for the manufacture of plant to turn out munitions ? 
The example set by the Fisher Government should be continued and the burden of the cost of the defence of Australia should be allowed to rest on the shoulders of those best able to bear it, those who benefited most by the recent war. 
[5.40].  -  Senator Needham's  bitter hostility to immigration is becoming almost an obsession with him. It is very fortunate for the  honorable senator that the first Federal Parliament did not hold the view he holds in regard to immigration, because if it had come to the conclusion to which he has come, that every immigrant is a curse to the country, possibly Australia would not have had the benefit of the honorable senator's services. 
Am I to gather from the honorable senator's interjection that he believes in a property franchise in respect to migration, and that the man' who pays his own fare out is not objectionable, while the man who has not sufficient money to pay his fare out is objectionable? Does the Labour party preach a class war in respect of migrants? "Will it welcome with open arms the wealthy migrant and view with suspicion and hostility the poor migrant who cannot pay his own fare? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am reminded that honorable senators opposite are not altogether consistent in this regard, because the southern European to whom they take strong exception and who is not acceptable to them, pays his own passage to Australia. The fact is that honorable senators opposite do not want migrants at all. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Not at any time since 1916, when the Labour party became constituted as it is to-day, have I heard it say a good word for immigration.  Senator Needham  has spoken of men who have been put off because of the slackening off of postal construction works. A considerable portion of the item in the schedule to the Loan Bill to which the honorable senator takes exception, is to be devoted to the payment of the passage money of domestic servants. Will it help the men put off from public works to find jobs if these domestic servants do not come to Australia? Does the honorable senator suggest that the men put off from the post office will take domestic service? I have not heard of it being done. Some of us are a little sceptical about the existence of these " armies of unemployed." The other day the New South Wales Government issued 1,600 notices telling the " army of unemployed " in its State that there were jobs waiting for them, and only 125 turned up to get the work offering. The only conclusion one can draw is that the rest of the " army " .preferred to remain unemployed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Senator Needham always shuts his eyes to the system under which this money is spent. First of all the immigrants for whom the money is made available must be nominated by a State Government or a private individual in a State. If the State Government nominates a migrant, it undertakes to find him a job, so that he is not coming out to Australia to join the army of unemployed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The State Governments can find work for domestic servants. Even in South Australia domestic servants can still obtain employment, and South Australia is not nominating anybody to-day other than domestic servants. I can assure honorable senators that all the migrants assisted by this vote are nominated by State Governments or by private individuals, and when the migrants are nominated by private individuals, the State migration authorities are asked whether they will endorse the nominations. Before the Commonwealth Government finds the balance of the fare for the passage money of a migrant nominated by a private individual it has the guarantee of the State migration authorities that they are satisfied that the nominator will find the migrant a job or help him to become absorbed in our population. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. Do honorable senators opposite object to migrants coming to Australia under those conditions? In these circumstances, am I extravagant in saying that the members of the Labour party are totally opposed to immigration ? If there is one man unemployed, they object to girls who are guaranteed work coming to Australia. They also object to. Little Brothers coming to the Commonwealth while there is a navvy or a horse-driver unemployed. 
Not any. The honorable senator is referring to some boys who came to South Australia under a State scheme that has now been superseded by the Big Brother movement, which has extended to that State. That movement is acknowledged by every one who has investigated it to be one of the best migration schemes ever adopted in Australia. In nearly every case these boys have made good. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes; but that would be another objection of honorable senators opposite, because land-owners become members of what they term the capitalistic class. 
I wish now to deal briefly with the question of defence expenditure. The cost of the cruisers, submarines, and seaplane carrier has not been charged to the loan expenditure, as suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  ; but is being" met by a special appropriation from consolidated revenue. Munition supplies involve capital expenditure on machinery and plant, and the cost is rightly chargeable to loan funds; but the cost of manufacturing munitions is charged to revenue. The machines are bought out of loan funds; but contributions are made to a sinking fund out of which the cost of the machines is, met during the life of the asset. The Leader of the Opposition stated that the Fisher Government did not meet its defence expenditure out of loan moneys. I was a member of that Government, and I submit that if the same happy conditions prevailed to-day as did then, this Government would also meet its defence expenditure out of revenue. The Fisher Government did not have to raise  £29,000,000  as interest on war loans. That Government had surpluses, and was able to hand money back to the States. In these circumstances it is useless for the Leader of the Opposition to make such a comparison. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses  1  to  4  agreed to. 
Schedule. 
Immigration. Advances of passage money, landing money, and medical fees of assisted immigrants, £225,000. 
 I move - 
That the figures, £225,000, be left out. 
The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  did not attempt to justify the expenditure of loan money in bringing migrants to Australia, because he knows that the cost so incurred should not be chargeable to loan funds.  His  colleague in the Ministry has on previous occasions attempted to justify the policy which this Government has adopted. It is idle for the Minister to say that only domestic servants and Little Brothers are coming to Australia under its migration scheme. 
He knows that men are migrating to Australia. 
The Minister did not justify his assertion that since  1916  the Labour party has not had a good word for migration. I remind the right honorable gentleman that our ideas on this subject are the same as those which he shared with us prior to that year. We have not altered our policy since the- time the right honorable gentleman was a member of the Labour party. We maintain that it is the duty of the Government to provide employment for our own people before it brings migrants from overseas. The Minister has also attempted to scout the idea that there is no unemployment in Australia, and quoted a statement which appeared in the Sydney press the other day to the effect that a large number of men in New South Wales declined to accept employment when it was offered to them. He omitted, however, to quote the paragraph which appeared the following day to the effect that there were  4,000  men in Sydney willing and anxious to get work. The right honorable gentleman has overlooked the fact that according to the figures of the Commonwealth Statistician for the second quarter of this year the number of unemployed in Australia was estimated at 180,000. 
The Commonwealth Statistician would be sure that the source of his information was reliable. 
-The figures I have submitted are authoritative. I submit my amendment, and trust it will have the support of a majority of the committee. 
, - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short bill to provide for the amendment of item 291 by inserting the words  Sequoia sempervirens  after the word " Redwood " wherever occurring. Honorable senators may remember that when the tariff schedule was before the Senate recently, a duty of 6s. British, 7s, 6d. intermediate, and 8s. 6d. general, was imposed upon redwood, the intention being that the rates should apply only to American redwood. That interpretation was also placed upon the schedule by the department, but it was challenged in a South Australian court. In  giving  his verdict, the judge said that as there was a doubt whether the rate applied to redwood other than from America, the appellant was entitled to the benefit of the doubt. That decision has resulted in other redwood, particularly Baltic redwood, entering this country at a lower rate than Parliament intended. Undoubtedly, the intention of Parliament was that such redwood should come under an item in the tariff the rates for which are 12s. British, 14s. intermediate, and 15s. general. The decision of the court has had a serious effect on the timber industry of Australia. A number of mills which had increased their plant  in  order to provide for the increased output which they believed would result from the imposition of the higher duties, were seriously affected by the large importations of Baltic redwood. Seeing that the Senate believed that the higher duties would operate, I appeal to honorable senators to rectify the position by agreeing to the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I lay on the table the report of the Tariff Board  on  the subject of a request for increased duty on sewing threads and sewing cotton. The report is very extensive, but a large portion of it consists of a summary of the evidence. A number of copies of the report have been typed for the information of honorable senators, but the summary of evidence was so lengthy that time did not permit of its being also typed. The summary, moreover, is not essential to an understanding of the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated loss (a) per mile, (b) per annum, on the Federal Capital Commission 'bus and transport service? 
In view of the result of the attempt by the Commission to induce private enterprise to undertake the service, will the Government, in the interests of the taxpayers, remove the control of the service from the Commission, with a view to making satisfactory arrangements for the service with private enterprise companies? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice -  1. (a) What rent is actually paid by  Sir John  Butters for his residence at Acton ? 
On what basis is this rent worked out? 
What is the valuation of this property for rating purposes, and who pays rates, insurance, &amp;c. ? (d.) When did this rent commence? 
What rent was paid previously? 
What would be - 
the ground rent of the premises, 
) the total rent of the premises, if computed at the same rates as for Public Service tenants at Blandfordia or Red Hill? 
What new buildings are being erected on the premises (if any), for what purposes, and at what cost? 
Is it proposed that the rent shall be increased in respect of such buildings? 
Has the tenant been assessed for kerbing and guttering charges; if not, why not? 
What was the amount, or amounts, offered by the successful purchaser or purchasers of boarding-house sites (if any) offered for sale or lease by the Commission? 
What would be - 
The ground rent of  Sir John  Butters's residence based on the data obtainable from such sale or sales? 
The total rent to be charged for the premises on the above basis? 
The total rates? 
The total charges for kerbing, guttering and making footpaths? 
Will the Government, in the interests of the taxpayers of the Commonwealth - 
Determine the tenancy and arrange for the occupation by  Sir John  Butters of one of the vacant houses at Blandfordia? 
Call tenders for the lease of the residence at Acton as a guest house? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Pacific Cable Company charges for lettergrams to New Zealand 3d. a word for twenty words and only 2d. a word for words Over twenty? 
Is it a fact that the Beam wireless charges 5d. a word to England for twenty words and 5d. a word for all words over twenty? 
Is it a fact that the distance from Sydney to New Zealand is 1,500 miles, and that it cost at least £250 a mile to lay the cable - a total cost of £375,000? 
Is it a fact that the plant to send messages to England by wireless cost only £120,000? 
If the above are facts, why does the Beam wireless charge 5d. a word, and the Pacific Cable Company only 3d. and 2d. for similar services ? 
The information desired by the honorable senator is being obtained. 
Is it a fact that ordinary telegraphic messages can be sent from Broome (Western Australia) to Cape York (Queensland) for1d. a word? 
Is it a fact that the messages have to travel over 7,500 miles of telegraph wire? 
Is it a fact that the messages have to be repeated at least three times, namely, at Perth, Sydney and Brisbane? 
Is it a fact that it costs at least £70 a mile to erect telegraph poles and equip the lines with necessary wire and apparatus, making a total cost of £525,000? 
Is it a fact that plant to send messages to England by Beam wireless only costs £120,000? 
If so, why does Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited charge1s.6d. a word for ordinary messages when the Commonwealth Government only charges1d. a word? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
Approximately, the distance stated is correct. 
Yes. 
The cost per mile of wire depends upon the number of wires carried. The average cost per mile of new route is about £110. 
The agreement with Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited provides that the capital cost of plant erected in Australia for sending messages to England by radio was not to exceed £120,000. Details of actual cost of the plant arc not available in this department. 
The destination of ordinary messages delivered in the Commonwealth is via land line, but the destination of Beam wireless messages referred to is England. Therefore, the services arc not similar. Over each of the channels of communication a variety of classes of traffic is sent, and rate charged for any particular class of traffic is not necessarily based on the capital investment or the cost of rendering this service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What extra amount of duty, approximately, would have been paid on British goods for 1927-28 if duty had been collected at the general tariff rate? 
The figures asked for are not available at present, and the Commonwealth Statistician states that they will not be ready for some considerable time. They will, however, be furnished as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the approximate cost of ethyl chloride in America? 
What is the Australian tariff duty? 
The information is being obtained. 
The principal feature of this measure is the repeal of the provision under which land tax has previously been collected on show grounds where machinery, stock and produce are displayed for the benefit of agriculture generally. This amendment of the principal act is, I think, long overdue. The other clauses simply tighten up the present machinery in relation to the appeal board, and determine the actual time in which the tax has to be paid when a decision by the board has been reached. As it is largely a machinery bill, I do not think there is any necessity for me to discuss it further. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
This measure is the result of one of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Moving Picture Industry. When the report of that commission was under consideration the Government indicated that in order to carry out certain recommendations of the commission it would be necessary to increase the duty on imported films. At that time it was thought that the increase would be a halfpenny a lineal foot. But this measure provides for an increase of only one farthing a lineal foot. When discussing the motion for the adoption of the royal commission's report I stated that unless the Government or the motion picture exhibitors guaranteed that the cost would not be handed on to picture patrons I would not support a higher duty. It is estimated that by imposing an additional one halfpenny a lineal foot  on imported films, the sum of £44,000 annually will be collected, although according to page 14 of the report the commission suggested that only £10,000 was required annually to provide a prize for the best Australian picture produced. One or two of the commission's recommendations will cost more than that; but my principal concern at the moment is to ascertain who is to bear the cost of this additional impost. At the time of which I am speaking,  Sir Victor  Wilson, who is  president  of the Motion Pictures Distributors' Association, was reported in the press as having said that the extra cost would have to be passed on to picture patrons, and I do not think that statement has ever been contradicted. 
I admit it would not be an easy matter; but there are sometimes ways of overcoming such difficulties. It may be that £d., or even Id., will be added  to the charge for admission. The Minister, in his second-reading speech, did not say who would bear the cost. I regard the picture show as the poor man's theatre. It provides him with recreation at a comparatively low cost, and, where the censorship is strict, with much information of educational value. I do not want to see that class of entertainment made any dearer to the people of Australia, many of whom are unable to pay the high prices charged for admission to the ordinary theatres. 
 Sir Victor  Wilson's statement, so far as I am aware, has never been withdrawn or contradieted by him. 
I have some doubt as to the wisdom of voting for the increased duty. I desire the film industry in Australia to succeed against the powerful competition of the American companies, but I do not want to see additional charges placed upon the patrons of picture shows. Before voting for the increase, I desire to have further information. 
It was my privilege to be a member of the Royal Commission on the Motion Picture Industry, on whose recommendation the Government has acted in proposing to levy an additional duty on imported films. In preparing its report, the commission desired, not so much to protect the Australian industry - because it was realized that an additional  id.  a foot duty on films would not establish the film industry in Australia on a sound footing - but, rather, to find the best means of financing its recommendations relating to awards of merit, additional censorship provisions, and other matters. So far as was possible, the commission ascertained the cost of these things, and concluded that an additional duty of £d. a foot would be adequate to meet the situation. The commission felt that it would be unfair to ask the general taxpayers of Australia to pay for the additional facilities recommended; it considered that these were matters for the film industry itself.  Senator Needham  has referred to a statement by  Sir Victor  Wilson, who, on behalf of the Motion Picture Distributors' Association in Australia, is reported to have said that any additional duty would be passed on to the picture showmen. That matter was not overlooked by the commission. If the distributors took that stand the showmen, many of whom even now are struggling to make a bare existence, would probably have to bear the whole of the additional burden. The committee desired to avoid that. Later, as a result of inquiries made by the Government, it was seen that an extra duty of  id.  a foot would yield more than was required, that an additional )d. a foot would be sufficient for all requirements. The Government was also influenced in its decision to increase the duty by only £d. a foot by an assurance given by . the motion picture distributors that in that case no additional charge for films would be .imposed on the picture showmen. The distributors felt that the advantages which would accrue to them from the carrying out of the recommendation of the Commission - greater expedition in getting films through the censorship, and the establishment of an appeal board - were such that they would not need to pass on the extra duty of1/4d. a foot. In view of that assurance,  Senator Needham  need have no fear that the patrons of picture theatres will be called upon to pay higher admission prices because of the imposition of this duty. The members of the Film Commission acquiesced in the proposal of the Government to make the duty13/4d. a foot. 
No, because the commission, as such, no longer existed; but', individually, the members of the late commission were approached on the matter, and, so far as I am aware, not one of them objected to the proposed reduction. 
That could be done in many ways. Through the censorship and other channels, the Government has control of this matter. The motion picture distributors have, however, given a solemn undertaking not to pass on the additional duty of1/4d. a foot. I know these distributors to be honorable men, whose assurance can be accepted by the Senate. I therefore hope that the bill will have a speedy passage through the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule - 
The Minister has not replied, to my inquiry whether this increased duty will be passed on to the showmen and to the general public, although he intimated by way of interjection that it would not.  Senator Duncan  gave an assurance on behalf of the Motion Picture Distributors' Association - 
The honorable senator led the Senate to believe that the 
Motion Picture Distributors' Association stated that it would not pass this increased duty on to showmen. I want something more authoritative than that, and would like the Minister to tell this committee definitely that the association has given the Government a guarantee that the increased duty now proposed will not be passed on either to the exhibitors or the patrons of motion picture theatres. 
We are now considering a specific bill, and I shall confine myself to it. Will the Minister give us that assurance? 
.- The Government has not asked for such a guarantee, but I have been informed by  Sir Victor  Wilson, the representative of the Motion Picture Distributors' Association, that the increased duty will not be superimposed upon the admission charges to motion picture theatres. 
In my second-reading speech I pointed out that, with the exception of a charge of £3 3s. in the case of an appeal, all charges for censorship have been abolished, so that that somewhat lightens the burden of the distributors. 
I thought that I had made it quite plain that no guarantee was given; but an assurance has been received that there will be no increased charges for admission as a result of the imposition of this duty. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- This bill is the result of a law case which, in a sense, prevented the intention of this Parliament from becoming operative insofar as the imposition of certain timber duties was concerned. A few months ago a considerable discussion took place in this chamber as to the necessity for giving added protection to the timber industry of Australia, and as a result of that discussion increased duties were passed. The matter was taken to the High Court and, consequent upon the decision of that court, the duties could not be imposed on certain timbers, and the industry did not receive the relief intended. As the bill endeavours to remove an anomaly I do not object to it. 

 Senator KINGSMILL (Western Australia) [3.38). - There is a point arising out of this matter that, perhaps, the Government and the Customs Department may consider unimportant, but to which, I think, attention should be called. The effect of the measure which we are considering is to narrow the field of operations of certain concessions in duty to a species of redwood,  Sequoia sempervirens,  which was not specifically described when the Tariff Bill was brought down. ' As there are a number of timbers known to the trade as redwood, amongst them one which comes from a British Dominion, we have the spectacle of this Government giving a preference to a foreign nation as against a BritishDominion - a peculiar position.. I do not know whether it occured advertently or inadvertently. The first intimation I had of the anomaly came to me accidentally, when I had the pleasure a few weeks ago of meeting and welcoming the Empire Forestry Conference to Australia. Among other delegates I had the pleasure of meeting the Head Forester for British North Borneo. That gentleman asked me to put him in touch with the Australian Customs authorities in order that he might point out the injury that would be done to British North Borneo, a British Dominion, if the tariff then contemplated came into operation. Only yesterday I received a letter from him on this subject, and I take from it the following extract - 
With reference to your very kind promise of assistance relative to securing an adjustment or reduction of the Australian tariff on North Borneo timbers imported into Australia, I append herewith the reasons why North Borneo timber should receive preferential treatment. 
It will be noted that under sub-items (f), (g) and (h), American redwood has an advantage of 4s. per 100 cubic feet against North Borneo timber, while under sub-item (l) the disadvantage amounts to6s. Gd. 
The writer of this letter is  Mr. H.  G. Keith, a forester of very high qualifications, and one who obviously has very much at heart the interests of the country which he represents. He goes on to speak of the trade relations between British North Borneo and Australia, and points out that British North Borneo is one of the very few countries with which, in our commercial relations, we have a favorable trade balance. It appears that we are now, by this legislation, doing our best to destroy it.  Mr. Keith  spoke as the accredited delegate of British North Borneo to the Empire Forestry Conference - a gathering which I welcomed, not merely because of its scientific, but because of its economic significance. I was interested to know and gratified to see that in the countries visited by him,  Mr. Keith  was acting as an ambassador for the country which he represents. He goes on to say - 
The effect of the discrimination against North Borneo timber in the new Australian tariff is viewed with much concern by my Government. The result of the increased duties must mean that the development of business with Australia in North Borneo sawn timber will be restricted, if not destroyed. 
No ; that country has not reached that stage of development yet.  Mr. Keith  states further - 
Further, the restriction of sawn timber shipments (the principal cargo offering) will seriously affect the prospects of the steamers at present on the Australian Sandakon run. and this again will affect the maintenance of trade relations with Australia and North Borneo. The timber of North Borneo is: a product of the British Empire, but pays the same duties as timber of foreign countries, whereas California redwood, an American timber, enjoys a preferential tariff. I understand that California redwood is used mostly for interior finish, and I would say that, for interior uses, it is no better suited than the so-called Borneo cedar (red and white  seraya). 
Borneo timbers have been imported into Australia for over twenty years, and never once have borers, their  larvae  or  pupae  in -any live form, been found in them. This fact will be vouched for by the Quarantine Departments of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, or Queensland. I would say that every stick of timber leaving North Borneo for Australia is inspected by the North Borneo Forestry Department, and no timber is permitted to be exported unless it conforms to a standard that will be passed by Australian Government inspectors. I would also inform you that every shipment of timber is accompanied by a certificate stating that the timber is free of borers. 
In conclusion, I would say that as British North Borneo softwoods are meritorious, free from insect infection, supply a want of softwoods in Australia us well as being a product of the British Empire, they should have a preference over the timber of the American Philippines, and a preferential or at least equal treatment to California redwood in the matter of import duty. 

 Mr. Keith advances another argument in support of his contention that Australia should give North Borneo reasonably decent treatment. He points out that under the North Borneo customs tariff, flour, the principal article which we export to the East, is allowed in free of duty. This I submit, is a friendly gesture made by the Government of North Borneo towards Australia. Contrast this with our gesture to Java in regard to the duties on coffee when the last tariff was under discussion. Fortunately, at my instigation, on that occasion we were able to prevent the Government's proposal from being given effect. We cannot afford to antagonize those countries to whom we must look for the sale of our surplus produce in the years to come. I suppose that it is of little use for me to oppose this bill, so I shall content myself with entering my protest against this policy of antagonizing countries, with whom we should do all that is possible to improve our trade relations. Borneo, Java and the great islands of South-Eastern Asia obviously offer the best market for Australian produce. We should not do anything to antagonize them as we have done by the duty on bananas, by an embargo on the importation of foreign sugar, by an attempt to impose a duty on coffee, and in many other ways. If we continue this policy, they will refuse to accept our produce, or at least they will impose heavy duties on it. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Kingsmill,  and protest against a preferential duty being given to California redwood, and also timber products of the American Philippines, where it is produced under black labour conditions. This bill will allow that timber to be imported in Australia at a lower rate of duty than is imposed on similar timber from British North Borneo, a portion of the British Empire. That country is a good customer for our flour, butter and dried fruits, and we should do all that is possible to extend our trade relations in that direction. As  Senator Kingsmill  has pointed out, this bill penalizes British North Borneo by giving preferential treatment to a foreign competitor. British North Borneo allows Australian flour to be imported duty free. 
Why should we give preference to a foreign country against a portion of the British Empire? I hope that the Government will realize that the bill will create an anomaly which should be avoided. 
. --As far as I can see, even if the bill is not passed, the position as regards North Borneo timber will be exactly as it is at present. 
It is regarded as cedar. 
 Botanically  it is not a cedar; but it is known in the trade as cedar, so I am practically certain that it would not fall within the designation of redwood as established by the court in a recent case. This bill will leave the  position in regard to Borneo redwood exactly as it is at present. Although the court's decision may have been perfectly sound, its effect has been to admit certain classes of timber in at a rate of duty which this Parliament never intended should be applied to them. One hesitates to criticize the judgment of any court, but every one knows that there are such things as white Baltic and red Baltic. 
The whole of the trouble has arisen in a very simple way. Although this particular timber came from America, it was the intention of Parliament, and clearly for good and sufficient reasons, to allow a lower rate of duty on it because we have in Australia no equivalent for it. I do not suppose  Senator Kingsmill  suggests that Borneo so-called cedar is equivalent to, and could be used for, the same purposes as American redwood. 
I am sure that what the high forestry authority says is that Borneo redwood, if we like to call it that, is used for internal work just as Californian redwood is. But there are particular uses to which the latter is put for which, I venture to say, the cedar would be useless ; and it is chiefly for those particular purposes that the Californian redwood is used. I am practically certain that this bill will leave Borneo redwood exactly where it is at the present time. 
The question of whether or not we should extend to Borneo redwood the special consideration extended to Californian redwood is outside the scope of this particular bill. It may be a matter for consideration at some future date, but it is unquestionably our duty to block up the hole in the tariff which the decision of the court has made. I am not prepared to say that the customs officers in their wisdom have taken the best course of doing it, but the best means of enabling this particular timber, which is undoubtedly the timber Parliament had in mind when the duties were altered, to come in at the lower rate of duty may be to give it its botanical name. 
I do not think so. 
That is a matter which is quite outside the scope of this bill, although it is a point that may have to be taken into consideration at some time in the future. I think the bill as introduced should be passed. 
I agree with what  Senator Greene  has said. Honorable senators will recollect that the timber duties were debated at great length in both chambers, and that it was decided to place a substantial duty on Baltic timber, some of which is red in colour, because it came into competition with Australian hardwoods. At the same time, it was decided not to increase the duty on Californian redwood. The court, however, subsequently decided that Baltic pine was a redwood, and consequently the increased duty could not apply to it. The bill we have before us is simply to give Baltic timber its botanical name so that a differentiation can be made between it and Californian redwood and so that it will not come into Australia at a rate of duty lower than that which this Parliament intended to place upon it. 
That does not enter into the question at the presell time. I agree with  Senator Greene  th.it the proposal to reduce the duty on Borneo redwood is a matter for future consideration. The bill we have now before us is to carry out the undoubted intention of Parliament when the timber duties weve altered. 
It was not contemplated by those who voted for increased timber duties, and certainly was never contemplated by those engaged in the saw-milling industry, that Baltic timber would be able to enter Australia at a lower rate of duty  than was sought to be imposed upon it; but the intention of Parliament has been upset by a decision of the court.  Senator Lynch  has asked if there is any substitute in Australia for Baltic pine. The fact that Baltic pine was being used where Australian hardwoods could be used, was really what led Parliament to increase the duty on this class of timber. It was evident to all honorable senators that unless the duties on Baltic pine were increased, the timber industry of Australia would practically cease. 
In anticipation of an increase in duty, heavy importations of Baltic pine were made, with the consequence that large stocks have accumulated in Australia. This, combined with the slackness in the building trade, has not enabled the timber industry of Australia to derive the full benefit of the increased duties. Furthermore, Baltic pine is still coming in and is being used for the purposes for which we proposed to exclude it. The duty intended to be applied to it cannot be applied until this bill is passed and the matter is put beyond all doubt. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That a select committee be appointed - with power to send for persons, papers and records, and to move from place to place - to inquire into and report upon the desirability and commercial possibility of sending mesages from Australia to England over the Beam wireless at a pen 113' a word, such committee to consist of Senators Carroll, Findley, Graham, Herbert Hays, Reid, Robinson and the mover. 
I am afraid some honorable senators look upon my idea of having penny a word wireless messages between Australia and Great Britain, as fantastical. I am probably regarded by them as a fanatic. But it is not a new conception that the various parts of our great Empire should be linked up by means of communication at the cost of Id. a word. It is said that there is nothing new under the sun. 
About a quarter of a century ago,  Sir Heimiker  Heaton was not only an advocate of Id. postage throughout the Empire, but also an advocate, in season and out of season, of cheaper means of communication throughout the Empire by cablegrams and telegrams.  His  name has been more particularly associated with his efforts to bring about1d. postage because he was successful in them. But he was also an advocate of1d. a word messages by cablegram and telegram. Of course there was no wireless in those days.I should like, for a few moments,to read some correspondence he received from various distinguished persons. Writing to  Mr. -  afterwards  Sir -  Henniker Heaton in October, 1908, Lord Spencer said - 
I shall be glad to give my signature in favour of your proposals. 
That was in relation to1d. a word cable messages throughout the Empire. and I hope that the work you are carrying on for the benefit of mankind 
Lord Spencer was not concerned with the dividends paid to the shareholders in cable companies - may be crowned with success. 
About the same time Lord Tennyson, who was once Governor-General of the Commonwealth, said - " Dear  Mr. Henniker  Heaton. - Universal penny-a-word telegrams between all parts of the British Empire would be an unspeakable boon. Work for that. - Yours faithfully, " Tennyson." 
The Cardinal Archbishop of Armagh said - 
Dear  Sir. -  I beg to thank you for your very interesting pamphlet," The World's Cables and the Cable Rings.' I thoroughly sympathize with the movement you are originating to cheapen foreign telegrams, especially telegrams to America and the colonies. At present the tariff is prohibitive; and I believe it would be better for all interests and paybetter in the end were it reduced to the rate you propose. At present no one thinks of sending a message to America or Australia except in a case of very pressing necessity, whereas, if the rates were reduced, the lines would be used for ordinary purposes. 
You are quite at liberty to add my name to any petition of representation you may think it well to make on the subject. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully, + Michael, Card. Logue. 
Amongst other communications to  Sir Henniker  Heaton there is one written by 

 Sir John Fuller, who afterwards became Governor of Victoria. He wrote - 
I am obliged by your letter about universal penny-a-word telegrams. If you can realize your object, even in part, you will indeed have conferred a boon on humanity. You will have done more to bind the Empire together than all the preference schemes ever suggested. I wish you all luck. - Yours faithfully, 
M. Fuller. 
The statement in this letter that Id. a word messages would do more to bind the Empire than all the preference schemes ever suggested reminds me that when I was Postmaster-General of the Commonwealth I also wrote  Sir Henniker  Heaton a letter which he published iu  The 19th Century and Afterwards,  in which, amongst other things, I said that cheap cables would do more to bring the dear old Mother Country and the Commonwealth closer together than all our reciprocal tariffs. I still adhere to that opinion. I should also like to quote the opinion of a British missionary in India upon this subject, particularly in view of the statement of the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  that weekend cablegrams could now be sent at a cost of 8s. 4d., and would be largely availed of by the people. The missionary, who was resident in India, said - 
How many people like myself are there who would like to wish friends ' Many happy returns ' of their birthday, but are prevented from so doing by the exorbitant charges now demanded?  T  am one of 150 missionaries all belonging to one well-known mission in India, and we all work for the love of our cause and our food and lodging. We come from humble families with very limited incomes, and are absolutely out of touch with our friends for practically five weeks. In the event of a marriage, a birthday, a death, some great national event, &amp;c, what a boon it would be to us, and thousands of others in different walks of life, to be able to send a short messago and to receive a reply, say, within two days. 
I visualize the sending of such messages, amounting to at least 25,000,000 words, from here to Great Britain and vice versa every year if penny-a-word wireless rates were in operation ; but the Honorary Minister rather ridiculed my idea. On one occasion after I had addressed a meeting on this subject a gentleman in moving the usual vote of thanks, said - 
If we had these cheap rates that you speak of we would not forget our mother's birthday, would we ? 
Let me read the opinion of the Honorable William Brooks, a member of the Legislative Council of New South Wales, who, in writing at the time to which I have been referring, said - 
And now comes  Mr. Henniker  Heaton with his startling proposal of Penny-a-Word Cables. The thought even of its possibility takes our breath away. Words fail us to even faintly portray the effect of such a boon to Australia. Distance annihilated! The humblest immigrant brought within a few hours speech with friends at home! Why! in a year or two, the difficulty would be not to induce a few people to come to Australia, but ' to find place quickly enough for the streams that would come pouring in. Socially, economically, politically, commercially - it would mean as great a revolution to our condition; as the first discovery of electricity itself. 
In the publication from which I am quoting, the following is recorded concerning the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. W. M. Hughes)  who in those days contributed to the  Daily Telegraph - 
In our last issue we re-printed on article from the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  in regard to the penny cables, written by the  Hon.  W. M. Hughes, Attorney-General in the Commonwealth Government.  Mr. Hughes  is a brilliant writer and an able man, and his article is bound to do a great deal of good. He puts the whole matter very fairly, but it seems odd to read the heading " The Case for Labour." Is this a "Labour" question? 
That recalls to my mind the fact that in an article on penny-a-word cables and telegrams,  Sir Henniker  Heaton, who was the member for Canterbury, one of the most Conservative constituencies in England, wrote : " I am afraid we shall have to wait for a Labour Government to do this." I should prefer a National Government in Australia to take the initiative in introducing Id. a word wireless messages; and I sincerely hope that we shall not have to wait the advent of a Labour Government before such a reduction is made. 
I am anxious that a select committee shall be appointed so that both sides of the case may be presented. For some time I have endeavoured unsuccessfully to obtain certain information concerning the profit and loss account of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, but for this I do not altogether blame the Government. It is difficult, however, to understand why the financial position of this company, in which the Government has a controlling interest and on the board of which the Government is represented, is not disclosed. If it were a private concern we should have no right to ask for the production of its balancesheet; but as it is a company in which public money is invested the people have a right to demand detailed information concerning its financial position. I admit that the company is also engaged in the manufacture of wireless equipment, and in that branch of its activities is in competition with other companies, but information concerning the profits of that branch is not sought. As cheap wireless communication is of vital interest to the Commonwealth and to the Empire, Parliament has a right to know what profits are being made by a concern in which we are financially interested. The estimates of proposed expenditure of the Postal Department are made available to honorable senators, and the Postmaster-General also tables annually an informative report concerning the activities of the department under his control. If there is an item in the report of the Postal Department that requires elucidation one has only to write for information and it is willingly supplied. We should be able to institute a comparison between the working of the Beam wireless service and the telegraphic service in order to ascertain how those services are functioning. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Mclachlan)  said he was not prepared to get the information I desire from Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, but in another place the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  in answer to a member of the Opposition said that he would inquire into the matter, and that if no objections were raised he would table a statement in the House. That differs materially from the announcement of the Honorary Minister, speaking on behalf of the Government in this chamber, who said that he would not try to get the information from a private company which is in competition with other companies engaged in a similar class of business. 
It seems absurd to say that the cable companies can compete with the Beam wireless service which has a monopoly. We should be in a position to examine the financial position of the company in order to ascertain if it is functioning effectively. I suggest a penny a word, because at that rate sufficient business would be attracted to make the service pay. I am not advocating a " wild cat " scheme. The Postmaster-General's report shows that the revenue from the Beam wireless and the cables, made up principally of terminal charges, is about £228,000 per annum. Each year about 15,000,000 words are despatched between Australia and England by the two systems. The terminal charges in respect of some messages are 3d. a word, and in other instances  ½d.  a word ; a fair average would be  1½d.  a word. At l£d. a word the terminal charges on 15,000,000 words would amount to approximately £100,000 per annum. When I spoke on this subject recently, I suggested that at the rate of Id. a word the traffic would soon increase to 50,000,000 words per annum; but having since read  Sir Geoffrey  Clarke's articles, I am led to believe that it would not be long before 75,000,000 words per annum were transmitted between Australia and England. That would give a revenue of about £312,000 per annum, and provide us with a profit.  Senator Crawford  said the other day that messages sent via Beam cost 3d. each for delivery. At the time I thought that the rate was rather high, but seeing that the cost of delivering telegrams in Australia is, according to the Postmaster-General's report, about 3d. a message, I am prepared to accept his figure. Notwithstanding the cost of 3d. a message for delivery, telegrams are still transmitted throughout the Commonwealth at a maximum rate of Id. a word. In the case of wireless messages between Australia and England, there would be, as  Sir Geoffrey  Clarke points out, no necessity to have them delivered by special messengers; they could be delivered by the postmen as lettergrams are now delivered. If, instead of sending a letter* which would take, say, five weeks to reach the addressee in England, a wireless message were sent, it would not matter in most instances if an additional 24 hours were added to the few minutes required for its transmission by wireless. Each year, about 10,000,000 words are transmitted by lettergram in Australia at  id.  a word. Those lettergrams are delivered by the postmen. For some years the Telegraph Department has been losing money, because only  id.  or fd. word is charged for many of the messages sent. If the rate for all telegrams were Id. a word, the Telegraph Department would pay handsomely. Another factor in the loss sustained by the Telegraph Department is the competition of the telephone and wireless broadcasting. That matter is referred to in the report I have mentioned. Those losses would be turned into a profit if the traffic between this country and Britain increased to 75,000,000 words each year. 
I desire to refer now to the stand taken by the Government in connexion with the wireless and cable services.  Senator Mclachlan  said some time ago that the Government did not intend to interfere with the directors of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. In reply to my question whether the Government was consulted by the directors of the company as to the rates to be charged for messages sent by the Beam system between Australia and Canada, I was informed that they were fixed with the Government's approval. The Senate should know what that means. Are we to understand that the company was prepared to send messages at lower rates, but that the Government insisted on the rates being kept up practically to the level of those charged by the cable companies ; or does it mean that the company wanted to charge higher rates, which the Government refused to sanction? The Government says that it is necessary to retain the cables for defence purposes; but it allows messages to be sent by the Beam service at rates which are 10 per cent, less than those charged by the cable companies. The result is that the Beam service is attracting the business. The Government, although not prepared to kill the Pacific cable outright, is evidently willing to allow it to be bled slowly to death. A considerable traffic is conducted annually between Australia and Canada by means of the Pacific cable. Recently, however, a Beam wireless service between the two dominions was inaugurated. With lower charges for messages by that system, the traffic will be attracted from the cable. Telegraphic messages between Australia and New Zealand are now sent by means of the Pacific cable, but it is probable that a wireless system will soon be in operation between those two dominions as a result of the recent visit of  Mr. Fisk,  of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited to New Zealand in that connexion. So soon as that service is in operation, it will attract business from the cable. It seems ridiculous to reduce the charges for messages to a rate which means a loss of revenue without any increase of traffic. So long as the Beam service will transmit messages at lower rates than are charged by the cable companies, it will continue to attract traffic from the cable ; but it will not attract new traffic. A business man wishing to send a message to England naturally prefers to pay ls. 8d. rather than 2s. a word. He, therefore, sends it by the Beam system. But he does not send any more messages than he would send at the higher rate. Similarly, if for week-end traffic, 5d., instead of 7-£d. a word, were charged, there would be no additional traffic, whereas if the rate for all messages were reduced to Id. a word, every one would be wanting to send messages to friends in the Old Country. 
Yes; and if the messages were sent free, the volume of traffic would increase enormously. I advocate Id. a word, because I believe that at that rate the service would pay. If  Senator Foll  can show that the service would pay at Jd. a word, I am prepared to support a proposal to that effect. Indeed, if he could show that messages could be sent without charge to the sender, and that the service would still pay, I should be most happy to support his proposal for free messages. 
I am glad that the Government has given its support to the League of Nations, and the efforts to secure international peace. In my opinion, there is no better means of attaining peace among the nations than by cheapening the cost of communications between them. Both  Mr. Fisk  and  Mr. Hughes  have stated that, before long, it will be possible for Australians to communicate by telephone with persons in England. I agree with  Mr. Hughes  that such a means of communication between Australians and the Mother Country would be invaluable in settling Imperial problems. But I should like to know how many of our citizens would use such a telephone. I noticed a statement in the press that telephonic communication had been established between Great Britain and the United States of America, and that the charge was £15 for a three-minute conversation. That would certainly be a prohibitive charge to the average Australian. If we had wireless communication between Australia and the United Kingdom, at the rate of1d. a word, that method would become, so to speak, the telephone of the general public. I consider that cheap wireless communication between Australia and the Motherland would do more to assist migration than the very expensive Development and Migration Commission. Recently I received a letter from the Rev. Canon Garland, of Brisbane, Queensland, who is the director of immigration for the Church of England in Australia, and a most enthusiastic supporter of Empire migration. The reverend gentleman wrote - 
Two amendments are proposed in this bill, the first being the substitution of the Australian coat of arms for the existing coat of arms. No honorable senator can advance any sound objection to that innovation. The design of the Australian coat of arms, properly executed, is most artistic, " a thing of beauty and a joy forever." 
The second amendment is a proposal to raise the schedule of fees, and against that 1 register my strong objection. A comparison of the scale of fees contained in the principal act, with that in the amending measure, discloses that it is proposed to increase patent fees by practically 100 per cent. It does not stop at that, for whilst there are only five items enumerated in the principal act, quite an extensive list is set out in the amending bill. The Government proposes to charge renewal fees on a sliding scale, from£l to £6. No unnecessary difficulties should be placed in the way of inventive genius. Instead, we should encourage the inventive capacity ofour citizens in every possible manner. We should not tax brains, but that is what the imposition of these fees amounts to. It is proposed to increase to £2 the fee of £1 at present charged for application for a provisional protection. It must be realized that probably only 50 per cent, of the applicants for provisional protection are successful in their efforts, and that only about one in five obtain any financial advantage from their expenditure of labour and money. The new fees will be a hardship, particularly on the working section of the community. Many of our artisans endeavour to evolve schemes which will facilitate and cheapen the methods employed in the industries in which they are engaged, and this measure will militate against their efforts. 
The Minister suggested that the Patents Department was not paying its way. 
The honorable senator also said that the original scale of fees was fixed 20 years ago and that in the interim the purchasing power of money has been reduced, which justifies an increase in the fees. The workers of the community have made many applications for increases of wages, but they have not obtained anything like an advance of 100 per cent., as is the case with the fees proposed in this measure. My principal objection is to the increase of 100 per cent, in the application fee for provisional protection. 
I am glad to have the Minister's assurance. We are always grateful for the smallest crumbs that may fall from the luxurious table of Ministers. The fees are considerably higher than in the British scale. I dc not like to put forward conservative Britain as an example for progressive and democratic Australia, but I remind honorable senators that in the Mother Country where there is a population of 40,000,000 people at least, the application fee for provisional protection is £1 as against £2 in Australia, with a population of a little more than 6,000,000, In New Zealand the position is much better. There the application fee is 10s, In view of the statement of the Minister I have nothing more to say, except to express the hope that when the bill is in committee the fee proposed for provisional applications will be considerably reduced. 
A few weeks ago I received a letter on this matter from a prominent patent attorney in Sydney. I thought then that the arguments which he advanced would give me an excellent opportunity to state the position in the Senate, but I find to my surprise thatexactly the same statement was sent toother honorable senators, and the Leader of the Opposition has placed the viewsof patent attorneys before the Senate. It is a matter of indifference to me, but I should have thought that, since the representations were made by a New South Wales Attorney, they should have been presented in this chamber by an honorable senator from that State. All I wish to say now is that I cordially endorse all that  Senator Needham  has said, and I congratulate the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator Crawford)  upon his promptness in announcing that, in committee, the fee proposed to be charged for provisional protection will be reduced. It appeared to me, when I received the letter to which I have referred, that the Government would find it extremely difficult to justify its proposal to impose heavier penalties upon those who wished to register provisional patents. The fees for renewal are quite a different matter. Those charges do not come into effect before the expiration of the fifth year after the registration of the patent, and by that time the holder of it is in a position to know whether it is going to return him sufficient to make it worth while to pay the renewal fees. If it is not likely to be a profitable business he can drop it altogether, as so many do.  Senator Needham  has said that  80  per cent, of applications for provisional protection are not renewed. I should say that the percentage is considerably higher than that. I am delighted to know that the Government intends to adopt what has been the longestablished practice in Great Britain and give every encouragement to inventors and patentees in the early years of provisional protection. If in the course of a year or two the returns from a patent invention increase, it is not unfair that the renewal fees also should be increased. As  Senator Needham  has said, applications for provisional patents are, as a rule, made by artisans and mechanics. In not a few instances these inventors have exhausted their slender financial resources in the development of their ideas and sometimes they are forced to apply for financial assistance to persons whose chief concern is to make money out of a patent, regardless of the position of the inventor himself. It follows therefore, that if we can make the lot of these people easier, it will be better not only for themselves, but also for the Commonwealth. We should do all in our power to encourage those of our people who have an inventive turn of mind to put their talents to the highest use. Only in this way can we expect to overcome the many difficulties that confront us in the development of this country. I take exception to the proposed fees, but as the Minister has intimated that when the bill is in committee he will move amendments to modify them, I shall support the measure. 
 The Government has received representations concerning the increase in fees, and having given the matter further consideration proposes, when the bill is in committee, to submit amendments modifying them. Whether these will entirely meet the objections raised by the Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Duncan,  I am not in a position to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
 I move - 
That  the  following new clause be inserted: - 1a. This act shall commence on a date to be fixed by proclamation. 
This amendment is necessary because it is not desirable that increased fees should be charged on applications that have been posted and are in course of transit from a foreign country at the date of the passing of the act. It is also desirable that some notice of the increased fees should be given to all  persons interested.  The amendment will enable this to be done. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 consequentially amended, and as amended, agreed to. 
Clause  3  agreed to. 
Clause  4. 
The first schedule to the principal act is repealed and the following schedule inserted in its stead: - 
The First Schedule. common wealth of australia. 
George, by the grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India ... 
 I move - 
That the words " George, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words - " George V. by the Grace of God, of Great Britain, Ireland and " 
This amendment is necessary to correct an error in the title of  His  Majesty the King, which appears on the document granting a patent. Since the original act was passed, the form of the King's title has been altered. Obviously it is desirable that the title appearing at the head of the document should be in accord with the title now in use. 
Amendment agreed to. 
 I want an assurance from the Minister that the coat of arms in the bill is substantially correct, because it has been pointed out to me, if it is correct, the coat of arms in front of Parliament House is wrong, inasmuch as the kangaroo is looking away from the emu as if he did not know or did not care to know the latter. 
That is so. He isprobably looking in the direction in which he can get a drink. He is certainly not looking in the direction of the Senate. 
Does the honorable senator propose to move an amendment. 
I am informed by an officer of the AttorneyGeneral's Department that the coat Of arms appearing in the bill is correct. 
Clause as amended agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
The second schedule to the principal act is repealed and the following schedule inserted in its stead; - 

<graphic href="119332192809130_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move - 
That the figure  "2"  after the word " specification " first occurring be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the figure " 1 ". The effect of this and the next amendment I shall move is to reduce the fee on lodging an application accompanied by a provisional specification from £2 to £1, and to increase the fee on lodging a complete specification after a provisional specification from f 1 to £2. The Government having given consideration to the matter of fees, came to the decision that on the whole those proposed were reasonable. During the year 1927-28, the loss on the Patent Office was in the region of £10,000, and it was deemed necessary that the fees should be increased if the office was to be self-supporting. But on giving the matter further consideration, the Government which has received representations from two Institutes of Patents Attorneys, has come to the conclusion that the fees on lodging provisional and complete specifications should be altered. The schedule as it stands provides for the payment of £2 on lodging the provisional specification and £1 on lodging the complete specification. The examination into the question of novelty does not take place until the complete specification is lodged, and it is thought to he reasonable that the higher fee of £2 should not become payable until this examination is required to be made. It is proposed, therefore, that a fee of only £1 shall be paid on lodging the provisional specification and a fee of £2 on lodging the complete specification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (by  Senator Crawford)  proposed - 
That the figure "  1  " after the word "specification," fourth occurring, be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the figure  "2". 
SenatorNEEDHAM (Western . Australia) [5.11]. - At the first blush one would think that the Government had conceded a great deal by the amendment just made. It is certainly a concession because the effect of it is to leave the application fee the same as it is in the principal act; but the effect of the amendment now before the committee will be to add the £1 token off the fee required on lodging an application accompanied by a provisional specification to the fee required on lodging a complete specification after a provisional specification. The applicant will, therefore, derive no material benefit from the alteration made by the last amendment. As I pointed out on the second reading the majority of applicants for patents derive no benefit from the fees they pay, because the number of successful inventions is about one in five. I think the Government might well concede thepoint of allowing the fee on lodging the complete specification after a provisional specification to remain at £1. If the Minister will not accept that suggestion, I must ask the committee to reject his amendment. 
 The reduced fee on lodging an application accompanied by a provisional specification must afford some advantage to the applicant. His provisional patent will cover him until he has an opportunity to consult engineers and test the practical value of his patent, and if he is successful in doing so he is then in a better position to pay the increased fee required on lodging the complete specification. It costs a great deal more to administer the Patent Office to-day than it did when the original act was passed. The Leader of the Opposition knows that to-day the purchasing power of £1 is only half what it was when the original act was passed. The fees payable under the original act do not cover the cost of administering the office and many years must pass before there is a substantial increase in the revenue from renewal fees. 
On the 13th September  Senator Thomas  asked the following questions: - 
Is it a fact that the Pacific Cable Company charges for lettergrams to New Zealand 3d. a word for twenty words and only 2d. a word for words over twenty? 
Is it a fact that the beam wireless charges 5d. a word to England for twenty wordsand5d. a word for all words over twenty? 
Is it a fact that the distance from Sydney to New Zealand is 1,500 miles, and that' it cost at least £250 a mile to lay the cable - a total cost of £375,000? 
Is it a fact that the plant to send messages to England by wireless cost only £120,000? 
If the above arc facts, why does the beam wireless charge5d. a word, and the Pacific Cable only 3d. and 2d. for similar services? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 
Night letter telegrams to New Zealand are charged at the rate of 3s. for a message of any length up to twenty words and 2d. for each word over twenty words. 
Daily letter telegrams transmitted via beam to England are charged at the rate of 10s.  for  a message of any length up to twenty words, and6d. for each word over twenty words. Week-end letter telegrams are, however, charged at the rate of 8s.4d. for a message of any length up to twenty words and 5d. for each word over  twenty  words. 
The length of the Pacific Cable from Sydney to Auckland is 1,251 nautical miles, equal to 1,441 land  miles.  The total cost of the Pacific Cable from Sydney to Auckland was approximately £175,000 or £140 per nautical mile. 
The agreement with the Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Limited, provides that the capital cost of the plant erected in Australia for sending messages to England by radio was not to exceed £120,000. Details  of  the actual  cost  of the plant are not available in the department. 
The destination of the night letter telegrams via the Pacific Cable is New Zealand, but the destination of the week-end letter telegrams via beam referred to is England. Therefore, the services arc not similar. Over each of the channels of communication a variety of classes of traffic is sent and the rates charged for any particular class of traffic are not necessarily based on the capital investment or the cost of rendering the service. 
(Senator the  Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I have to report the receipt of the following letter from  Mr. Bernard  H.Corser :  - 
Dear  Sir John, 
I desire to thank you for yours of the 31st ultimo, conveying the Senate's motion in which it so kindly expresses appreciation of the services of my late father. I would ask you to convey my thanks to the members of the Senate for their kindly action, which is much appreciated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade find Customs,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether the sewing on many wheat sacks imported into Australia is defective, and that many sacks are defective in other ways, which causes loss of wheat in marketing? 
Is the Minister aware whether imported sacks classed as Chapman sacks vary greatly in size? 
Will the Minister cause inquiries to be made, and if deemed advisable make representations to the manufacturers, regarding inferior sacks, or, if necessary, take stops to prohibit their importation? 
The answers are :  - 
With the exception of a recent case in Tasmania, therehas been a marked absence for a considerable time of any complaints regarding imported wheat sacks. 
A standard size is fixed and it is believed that the sacks comply generally with this standard. It is obviously impossible to inspect every sack. 
Further inquiries will be made as suggested. There is ample provision to prevent the introduction of defective sacks. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it not a fact that the royal commission on the film industry recommended a duty of 2d. per foot on foreign films? 
In dealing with the commission's report did not the Minister for Trade and Customs, on behalf of the Government, indicate the Government's intention of placing a duty of 2d. per foot on foreign films? 
Why has the Government disregarded the finding of the commission, which was unanimous, regarding the duty upon foreign films, and made the duty l?d. per foot? 
What revenue is derived from the duty on foreign films? 
How much more would be derived were the duty 2d. per foot, as recommended by the commission, instead of1?d. per foot? 
What amount of income tax is paid by the importers and/or distributors of foreign films ? 
Is it not a fact that picture theatres are immune from entertainment tax on all tickets of admission up to 2s.6d.? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the duty on electric-lighting plant used in country homes? 
The answer is us follows :  - 

<graphic href="119332192809141_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What amount of loan money was expended by the Postmaster-General's Department in each State on the erection of new buildings in 1927-28? 
What amount is provided on the Estimates for each State for 1928-29? 
What amount of loan money was expended in each State on the extension of telegraphic and telephonic services in 1927-28? 
What amount is provided on the Estimates for each State for 1928-29? 
The information desired will be made available to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Leader  of  the Government  in  the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether very little wine has been exported from Australia under new contract since the reduction of bounty? 
What amount of government money has been used to finance soldier-settler and civilian grapegrowers ? 
Is the Minister aware that if the surplus cannot profitably be exported a serious position will be created for grapegrowers? 
Will the Government give its most serious consideration to obtaining an independent report from such a. body as the Tariff Board, as they did before the previous reduction of bounty, in order to have a recommendation as to the best course to pursue in the future in regard to the industry t 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The necessary information  is  not readily available,  but  inquiries are being made and a reply will be furnished  as  soon as possible. 
[11.13].  -  I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
This motion,  if  agreed  to,  will enable me  to  move  the  first  and  second readings  of  the bill. If an adjournament  of  the debate  is  then sought,  no  objection will be offered. 
Question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
Bill  (on  motion by  Senator Sir George  PEARCE) read a first time. 
[11.14].  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure, which has been passed by another place, contains two principal features. Honorable senators are aware that a referendum  is to  be taken  at  the forthcoming election  on  a proposed alteration  of  the Constitution, concerning which there appears  to  be unanimity between the Government and the Opposition, although there  is  a difference  of  opinion regarding the agreement to be entered into under the proposed amendment. There is already a statutory provision to the effect that when a referendum is taken on an alteration of the Constitution, pamphlets shall be prepared and published setting out the views of the respective parties for the information of the electors. It would seem, however, to be a waste of money to publish such a pamphlet on this occasion since the Government and Opposition parties are apparently unanimous as to the desirableness of such an alteration. It is now proposed, as was done in a previous case, to provide that that shall not be necessary in this instance. The other provisions of the bill relate to the ballot-papers. Clauses 3 to 6 provide for an alteration of the system of voting at the referendum. The present system requires an elector to place a X opposite either the word " Yes " or the word " No," to indicate whether he is in favour of, or opposed to, the suggested alteration of the Constitution. The system of voting for members of the Senate and the House of Representatives is different; electors are required to indicate by numerals the order of their preference for the  candidates. At the forthcoming election each elector will be handed three ballot-papers - one each for the election of members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and one for the referendum proposals. Unless the system of voting on the referendum proposals is altered, there will be confusion, resulting in a large number of informal votes being cast. The number of informal votes cast, even at ordinary elections, is astonishing. A greater percentage than usual of such votes might not affect the result of the referendum, because it could be arranged that a figure 1 on the referendum ballotpaper could be counted as though a X had been placed in the square; but if, on the other hand, an elector placed a X on the ballot-paper for the election of members of the Senate or the House of Representatives, his vote would be informal. All honorable senators will agree that it is desirable to reduce to a minimum the number of informal votes. At the 1919 election proposals to alter the Constitution were submitted to the electors, but, as at that time, the preferential system 'of  voting for Senate and House of Representatives elections was not in operation, no confusion was caused; an elector simply placed a X on each ballot-paper to indicate, his preference. But with the preferential system of voting in operation it is necessary to take action to avoid confusion. It is proposed that, instead of placing a X opposite his choice on the referendum ballot-paper, the elector shall place the figure 1 in the square. Should he favour an alteration of the Constitution, as proposed in this bill, he will place the figure' 1 opposite the word " Yes " ; should he not favour the proposed alteration, he will place the figure 1 opposite the word " No." In ordinary circumstances, one method is just as effective as the other as a means of indicating the wishes of the electors, but, on this occasion, when three ballot-papers will be handed to each elector, it is much better that we should have a uniform system. The position is amply safeguarded by the further provision that a X placed on the referendum ballot-paper shall not make that vote informal. Whatever may be said against this proposal, the balance of advantage is certainly with the method proposed in the bill. 
The Royal Commission on Electoral Reform expressed the opinion that, so far as possible, our methods of voting should be uniform. 
The proposal in this bill is a step in that direction, in that it is an attempt to obtain uniformity, with a view to reducing the number of informal votes. I . Some time ago I examined a number of the informal ballot-papers cast at the last election for- members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, with a view to ascertaining whether, had they been formal, they would have been added to the total of the votes cast for Labour or non-Labour candidates, and concluded that, of about 900 informal votes in the division of Fremantle approximately 800 were intended to be cast for non-Labour candidates. That is hardly a matter of which honorable senators supporting the Government can be proud. 
It indicates that the Labour party has devoted its attention to educating the people in the method of marking their ballotpapers. The time is, perhaps, opportune for me to suggest to honorable senators supporting the Government that they also should give some attention to this matter, because, if my deduction is correct, a reduction in the number of informal votes at the next election would increase the substantial majority gained -by Government candidates at the last election. I submit these proposals in the belief that they will simplify our system and reduce the number of informal votes recorded. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.25 to 11.30 a.m. 

I have received a telegram from Senators Ogden and Verran to the effect that they have been detained at Yass owing to the MelbourneSydney express breaking down. 
I urge the Government, even at this late hour, to desist from the course that it is pursuing, and to refrain from seeking to incorporate in our Constitution an amendment that is totally uncalled for, unjustified, and undesired. It is an amendment which blurs the clear language of the well-defined powers of the Federal Parliament, robs the States of their sovereign powers, and gives to this Parliament nothing that could not be obtained by friendly agreement with the States. I realize that from the very inception of the Constitution its aims have been marred by a clause known as the " Braddon blot," and this objectionable amendment could aptly be termed "Bruce's Blunder" or "Page's Pill." Unfortunately, the amendment does not convey to the electors of Australia the dangers that it threatens to the sovereign rights of the States. I trust that the Senate will realize that there is no necessity to clutter our Constitution with trivialities such as this. It will be merely another smudge across the Constitution, something that is wholly unwarranted, and I shall issue my manifesto to the Australian people urging them to stultify its influence by returning to power a Federal administration that will return to constitutional and responsible government. 
I wish to record my strong protest against this bill to amend the Constitution. I regard it as another link in the chain that has been forged for the purpose of despoiling the States of their fundamental rights. Without this bill the financial agreement with the States would not become vitally operative. It empowers the Commonwealth Government to make agreements with the States, and may mean that portion of the money previously allotted to the States will be set aside in future for the payment of State debts. To that I have no objection. But I do object to the general purpose of the measure, because I believe that the financial agreement with the States should not have been approved by this Parliament. 
I am puzzled to understand why we should not trouble ourselves with what will happen under that agreement eight years hence. It is well understood that although it will work advantageously to the States for about eight years, thenceforth it will be detrimental to their interests. The monetary assistance provided for the States by the Commonwealth will dwindle and dwindle, until by the time the fifty-eighth year is reached it will have attained practically vanishing point. Only a little over £5,000,000 will then be distributed to States having a population of 20,000,000. It might be asked why I appeal on behalf of posterity. I believe that I have an infinitely better charter to do that than this Government has to attack and deprive them of their rights. When federation was inaugurated its founders considered that ten years would be a sufficient period to try out their financial proposals. Now this Government is prepared to jeopardize the interests of the States by making a financial agreement that will exist for fifty-eight years. 
The functions and responsibilities of the States of this Commonwealth are vastly different from those of the American States. I propose to make a comparison of those functions and responsibilities. I invite honorable senators to compare the function of our States with those of the State of New York, which today has a population of eighteen millions. The Liberals in Victoria and also in the other State Governments for many years after the inauguration of federation were looked upon as the protectors of the rights and privileges of the States. 
I hope so. I invite honorable senators to compare the function of our State Governments with the functions of the New York State Government since it became part of the American Union. As we are all aware our State Governments are actively concerned in discharging a multiplicity of social functions with which the New York State Government, under its Constitution, has no concern whatever. Our 
State Governments have stepped down into the industrial arena and actively assist their citizens in many ways. They provide water supplies for the people, which the New York State Government does not ; and if a man wishes to go upon the land, they provide him with the necessary financial assistance to help him make good. They also advance money for the erection of homes for the people and supply and control light and power. No State under the American Constitution, and no province in the Canadian Dominion has anything to do with these functions. ' In addition, our State Governments are responsible for the means of transport, and in many other ways as honorable senators will acknowledge, they concern themselves with the social and industrial well-being of their citizens generally. All this means that they must have . secured to them a substantial portion of the available revenue obtained from the people. Without this, they will be unable to give these services to the people. How then can we justify this proposal to rob the States of an important part of their financial strength? At the inauguration of federation the States had guaranteed to them "three-fourths of the customs and excise revenue. The belief, at that time, was general that one-fourth of the collections from customs and excise would be sufficient for the Central Government. I remind honorable senators that the total then was only about £S,000,000 annually, against about £44,000,000 to-day. I should like to emphasize the point that public opinion believed then, when the total customs and excise revenue was only £S,000,000, that one-fourth of the whole was sufficient for the needs of the Central Government. But times have changed. There are those who now argue that not only is one-fourth insufficient to meet the needs of the National Government, but that actually the whole of it is barely enough, notwithstanding that in addition to this vast increase in customs and excise revenue, the Central  Government proposes also to retain its right to raise revenue through other avenues. So far as I am aware it does not intend to vacate any of those fields, but will continue to levy taxation on the people to meet federal needs, thus making it increasingly difficult for the States to obtain the revenue, which they urgently require, from the surplus earnings of the people. 
It has everything to do with it, because the purpose of this bill is really to employ the Constitution to make the financial agreement a standing reality. I do not want that or anything like it. 
I am here now, and propose to discuss this proposal in the time that may be allotted to me. It is easily seen that things went wrong when I was not here. 
I am aware of that, but I repeat that its real intention is to use the Constitution as it should not be used, and I shall do all that I can to prevent that. I am giving my reasons for the stand which I take in this matter, my main reason being that I do not wish to see the finances of the States impaired, as the result of any alteration of the Constitution. 
I know they have, and I know also the reasons underlying their acceptance of the agreement, which, as I have said, should not be called a financial agreement at all. I say this on the evidence of at least three important actors in the  drama - three State Premiers who declared that they had no option but to accept the terms offered by this Government.  Mr. Collier  in Western Australia, and  Mr. Lang  in New South Wales, have expressed this view; and the Queensland representative at the conference which adopted the financial agreement has said much the same thing in modified terms. They are all agreed that there was 110 alternative course open to them. All the evidence goes to show that the States were not free agents. They had to accept the agreement. 
The fact that one party at the conference dominated the situation has been responsible for a lopsided agreement, which is inequitable in its terms. 
The financial agreement, this last link in the chain that is being riveted upon the States, should be judged by one Standard only - its effect upon the wellbeing of the average citizen. And what is the position of the average citizen in this country ? To which Government does he turn if he wishes to play his part in the development of this vast country ? To which authority does he look for assistance when be goes out to subject the wilderness? Is it not true that he turns first to the Government of his State, and is it not true also, that if this bill is accepted by the people, the State Governments will be severely handicapped? I have on other occasions reminded honorable senators that the average citizen is the care of the State Government from the time of his birth until he shuffles off this mortal coil. He turns to the State Government twenty times for every one time that he looks to the Central Government for help, relief, or encouragement.  His  birth is registered by a State authority. The same Government is responsible for his education, and as I have shown already, throughout his life it concerns itself with his social and industrial well-being. What does the Central Government do for him ? It is true that the Federal Government delivers his letters for 1-Jd.; transmits messages for nim, and performs certain other functions; but most of all it levies taxation from him. Periodically it sends its tax gatherer around with a big bag to collect his surplus earnings and leaves very little available for the State Governments to meet their obligations. 
So far as we can gather, when the whole of the customs and excise revenue has been appropriated by the Federal Government for its services, the same authority will continue to tax those other sources of revenue which should be left to the States. In this way the financial strength of the States is being filched from them. Consequently, as sovereign governmental authorities, they are doomed to impotence. I am here to object to this course; to raise my voice against this piratical assault upon the financial resources of the States. I enter my protest against those State members, who, in a moment of weakness, accepted this obnoxious agreement from the Central Government. I charge them with having sacrificed the future welfare of their citizens to the needs of the present. For a paltry advantage that may be enjoyed for a period of seven or eight years, they have surrendered what I regard as their inalienable right to a substantial portion of the Commonwealth customs and excise revenue. I am here to see that evenhanded justice is dealt out to all the partners in the federation. Does any honorable senator suggest that the people would have voted for federation if at the referendum they had been told that in 28 years time, the whole of the customs and excise revenue would be swept from the States? 
The honorable senator is right. The fact that the people were definitely led to believe that there would be no niching of State rights constitutes a fundamental claim on their part to financial independence, and indicates clearly that this attempt to whittle away their privileges and rights should be resisted to the very last. Their rights, though unwritten, are an integral part of the Constitution. The States have an unchallengeable claim to their full share of the customs and excise revenue, which unfortunately is being taken from them little by little. What is the purpose of the financial agreement if it ig not to aggrandize the position of the Federal Government, and to that extent, destroy the effectiveness of State Governmental institutions? I am not making this charge against this Government find this Government alone. The trouble always has been that the Federal treasury has been overflowing with money; and Federal Treasurers, even in Federal Labour Governments, have spent it most joyously. No Federal Treasurer,  until this year, has ever felt called upon to spin a shilling in the air to decide how he should spend it. Every Commonwealth Treasurer has had millions of surplus money available, and has spent it freely, even lavishly. It was during the regime of a Labour Government that lavish expenditure was sanctioned on such, works as the Flinders Naval Base and the base at Cockburn Sound, and all on the authority of a single expert in the person of Admiral Henderson. Statesmen would not dream of spending their own money in such a way. It is true that I was here in support of the Government of the day that embarked on those enterprises, involving the lavish expenditure of millions of pounds, and very often on the say-so of a single expert. At Henderson, for instance, on the advice of one expert, an attempt was made to build a harbour out of dry land - but what was done then was only characteristic of the opulence displayed by one Commonwealth Government after another. On the Cockburn Sound naval base,  Mr. Jensen,  the then Minister, authorized the lavish expenditure of money and the setting up of standards of pay with which it was almost impossible for the State Labour Government of the day to compete, except 'at the risk of landing the State in financial embarrassment. The present Labour Premier of Western Australia  (Mr. Collier)  said to me " The Commonwealth Government is setting up standards with which we cannot compete, because we have not the money to do so. If we try to compete we shall fail in our duty to the people of the State."  Mr. Scaddan,  the Premier of Western Australia at the time to which I have been referring, also complained of the false position in which the State Labour Government was being placed by the lavish way in which money was being spent by the Central Government, which, apparently, had more than it knew what to do with. 
The citizens of Australia look to the States still to supply those social services that apply to the individual, from the registration of his birth to the record of his death. If, therefore, through the operation of this bill the States are to become financially embarrassed, the citizens of Australia must suffer first and permanently.  It  is useless to wait until afterwards and then to contemplate the damage done. Now is the time to call a halt. I shall welcome the time, when the  per capita  payments are restored to the States, and they are in a position to carry on those useful social public services of which the citizens of Australia take so much advantage. If the Central Government monopolizes the whole of the customs and excise revenue, and still continues in the field of direct taxation, the States will  be  reduced to such a state of penury and distress that out of the revenue they will still be able to garner from the few patches of the taxation field left untouched, they will not be able , to supply those services that the citizen so sorely needs. 
I leave the matter at this point. I shall record ray vote against the bill, and if the bill is passed I shall record my vote against it at the referendum. I may be told that I should not vote against the bill at the referendum, but I propose to do so. A referendum is a peculiar weapon. It is like a tool that turns in one's hand and hurts the user. It is supposed to be one of the most democratic of weapons, but has proved- to be one of the most conservative. At any rate, I hope that it will prove to be so on this occasion. I hope that, as a result of the vote, the States will be secured in their position and will not have to roam about like impecunious beggars looking for discarded morsels from the Commonwealth's overflowing table. When I am told that I ought not to vote against a referendum my reply is that there are certain fundamental and inalienable rights which ought not to besubmitted to a referendum. Would any person allow such an inalienable right as his life or liberty, or his right to follow a lawful occupation to be submitted to a referendum? This is an inalienable right, and should not be submitted to a referendum unless by brute-force like that exercised by the present Government. Perhaps " brute-force " is too strong a term to use, but I am merely repeating the words of the three State Premiers, who have declared that they were forced into this agreement with the Commonwealth. The fathers of our federation established for the States their fundamental right to share in the customs and excise revenue, and that fundamental right still remains, because what was right 28 years ago cannot be wrong to-day. The process of time will never and can never convert a moral right into a moral wrong. Yet, although the Constitution secured to the States a portion of the customs and excise revenue, it is now contemplated that they shall be gradually deprived of this revenue until in the 59th year the amount to be distributed will be so paltry as almost to be described as contemptible. At that date the States with their 20,000,000 people, will be paid about £5,200,000, or about 5s. a head as compared with the 25s. paid under the Constitution. There is in Western Australia elbow room for tens of thousands of people who will flock there from the other States and from 'other parts of the world. The experience of Canada and the United States of America indicates that the population of Western Australia will go ahead far more rapidly than that of any other State. In Canada and in the United States of America, over a period of years, the population has stood comparatively still in the older settled communities, whereas in such outlying districts as Saskatchewan and Alberta the increase has been at the rate of 26 per cent. per annum, and even greater. 
The bill before us allows for a steady increase in the population of Australia at the rate of 2 per cent. per annum, and it is calculated that in 59 years it will be 20,000,000. But if our development is similar to that of Canada and the United States of America, Western Australia's population in the 59th year will be approximately 2,000,000, and the allowance to the State will then amount to about 2s. 6d. a head. Not 30 pieces of silver, but 30 pieces of copper! Not the reward of betrayal but the reward of progress. I oppose this bill with all the vehemence and determination at my command in the belief that it is uncalled for and unjustified, and that it will prove to be most hurtful to the interests of the people whom I represent. 
[12.17]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders he suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
If this motion is carried I propose to move the first and second reading of the bill, and then, if desired, to grant an adjournment of the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) read a first time. 
[12.18]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill is to ratify an agreement made between the Commonwealth,. Government and the Tasmanian Government relating to securities held by the Tasmanian sinking fund. This agreement is the outcome  of the financial agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and all the States, in which it is provided that all moneys and securities standing to the credit of the sinking funds on the 30th June, 1929, shall be transferred to the National Debt Commission; but that this shall in no way limit the power of a State to cancel any of its securities before the 30th June, 1929. It was contemplated that all the States possessing the necessary power would apply their sinking funds in reduction of their debts, and thus obtain the consequential saving of interest to their revenue accounts. Most of the States have done this because their sinking funds were invested in their own securities; but the position of Tasmania was different from that of the other States, as almost the whole of its sinking funds were invested in Commonwealth securities. Tasmania could thus obtain the same immediate advantages as the other States, only by selling its securities on the open market, which would be most undesirable, or by coming to and arrangement with the Commonwealth. On the 30th June, 1928, the nominal value of the Commonwealth securities held by the Tasmanian sinking fund was £1,139,863. This agreement now provides that these securities shall bc handed over to the Commonwealth, and that an equivalent amount of debt due by Tasmania to the Commonwealth shall be cancelled, thus relieving Tasmania of any liability in respect of such debt. Details of the Commonwealth securities to be handed over by Tasmania are set out in the first schedule to the hill. The nominal value of tho debts due by Tasmania to the Commonwealth, which are to be cancelled, is £1,137,720 and are set out in detail in the second schedule. Owing to the securities and debts having different rates of interest, and dates of maturity, it was necessary to make actuarial calculations to arrive at the value of the securities on the 1st July, 1928, from which date the agreement is to take effect. This value was found to be £1,142,394. The value at 1st July, 1928, of the  debts  to be cancelled was also £1,142,394. It will be seen that, although there is a slight difference between the totals of the two schedules, the actuarial valuation is the same. Bv giving effect to this agreement as from the 1st day of July, 1928, Tasmania will save, for the current financial year. £62,690 in interest due to the Commonwealth. That is one of the savings referred to in connexion with the Tasmania Grant Bill. The whole transaction is really in the nature of a bookkeeping arrangement between the Commonwealth and Tasmania, and involves a formal agreement between the respective Governments and one which has to bt ratified by the Commonwealth Parliament and the Tasmanian Parliament.' 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. 
We do not wish these securities to be sold on the open market. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether it has come to the knowledge of the Government that, according to reports that have appeared in the press, a recent conference of PanPacific trade unions in Shanghai arrived at a decision hostile to the White Australia policy ; and also is the Government aware that as the Sydney Trades and Labour Council is affiliated with the PanPacific Conference, it is bound by the decision of that gathering? In view of these facts I ask if the Goverment does not deem it advisable to call on the Sydney Trades and Labour Council to repudiate this reported interference with our internal policy or else cancel its affiliation? 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether, in view of the fact that the world's price for wheat has fallen 1s. a bushel within the last month or two, and since the Government has agreed to give an export bounty of1s. a ton to the coal-mining industry in New South Wales, in which industry numerous strikes have occurred over a ' number of years, the Ministry will now come forward with a proposal to grant an export bounty of1s. a bushel to the  wheat industry which has always supported the protective policy of the country more than any other industry and never goes on strike ? 
On the 14th 
September  Senator Guthrie  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is it not a fact that the royal commission on the film industry recommended a duty of 2d. per foot on foreign films? 
In dealing with the commission's report did not the Minister for Trade and Customs, on behalf of the Government, indicate the Government's intention of placing a duty of 2d. per foot on foreign films ? 
Why has the Government disregarded the finding of the commission which was unanimous, regarding the duty upon foreign films, and made the duty1¾d. per foot? 
What revenue is derived from the duty on foreign films? 
How much more would he derived were the duty 2d.per foot, as recommended by the commission, instead of13/4d. per foot? 
What amount of income tax is paid by the importers and/or distributors of foreign films? 
Is it not a fact that picture theatres are immune from entertainment tax on all tickets of admission up to 2s. 6d. ? 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Because it was found that an additional duty of one-farthing per foot would produce the extra sum required. 
The duty paid on foreign films during 1927-28 was £169,745. This included £3,734 on home kinematograph films dutiable at½d. per foot. 
The importations of ordinary foreign films for that year amounted to 20,181,625 feet. An extra id. per foot duty on this quantity would return £27,273. 
The information cannot be given, as no record of it is kept. 
Picture theatre tickets below 2s. 6d. are immune from Federal entertainment tax. 
On the 15th September,  Senator. Chapman  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
What amount of loan money was expended by the Postmaster-General's Department in each State on the erection of new buildings in 1927-28? 
What amount is provided on the Estimates for each State for 1928-29? 
What amount of loan money was expended in each State on the extension of telegraphic and telephonic services in 1927-28 ? 
What amount is provided on the Estimates for each State for 1928-29? 
I am now in a position to furnish the honorable senator with' the following information :  - 
The expenditure of loan money during 1927-28 on building works in general was as follows :  - 

<graphic href="119332192809196_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

Figures as to the expenditure on new buildings, as distinct from additions and alterations to buildings, are not available. 
The provision for building works in general during 1928-29 is as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809196_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

Less amount (?110,432) estimated to remain unexpended at the end of the year, leaving the net provision ?320,000. 
The amount of loan money expended on new telegraph and telephone works during 1927-28 was as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809196_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The total sum of ?3,395,000 provided for new telegraph and telephone works during 1928-29 has been tentatively allocated between the several States as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809196_2_1.jpg"></graphic>

On the 13th September,  Senator Chapman  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
What is the approximate cost of ethyl - chloride in America? 
What is the Australian tariff duty? 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following information: - 
Latest quotations available are 22 cents per lb. in drums and 24 to 25 cents per lb. in 200-lb. bottles. 
Per fluid oz. :  - British preferential tariff, 1s. 3d.; general tariff, 2s. 
On the 14th September,  Senator Chapman  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether very little wine has been exported from Australia under new contract since the reduction of bounty? 
What amount of Government money has been used to finance soldier-settler and civilian grape-growers ? 
Is the Minister aware that if the surplus cannot profitably be exported a serious position will be created for grape-growers? 
Will the Government give its most serious consideration to obtaining an independent report from such a body as the tariff board, as they did before the previous reduction of bounty, in order to have a recommendation as to the best course to pursue in the future in regard to the industry? 
I am now in a position to furnish the following replies: - 
There has been a heavy falling off in the export of Australian wine, but it is understood that this is due to a great extent to large stocks being unsold in London. The reductions in the rate of bounty were more than counterbalanced by more favorable preferences granted by Great Britain. 
Definite figures are not easily obtainable, in view of the fact that soldier settlement is primarily under the control of the States; and, further, that the amount made available under the Wine Export Bounty Act is not paid direct to the grape-growers. 
Yes. 
The position of the wine industry will continue to receive the earnest consideration of the Government, and any suggestion made on behalf of the industry for the amelioration of present conditions, will be carefully investigated. 
I should like to know if the Minister representing the Postmaster-General has been furnished with a reply to a question which I asked on, 6th Septemberwith regard to the profits of the beam wireless service. 
I regret that the information isnotyet available for the honorable senator. 
(Senator the  Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I desire to inform the Senate that I have received from  Mrs. Givens  a letter of appreciation and thanks in connexion with the resolution of sympathy passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of her husband, the late  Senator Thomas  Givens. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
How many names appear on the roll of voters for the Federal Capital Territory prepared in accordance with the Liquor Poll Ordinances 1928? 
How many of such voters are ratepaying lessees of the Commission? 
In the event of an election for a third Commissioner in the Federal Territory, in accordance with proposed legislation, would all persons living without the city area, all persons resident in hotels and boardinghouses, all men in camps, men and women living at the Causeway, and the majority of the shopkeepers in Canberra be disfranchised? 
Four thousand six hundred and ninetyeight. 
This information is not available at present, but, in view of the answer to (3), if the information is still desired, it will be obtained. 
The attention of the honorable  Senator is  invited to provisions of the bill to amend the Seat of Government (Administration) Act introduced in another place, and the amendments to that bill circulated this morning, which indicate the nature of the proposed legislation on the subject. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Why was the interior of the house occupied by the Secretary to the Federal Capital Commission - a temporary structure - panelled with expensive timbers? 
What was the total cost of construction of that dwelling? 
Were accurate sub-costs of the work kept? 
What house and what ground rent does the occupant pay? 
Provided that they are prepared to pay the additional rent involved, may public servants have similar panelling incorporated in houses that may be henceforth constructed by the Commission for rental purposes? 
If not, why the differentiation between Commission and ordinary public servants? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister has advised me that he has called for a report on the matter and the honorable senator will be advised as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that one of the most magnicent building sites in Canberra was earmarked on the Griffin Plan as a site for a National Museum ? 
Is this site situated immediately opposite the front of Parliament House and between it and Mount Ainslie? 
Is it a fact that this magnificent site has been allotted to the Roman Catholic authorities as the site of a cathedral? 
By whose authority and under what circumstances was this change brought about? 
Were other religious denominations at any time informed that this site was being made available for church or other purposes, and what opportunity was given them of applying for it? 
What are the building or other conditions (if any) relating to this site? 
Will the Government resume this site for the purpose for which it was originally reserved; if not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The replies supplied by the Minister for Home and Territories are - 
No specific site was earmarked on the Griffin Plan for a National Museum. 
The only reference to the subject which can be traced is the following reference in  Mr. Griffin's  report explanatory of his preliminary plan. After discussing the direct line between Parliament House and Mount Ainslie, he proceeds - "Farther to each side of the land axis are paired galleries of the graphic and plastic arts; the museum for natural history and archaeology; the zoological gardens and the baths, and gymnasia." 
The site tentatively allotted for a Roman Catholic Cathedral is not immediately opposite the front of Parliament House and between it and Mount Ainslie. It is, as a matter of fact, exactly due north of Parliament House, and 3,000 feet from the axial line referred to. 4 and 5. Prior to the appointment of the Federal Capital Commision, various sites had been made available for cathedrals and principal churches for allotment under the Church Lands Leases Ordinance. One of these sites - that referred to - was applied for and tentatively allotted to the Roman Catholic Church. After its appointment the Commission reviewed the position, and, in order to remove any doubt that every church had the same opportunity of selection, re-opened the matter and again invited applications, the Roman Catholic Church being the only applicant for this particular site. 
The general conditions regarding the cathedral sites are laid down in the Church Lands Leases Ordinance 1924-1927. When applications were invited by the commission it was made clear that leases would only be granted in cases where churches were able to submit a definite building scheme. The Roman Catholic authorities have not been able to submit such a scheme, and the matter has therefore remained in abeyance and no definite allotment in this case has been made. 
See No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister cause a survey and estimate of costs to be made of a possible railway route direct from Albury or that vicinity via Holbrook to Canberra and thence via Goulburn to Sydney? 
What would be the approximate saving in distance travelled from or to Victoria and other States whose members travel from Melbourne, and what would be the approximate saving in time by using this route compared to the present one? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister has supplied the following replies :  - 
No. This is a matter for the State Government. 
See No.1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether, in the latest pamphlets on the subject issued by the department, it is laid down that divisional and other higher commanders in the forces should take every opportunity to ascend in aeroplanes to accustom themselves to flying and to reconnaissance from the air, as the only means open to them in time of war? 
What steps does the Minister propose to encourage this practice in Australia? 
Yes. The pamphlets referred to are issued by the War Office, England, and they lay down that it is advisable for commanders and staff to obtain experience in air reconnaissance. 
It is not possible for the present to carry out this policy  in toto,  but a commencement has been made and selected staff officers attend courses in air reconnaissance at Point Cook, Victoria, and Richmond, New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Government include Turkey Creek in the proposed Perth to Wyndham air service? 
The following reply has been supplied :  - 
It is expected that it will be possible in the near future to decide the location of landing grounds on the proposed Derby-Wyndhamair route and the question of operating from Hall's Creek to Wyndham via Turkey Creek in lieu of using the more easterly Ord River route will receive careful consideration. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has it come to the knowledge of the Government that important evidence given before the Constitution Commission by  Mr. Giblin, Deputy  Commonwealth Statistician, and Professor Brigden, to the effect that the States of South Australia, Tasmania, and Western Australia were suffering under the operation of the present tariff, was not published in the press, although special facilities were given for doing so? 
If this information is correct will the Government enlarge the power of royal commissions in the direction of empowering them to exclude from their sittings representatives of any newspapers that suppresses important evidence given before them? 
No. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Government have inserted in future contracts entered into for the Solomon Islands mail service a condition providing that planters and residents in those islands shall have the first right to any passenger accommodation they require as against that required by mere tourists or travellers? 
Will the Government refuse to sanction any increase of freights and passenger fares on vessels engaged in such mail service? 
The replies to the honorable senator's questions are - 
The existing agreement contains the following clause: - " Provided that residents of the islands at which the steamships employed in the services shall call under this agreement shall, if reasonable notice that passenger accommodation is required has been given to the contractors or their agents, be given preference in the allotment of pas senger accommodation." 
A similar clause will be inserted in any new contract entered into in respect of the services to the Solomon Islands. 
It would be necessary, before giving any definite undertaking that this request will be complied with, to consider the effect, financially and otherwise, of such refusal. The matter will receive consideration. 
[3.24]. -  I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
At a later stage I propose to move the second reading of this bill, which I should like to be dealt with in committee to-day. It is essentially a measure for consideration in committee, seeing that it is largely of a technical nature. If honorable senators consider that it should not be taken to that stage to-day I shall not oppose, the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow. 
 It is perhaps needless for me to say that as a loyal supporter of the Government I do not wish to obstruct the business it introduces; but a request that, so late in the life of this Parliament, we should deal with an important bill, affecting the taxation of incomes in Australia, should not have been made without the Senate being informed whether any vital principle is involved. 
I have not seen the bill, and do not know its contents; but I remind honorable senators that, during the closing hours of nearly every session honorable senators are asked to accept, almost without question, measures which come here from another place. The Senate is unlike the Legislative Councils of the States, and its members should enter an emphatic protest against being asked to give hasty decisions on important questions. Such decisions do not enable us to do justice to the measures, to ourselves, or to the country, especially when, as the Leader of the Opposition says is the position in this instance, vital principles are involved. Requests of the nature of that just made by the Leader of the Senate are not peculiar to the present Government; previous governments have adopted the same practice, with the result that this chamber has not always been in a position to do justice to itself or the country. I realize that bills of the nature of that before us cannot originate in the Senate, but we should be given an earlier opportunity to consider them. It is not fair that in the dying hours of Parliament we should be asked to deal with this measure and others which have been foreshadowed. I hope that we shall not have a recurrence of similar requests. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council)  [3.28]. -  In justice to the Government I feel that I should point out that, during this part of the present session, practically every bill introduced by the Government, other than money bills, has been introduced in this  chamber. The bill now before us is a money bill, and honorable senators know that, owing to the limitations imposed by the Constitution, such bills cannot be introduced in the Senate. There is no reason why, should honorable senators desire it, the Senate should not sit next week to discuss its business. Those who have studied the bill proclaim it to be a technical measure containing a number of minor amendments to give effect to prnciples already agreed to by Parliament and thought to have been included in existing legislation. This bill contains no new principle; it is simply an amending measure to give effect to principles already accepted bythe Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) read a first time. 
.- The objects of this bill are threefold : to obviate the necessity of publishing a pamphlet setting forth both sides of the question that is to be referred to the people, to lessen the number of informal votes, and to bring about uniformity in our voting system. I believe that it will help to minimize informality of voting. I have always contended that we cannot give too much information to the electors, and that every opportunity should be taken through the press. Parliament, and by means of pamphlets, to disseminate information that will assist electors to cast an intelligent vote. It is generally recognized that the alteration of our Constitution is a very important matter; also, that it is a difficult task to educate the electors to realize the necessity for an alteration. It is because of that that both parties in 
Parliament have agreed that it is desirable where there is a difference of opinion between' the Ministerial party and the Opposition as to a proposed alteration of the Constitution, to issue pamphlets setting forth the affirmative and negative sides of the problem. In this case, however, that is not considered necessary, both parties having agreed that the alteration is imperative. I am glad that the suggestion to bring about uniformity which was made by my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, was approved by the Attorney-General and incorporated in the bill. As the measure is simply a machinery bill, I see no necessity to discuss it further. 
I agree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Needham,  but I take the opportunity to register my protest against the lack of care displayed by the Government in its effort to eliminate informal voting. The system of voting employed to elect this Senate is so intricate that it confounds the electors. Six years ago the Labour party agreed to the adoption of the group system of voting in order to clarify matters and reduce informal voting, but the Government did not go far enough in that direction. It should have allowed each party to do its own grouping, and not necessarily alphabetically. 
Unfortunately I was not then a member of the Senate. I support every innovation that tends to reduce informal voting, and that will assist electors to record their votes as they desire. Six years ago I urged the Government to display sufficient ingenuity to amend the electoral law satisfactorily, and I should like an explanation of its dereliction of duty. If a satisfactory explanation is not forthcoming, I shall record my protest by voting against one of the three clauses relating to the matter in this bill. I seek nothing from the Government that would be unfair to the NationalistCountry party.I merely urge that it is but just that each party should be permitted to group its candidates in the order it desires on the ballot-paper. The prevailing system merely engenders bitterness and causes confusion. The Labour party holds a pre-selection plebiscite, and selects its candidates in the order it desires them to enter the Senate ; but under the prevailing system that desire is thwarted. Under it it may happen that the weakest candidates are elected, and in a comparatively few years each party may have its weakest team as its representatives. 
No ; it would lead to general satisfaction, as the matter rests purely with the organization of the party concerned. Our electoral law certainly recognizes groups, because the electors are at present forced to vote for groups. 
SenatorFoll. - It is a voluntary grouping. . 
Not at all. 
I do not know of any Labour junta. The executive of the responsible organization would determine the order. 
Groups are recognized because the old alphabetical order of the paper was smashed up by the party opposite. Let me illustrate what the position will be in Queensland in the forthcoming elections. At the top of the ballot-paper we probably shall have the names " Crawford, Foll, Reid, Shepherd," followed by the Labour nominees, " Horn, Lawson, MacDonald, Valentine." 
No; priority was taken by the Country party, with its nominees Austen and Fielding. We came second, and the party opposite came third. The Labour party considers that it should be permitted to group the names of its candidates in the order it desires. 
The honorable senator does not understand the position. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator is out of order in replying continually to interjections. 
If I could obtain an intelligent interjection, I should have great pleasure in replying to it. 
I ask the honorable senator to disregard interjections, whether they are intelligent or not. 
The honorable senator suggests that the parties should be allowed to decide the order in which the names of their candidates appear on ballot-papers. I think that the Government has already done sufficient by providing that the candidates may group themselves, or, if they choose to do so, remain outside a group. If the honorable senator desires it, he can have his name placed on the ballot-paper outside a group. But he suggests that an organization, Labour or Nationalist, should be given the power to say in which order its candidates' names shall appear on a ballotpaper. There are States where there is very little if any party organization, and in those circumstances great dissatisfaction would arise if organizations were to be given the right to fix the order in which the names of candidates should be placed on ballot-papers. 
I made no reference to the Labour party. There are already organizations outside the recognized Labour and Nationalist parties, and there may be independent candidates. Who would fix the order in which the names of independent candidates would be placed on a ballot-paper? 
The Government has already gone a long way in the direction of overcoming what was at one time a rather difficult position by making clear to the electors the party to which each candidate belongs. The candidates themselves indicate the group in which they wish their names to be included, and I think the average elector knows fairly well the group for which be is anxious to vote. It would be absolutely -wrong to give the organizations power to state the order in which the people should vote. 
The honorable senator claims that the organizations shall- 
Very well. The honorable senator asks that the organizations may fix the order in which their respective candidates' names shall appear on a ballot-paper. But there is no necessity for it. Candidates' names are already grouped on the ballotpaper, and the electors know which group contains the names of their candidates. We have had evidence that there is less informal voting among supporters of the Labour party than there  is among  supporters of other parties. I do not think that the present system leads to informal voting, but in any case it would be a dangerous practice to allow the organizations to arrange among themselves the order in which their candidates' names should appear on ballotpapers. 
 There is a good deal in what  Senator MacDonald  has endeavoured  to  point out. The law already allows the parties to indicate on a ballot-paper the groups to which particular Senate candidates belong. 
That is true. The candidate himself informs the returning officer of the group in which he wishes his name to be placed. We have already gone that far. Why cannot we go  a  little further and allow the party, or whoever it may concern, to say which candidate's name shall appear at the head of any particular group, thus indicating to the electors the candidate to which their first preference should be given? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order. I  think  it is time that I reminded  honorable  senators that this is a bill to authorize the taking of a referendum, and not a bill dealing with the general electoral law. 
But two other honorable senators have been allowed to traverse the ground that I am now seeking to cover. 
Then I have nothing further to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Informal ballot-papers). 
I wish at this stage to protest again against the neglect of the Government to amend the law relating to electoral ballot-papers. It has not attempted to do in regard to Senate elections what it is seeking to do in this bill, namely, to reduce the number of informal ballotpapers.. I shall take every opportunity to urge this reform in our electoral law. The purpose of the clause under discussion is to secure uniformity. We. should use every endeavour to secure uniformity throughout our electoral law in each reference to the will of the people; but there has been a lot of monkeying in these matters in the past. I shall vote against this clause as a protest against the dereliction of duty on the part of the Government in not endeavouring to bring to a satisfactory state of perfection the electoral law of this country, and my protest in this regard extends  to  those honorable senators, who, in the past, have given expression to views on this matter similar to my own. I have no wish to go over the ground I covered on the second reading, but I cannot refrain from pointing out that for some peculiar reason the Government continues to allow the people to be fooled and fuddled by silly ballot-papers such as we have in the important matter of the election of senators. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Question proposed - 
That the hill be  reported without  amendment. 
If one feels that one has a good case one must take every opportunity  of  putting it forward. I am not vindictive, and I do not claim that my position at the Senate polls six years ago would have been altered if the reform which I am now advocating had been carried into effect in 1922. But I can certainly claim that six years ago the lack of a proper ballot-paper fooled the people and prevented them from coming to a proper decision. That, I think, a study of the informal ballot-papers cast at various Senate elections will prove. Some honorable senators, I am convinced, after hearing them speak, have not studied the matter properly. Having won their elections easily the point that I have brought forward has not been impressed upon them, but in close contrast the position I am supporting becomes immediately plainer. I am not one to claim that honorable senators of the Opposition have been losers more than have honorable senators on the other side of the chamber, but I contend that the form in which the ballot-papers are now presented to the people at an election for members of the Senate does not give them an opportunity to express their true opinions. In a close election candidates representing the Labour party may be defeated because the party executives in the various States are not given an opportunity to place the names of their candidates in nonalphabetical order, and according  to  party choice, within the party groups  on  the ballot-papers. This incitement  to  irregular voting under the preference system leads to many more informal votes. An honorable senator who has claimed that the selection of candidates to the Senate is a matter for the individual is evidently not aware of the actual position. An individual may have every opportunity to offer himself  for  election, but he does not get very far unless some party organization endorses his candidature. 
 I ask the honorable senator to confine himself to the question before the Chair. The  President has already ruled that a general discussion of the electoral law is not in order upon this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
This measure which is to ratify an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Tasmania relating to securities held by the Tasmania Sinking Fund, is associated with the Tasmania Grant Bill recently passed by Parliament. I realize that such an agreement is necessary; but I cannot understand why the authority now sought was not obtained when the bill I have just mentioned was before the Senate. For the past six years Parliament has devoted a good deal of its time to amending bills, and in considering numerous amendments, which are submitted shortly after bills have been introduced. This has been occasioned either by carelessness on the part of the Government or faulty draftsmanship. The Government and not the draftsman is to blame in this instance. Perhaps the Government, with its stupendous majority in this chamber, thinks that it can submit measures in a haphazard fashion ; but it must be apparent to every honorable senator that the introduction of this measure could have been avoided. I have no objection to the bill; but if this Government is returned to power - I sincerely hope that it will not be - I trust that it will handle measures in a more businesslike way. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.7]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure is of a somewhat technical nature, and I crave the indulgence of the Senate while I explain its provisions in detail as that may probably shorten the discussion both on the motion for the second reading and during the committee stage. 
The main purpose of the bill is to remedy some defects in the principal act through which loss of revenue has been occurring. Commonwealth estate duty is payable upon the estates of deceased persons in cases in which the total net value of the estate, after deduction of all liabilities, actual and contingent from the gross value, amounts to £1,000 or over. The estate which is subject to duty consists of all real and personal property wherever situated, in the case of a person who was domiciled in Australia, and of all real and personal property in Australia in the case of a person domiciled outside Australia. The particular property falling to be taxed consists of property which was owned by the deceased at the time of his death, and which passed to other persons under his will, or by virtue of the law relating to intestacy, and includes - 
gifts  inter vivos  made by the  deceased person within one year before his decease; 
property which the deceased  settled upon other persons within one year before his decease ; 
property in which the deceased  had a life interest which was surrendered by him within one year of his decease; and 
property in which the deceased  had a beneficial interest at the time of his decease, which beneficial interest, by virtue of a settlement or agreement made by him, passed or accrued on or after his decease to or devolved on or after his decease upon any other person. 
The terms " gift  inter vivos "  and " settlement " are the subjects of fairly elaborate definition in the principal act, but the definitions on the clauses describing the property which is dutiable are in terms which do not enable the department to collect duty on the following property :  - 
Gifts  inter vivos  made within  one year of the death of the deceased person and representing the difference between the true value of a property transferred to a relative of the deceased principally for natural love and affection and the nominal price, if any, fixed as the monetary consideration for the transfer; 
Property comprised in a settle ment made by the deceased person under which he had any interest of any kind for his life; and 
Property which had been  owned by the deceased person but which, immediately prior to his death, formed the whole or part of property held by him and other persons as joint tenants. 
Property representing the  whole of the property owned by a deceased person, which he had disposed of to other persons at any time prior to. his death. 
The three classes of property first mentioned have escaped duty because the definitions of "gift  inter vivos"  and " settlement taken in conjunction with the description of certain properties to be included in the dutiable estate, have not been wide enough to make the duty payable. The last-mentioned class has escaped duty because the act applies only to property in the hands of administrators. Where a deceased person has distributed his estate prior to his death, there is no necessity for an administrator, and, therefore, the whole estate escapes the duty. These cases are rare, but they exist and are therefore provided for in the bill. In regard to the first of the three other classes of property which are at present escaping duty, it may be stated that the present definition of "gift  inter vivos "  excludes from the dutiable class of suchgifts, any conveyances or transfers of property in favour of a bona fide purchaser or encumbrancer for valuable consideration. This exception has made it impossible to include in estates any part of the value of property sold in the technical sense by a deceased person to a relative for quite inadequate amounts and principally on account of natural love and affection. For instance a man may sell bona fide to bis son for £100 a property which is worth £1,000. In such a case there has been a clear gift of value in property of £900 for natural love and affection. If the property had been transferred to the son in consideration of natural love and affection only, and the transfer were made within twelve months of the father's death, the total value of the property would form part of the dutiable estate of the father. It is considered that there is no reason why the £900 in the example already mentioned should not form part of the dutiable estate of the father in such a case. The bill provides for its inclusion in future. In regard to property comprised in a settlement made by the deceased person under which he had any interest of any kind for his life, the present position is that if the deceased person should surrender the interest within one year prior to his death the total value of the property forms part of his estate, but if he should retain the interest until his death no part of the value of the property can be included in his dutiable estate. There are two anomalies here - 
In the case of surrendered interests, the total capital value of the property is taxed, whereas the deceased person had only a life interest, the present value of which at the time of surrender would be very much less than the capital value of the property. The bill provides that instead of the total value of the property being taxed, the duty will be levied in future upon the total value or amount which would have been received by the person who surrendered the interest if he had not surrendered it, calculated from the date of the surrender to the date of his death. The anomaly referred to exists as such in the case of life interests under settlements not made by the deceased person. The provision of the law was obviously aimed at surrenders, made prior to death, of life interests held by the deceased person under a settlement made by himself. In such cases the total value of the property rightly falls to be taxed where the life interest was surrendered by the  settlee  within one year of his death, but it is anomalous that no duty can be charged if the life interest was not surrendered. 
The foregoing anomaly is apparent when a comparison is made between such a case and that of a person who did not settle his property upon himself for life, but held it until his death when it passed to other persons in terms of his will. This latter person retains the full control and enjoyment of his property until his death. So also does the person who settles his property in trust for himself with remainder to other persons upon his death. The only difference between these two cases is that in one, the property is devised by will to another person who cannot deal with it until the testator's death, and in the other, the property is appointed by the settlement to other persons, who, also, cannot deal with it until the  settlee's  death. It should be observed that the person who settles his property in trust for his own benefit for life, generally takes care to provide either that he shall be trustee, or that some other person who is trustee shall obtain his consent to any proposed change in the nature of the property or its management or control. In the one case duty is chargeable because the property passes according to will; in the other case duty cannot be charged because the property passes according to a settlement. This distinction is inequitable. It cannot be justified, and is being removed by the bill. There has been considerable loss of revenue through the inability in the past to tax property dealt with in the manner described. 
In the case of joint tenancies, the act has failed to reach these because, under the law relating to joint tenancies, the property of the joint tenancy passes to the survivor upon the death of a joint tenant. This feature of the law has been extensively availed of by many persons who have created joint tenancies in connexion with various classes of property, including bank deposits, in order that the property which a deceased transferred to a joint tenancy of which he was a member, should not be included as part of his dutiable estate. Property so dealt with might be indefinitely excluded from an assessment for estate duty by the formation of successive joint tenancies in connexion with it. There has been considerable loss of revenue in the past from this weakness in the law. 
The bill contains a provision to prevent any further loss of revenue through lack of proper limitation of the deduction allowable in respect of duty lawfully paid in any country outside Australia in regard to any property of the deceased person which may have been situated outside Australia. 
At present, the full amount of the exAustralian duty must be deducted from the total amount of Australian duty as assessed. Sometimes the ex-Australian duty is more than the part of the Australian duty which is attributable to the doubly taxed property, and in those cases the Commonwealth loses part of its legitimate duty on the Australian property. In other cases the ex-Australian duty exceeds the total Australian duty on the whole of the estate. In these cases the Commonwealth loses the whole of its duty on the Australian property. 
The bill provides that the deduction to eliminate double taxation shall be the amount of duty paid outside Australia when it is less than the duty payable in Australia on the ex-Australian property, or the amount of the duty payable in Australia on the property when that duty is less than the ex-Australian duty. 
It has been found necessary to re-state the provisions of the law relating to settlements, bequests, or devises of property for religious, scientific, charitable or public educational purposes, so as to limit the exemption to bequests for such purposes in Australia, and also to express the intention of Parliament in regard to charitable bequests, that the limitation shall apply only to such bequests when made to public charitable institutions in Australia. 
This re-statement of the law in regard to charitable bequests has been necessitated by a decision of the Privy Council over-ruling the judgment of the High Court in the appeal of the trustees of the estate of Peter Stuckey Mitchell, deceased, in respect of a bequest of the residue of the estate of the deceased upon trusts under which prizes were to be awarded to various classes of persons, military, naval and civil, and of both sexes, the merit of the candidate to be ascertained by various physical, moral and literary tests. The High Court held that this bequest is not a charitable bequest within the 'meaning of the act because its character is not eleemosynary, and because the word " charitable " was, in the opinion of the court, used in the act in its popular meaning which involves the idea of assisting poverty or destitution. The Privy Council held that the four words " religious " scientific ", " charitable " and "public educational" as used in the section are not mutually exclusive, and that the word "charitable " as used in the act must be given its technical legal meaning as used in the Elizabethan sense, namely., 
Trusts for the relief of poverty ; 
Trusts for the advancement of education - although this is already covered by the section; 
Trusts for the advancement of religion - already covered by the section; 
Trusts for other purposes beneficial to the community, not falling under any of the preceding heads. 
When the Estate Duty Act was passed it was intended that the four terms referred to should be mutually exclusive. It is proposed to bring this about by means of the amendment in the bill. The bill will also make clear the charitable purposes intended to be provided for. For this purpose it uses the language which was inserted by Parliament for the same purpose in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1927, in connexion with deductions for donations to public charitable institutions. 
Unnecessary loss of revenue on the one hand and lack of power to make refunds in proper cases have been resulting from the provisions of the principal act in regard to the time limit for increasing or reducing assessments. The act provides, in section 20, sub-section (1) that the commissioner may, within one year after the last payment on account of duty on any assessment, make all such alterations in or additions to the assessment as he thinks necessary in order to insure its completeness and accuracy. Unless, therefore, the assessment is actually amended within the time limit, no amendment whatever may be issued either to reduce the assessment or increase it, notwithstanding that the necessity for the amendment may have been discovered by the commissioner within the limit of twelve months. It is proposed in the bill to authorize the amendment of an assessment if the necessity for it becomes known to the commissioner within the period of twelve months, subject, however, to the commissioner informing the administrator as soon as possible after the discovery of his intention to amend the assessment, and subject also to the commissioner making the amendment and notifying it to the administrator within a further period of six months after the expiration of the first period of twelve months. 
The bill also provides for making the penalty for late payment of duty the same as under the other taxation acts of the Commonwealth, namely, 10 per cent. per annum on the amount of the duty unpaid, instead of 10 per cent. of that duty. 
There is also provision for recovery of duty in cases where there may not be any administrator of an estate, owing to the fact that a deceased person may have disposed of the whole of his property to other persons within one year of his death either by gift  inter vivos  or settlement. In such cases the property is dutiable as part of the estate of the deceased person, but there is no present power to the commissioner to obtain returns of the property or to collect duty. The provisions of the act in its present form only apply to administrators, and the definition of " administrator " does not cover cases of the kind mentioned. Several cases of this nature have arisen. 
The bill provides that the persons who received the estate or parts of it from the deceased person shall pay the duty, and that the duty shall be a first charge upon the properties assessed which shall continue to be liable for it in the hands of any purchaser or holder for the payment of the duty so long as it remains unpaid : Provided that no such charge shall be of effect against bona fide purchasers for value who at the time of purchase made due inquiry of the commissioner, but had no notice of any liability for the duty. 
Eight of appeal against the amount of the duty is given to any person who becomes liable for the duty under the circumstances mentioned. 
It is proposed to amend the provisions of the principal act relating to the power to obtain information, and penalties for failure to furnish information or answer questions or to make returns or for omission of dutiable property from returns or the making of false returns, so as to bring them into line with similar provisions for similar purposes which were incorporated in the Income Tax and Land Tax Assessment Acts 1927. Uniformity of legislation in this connexion will thus be secured. 
There are also some small amendments of the principal act on lines similar to those made in 1927 in the Income Tax and Land Tax Assessment Acts in connexion with the office of Second Commissioner of Taxation and the statement of the powers of the Second Commissioner of Taxation. 
The bill contains a provision designed to distribute the burden of the duty among the beneficiaries of the estate more equitably than is done by the existing law. The necessity for this alteration was brought under notice by the judgment of the Supreme Court of Victoria in the case of  Harper  v.  Harper.  That case disclosed the fact that there are at present very great difficulties confronting an administrator of an estate when the assessment for duty has included property which passed from the testator by gift  inter vivos  within one year of his death, 
Or property which had been settled by the deceased person upon himself for life with remainder over to other persons. Although the administrator in his representative capacity is liable to find the money for payment of the total duty assessed, be has no present right to obtain any contribution towards the duty from the donee of the gift  inter vivos,  or from  a  remainderman under a settlement of the kind mentioned. 
The provisions of. section 35 of 'the principal act are therefore being amended so as to cause all beneficiaries, whether or not they are subject to the administrator, to be liable for the tax payable in respect of their particular interests in the estate. The amendment will also provide the necessary machinery for subdividing the duty in an assessment so that each particular beneficiary who desires a separate assessment of the part of the duty applicable to his interest may obtain it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[4.25]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure amends certain principles and provisions of the act, and since, like that with which I have just dealt, it is of a technical character, I propose to put before the Senate a detailed statement of its chief features. There is one amendment which may be regarded by some as introducing a new principle. I refer to the provision dealing with the taxation of life assurance companies; but, really, it is not so much a departure from principle as an application of the provisions of the act to that form of income represented by investments of life assurance companies. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I disagree with the honorable senator. It is merely an application to life assurance companies of the provisions under which similar incomes of other companies are taxed. 
The bill is brought down, in accordance with the statement in the budget speech, to remove certain anomalies recently discovered in the Income Tax Assessment Act, and to close up certain loopholes whereby persons have been able  to  avoid payment of the same tax as others have contributed to the general revenue. 
The aim of the Government always has been, as far as possible, to keep the taxation law simple; but the basic principle upon which the federal taxation law is founded, namely, following the income into the hands of the final recipients, thereby ensuring the greatest degree of equity, involves a considerable amount of complexity. Some of the concessions to taxpayers which have been made from time to time have, unfortunately, been utilized by astute persons to obtain not merely the concession that was being granted, but- to make it the means whereby a very Considerable reduction of taxation might be obtained in their cases. 
The present bill deals with certain outstanding instances of this character, which will appeal to the general public as being eminently fair and reasonable to prevent. The first of these is connected with the liquidation of companies. It is reasonable that profits distributed by the liquidator of a company in liquidation should be liable to tax when received by the shareholder in the same manner as when profits are distributed by a company which is not in liquidation. A provision is contained in the bill to deal with this matter. A widespread .practice has arisen in the case of private companies, which have been formed for the purpose of special profit-making schemes and the distribution of the profit among the shareholders going into liquidation before any profit is distributed to the shareholders. This has been done almost entirely for the purpose of enabling the shareholders to escape income tax on the liquidation dividends, because the courts have held that liquidation dividends are distributions of assets and, in the present form of the income tax law, they cannot be classed as income even to the extent to which they have been distributed out of profits. It will be generally admitted that shareholders of companies should not be allowed to escape income tax in such circumstances. 
The next anomaly dealt with in the bill arises out of the combined operation of section 21, which exempts one-third of a company's taxable income from special assessment at shareholders' rates, and section 16, which exempts shareholders from tax on shares distributed to them upon the capitalization of one-third of the company's taxable income. This exemption of shares was intended to be complement^ to the provision in section 21 allowing the company to retain one-third of its taxable income for purposes of the expansion of the company's activities. Neither the company nor the shareholders would be liable to tax at shareholders' rates on this one-third if the company merely retained it as part of its working funds without capitalizing it. It was necessary, therefore, to provide that if the company did capitalize it and issue shares to the shareholders, the shareholders could not be required to pay tax upon it. 
The provision has, however, been found to operate so as to enable the company to capitalize one-third of its taxable income and issue shares for that amount, and also to retain another one-third of its taxable income without being liable for additional tax upon the additional one-third. This result is unavoidable in the present form of the law because the issue of the shares must be treated as a distribution of profit when the Commissioner is comparing two-thirds of the distributable income of the company with the amount actually distributed by the company. The term " distribution " covers a distribution of profit by way of shares. 
When the Commissioner is making a determination under section 21 of the amount of distribution or additional distribution which the company might have made, he first finds the total distributable income of the company, and excludes onethird of it. From the remaining twothirds he must deduct the amount of the company's profits which has been distributed to the shareholders in any form. If the company has capitalized one-third of its profits and issued shares for it, that amount must be deducted from the two-thirds of the distributable income, because it represents a distribution of profit. In such a case the company is liable for additional tax at shareholders' rates upon only one-third of its profits. The shareholders thus escape taxation on two-thirds of the profits, partly in their individual assessments and partly in the company's assessment under section 21. This result was never intended and it is not right that it should be allowed to continue. 
Another provision deals with the abuse of the concession to companies affected by section 21, represented by the time limit within which the Commissioner must make his determination that the company could reasonably have made a distribution, or an additional distribution, to the shareholders. This time limit forces the Commissioner to make a determination within six months after the company's ordinary assessment has been made. Owing to the necessity to make assessments, as far as possible, within the financial year for which tax is payable so that the tax may be collected within that year, the Commissioner is obliged to make many ordinary assessments of companies on the basis of the returns as lodged without attempting to verify the accuracy of the returns. Then within the six months' time limit action under section 21 must be taken. That action once taken, it can never be altered, either to increase or to reduce the amount covered by the determination, notwithstanding that subsequent investigation by the department to verify the returns might show that on account of discrepancies in the returns, the company's ordinary assessment should have been on a greater amount of taxable income. The Government considers that where the Commissioner is of the opinion that the company has furnished an incorrect return or withheld information or supplied incorrect information for the purpose of evading tax in its ordinary assessment, or in the special additional assessment under section 21, the Commissioner should have power to make a determination, or to amend a determination after the expiration of the time limit of six months. The bill provides this power. In this respect the provisions of the law relating to the amendment of determinations after the expiration of the statutory time limit will then harmonize with the provisions already in the law relating to the re-opening of the past assessments of individual taxpayers who may have lodged incorrect returns for the purpose of avoiding tax. 
The bill does not authorize any increase in a determination unless the Commissioner is of the opinion that there has been an avoidance of tax in the manner stated; but it will authorize the Commissioner to reduce a determination at any time if the company satisfies him as to a lesser amount which should have been stated in the determination. 
Another feature of section 21 which is dealt with by the bill is that which is concerned with the ascertainment of the amount of the distributable income of the company. Distributable income is the amount which is available for distribution among the shareholders. Distribution may take various forms. It may be by way of a cash dividend, or in the form of additional shares issued to the shareholders upon the capitalization of profit; or it may be a transfer of profit to the company's capital account for the purpose of increasing the amount paid up on the shares. If, therefore, the profits arc used in any of those ways or are capable of being so used, they represent profit which is distributable among the shareholders. 
There are numerous cases in which companies have been formed with little or no capital actually paid up, but the companies have undertaken the liability to pay for the company's undertaking, business, property or other assets out of profits to be derived by it ; and the profits are so applied. These companies have contended that because they have so applied the profits, the profits were not available for distribution among the shareholders. In all of these cases the company's contentions have rested entirely upon the belief that distribution means a cash distribution. The profits which have been applied by the company in payment for the company's undertaking, business, property or assets, have in substance represented transfers of the profit to capital account for subsequent use as paid-up capital towards the meeting of the payments mentioned. The profits have, in such cases, been credited to the shareholders by increasing the amount paid up on the shares, because the true position in the accounts of the company is then represented by a reduction in the amount of the liability of the vendor to the company and a corresponding increase in the amount of the paidup capital or of reserves available for transfer to paid-up capital. This same position exists also in regard to the use of profit to repay borrowed money. The money borrowed has been used for expanding the business of the company, and thus in expanding its capital assets, so that any repayment of the borrowed money must represent a reduction in the liability to the lender, with a corresponding increase in the liability to capital, which., in turn, represents an increase in the value of the shareholders' interests in the paid-up capital. The Government considers that profit applied in the manner indicated should not be allowed to escape additional tax under section 21 merely because it could not have been distributed to the shareholders in cash, since it has, in substance, -been credited to the shareholders and represents benefits received by them out of the company's profit. It is necessary also to provide against the avoidance of additional taxation under section 21 by a company expending profit, or retaining it to be expended in pursuance of an arrangement made for the purpose of avoidance or reduction of any liability to income tax. The provisions of the bill, which are designed to deal with all the phases of this matter which have been mentioned, are similar to those which were recently inserted in the British Income Tax Act to meet an avoidance of super-tax which was being secured by private companies in similar circumstances. These companies had been formed by wealthy persons with large incomes. Large amounts of the incomes were annually applied by those persons in the improvement of their assets or in acquiring fresh assets. The incidence of the super-tax in England induced these persons to seek the means of avoiding it. They accordingly formed themselves into private companies to take over their own assets, they themselves taking practically the whole of the shares in the companies. The shareholders merely drew enough profit each year to meet their personal requirements and applied the rest of the profit in the improvement or extension of the company's properties, or to repay borrowed capital used for that purpose. As companies are not liable to super-tax in Great Britain, these wealthy individuals were avoiding super-tax by forming themselves into companies, and making special arrangements for the expenditure of income, or for its retention to be expended in various ways with the object of attempting to prove that it could not have  been distributed to the shareholders, and therefore "could not have been made liable to super-tax. 
Shareholders in private companies in Australia have been attempting similarly to avoid additional tax on profits at shareholders' rates by applying their profits to similar purposes, and then claiming that because there was no cash available to distribute to the shareholders they could not be held liable for additional tax on moneys which had, in reality, been used so as to increase the shareholders' beneficial interests in the assets of the company. 
Another means of attempting to avoid income tax, which is assuming very large proportions, is the creation of family trusts in respect of income-producing property for the sole purpose of having the income from the property assessed to a number of persons at reduced rates instead of its being assessed to one person at a higher rate of tax. The most common form of these trusts is that in which an owner of property which is producing a large income, by a deed of trust vests the property in a trustee, usually the person himself, or trustees - usually the person himself and his wife or a member of his family - for the purpose of carrying on the business being conducted on the property, or by means of the particular assets, and holding the income therefrom upon trust either to pay to the beneficiaries specified in the deed the whole or a specified part of their respective shares of the income, or to accumulate the income or a part thereof for the ultimate benefit of the beneficiaries. 
Without exception, the persons who make these deeds of trust retain the fullest powers of control, management and disposition of the assets during their lives. Those powers do not differ in any way from those possessed by a person in respect of his own property who has not created a trust in connexion with it, because they do not dispossess themselves of the property in the truest sense of the term. They have merely adopted a legal method of distributing their annual income among relatives so that the amount of tax payable on it will be reduced. 
There is, also, no substantial difference between such a case and that of a man who, instead of creating a trust in respect of his income-producing assets, draws up a deed of trust in which he declares that he holds all his income in trust to divide it between himself and others in specified shares. This individual cannot escape tax by means of his deed, because the income is derived by him in the first instance. All that he has done is to declare that he will distribute his income in a particular manner. 
The other person who vests his assets in trustees is doing so merely to distribute his income between himself and others in a specified manner; but because he has vested the assets in trust, the law recognizes only the trustee in his representative capacity as having derived the income. When the trustee in his representative capacity distributes the income in accordance with the trusts of the deed, he has nothing left upon which he may be taxed, and the department must look to each beneficiary for tax on the amount of income received by him from the trustee. 
The fact that the former owner of the property is also the trustee does not affect the legal position, and, under the present form of the Income Tax Assessment Act, there is no power to aggregate the total income of the trust in one assessment in order that tax may be charged upon it at the rate appropriate to the aggregate income. A similar position was dealt with in 1927 by Parliament when it approved of the provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1927 whereby an assessment may be made upon the total income of a husband and wife partnership if the Commissioner is of opinion that the partnership was entered into for the purpose of relieving the husband or wife, or both, from any liability which would have occurred under the act if the partnership had not been formed. The bill contains provisions whereby the family trusts referred to are to be treated as partnerships, and dealt with in the same manner as the husband and wife partnerships if the Commissioner is of the opinion that the trust was created for the purpose of relieving the person who created it from any liability which would have arisen under the act if the trust had not been created. 
The bill also deals with a number of anomalies in the act, some of which have only recently been disclosed by a judgment of the Supreme Court of Victoria in an appeal by the  Kellow-Falkiner Company Proprietary Limited  v.  The Commissioner of Taxation,  against a determination made by the Commissioner under section 21 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The judgment disclosed the following facts: - 
The law requires the Commissioner to make an assessment of income derived by a taxpayer during a financial year ending on 30th June. 
If the Commissioner permits a taxpayer to render a return of income derived during an accounting period ending on some date other than 30th June, the return is only evidence which may be used by the Commissioner in ascertaining the income derived in a period of twelve months ending on 30th June, but the Commissioner is still required by the law to make his assessment on the income derived during the year ending on 30th June. 
That in making a determination under section 21 that a company could reasonably have made a distribution or a further distribution of its taxable income among its shareholders, the. Commissioner may only make his determination by reference to a taxable income derived by the company during the year ending on 30th June and cannot base a determination on the income disclosed by a taxpayer's accounts for any different period of twelve months. 
Furthermore, the Commissioner must ascertain whether the company could have made a distribution or a further distribution of its profits during the Commonwealth financial year in which it earned its profits, notwithstanding the fact that the company may not have known the amount of its profits until some later period. 
It is obvious that the judgment has rendered the whole act extremely difficult of application, and has rendered section 21 totally inapplicable to the great majority of companies, because those companies do not make up their annual balance of accounts for a year ending on 30th June. Furthermore, . the necessity for the Commissioner to determine whether or not the company could have made a distribution of its profits during the period in which they were earned, is an additional difficulty in the application of the section, if further difficulty were necessary to prevent it operating as was intended. The judgment was delivered a few weeks ago. The Government is, therefore, taking the first opportunity to make proper provision to enable the Commissioner to apply section 21 in the manner in which it was intended to be applied. The bill will validate all past assessments and determinations which have been based upon annual accounts for a period different from the Commonwealth financial year. in the re-casting of section 21, the opportunity is taken to provide for the calculation of the additional tax which is payable by a company upon a determination by the Commissioner under the section, by carrying the notional distribution into the assessments of those shareholders who would have been entitled to receive shares of the distribution if the amount determined by the Commissioner had been actually distributed. With rare exceptions, those shareholders are the ordinary shareholders. Ordinarily, the preference shareholders are not entitled to receive anything more than the fixed percentage payable to them, and only in rare cases are they entitled to a further share of profits. The present form of the law requires the Commissioner to assume that the notional distribution is made to all classes of shareholders in proportion to their interests in the paid-up capital of the company. The bill alters this so as to cause the amount of additional tax which becomes payable by a company under the section to be the same amount as would be payable in the aggregate in their individual assessments by the shareholders who would have received among them the amount determined by the Commissioner if it had actually been distributed. 
Another anomaly which requires to be remedied exists in cases where a taxpayer claims that his income has been partly derived from sources outside Australia. There is at present no provision in the act by which the amount of exAustralian income may be readily determined in such cases. For the past ten years the Commissioner of Taxation has been applying a general rule formulated by him after consultation with a number of leading business persons 'n Australia. With comparatively few exceptions this rule has been accepted as reasonable. Two appellants to the High Court have secured a different basis of apportionment from that employed by the Commissioner, but the court afforded the department no guidance which would facilitate the work of dealing with these cases in the various branches of the department throughout the Commonwealth. 
The necessity for apportioning income between sources in Australia and sources outside Australia has arisen in consequence of judgments of the Privy Council and the High Court in appeals against assessments under the New South Wales Income Tax Act upon money received from sources in London in respect of goods produced in Australia and sold to persons in London under a contract drawn up and finally signed in London. These courts have held that where there is a series of activities by one person in one business transaction in which the activities are carried out partly in one country and partly in another, each separate activity in the transaction has, in some measure* contributed to the profit or loss finally realized by the transaction. From this it follows that the profit must be apportioned between the activities in Australia and the activities outside Australia, so as to ascertain the amount of profit which has been derived from Australian sources. The Commissioner of Taxation has been informed by a number of taxpayers that they intend to  require  him to apportion between Australian and ex-Australian sources amounts of profit, which in past years has been treated by them as taxable in Australia in full as the proceeds of the business conducted by them in Australia. 
There are some other taxpayers whoare engaged in the sale in Australia of goods obtained by them from exAustralian sources, who are also contending that the profit derived from their business in Australia has, in the light of the judgments mentioned, been derived from activities outside Australia as well as from activities inside Australia. The Commissioner of Taxation has refused to accede to the claims of those persons on the ground that they have established businesses in Australia for the purpose of supplying residents of Australia with goods. This being the object of the business, it cannot be contended that the persons concerned are carrying on business both inside and outside Australia. Therefore the Commissioner of Taxation has insisted upon levying income tax upon the total net proceeds derived by those businesses from the sales of goods in Australia. The Commissioner's attitude in this matter has been challenged. The Government considers that the Commissioner is correctly interpreting the will of Parliament in those cases and that his practice should be continued. 
In regard to the apportionment of the proceeds derived from the ex-Australian sale of goods exported from Australia, the position is somewhat different from that described in the case of businesses selling imported goods in Australia. In these cases the goods are exported from Australia to overseas selling agents for general sale upon consignment, in the manner found most profitable by the agent. There is no distributing business being carried on outside Australia by the Australian exporter. He has merely exported his goods for  sale abroad. There is no difficulty whatever in me case of the Australian taxpayer who exports goods in fulfilment of an order which he has received. The whole of the proceeds in such a transaction are treated as having been derived in Australia. The subject is full of difficulties and complexities, and may only be dealt with reasonably and with all desirable expedition and facility by the granting of special powers of determination to the administration. 
The position which has been described has been dealt with in the New Zealand Income Tax Assessment Act in what appears to be a reasonable manner and the Government considers that the Commonwealth law should be amended to incorporate a similar provision to that contained in the New Zealand act. This provision will authorize the prescribing of regulations to cope with the question whether any, and if so, what part, of the income is derived from sources outside Australia in the circumstances, mentioned, and will require the Commissioner to decide the matter .finally and without- objection by the taxpayer where there is no regulation applying to the case. 
Subsequent to the passing of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1927, and after the application of its provisions to assessments in some unexpected circumstances, it was found that revenue was being lost through the operation of the provisions of the law relating to the elimination of dividends from assessments when the taxpayer's rate does not exceed the company rate of ls. in the £1, in conjunction with the provisions for carrying forward losses as deductions against subsequent profits, and the averaging provisions of the act. It was found that some persons were escaping income tax on large amounts of dividends, because they were being eliminated from their assessments through reduction of rate below ls. owing to the deduction of previous losses causing heavy reduction in the average income by reference to which the rate of tax is fixed. Furthermore, that they were becoming entitled to carry forward their losses still further as deductions against the income of subsequent years. In one case which came under notice, the taxpayer had suffered a business loss of about £9,500 in one year and, because he had no other income in that time, the loss was carried forward to the next year. For that period his income amounted to about £11,000, being £1,000 income from his business and £10,000 in dividends. When the loss of £9,500 was deducted from the £11,000 of income, and the remaining £1,500 of income was carried into the calculation of the average income of the five-year period, it was found that the average income was an amount carrying a rate of tax less than ls. This meant that the dividends of £10,000 had to be eliminated from the assessment of the income, and the department then had to commence afresh on the assumption that the only income of that year was the business profit of £1,000. The previous loss of £9,500 had to be set against this £1,000, and that left a residue of loss amounting to £8,500 to be carried forward as a deduction from profit of the succeeding year or years. Thus the taxpayer did not pay anything upon his dividend income, and had become entitled to a deduction in future years in respect of the residue of his loss. This result was never intended by the Government or by Parliament. 
The remedy is simple. It consists of providing that instead of eliminating dividends from an assessment when the taxpayer's rate is less than ls., the dividends shall be retained in the assessment, but the taxpayer shall be allowed a rebate of the amount by which his tax has been increased by including the dividends in his assessment. There is no necessity to make any alteration in the law in connexion with cases in which dividends are included in an assessment and the taxpayer's rate exceeds ls. in the £1. 
Another matter dealt with by the hill is designed to remove an anomaly which has been discovered in connexion with the deduction of losses from profits. A number of cases have come under notice in which taxpayers resident in Australia are in receipt of exempt income from Australian and ex-Australian sources, and that in their own personal accounts this income is used to assist them to recoup any Australian loss they may have suffered. Under the present form of the law, the Australian loss is allowed in full as a deduction against any assessable income derived by the taxpayer from Australian sources. This is considered to be an advantage enjoyed by the taxpayer which is unfair to the Commonwealth and to other taxpayers who have to contribute to the revenue. Such cases at once raise the question of the general ability of the taxpayer to pay his tax. That ability may very properly be measured against the total income derived by him from all sources, so that when a concession is granted to the taxpayer in the shape of deduction of losses from profits and carrying forward unrecouped benefit against future income, it is proper that his benefit should he limited to the excess of his loss over any net income received by him which is not taxed by the Commonwealth. The bill makes the necessary provision to give effect to this view. In doing so it provides that any loss suffered by the taxpayer in carrying on a business outside Australia shall be deducted from the exempt income up to the amount of that income before the Australian loss is set against the exempt income. In the event of the ex-Australian loss absorbing the whole of the exempt income, the whole of an Australian loss would become deductible from assessable income derived from Australian sources. 
An important matter dealt with in the bill has relation to the collection of income tax upon freight and passage moneys received by owners and charterers of ships whose principal place of business is out of Australia, in respect of freight, passengers, mails, &amp;c, which are shipped in Australia. Quite recently some difficulties have arisen in the application of the existing section of the act dealing with this subject, more especially in connexion with vessels which are under the control of public authorities in other countries which carry on shipping business under statutory authority granted by the Governments of those countries. Cases have arisen where the assessments issued by the Commissioner of Taxation have not been paid. Whilst power is granted to a collector of customs to refuse clearance to a vessel until tax has been paid, the Commissioner has refrained from requiring that officer to take such a step pending the examination of other means which might be taken. I am advised that recovery of the tax would be facilitated by provision in the act for obtaining an order of an Australian court against the master of the ship for the amount of the tax; upon which the tax would be paid or a guarantee given for its payment by responsible authority located in Australia, so that .the collector of customs may grant a clearance to the vessel. The bill contains provisions which will enable this course to be taken in future. 
It has recently been discovered that the act does not limit deductions of calls paid to companies engaged in afforestation in Australia, but allows deductions to such companies carrying on the business of afforestation in any part of the world. The intention of Parliament was to encourage this class of business in Australia, and the bill will express that intention in definite terms. 
Another similar provision in the bill relates to deductions of contributions made to public authorities, not only in Australia, but elsewhere, which are engaged in research into the causes, prevention and cure of disease in animals, plants and human beings. In regard to this matter also, the object of the deduction was to encourage persons to assist in this work by public authorities in Australia engaged in it. 
The bill will remove another cause of loss of revenue due to the present wording of the act in relation to the amount of the deduction which is allowed by way of annual sinking fund to recoup the purchase price paid for a lease. There are two phases of this subject. The first is the necessity to allow a deduction of a full year's sinking fund in every assessment during the period of the lease, notwithstanding that the lease may have been acquired or may terminate during the course of an income year. There is no present provision in the law whereby the deduction might be a fractional part of the sinking fund in respect of a commencing or terminating year during which the lease was held for part of the year only. This is provided for by the bill. The second phase of the subject refers to the amount of the deduction to be allowed to a lessor upon the sale of his lease in ascertaining the taxable profit on the sale when the circumstances of the case render the profit taxable as income derived from carrying on a business or a scheme for deriving profit by the acquisition and sale of the lease. There are numerous cases in which persons acquire leases for the purpose of reselling them at a profit. In such cases the profit is liable to income tax. In ascertaining the profit under ordinary circumstances, a deduction is allowable from the sale price of the amount originally paid for the lease. But seeing that the department is not aware until a sale takes place whether the vendor lessee is or is not taxable upon such profit, it is bound to allow to him, while he holds the lease, a deduction of the annual sinking fund required to recoup the price he paid for the lease. When the lease is sold, the present form of the law entitles the vendor to a deduction of the full cost to him of the lease, notwithstanding that he may already have amortized part of that cost out of his annual income during the time he held the lease. This double deduction is not proper. The bill, therefore, provides that in the assessment of the proceeds of the sale of the lease, the deduction in respect of cost-price shall be the cost-price reduced by the total amount of the sinking fund deductions already allowed to the taxpayer. 
Another matter dealt with by the bill arises out of a doubt expressed by the Income Tax Board of Review as to whether the present wording of the act, which allows deductions for bad debts, limits the deductions to bad debts of a revenue nature or applies also to bad debts of a capital nature. The scheme of the Income Tax Assessment Act is to levy tax upon income and to disallow all expenditure or losses in the nature of expenditure or loss of capital. The intention of the relevant section - section 25g of the principal act - as well as the invariable attitude of the department, has been to limit the deduction to bad debts incurred in trading or by businesses engaged in the lending of money. The practice of the department is to see whether the deductions claimed in respect of bad debts represent amounts which have formerly been brought to account as income liable to tax. In order that there may be no doubt on the subject, the bill contains several amendments which are necessary to attain that end. 
The bill also contains a provision dealing with the application of the averaging provisions of the act to the assessments of income derived in the capacity of trustee by trustee companies. The tax payable by a company upon its own income is paid at the flat rate of ls. in the £ upon the actual amount of each year's taxable income. Section 13 (2) of the principal act applies the averaging provisions to every taxpayer other than a company. A trustee company is a taxpayer in respect of its own income and is also a taxpayer in a representative capacity in respect of the income of a trust estate administered by it. Under the terms of section 13 (2) the trustee company is excluded from the averaging provisions of the law both in respect of its own income and in respect of the trust estate income. In the case of many trust estates, where the income assessable to the trustee is small, the exclusion of the trustee company from the averaging provisions compels the trust estate to suffer payment of tax at the fiat rate of ls. in the £, whereas if the trustee had been an individual, a rate less than ls. in the £ would have been payable. On the other hand, if the trust estate income assessable to the trustee had been large, it escapes tax at a higher rate than ls., which would have been payable if the trustee  had not  been a company. In the great majority of cases the amount of income  assesssable  to a trustee is small and would be assessable at less than ls. in the £. It is considered that all trustees should be assessed in accordance with the averaging provisions, and the bill provides for this by a slight amendment of section 13 (2) of the principal act, so that tax on income derived by a company as a trustee shall be assessed in accordance with the averaging provisions of the act. 
Another clause of the bill is intended to give statutory authority to a departmental practice established by the Commissioner of Taxation to prevent double taxation upon company profits when distributed to shareholders subsequently to a special assessment of the same profits to the company under section 21. The departmental practice has been based upon the fact that the profit has been deemed to have been distributed at the time of the Commissioner's determination under section 21, and the company has already paid tax in consequence of the Commissioner's determination, so that when the profit is subsequently distributed to the shareholders, it would not be right to collect tax a second time on the profits by assessing the shareholders upon it. The Commissioner merely includes the actual distribution in the shareholders' assessments for the purpose of calculating the average income by reference to which the shareholder's individual rate of tax is ascertained. This is done because, when the national distribution is taxed in the hands of the company, the notional distribution is not retained in the shareholder's assessment to ascertain his average income for future assessments. It is necessary and desirable that the Commissioner should have statutory authority for his practice and this is provided by the hill. 
Another important matter covered by the bill relates to the secrecy section of the principal act. An amendment of that section is proposed in order to prevent publication to an appellant before the Income Tax Board of Review of information contained in another taxpayer's return when that information has been used by the Commissioner as a basis for the assessment of the income of the appellant taxpayer against which he is appealing. There are cases where the Commissioner considers that a taxpayer's return does not disclose the full taxable income derived by him. Reference to returns of similar businesses enables the Commissioner to form an opinion as to what amount of income might reasonably have been derived by the particular taxpayer whose return is 'being assessed. 
The Commissioner then makes his assessment of that taxpayer's income upon the basis of the returns of the other taxpayers carrying on similar business. The appellant taxpayer when before the board of review has the fullest opportunity to  demonstate  to the board what his true  income  is, and cannot be prejudiced in any way by the non-disclosure to him of the affairs of his competitors. At the same time, the hoard of review might consider itself bound to disclose to the appellant the information upon which the Commissioner made his assessment. It is considered that such a disclosure of the affairs of a taxpayer who is not a party in the case before the board of review should not be permitted. The proposed amendment will, therefore, place upon the board of review the same obligations that are placed by the principal act upon officers of the department not to divulge to any person any information coming confidentially to their knowledge. 
The averaging provisions of the act have been found to require slight amendment so as to remove an anomaly that has arisen in connexion with cases where some taxpayers are escaping full taxation owing to the receipt of unusual income in one year with no prospect of further receipts of the kind. The portion of the principal act which produces this result is sub-section 9 of section 13. That section provides that where a taxpayer establishes that, owing to his retirement from his occupation, or from any other cause, his taxable income has been permanently reduced to an amount which is less than two-thirds of the average taxable income by reference to which his rate of tax would be calculated, apart from the provisions of the sub-section, he shall be assessed, and the averaging provisions of the act shall thereafter apply as if he had never been a taxpayer in a previous year. The taxpayer with the unusual income is first assessed on that, and any other income of the same year at the rate applicable to an average in-, come for the five-year period ending with that year of unusual income. In a case which has come under notice, the rate applicable to that average income is much less than the rate which would apply to the income of the particular year taken by itself. Thus the taxpayer escapes full tax on the unusual income in that assessment. In the following year, the taxpayer's income drops to its normal amount, and in the case which has come under notice, he is able to show that that normal income is less than two-thirds of the taxable income of the five-year period by reference to which his rate of tax is calculated. Under the terras of the present sub-section, he is entitled to be assessed on the normal income at its own rate, and, therefore, escapes for all time the full tax on his unusual income. This escape from tax is not equitable. To prevent such losses in future the bill provides that the average taxable income, two-thirds of which is to be compared with the actual income being assessed, means the average taxable income calculated after excluding any income received by the taxpayer from sources from which he does not usually receive income. 
One of the most important provisions of this bill relates to the taxation of life assurance companies. This provision will give effect to the Governments policy in this connexion announced in the budget speech. Hitherto all life insurance companies have escaped payment of Federal income tax because, in addition to being allowed deductions of all expenditure incurred in gaining premium and investment income and any other income, the companies have been allowed deductions of all distributions of the income among members of the companies - covering bonuses to policy-holders and dividends to shareholders - and, in addition, a deduction has been allowed by the act of the whole of the premium income. The premium income has in all cases greatly exceeded the net income from investments, so that no taxable income has ever remained in the case of any life insurance company. The Government considers that there is full justification for requiring life insurance companies to contribute something towards the revenue. It is estimated that the present proposals will yield about £338,000 per annum in revenue. Life insurance companies have been deriving an average net profit from their investments of 5½ per cent. The majority of the companies make reservations to meet liabilities on a basis of 3½ per cent. compound interest. 
A few of the companies value their liabilities on a 4 per cent. basis. The companies are, therefore, deriving a clear profit of from l½ to 2 per cent. on the whole of their investments, assuming that the liabilities amount to a sum equal to the whole of the investments, which is improbable. It is considered that the interests of the companies and policy-holders will not be prejudiced in any way by the proposed tax, since the great bulk of the companies' net profits on investments after providing for risks will still remain in their hands. The bill proposes that life insurance companies shall be taxed on all net income except income from premiums and considerations received in respect of annuities granted.Rebates to prevent double taxation will, of course, be allowable on shareholders' dividends in the same manner as double taxation is prevented in the case of shareholders in other companies. 
The bill also contains a few minor machinery amendments and amendments which are consequential to some of the principal amendments I have already explained. 
After listening to the explanation of the provisions of the bill I have no intention of wading through the mass of technicalities to which the right honorable the Leader of the Senate has referred. The bill is of a highly technical character requiring close study, and I repeat what  Senator Lynch  said a little while ago, that it is regrettable that measures of this kind should be brought down in the dying moments of Parliament. If anomalies have been found in our income tax law, their existence has been known sufficiently long to enable the Commissioner to formulate amendments and submit them to Parliament at a time when Parliament could deal with them properly, and certainly at a more opportune time than when we are rushing not only to the close of a session, but also to the close of Parliament itself. Most of the provisions of this bill can be more effectively discussed in committee, but I intend at this stage to say a few words in regard to clause 8, which deals with taxation of insurance companies. I say unhesitatingly that it is unjust to impose income taxation on mutual insurance companies. 
I shall explain later. The right honorable gentleman said that some of the amendments are based on the British Income Tax Act. 
Did not the Minister say that some provisions of the British Income Tax Act have been incorporated in this bill? If the imposition of a tax upon mutual assurance companies has been copied from the British Income Tax Act- 
I am not prepared to follow the bad precedent of a Tory government. We are not here to follow British precedents, but, if necessary, to establish new ones. 
The example is a bad one. The effect of the clause in which provision is made for taxing assurance companies will be to raise £338,000 ner annum. The budget speech delivered recently by an allegedly economical Treasurer revealed that in the course of a year he had " slipped " in his financial transactions to the ex-tent of, approximately, £5,000,000, as in addition to the surplus carried forward from the previous year there was at the end of last financial year a deficit of over £2,600,000. The Treasurer stated that the Government did not propose to increase taxation or to reduce expenditure to any extent in governmental activities; but, notwithstanding such an assertion, it now submits a proposal under which it will collect over £300,000 from the thrifty men and women in this community who have had sufficient foresight to provide, by means of life assurance, for those dependent upon them. The proposed tax, which is not only inequitable but unjust, will fall very heavily upon many good citizens. In 1925 the Prime Minister said that the present Government was not a rich man's government, but a poor man's government. But every action it has taken during the past three years has been to legislate for the rich, to the detriment of the poor. 

 - Senator Ogden should give that information to the National caucus, which, notwithstanding all he has said concerning it, he has recently joined. In proof of my assertion that this is a rich man's government, I may say that there are persons with incomes ranging from £3,000 and over annually, who have benefited by recent reductions in taxation rates to the extent of £150 annually and upwards; whilst the rates of those on the bread line have not been reduced. There are a number of clauses in the measure that are necessary in order to remove anomalies and to close up loopholes through which taxation has been evaded. On many occasions honorable senators on this side of the chamber and honorable members in Opposition in another place, have directed attention to the fact that in consequence of these loopholes honest persons have to pay more in order to compensate for the losses sustained by the action of dishonest taxpayers. 
The main feature of the bill is contained in clause 8, which provides for the taxation of the net income derived from the invested funds of insurance companies. I am not objecting to a tax on non-mutual companies, as such a tax should be imposed, but as the funds of mutual assurance companies are represented chiefly in the premiums paid the imposition of this tax will he reflected in the bonuses that the policy-holders receive. According to the latest statistics, there were in 1926 no less than 2,244,000 holders of ordinary and industrial policies. Nearly a quarter of a million of our people realize the necessity of life assurance, and by spending their money in this way are reducing the amount to be provided for old-age and invalid pensions, and in that way are assisting the Government and the nation. The Government has recognized their efforts by allowing-in taxation returns a deduction up to £50 for premiums paid to life assurance companies. The Minister, -when replying, will probably say that the companies will have to pay the tax, but whilst that may be so in the case of non-mutual concerns, the policy-holders in mutual companies will be indirectly responsible. The Treasurer, who is unfortunately the custodian of the public purse, has lightly disposed of his deficit of over £2,500,000 by placing it to a suspense account; but the men and women whom the provisions of this bill most vitally affect have no such opportunity of disposing of their liabilities. ' I have referred briefly to the inequitable provisions of clause 8, which I hope will be deleted in committee. I ask honorable senators to peruse the clause carefully to see what will be its effect upon those people who, instead of being taxed to the extent contemplated by the bill, should be encouraged for their thrift and industry. 
The bill is not an easy one to discuss or comprehend. As I approach the consideration of it I am reminded of a story which I read in last night's Sydney  Evening News.  It was portion of a special article written by the Kev. Father C. O. Martindale, who recalled an amusing incident that occurred in a station restaurant where he met a certain sergeant-major who insisted on discussing with him the Darwinian theory and one or two other matters. This is how the sergeant-major put his view of the theory to Father Martindale - " Ah ! there's some as may, and some as mayn't; but may or mayn't, there'll be many what will think different from what they do, nor yet from what they did." The reverend gentleman said that he was so struck with the wisdom of this involved statement that he learned it by heart, and commended it to his readers for their interpretation. It  occurs  to me that this Income Tax Assessment Bill is just about as involved as that observation. But the fact that it is a difficult measure to discuss, does not relieve honorable senators of the obligation to consider it and endeavour to understand its provisions. 
The duty is' laid on us to consider the measure, to see if the Government's proposal can be justified.  Senator MacDonald  has suggested that we should endeavour to get a week off to consider it. The same suggestion in effect, has just been made by  Senator Needham,  and we are given to understand that they are not the only persons who are complaining that ample opportunity has not been given to study this measure. Only to-day I received from  Mr. Geo.  A. Parkes, the  President  of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce, the following urgent telegram: - 
This chamber only just seen new income taxation bill. Strongly protest against new provisions proposed without opportunity of criticism or suggestion, particularly  deprival  several cases of taxpayers right of appeal from Commissioner, contrary to principles laid down by Government. Desire delay pending specific representation. 
I could understand a complaint like this coming from a number of smaller bodies in regard to a bill of this nature, but I would point out to honorable senators opposite and to those who are protesting, that reasonable time has been given to consider it. There was a fairly long discussion upon it in another place, where a full explanation of its provisions was given by the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce).  There was keen criticism of its provisions by . the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Scullin)  and other honorable members. This being so I suggest that a very fair opportunity has b'een given to any persons who wished to make representations to honorable senators or to the Government before the bill reached its present stage. 
The bill was before another place for at least a week. During that time the Chamber of Commerce, with all the experts that are readily available to it, could have given it a fair amount of consideration. I am sorry if that body has not done so. I have not been in a better position. I have not at my disposal a staff of clerks to make inquiries for me, or prepare material in criticism of the bill. I have been obliged to' do all my own work. 
Nevertheless, I feel that I have had reasonable opportunity to make myself acquainted with its provisions, and to determine my attitude towards it. Whilst I have every sympathy with members of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce, with  Senator Needham  and others who complain that they have not been able to study the bill as they would have liked to do, I feel that I am sufficiently conversant with its provisions to be able to make up my mind. If others are not in this position, the fault, to some extent at all events, is theirs. 
I wish. for a few moments to deal with that aspect of the measure to which  Senator Needham  directed his criticism, namely, the taxation of life assurance companies. The honorable senator returned again and again to this phase of the bill. I cannot help feeling that at last he is giving evidence of a very tender regard for insurance companies. 
There was a time when the honorable senator was not so kindly disposed towards " these capitalistic institutions," as they are termed by our friends of the Labour party. 
Possibly that is the explanation. There are two forms of assurance companies - mutual and nonmutual concerns.  Senator Needham  suggests that it is unjust to tax their investments, and says, in effect, that the proposal is equivalent to the levying of taxation on the workers and other thrifty persons in the community. If the honorable senator carries his argument to its logical conclusion, he must also protest against the taxation of investments of private banking institutions, because the savings of many workers are also invested in those concerns. He might argue that the taxation of such profits earned affect the payment of interest on fixed deposits. As a rule the ordinary working-man does not insure his life for a large sum of money. It follows, therefore, that the taxation of life assurance companies investments cannot affect his bonus payments to any appreciable extent because in any case his bonus would amount to only a few pounds per annum. 
I remind  Senator Needham  that all life assurance companies are obliged by the law to render income returns but they are allowed, and this applies to all insurance companies, to deduct the whole of the expenditure incurred in producing the assessable income, and the net amount is then subject to certain special deductions, as in cases where bonuses or dividends are paid to the policy-holders. This applies to the whole of the premium income of a company. This proposal does not suggest an intention on the part of the Government to injure materially the business of life assurance societies. Under the present system of deductions the only income liable for taxation is the income from investments. But this income as well as the premium income is always less than the expenditure incurred in earning it, with the result that there has never been any taxable income left on which companies could be taxed. 
I shall deal with the position of proprietary companies before I resume my seat. There is another interesting fact to be considered in connexion with the proposal to levy taxation upon life assurance companies. In the Sydney  Evening News  of yesterday's date, there appears the following statement :  - 
Operating in Australia is a vast amount of foreign insurance - American, French, Dutch and Japanese, as well as British. It is computed that £4,000,000 a year is drained out of Australia into channels of oversea insurance. 
When  Senator Needham  was speaking a few minutes ago, I interjected and drew his attention to the fact that the majority of the insurance companies operating in Australia are not Australian concerns. They are overseas companies which are represented in this country by branch offices. The whole of the profits derived from the Australian section of their businesses goes overseas. At present it is extremely difficult to tax such profits. In the circumstances, is it wrong for the Government to endeavour to tighten up our income tax legislation so that we may obtain some revenue from foreign insurance companies, the majority of which are proprietary and limited liability concerns? I cannot help feeling surprised that  Senator Needham  should express himself so feelingly on behalf of these companies. Many of his friends, I know, regard them as " capitalistic " institutions. 
I wish now to say a word or two about the position of mutual companies. The bill proposes to levy income tax on the net income of mutual companies, and upon the investment income, plus the part of any other income distributed in dividends or added to the paid-up capital by life insurance companies which are not mutual companies. In the case of mutual companies the premium income and all costs incurred in making it, are to be excluded from the assessments. In the case of non-mutual companies there will be excluded that part of the premium income which is not distributed in dividends or added to the paid-up capital, together with all expenditure incurred in connexion with that part of the premium income which is to be excluded. Provision is also made to tax the nonmutual companies on amounts distributed as dividends or added to the paid-up capital drawn from the previous year's income excluded from the assessment. The new provision will place all proprietary companies in the same position that ordinary trading companies occupy as regards income tax. Mutual companies, however, will be permitted to make substantial reductions in respect of the expenses incurred in earning their gross income, so that it does not seem that they will suffer any great hardship from the passing of the bill. In any case, seeing that they have the protection of the law in other respects, and that Australia provides them with their opportunities, they should not object to paying something for such privileges. Even though the payment of taxation will, to some extent, affect their policy holders, no great hard-, ship will be incurred; the amount which will be deducted from each individual policy holder or shareholder in respect of any bonus given t6 him as a result of the operations of the company will be negligible. 
I do not think there is any possibility of that happening, It may somewhat reduce the bonus; but any reduction of bonus would be so small as not seriously to affect those persons in the community in whom  Senator Needham  has so great an interest. 
The bill has not been introduced because the Government is particularly desirous at this stage in the life of this Parliament to impose additional taxation. That result is only incidental to the chief purpose of the measure, which is to prevent leakages of taxation.  Senator Needham  wanted to know why legislation to prevent leakages of taxation was not introduced long ago. I remind him that some of these leakages have been detected, only within the last few months as a result of decisions of the courts. The taxation authorities have availed themselves of the first opportunity of asking Parliament to block up the loopholes in the act. As has been explained by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, the step which the Commissioner is now taking is probably the only one available to him to make the act applicable to all taxpayers in the community. Many political economists, particularly Adam Smith, have laid down the principle that any taxation levied must be levied in accordance with considerations of equity and the ability of the taxpayer to pay. There have been many evasions of the Income Tax Act since the last series "of amendments was agreed to by Parliament. 
Those evasions were due, not to the administration of the legislation, but to the wording of the act, and to -the decisions of the courts. Many taxpayers are only too ready to avail themselves of opportunities to evade taxation. The fault in the past has been with the legislation, not with the taxpayer. If any one is to be blamed, it is the man who has paid taxes when he need not have done so. Thousands of taxpayers have paid tens of thousands of pounds in taxes which they were not legally bound to pay. A business man who avails himself of a loophole in legislation to avoid the payment of taxation has an advantage over his competitors who do not so avail themselves of the loopholes in our legislation. We must get back to the principle enunciated by Adam Smith, namely, that of equality under the law. This legislation provides that there shall be absolute equality under the law, that every person liable to pay income tax shall pay it. Whether the imposition of the tax itself is right or wrong is another matter. If honorable senators opposite want to relieve the people of the burden of taxation which they at present bear there is another way to do it. They could propose that the incidence of income taxation be substantially reduced. 
When the Labour party, to which honorable senators opposite belong, has had the opportunity in the several States to reduce income taxation, it has not done so. On the contrary, Labour governments in New South Wales, Queensland and elsewhere have increased its incidence so substantially that industry has been affected, and unemployment created, with the result that conditions generally have become worse. It is not proposed to do anything of that kind under this bill, but to treat every section of the community fairly.  Senator MacDonald  would have us believe that increased taxation is borne chiefly by the workers. I propose to bring before the Senate some statistics to show that the bulk of our income taxation is paid, hot by the workers, but by the captains of industry - I refer to Federal income tax, not to that imposed by the States. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 14th September, under the heading, "Who pays the income tax," the following appears : - 
Federal income tax was assessed at £9,324,992 for the year 1920-27, on the incomes of 231,193 individuals and 8,109 companies. The companies were assessed to pay £2,0(50,203, equal to 284 per cent, of the total. Of individual taxpayers, there were 127,059 on the lower classification, those with taxable incomes of £200 and under. They contributed toward the revenue £217,702. In other words, 55.22 per cent, of the taxpayers supplied 2.2 per cent, of the tax. The highest classification, that of individuals with incomes exceeding £1,000, numbered 27,019, and they paid tax amounting to £5,004,G30, that is, 11.95 per cent, of the taxpayers supplied 60.1 per cent, of the tax. 
That is another matter. Honorable senators opposite are strong advocates of taxation by means of customs duties. Indeed, the heavier the customs duties proposed the louder they cheer. Yet the worker pays most of thai taxation. Direct taxation is always unpopular, and, therefore, more difficult to impose than is indirect taxation. But direct taxation enables us to see who really pays the expenses of government. Honorable senators opposite may say that, after all, many of those who pay taxes are merely agents for collection. That is partly true, but if business men and others do make large profits and have to pay large sums as taxes on their incomes their success is due to their initiative and ability rather than to the efforts of those whom they employ. 
The bill extends in certain directions the scope and application of the law. Some of the amendments favour the taxpayers, while others do not. Still others are purely administrative, and these constitute the majority of the proposed amendments. Among the provisions which are in favour of taxpayers is clause 3, which prevents the publication to an appellant before a board of review of information contained in another taxpayer's return which may have been used by the Commissioner as a basis for assessing the tax against which the appeal is made. The combined effect of the amendments contained in paragraphs  a  and  b  of clause 4 is to bring trustee companies within the operation of the averaging provisions I have already mentioned. That is an advantage to taxpayers. The purpose of clause 6 is to obviate the payment of double taxation on the income of a company, and to provide for a rebate of tax. That, also, favours taxpayers. The proposed new section 16c of the principal act, dealt with in clause 7, gives effect to the decision of the Government not to legislate at present to levy income tax on exAustralian income derived from investments made by Australians outside Australia. That also is in favour of taxpayers. Clause 8, which will be new sub-section 4a of section 20, gives legislative authority to the departmental practice of preventing double taxation upon company profits when distributed to shareholders subsequently to the special assessment of the profits of the company as provided under section 21 of the principal act. This is in favour of the taxpayer. Clause 9a amends section 21 (3) of the principal act and permits the lodging of returns msec! on the income of accounting periods which differ from that prescribed in. section 13 (1). This is already the practice of the department, and the innovation merely gives it parliamentary sanction. It, too, is in favour of the taxpayer. Paragraphs  a, b  and  c  of clause 13 make it quite clear that deductions in respect of bad debts are allowable. This is at present in doubt, and the new provision is clearly in favour of the taxpayers. It will therefore be seen that the bill is not designed merely to add to the burden of taxpayers, but that it relieves them of a great number of inequalities which now exist. 
I shall now deal with the clauses that, in my opinion, are not in favour of the taxpayer, but&gt; rather restrict his scope and impose burdens upon him. first of all there is clause 2, which defines "liquidator ". It is considered desirable that the general machinery of the act should be made applicable to persons legally responsible for the windingup of companies, whether they arc actually the liquidators or not. That makes someone personally responsible for the payment of the tax, and will effectively combat a rather shady practice which now prevails. The innovation is not entirely in favour of the taxpayer, as it will mean that certain people who have hitherto escaped the payment of taxation will now be liable, but it must be remembered that they were reasonably and justly entitled to pay such taxation. 
Next there is the definition of " partner and partnership ". Representations have been made to me on this matter by some of my constituents, and I think that there is room for a slight modification of the proposals of the Government. Under existing conditions many husband and wife partnerships are formed in order that those concerned may escape liability under the act, and frequently family trusts are brought into being for the same purpose. The amendment is designed to stop such practices. It is true that certain bona fide family trusts may be harshly affected by the new definition in a manner that is not really desired by the Government, and it is there that a modification is desirable. It has been suggested to me that the insertion of the words " solely or primarily," after the words " created " first occurring, would meet the case. It is also considered by my  constitutents  that the determination of the Commissioner should not be final, but that provision should be made for appeal. That appears to me to be a reasonable request, one to which I hope the Senate will give its consideration when we reach the committee stage. 
Paragraph  a  of clause 4 is designed to clear up a position which has arisen with regard to the undistributed profits of companies. The principal act provides that tax shall be paid on taxable income derived during the twelve months ended on the 30th June preceding the year for which the assessment is made. The practice of the Commissioner, under the provisions of section 32, has been to accept returns made up to the date of the annual balance of the taxpayer, whether that date is the 30th June or not, and in such returns all references in the act to the year of income have been regarded as referring to the substituted year. The Leader of the Senate referred to the Kellow-Falkiner case. It is as a result of that case that the Government found it necessary to introduce this amendment. It appears to me to be quite all right, and it certainly does not impose any. great additional strain on members of the community. The amendment is designed to meet the special exigencies of the position created by the action of the High Court when interpreting the act. That interpretation was contrary to the intention of Parliament when it passed the original measure, and the amendment will clear up the position and restore to the act the power which it was originally intended to have.  
Proposed new sub-section 9 of section 13, which is referred to in clause 4, is very reasonable, and is designed to obviate hardship in the case of taxpayers faced with a permanent prospect of subsisting on a considerably smaller income than they had hitherto received. If such a provision were not introduced taxpayers would be taxed for four years after their deduction of income occurred at a rate ascertained by reference to the higher income derived by them before retirement. Here the act misfired to a certain extent, and a number of people are securing the benefit of the sub-section who are not really entitled to it. The proposed amendment will exclude those people from its benefits. It has been suggested that it merely imposes an additional hardship on the community, because it brings within the purview of the act an additional number of taxpayers. I believe that it is justified, because the original purpose of the act has not been achieved, on account of the decisions of the High Court. 
There are a number of other proposals that can be better discussed individually in committee, when we shall be able to concentrate upon them. With the one or two slight exceptions which I have mentioned I support the bill wholeheartedly, because I believe that it will make for the better working of the act and will relieve the Commissioner of a great many difficulties under which he at present labours. It will act harshly upon those who have evaded fair taxation, and it may cause many expert taxation advisers a considerable amount of trouble. Those men have worked up big businesses in all the capital cities of the Commonwealth. By keeping strictly within the law they have been able to find loop-holes in the act, by which means they have enabled their clients to deprive the Commissioner of Taxation of what must be an astonishingly large sum of money. No doubt when this bill becomes law those gentlemen will cast about for new loop-holes in the very amendments which we are now considering, and probably within three or four years it will be necessary again to frame amendments to meet the new conditions. For the present we can block most of the avenues that exist for circumventing the act. I hope that the second reading of this bill will be carried, despite the opposition of certain honorable senators. It will do quite a lot of good, and will re-establish equality of taxation in relation to its application to individuals in the community, according to the precepts of our greatest authorities on political economy. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 

Debate (on motion by  Senator Crawford)  adjourned 
 I move- 
That all the  words after " him " at the end of proposed new sub-section  (4a.) be  left out. 
The Minister, in replying to the secondreading debate endeavoured to defend  a  tax on life assurance companies, because a similar tax is imposed in some of the States. If the state of the revenue necessitated increased taxation, I could understand the imposition of taxation on comparatively low incomes ; but although the Government do not wish to directly impose that form of taxation it is doing so in an indirect way. According to the Treasurer there are 225,000 income tax taxpayers in the Commonwealth to-day; but if this clause is adopted approximately 2,000,000 additional taxpayers will be brought within the scope of the bill. 
Their bonuses will be taxed. Since speaking this afternoon I have been reliably informed that 85 per cent. of the life assurance companies in Australia are operating upon a mutual basis. 
As this tax will undoubtedly have to be met by men receiving the basic wage, I ask the Minister to reconsider his decision, instead of asking the committee to adopt the clause. 
That is  a  point which perhaps the Minister can answer. It seems a most unreasonable proposal. 
I do not know the amount; but the Government propose raising by this means an additional £300,000 a year, most of which will come from the pockets of the wage-earners. The Minister, in replying to  Senator Elliott,  referred  to  the extent to which the Government had reduced taxation. He did not, however, explain to the committee that the reductions made had been for the benefit of those receiving £3,000 a year and over, and that those on much lower incomes had not received any consideration. The Government, which is faced with a deficit of £2,600,000, is endeavouring to meet its obligations by collecting taxation from those who can least afford to pay it. I shall not stress the matter further as I emphasized it in the second-reading debate. 
[9.46].  -  I appeal to the committee not to support, in a spirit of recklessness, the Leader of the Opposition. I recognize that he is entitled to try to embarrass the Government, but I would point out to honorable senators that this is one of the vital points in the budget. If this portion of the Government's taxation proposals is struck out, the consequences will be very serious. 
I am not making this statement in any light spirit, nor by way of threat. All I am doing is to appeal to honorable senators on this side to realize that they have some responsibility with regard to the financial proposals of the Government. This amendment, I repeat, touches a very vital principle. I listened to some of the fustian - I can give it no other name - used by the Leader of the Opposition. He talked at large about this proposal being equivalent to the taxation of the workers, and other rubbish of that kind. As a matter of fact, the small policy-holders in insurance societies represent a very small percentage indeed of the total.' We may assume that the majority of individual policy-holders are workers, .but their premium payments are only a small percentage of the total business of such companies. As a matter of fact, it is not proposed to tax the premium income. That is, and always has been, exempt from taxation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The premium income is not taxed. What we are taxing are the profits earned by companies on their investments.  Senator Needham  made a number of loose statements about the majority of the companies being mutual concerns. Let us see what is the actual position. If honorable senators will turn to the Commonwealth  Year-Book  for 1927, page 415, they will find that of the Australian companies, seven are purely mutual and 24 are proprietary concerns with a paid-up capital aggregating £1,842,963. Some of the companies are engaged in fire, marine and accident insurance. 
No. I appeal to the honorable senator to realize his responsibility with regard to the Government's financial arrangements. We are facing a serious financial position. The budget was so framed as to obviate a general increase in taxation, which would be extremely inadvisable at this stage in the economic life of Australia. It is easy for honorable senators opposite to play to the gallery and to say that in respect of this measure they will vote to save the working man from being taxed on his insurance premiums. I urge honorable senators on this side not to destroy a fundamental principle so vital to the adjustment of the finances. of the Government. The great bulk of the companies are proprietary concerns and I repeat that, in respect of the mutual companies, we are taxing only the profits made on investments. This tax will fall largely on the wealthier sections of the community. The average working man who insures his life takes out a policy of from £200 to £500. The amount of tax on the profits made from the investments of these companies would amount to probably lid. or 2d. a year in the case of such policy-holders, so that all this parade by the Leader of the Opposition about saving the workers from taxation is so much fustain and humbug. Those who will pay some appreciable amount of taxation under this scheme will be the large policy-holders - those men who have taken out policies for £10,000 and whose bonuses amount probably to between £40 and £50 a year. The taxation of the working man will be infinitesimal. One  has only to look at the history of our war loan flotations to realize the amount of profits made by. some of these companies. Individual concerns were able to invest £1,000,000 and £2,000,000 in our war loans. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, it was a most praiseworthy act on their part; but since other investors are taxed on their profits, why should these companies be exempt. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, and the worst example of all is the State of Queensland, under a purely Labour Government. The taxation there on large insurance companies is higher than in any other State. Honorable senators will find this information in the third report of the Commissioner of Taxation, page 151. In Victoria, Tasmania, and Queensland the tax is on the premium income. We do not propose to tax that at all. I am not appealing to honorable senators opposite, because, as I have said, it is their policy to try to discredit the Government. I appeal to honorable senators on this side to remember that this is an important part of the Government's financial proposals. If it is interfered with, the loss in revenue will have to be made good by a general increase in taxation. 
.- I intend to support the Government. I do not anticipate the serious disabilities mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  I fail to see how this tax will be a heavy burden on the working man. But I am supporting the Government for what I suppose will be regarded as a novel reason. I am one of those who believe that there should be only one direct taxation authority in the Commonwealth-. In my opinion the Commonwealth Government should collect the whole of the income taxation, because, under existing conditions, with varying income tax rates in the several States, the burden is not laid evenly upon the people. In Queensland, for example, the direct taxation amounts to £5 per head, whilst in Western Australia it is about £3 4s. This inequality in the various States is responsible for economic results not at all favorable to those State authorities that have to impose heavy taxation. I am aware that certain people object to the Commonwealth entrenching upon what is commonly called the domain of State taxation, but I believe that the time is not far distant when the Commonwealth Government will be the only authority in Australia imposing income taxation. I assume, of course, that we shall then have to make some other arrangements to assist the States financially. Under the Constitution Alteration Bill recently passed, we shall have this power to make agreements with the States, provided that that proposal is endorsed by the people. If the Leader of the Opposition had moved an amendment to separate the proprietary from the mutual companies there might have been some reason to claim support from honorable senators on this side; but he has included all the companies in his amendment, and as his figures relating to the proportion of mutual and proprietary companies were so much astray, I am inclined to think that the whole of his argument falls to the ground. 
.- I am not prepared to go as far as  Senator Needham;  but I thought the Govornment would have agreed to bring down an amendment to provide that, this taxation should not apply to companies working on a mutual basis. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has stated, there are only seven mutual companies in Australia, and we all know that they encourage thrift among our people. Moreover, these companies gave powerful aid to the Government during the war. Their financial resources were a valuable standby at a time when it was difficult to get money. 
I understand that the companies mentioned are" already heavily taxed by the State authorities, and I regard this duplication in taxation as a serious matter. I had hoped that we had got beyond that kind of thing, and am disappointed to find that we have not. I strongly object to the measure, but, in view of the appeal of the Leader of the Senate, I am not prepared to go so far as  Senator Needham  desires. 
.- In this clause the Government  aims  at taxing companies which are not distributing their profits. It is sometimes difficult for a company, floated, say, to exploit a patent, to obtain financial assistance. At times banks will advance overdrafts to such companies only on the condition that until they are repaid there shall be no distribution of profits. These companies are entirely different from well-established concerns like Paterson, Laing and Bruce, which would have no difficulty in obtaining financial assistance if desired. If the Government succeeds in taxing these struggling companies, their credit will be restricted. We should not discourage the formation of useful companies by taxing them in this way. Companies which provide work for our people should not be unduly penalized. 
It does not say " a proprietary company ", but merely " a company ". 
That may be the intention, but it is not clear from the wording of the clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 22 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I agree with  Senator Needham  that a little more time should have been given for the consideration of a bill which contains eleven pages of technical matter, and obviously requires a considerable amount of study. I congratulate  Senator Duncan  on the information he has been able to give to honorable senators. At first I thought the honorable senator should have been pleading at the bar, because the information he had seemed to be in the nature of a brief. 
I must reply that my earlier opinion was confirmed as the honorable senator proceeded. In the short space of time this measure has been before the Senate it has been impossible for any honorable senator to acquire all the information that the honorable senator has been in a position to supply. Even the Leader of the Senate in moving the second reading, was content to read his speech, as he could hardly avoid doing with such a technical bill. I am prepared to give the measure general support; but I protest against the proposal to tax mutual insurance companies. I do so because I am opposed to any further penalty being imposed on wage-earners. All insurance companies have as their main object the laudable purpose of assisting people to a greater degree of security in life, but mutual insurance companies representin the best measure possible the finest of all human endeavours - the safeguarding of wives and children against the ills and misfortunes of life. I object, therefore, to the imposition of any further taxation on policy-holders who have entered into engagements with such companies. There is no doubt that the fine buildings that have been erected by these institutions represent a considerable amount of profit. At the same time they represent a considerable asset. They represent also to a very large extent a proportion of the savings of those who have entered into engagements with the companies. Consequently, we should be chary about rushing in to increase the burdens that these people have to carry. The ultimate result of taxing these companies will be to increase premiums and reduce bonuses, or, in other words, to take away from people, who are mostly wage-earners, something that they have acquired by the practice of that thrift which honorable senators opposite so often declare they are extremely anxious to encourage.  Senator Duncan  has quoted certain economists as having declared that taxation should apply equitably to all classes of the community; but in spite of the opinions of economists, living or dead, the attitude of the Labour party towards taxation is that the burden of it should be placed on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. The taxation of mutual insurance companies will mean placing the burden of taxation on the shoulders of those who are least able to bear it.  Senator Duncan  did not answer the arguments advanced by the Leader of the Opposition. He admitted that certain people would suffer hardship, but he said that it would not be serious and would not amount to more than a few pence in the £1. I decline to accept the honorable senator as an arbiter in such matters. A few pence in the £1 will amount to a considerable sum over a year. Our policy should be to reduce the taxation on those least able to bear it, and place it on the shoulders of those who have a larger share of the good things of life. But it is evidently the policy of the Commonwealth Government to reduce the taxation of the big people in the community and, as this bill shows, to impose further taxation on the class that is least able to bear it. Taxation on pastoralists has been remitted, and there are many other indications that it is the Government's policy to reduce the taxation borne by the big people. I object to the pursuit of such a policy, and am opposed to the provision of this bill which imposes a further penalty on wage-earners. 
.- I regret that the Government has brought down this measure of additional taxation after the pronouncement in the budget that no fresh taxation would be imposed. The position of Australia at the present time, with unemployment everywhere, should have induced the Government to effect some saving in its departments rather than to impose extra taxation. It seems to me that the Government seeks to treat as a criminal, or at least as some one who should be punished, any person who has worked efficiently and earned a profit, while allowing the man who has worked inefficiently and has not made a profit to escape free. Where thrift, ability and energy are discouraged is it any wonder that unemployment is rife? I should like to direct the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation to the following extract from the first  anuual  report of the Lands Administration Board of Queensland - 
Mention should also be made of the principle laid down by the legislature very many years 'ago that rents should be fixed according to the amount which experienced persons would be willing to pay for land of similar quality in the same neighbourhood. This is sound enough in theory, but, unless great care is exercised, can become very mischievous in its application. Experienced persons are found to pay fancy prices for land, and thereby establish rental values, which, if applied generally to the industry, might be ruinous in their effect. Even at the present time of stress, grazing properties are changing hands at very substantial figures. The prices paid for properties are not always influenced by business considerations alone, but by a great variety of reasons and factors varying with the individual. They are, therefore, at times a very poor guide to correct values. 
While it is evident that Labour Governments are acquiring wisdom through experience, Nationalist Governments are departing further from wisdom. The natural result will follow in a few years' time. Much has been made of the fact that certain companies have escaped taxation because all their profits have been absorbed in the reduction of the indebtedness they had when they commenced operations. It seems to me a great pity that there are so very few actual business men in the Cabinet. Since  Mr. Pratten's  decease there is not a single Minister with practical business ability to guide the destinies of the Government. 
The Prime Minister is so far removed from the need for giving close attention to business matters that I- do not think his practical guidance in this respect counts for very much. At any rate, in this and other directions the Government has not been guided by practical commonsense. If it is anxious to remove the causes of unemployment it should proceed most guardedly. When business men see a favorable opportunity to establish an industry they persuade their friends ;to join with them in raising a few thousand pounds and then approach the bank which, if the proposition is a good one, will grant an overdraft. The bank, however, takes the necessary precaution to ensure that for some time practically the whole of the profits shall be used in reducing the overdraft. It is on that basis that industry is founded in this country, but, according to this measure, the taxation authorities look upon such a practice as a crime. Such companies are to be punished by the taxation authorities although those who have, in vested money in them are going without dividends in order to place the business on a proper basis. 
It provides for more than that. Australia is a new country in which we should encourage the investment of capital in industry and thus assist in relieving unemployment. When a combination of persons raises sufficientcapital to start in business the banks will advance money; but they are always anxious that the capital shall be repaid as early as possible. For some amazing reason the Government now submits proposals which will interfere with such industrial concerns. 
Unless the bank is offered sufficient security it will not grant an overdraft. The transport service at Canberra is losing over £4,000 a year, but I venture to say that if it were in the hands of private enterprise it would be showing a profit. 
The terms embodied in the form of tender were of such a nature that no one would touch the proposition with a 40-foot pole. 
The honorable senator, who is not conversant with even one of the conditions of the tender, is talking absolute nonsense. It is from such honorable senators that the Government obtains its support in stifling industry in this country. 
It does more than that, and will seriously hamper industry in the direction I have suggested. 
Because the profits of many industries have to be devoted to liquidating overdrafts. 
Yes, because it is only in that way that new industries can be established. If we wish to assist industry and reduce unemployment to a minimum we .cannot impose taxation on a theoretical basis. 
Companies carry on with an overdraft only when they cannot avoid doing so. 
They would if he was of the right type and could show that with the assistance of sufficient capital he could make good. I was personally acquainted with a returned soldier possessing complete knowledge of his particular line of business, and who was financed by a financial concern to the extent of £70,000, although he practically did not possess a penny. 
If their representatives heard the inane remarks of the honorable senator to-night, they would not trust him with a shilling. It was not long before the man of whom I am speaking was showing a profit of £10,000 a year, and employing 200 "diggers." The bank realized that the man was worth assisting. 
If industry is to be encouraged the department must not be too severe. 
Hundreds of persons are doing that to-day. All profits are not used in reducing overdrafts. Some honorable senators think that it is a crime to establish industry. 
That is the honorable senator's argument. 
SenatorReid. - Many businesses operating on a sound basis are working on overdrafts. 
Every one cannot get an overdraft from the bank. The man who was making a profit of £10,000 a year, worked himself to death, and no one could be found with the knowledge necessary to carry on the business, with the result that 200 men were thrown out of employment. The next best man available said that he could purchase the raw material and manufacture the goods, but he could not place them on. the overseas market. 
The honorable senator is viewing the subject from a wrong aspect. These companies are at present enjoying a partial exemption. I was hoping that the Government would entirely vacate the field of direct taxation; but it seems that it. is engaging in it more extensively than ever, and hopes to gather in these companies by means of a drag-net clause quite regardless of the fact that these companies have bound themselves rigidly to use all their profits to liquidate their overdrafts. 
If we wish to encourage industry and dispense with unemployment, we must see that the taxation imposed is as light as possible. 
No, I am hoping that the bill will be rejected. 
The  PRESIDENT  (Senator the Hon.  Sir John  Newlands). - I ask honorable senators to allow  Senator Elliott  to proceed without further interruption. 
I commend honorable senators to the paragraph which I have quoted, and to remember that theory can be applied to such an extent that industry may be ruined. 
It is regrettable to find that the Taxation Department is now casting envious eyes on life assurance companies. There does not appear to be any valid reason why non-mutual companies should evade their just share of taxation ; but mutual companies whose profits are returned to the policy holders, in the form of bonuses, should not be penalized. The proposals of the Government will have the effect of throwing an additional burden upon a very deserving and thrifty section of the community. I oppose the bill. 
Vice-President of the Executive Council) [8.28]. - I wish to comment very briefly upon the remarks of those who have objected to the provision of the taxation of life assurance companies. One would think, from the remarks of some honorable senators, that this bill contained a new principle in the matter of Commonwealth taxation, and that these life assurance companies had always escaped taxation. As a matter of fact, they are taxed in every State. 
No. The following are the bases of State taxation of life assurance companies :  - 
New South Wales - Income from real property mortgages, less proportion of total  expenses  in New South Wales obtained by using ratio of taxable income to total income. 
Victoria - Thirty per cent. of " premium income " (ordinary department);15 per cent. of "premium income" (industrial department). 
South Australia - Portion of the surplus divisible amongst policy-holders which the Actuary certifies to be attributable to South Australia. 
Tasmania - Twenty per cent. of " premiums received." 
Queensland - Twenty-five per cent. of " premiums collected during the year" (ordinary department ) ; 15 per cent. of " premiums collected during the year" (industrial department). 
Western Australia - " Interest on investments," less a deduction for expenses. 
It is a reason why they should bear their share of Commonwealth taxation. One would think, from the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and  Senator MacDonald,  that the Labour party is opposed to this form of taxation ; but in Queensland, where there is a Labour Government and only one House of Parliament, they have allowed this form of taxation to remain in operation. 
I could myself make a most vigorous denunciation of all forms of taxation. No Government imposes taxation because it is a popular thing to do. On the contrary, it is a most unpopular course for any Government to take. I can assure honorable senators, therefore, that in imposing this taxation the Government is not seeking popularity. It is doing so because it considers that the burden, which must be borne by the people of Australia if this country is to meet its liabilities, should be spread as equally as possible over all sections of the community. Some honorable senators have spoken as if the bill is designed merely for the purpose of imposing taxation. It is not. What is happening is this. Certain industrious persons appear to be applying their industry and intelligence in a way not indicated by  Senator Elliott.  By the adoption of various ingenious methods they are escaping taxation which other people with similar incomes have been paying all along and will be expected to pay in future. We take the view that since taxation has to be imposed, we should be fair and call on people with similar incomes to bear an equal share of the tax. 
The bill is attempting to do that. Certain people have been evading taxation and this bill is, for the most part, an attempt to make them bear their fair share.  Senator Elliott  also said some extraordinary things about the Government's proposals. In this matter he was most unjust, because the record of this Government in regard to taxation n eds noapologist. Notwithstanding that our liabilities arising out of the war - the interest on our war debt and the sum required for the payment of war pensions and repatriation - are higher to-day than at any time since the war, this Government has beeen responsible for successive reductions in the rate of income taxation. In addition, it has brought about a reduction in the total amount paid by about one-third. It has introduced amendments to the act, granting exemptions from taxation that have benefited particularly our primary producers. It has allowed exemptions of all kinds and has provided for losses, equalization of profits and the averaging of incomes. All these things, which have been of immense benefit to the people, have been done in the life of this Government, so it is most unjust for any honorable senator to try to make it appear that the Government is using taxation as a vindictive measure. 
I come now to an examination of the one constructive piece of criticism by  Senator Elliott.  The honorable senator argues that if a company is working on its own capital and makes a profit, it should be taxed on that profit; but that if another company is working on borrowed capital and uses its profits to pay off its loan obligations, it should not be taxed. Let us examine the position of these two companies and see where this would lead us. Let us assume that company " A " issues shares of £1 each, calls up 5s. per share. and borrows 15s. a share. To all intents and purposes it has a working capital of 20s. a share. Let us assume also that company " B " has a share capital bona fide paid up to 20s. a share. As regards the actual working capital the two companies are in identically the same position. Let us assume further that each company makes a profit of £10,000. Under this bill both will be taxed alike on the amount of profit earned. Under  Senator Elliott's  proposal the company with a paid-up capital of 20s. per share would be taxed on the full amount of profit earned, but the company which had risked only 5s. of its shareholders' capital and provided the other 15s. per share by means of an overdraft or some other means, and used its profits to redeem its borrowed capital, would escape taxation altogether. 
And this bill proposes to alter it. Surely it is obvious that if the company which had borrowed 15s. a share utilized its profit of £10,000 to reduce its loan liability, its shares would actually be worth 20s, although the shareholders had paid up only 5s. a share. In every respect its shares would be equal in value to the shares in the other company, the shareholders of which had found the whole of the capital. 
It is only necessary to state the position to show how inequitable is the proposal put up by  Senator Elliott.  If a company could escape taxation in this way it would be encouraged to continue to work on borrowed money. 
It would not be so taxed, because if its profit were employed to repay its loan obligations such profit would lot be regarded as income, though in every respect the value of its shares would be equal to the fully paid-up shares in Company A. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What guarantee is there that there would be taxable income in the following year? If the directors of the company were astute enough they would, in the following year, negotiate another loan to increase the company's capital and continue to utilize its profits to pay off its liabilities. This steady accretion in the value of shares is just as good as dividends paid on shares. If I were a shareholder in a company and had paid up only 5s. a share, and if the company utilized its profits to pay off its liabilities, there would be an accretion in the value of my shares equal to the reduction in the amount of the share liability. It would make no difference to me if I got 15s. in the way of dividends or whether I got it in increased share value. Consequently all companies should be in the same position as regards income taxation. That is what the bill proposes to do. 
Some honorable senators appear to think that the Commonwealth has abounding revenues, and that there is no necessity to tighten up our taxation machinery. One has only to look at the budget to realize that this is not the case. The bill is an attempt to avoid the necessity for imposing new taxation. Two courses are open to the Government, namely, to increase the general rate of income tax, or to stop the leaks in the present system, so as to make the taxation burden fall equitably upon the people, and especially to see that those who are liable to taxation, but. at present escape, shall bear their share along with their fellow taxpayers. There are some who argue that the Commonwealth should not be in this field of taxation at all. The Commonwealth, by reason of its war liabilities, was forced to impose income taxation on the people. I hope that the committee will agree to the second reading of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Income tax). 
.- I should like to have  an  explanation from the Minister as what this clause means. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [8.43]. - The object of the proposed new sub-section is to obviate hardship in the class of case in which a taxpayer, owing to force of circumstances, such as retirement from business or from his office or other occupation, is faced with the permanent prospect of subsisting on a considerably smaller income than that which he has been accustomed to receive. Without it, such a taxpayer would be taxed for four years after his retirement, &amp;c, at a rate ascertained by reference to the higher income derived by him before retirement. The experience of the department has shown that the sub-section, in its present form, is applicable to a class of case for which the benefits of the provision were not intended, namely, the class of case in which a taxpayer who continues in his business or occupation and suffers no depletion of his usual sources of income, but derives income from some unexpected or unusual source, in a particular year, in addition to his usual income, with the result that the income of the year immediately succeeding the year in which he received the additional income is less than two-thirds of his average income, by reason merely of the receipt of the additional income, which has to be brought into account in calculating the average. The proposed amendment is designed to exclude that class of case from the benefits of the sub-section. 
The Minister has not said anything about the proviso to paragraph  a,  which reads - 
Provided that in the case of a person whose income cannot be conveniently returned as for the year fixed by this act and from whom the Commissioner has, under section 32 of this act, accepted returns made up for an accounting period substituted for that year, income tax shall be levied and paid for the financial year upon the taxable income derived by that person during that accounting period. 
I cannot follow the meaning  of  that proviso. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the 
Executive Council) [8.45]. - I was dealing with the latter part of the proposed new section. The other portion of it I dealt with in my second-reading speech, when I pointed out that companies do not always close their year on the 30th June. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
Section 14 of the principal act is amended by omitting from paragraph (l) of sub-section ( 1 ) the word " residing " and inserting in its stead the word " domiciled ". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 

( 1 )  The following incomes, revenues and funds shall be exempt from income tax: - 

 the remuneration paid by the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State to a person residing outside Australia for expert advice to that Government or as a member of a Royal Commission; 

On behalf of  Senator Kingsmill,  who is unavoidably absent, I move - 
That after the word " amended " the word " (a) " be inserted. 
If this is agreed to, I shall then move a further amendment, of which notice has been given by  Senator Kingsmill,  and of which this is really part, to relieve bona fide prospectors for gold and those who give them financial backing. I agree with the amendment which has been circulated by  Senator Kingsmill,  although I cannot see why minerals other than gold are not included. Prospectors frequently spend a number of years in the bush before obtaining a prize in the form of a valuable mineral deposit. When they meet with success their reward is taxed as income for that year, whereas in reality it is the reward of many years' work. The amendment, if agreed to, will exempt from taxation income so derived by them. It, therefore, has my support. Moreover, it includes in its scope any person who has assisted the prospector by providing him with funds to carry on his search for minerals. Men with relatively small incomes sometimes combine to keep prospectors in the field-; they are as much entitled to consideration as is the prospector himself. 
[8.50]. - The Government is willing to accept the amendment. When the Income Tax Assessment Bill was before Parliament on a previous occasion provision was made to assist the gold-mining industry. It was thought then that that legislation was sufficient to achieve our purpose, but it has since been found to be inadequate. The amendment is designed to relieve bona fide prospectors and those who assist them financially, and to remove the doubt which existed regarding the position of the latter. 
Amendment agreed to. 
On behalf of  Senator Kingsmill  I now move the further amendment to which I have just referred, namely - 
That after the word " domiciled " the follow- . ing words be inserted: - and (b) by inserting at the end of subsection ( 1. ) the following paragraph :  - 
Income derived by a bona fide prospector from the sale, transfer or assignment by him of his rights to mine for gold in a parti cular area. 
For the purpose of this paragraph "bona fide prospector" means a person who has personally carried out the whole or major part of the field work of prospecting for gold in the particular area and includes any person, other than a company, who has contributed to the expenditure incurred in the work of prospecting and development in that area. 
.- Why is this relief not to be extended to prospectors for minerals other than gold? I see no reason why prospectors for copper, silver, tin or other minerals should not be treated as we treat those who search for gold. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [8.53]. - The reason for the differentiation is that the goldmining industry is different from other mining industries, in that every mineral excepting gold has appreciated in value since the war. Whereas the cost of production in the gold-mining industry has increased proportionately with the costs in other mining industries the price of gold has not increased. The result of this differentiation is seen in the decline of the gold-mining industry in this country. Last year the legislation was amended because it was thought proper to encourage the gold-mining industry to compensate it in some way for the disadvantage I have mentioned. Many gold mines are not working to-day, not because the gold content is not just as good as it was previously, but because the higher cost of production makes them unprofitable. 
I do not entirely agree with the Minister. If a man makes no profit he will pay no income tax. Whether the price of gold is £4 or £4 17s. 6d. an ounce matters very little, if he cannot win enough gold to make a profit. The discovery of tin, copper or some other mineral may be an even greater asset to the country from  an industrial stand-point than would be the discovery of gold. While I do not desire to move an amendment to cover  other minerals I ask the Minister to agree to prospectors for such minerals being treated in the same way that prospectors for gold are dealt with in this amendment. Such consideration, while benefiting them, would not mean a great deal to the Taxation Department. I object to discriminating between men who prospect for gold and others who search for other metals. 
I should like to be sure that the amendment provides sufficient safeguards, not so much for the bona fide prospector as for the Consolidated Revenue. A man who discovers a highly profitable area might sell his rights in it for a cash consideration, but under this amendment he would not be called upon to pay income tax on that reward. Or he might retain an interest in the company which takes over the mine, and so long as the company made a profit he would be in receipt of an income which would not be liable to taxation. 
He would be covered by the amendment, because his holding in the company would be a part of the consideration received by him for finding the mine. 
I do not think so. The proposed new paragraph (o) reads - 
Income derived by a bona fide prospector from the sale, transfer or assignment by him ofhis rights to mine for gold in a particular area. . . . 
He may assign to a company his rights to mine for gold. 
But he would be a prospector when he assigned his rights, in which case his freedom from taxation would continue. 
A man might discover another Broken Hil and receive a large annual income for many years, but he would be exempt from taxation. 
If a part of the consideration paid to the prospector was a holding in the company, it would follow that so long as the company made a profit he would derive income from that source. But that income would not be liable to taxation. I desire to assist the prospectors, but when a prospector gives up prospecting and becomes what honorable senators opposite call a capitalist he should be liable to taxation on his income. The source of his income is not his because he found the mine ; like other natural resources of the country it belongs to the people. Income derived therefrom should be liable to taxation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive-Council) [8.59] .   -  Honorable senators are suffering from short memories. In 1924 we amended section 14 of the principal act which provides for the exemption of certain incomes as follows :  - 
By inserting after paragraph (1) of subsection ( 1 ) thereof the following paragraph :  - "(la) the income derived by a person from the working of a mining pro perty in Australia principally for the purpose of obtaining gold, or gold . and copper, provided that in this case the output of gold shall not be less than 40 per centum of the total value of the output of the mine - this exemption shall extend to dividends paid by a company out of such income; and ". 
That provision was inserted in the legislation, because of the languishing condition of the gold-mining industry. It was " an attempt to assist that industry by exempting it from taxation. There is not much likelihood, with the present state of the gold-mining industry in Australia, of any speculation in the industry being involved in this taxation. The amendment is introduced to apply to the prospector, who, if he retains an interest in a mine and becomes a shareholder, obtains exemption under the principal act, which has been in existence for a number of years. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 - 
After section 16a of the principal act the following sections are inserted: - " 16c. Where a taxpayer claims that - 
by reason of the manufacture, pro duction or purchase of goods in one  country and their sale in another; 
by reason of successive steps of production or manufacture in different  countries; or 
by reason of the making of contracts in one country and their perfor mance in another, or for any other reason whatever, income is derived partly from sources outside Australia, the question whether any, and if so what part, of the income is derived from sources outside Australia shall be determined in accordance with the regulations, or, if there is no regulation applying to the case, shall be determined by the Commissioner, whose determination shall not be subject to objection.". 
.- I should like some explanation of this clause. 
[9.2].  -  If  Senator Elliott  will tell me precisely what information he desires I shall endeavour to give  it.  I gave  a  full explanation of the clause in my second-reading speech, and it would be simply wasting time for me to repeat in committee what I then said. 
Representations have been made to me from some of my constituents that the provisions of proposed new section 16c confer too much power on the Commissioner. Through his interpretation of this matter the Commissioner has, on several occasions, been engaged in court proceedings in his official capacity, with disastrous results to himself.  Mr. Justice  Starke, in the case of the  Commissioner of 'Taxation  v.  Berger,  which is reported in 39 C.L.R., 471, severely criticized the Commissioner, and referred the whole matter back to him for further consideration. The final words of the proposed new section read -   if there is no regulation applying to the case, shall be determined by the Commissioner whose determination shall not be subject to objection. 
That is too comprehensive a power. When regulations are provided for the effective working of an act they have to run the gamut of Parliament, and it is open to us at any time to object to them if they harshly affect the people of Australia. In this instance, the Commissioner may decide the point at issue and  hi3  determination cannot be challenged. The remarks of  Mr. Justice  Starke make it apparent that it is unwise to cast too great a responsibility upon the Commissioner. It is but fair that Parliament should shoulder the responsibility in these matters, and it would be only just if we drafted the regulations necessary for this or any other clause and had them incorporated in the act. The Commissioner could not then be held personally responsible for the result. It would be the duty of Parliament to see that the act was observed in accordance with its wishes, and also to see that its official was protected. I consider that the objections which have been raised should be answered, as I foresee that very grave difficulties may arise in the future from a decision of the Commissioner that may not be strictly in accordance with the meaning of the act. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.6]. - Proposed new section 16o deals with income derived from operations carried on in more than one country. The proposed section is intended to preserve the present practice of the Commissioner, and not to make any' alteration in the principles that bave hitherto applied. It is necessary to read the records of two law suits that have occurred in this connexion ; Berger's case, which is reported in 39  Commonwealth Law Reports  468, and Mitchell's case which is reported in  Australian Law Reports  25. In Berger's case, an Australian manufacturer of paint filled orders sent from New Zealand, but the bulk of his business was in Australia. In Mitchell's case the business was that of buying wool and skins in Australia and of selling them overseas, some in the raw state, and some after treatment and manufacture in Australia. The business was controlled in Australia. In Berger's case it was held that the profits derived from sales in New Zealand of goods manufactured in Australia, should be allotted between Australia and New Zealand upon a fifty-fifty basis, and in the Mitchell case it was held that the whole income should be apportioned between Australia and the sources outside Australia upon a fifty-fifty basis. The question with which the proposed new section deals, arises in the case of all importation of goods and all exportation of goods. No legislature has hitherto been able to lay down a rule which will apply to all such cases. The decisions in the cases mentioned, and in Kirk's case, 1900 A.C., illustrate the impossibility of laying down any general rule, and the uncertainty which must result if it is left' for every case to be fought out in the courts. A very large amount of revenue would be lost if it were held that half of the profits of firms and companies which imported goods into Australia and sold them here were made abroad; or again if it were .held that half the profits of exporters of Australian goods were made abroad. In the latter case it is practically certain that the exporters would find themselves liable to income tax in the countries to which their goods were exported, and if the goods were exported to England, taxation would be at a higher rate than that applicable in Australia. The reason why it is proposed, subject to regulation, to let the Commissioner determine these cases on the same principles as have been applied without any substantial objection in the past, can be readily understood from an examination of the decisions of the Board of Review in Berger's and Mitchell's cases. If the change is not made and if the Board of Review and the courts determine future cases with similar results to those reached in Berger's and Mitchell's cases, the loss of revenue will be so great that it will be necessary to increase the rate upon all persons deriving income from exclusively Australian sources. That would be very undesirable and unjust. Certain cases may arise for which regulations may be framed, but those regulations must vary to meet the different classes of cases. In addition, there will be some cases that cannot be foreseen and for which no regulations are framed. In such cases it will be left to the Commissioner to determine the basis upon which taxation will be imposed. It is impossible to lay down a general rule of a  50-50  or  75-25  basis for all cases. That is the reason why this elasticity is allowed. 
I move - 
That all words after the word " regulations ", proposed new section 16c, be left out. 
Things are coming to a very pretty pass in this Parliament. A Minister is given power to make ordinances, which are laid on the table of the House in a purely perfunctory manner. Honorable senators appear to be willing to swallow almost everything that the Minister wishes to give them. Time and again the very objectionable practice has arisen of putting the outline of a bill through Parliament and delegating to the Minister power to clothe the skeleton with the substantive matters. Later an ordinance supplying important missing details is laid upon the table, and in  99  cases out of  100  it is not read. A still more objectionable practice has crept in, in regard to the Federal Capital Commission, of introducing ordinances framed in a general way, and delegating power to the Minister and to the commissioners to make regulations which will have the force of law under the new ordinance. Such regulations are not subject to review by this House. In this case the Commissioner of Taxation, where he has not troubled to make regulations, may issue arbitrary determinations which cannot be challenged. I am not prepared to delegate our powers  to  a commissioner who is not responsible  to  us, and from whose determination there is absolutely no appeal. Are we to barter away the whole of our legislation to a mere bureaucrat? 
It is a very dangerous practice. Where are we to stop ? Are we simply to come here transfer all our powers to a commissioner, and then walk out? Are we to bring into an existence . a Mussolini, over whom nobody has any control? That is the effect of this amendment, as will be apparent to anybody who takes the trouble to read the wording of the proposed new section. 
 While I am not prepared to go as far as  Senator Elliott.  I agree that this provision requires amending. I should like to see eliminated from the proposed new section the words " whose determination shall not be subject to objection ", which occur after the word " commissioner ". It is quite possible that the Commissioner may be called upon  to  make a determination upon a matter when he has no regulation to guide him. I realize the impossibility of drafting regulations to meet all conceivable circumstances, but at the same time I have no desire to place the determinations of the Commissioner of Taxation in the category of the laws of the Medes and Persians. I do not believe that the Commissioner would wilfully come to an unjust decision, but the taxpayer may regard it as unjust and he should have the same right to appeal under this clause as is given under other clauses. I suggest to  Senator Elliott  that he should move to eliminate the words "whose determination shall not be subject to objection ". If he does so he will be going a long way towards protecting the taxpayer. 
 I am in agreement with honorable senators who are desirous of deleting the words "whose determination shall not be subject to objection ". I can speak feelingly because, from my experience, Commissioners of Taxation are very prone to make mistakes, sometimes with disastrous effects to the taxpayer. Some years ago as the result of selling certain property and acquiring other property, I was assessed by the Commissioner of Taxes in South Australia on the basis of having made myself liable for £463 income tax. I contended that my profit represented an accretion of capital and that as such it was not taxable, and my interpretation was subsequently upheld by the court. I am, therefore, strongly opposed to the insertion of any provision in a taxation measure which prevents the taxpayer from taking objection to the decision of the Commissioner of Taxation. It is the anxiety of Commissioners of Taxation to obtain revenue for the Government and it is quite natural for them to become obsessed with their powers. There should, therefore, be some appeal from their determinations. 
Why should the taxpayer be forced 'to drag the Commissioner of Taxation into the courts to teach him how to interpret properly his own act? Some more sensible and certainly more expeditious means of settling the matter should be adopted. The case in which I secured a decision in my favour cost me £400, but the court in its wisdom would not allow me more than £5 costs. Nevertheless, I had the satisfaction of relieving many other taxpayers in South Australia of the necessity of paying what I was being asked to pay. My experience makes me all the more anxious to see that an appeal is allowed from the determination of the Commissioner in all spheres of his activities. I am opposed to legislation of a retrospective character; because it is unfair, and contrary to the fundamental principles of British justice. I trust that the clause will be so amended that an inexpensive method of checking mistakes made by the Commissioner of Taxation in the administration of the law, may be adopted. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.21].  -  As the provision in the bill is not retrospective I cannot understand the honorable senator's last reference. Furthermore, the case in which he was concerned has no bearing. Even if the clause were agreed to as printed, a case such as his could still be taken, into court. 
 But why should a taxpayer be forced into court? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Government is anxious to save the taxpayer from the necessity of having to go to court. In regard to exports and imports the Commissioner already allots the liability of the taxpayer and of hundreds and possibly thousands of the decisions he has made, only two have been challenged in the courts. In these cases the courts laid down certain rules which apply to these cases only. If they were applied to all cases the loss of revenue would be such that the rate of the income tax would need to be increased. The Government is, therefore, proposing a new method of handling these cases. A regulation will be made applying generally to all cases, and laid on the table of the Senate, to form the basis on which profits derived from exports and imports will be taxed. But exceptional cases are encountered now and again that, because of their peculiar circumstances, which remain unknown until they are disclosed to the Commissioner in the return forwarded to him, cannot be covered by any existing regulation. When this happens the Commissioner comes to a determination as to the right apportionment of tax to be paid. At present there is every opportunity for litigation whenever the Commissioner comes to such a determination, and, if honorable senators are anxious to have litigation, let them leave the matter open, because then no one will know just what proportion of tax should be allocated. But the Government considers that such a position is unsatisfactory. It says that as far as possible regulations shall be made covering all known cases and apportioning the rates of tax, but that the occasional cases which crop up, the circumstances of which differ from any known case, and are not covered by any existing regulation, should be left to the determination of the Commissioner, who will be guided by the principles laid down in the regulations so far as they apply. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.For the sake of avoiding litigation. The Commissioner is not likely to depart from the principles laid down in the law and in the regulations, except when he has to meet peculiar cases that crop up once in a blue moon. The New Zealand law was the same as our law, and when the dominion encountered the difficulty which this provision of the bill is designed to overcome, it met it in almost the same way us is now proposed in this bill. We have followed almost, verbatim the wording of the New Zealand law, which provides that ordinary cases shall be met. by regulation, and that exceptional cases sim 1 1 bp subject to the determination of the Commissioner. 
 The Leader of the Senate has made it clear that the provision in the bill under discussion is designed to deal with a particular set of circumstances which could not reasonably be governed by regulations, but my main objection to the clause is that the taxpayer is deprived of his right of appeal. If the Commissioner is guided by his regulations, he is less liable to make a mistake than he would he if matters were left solely to his discretion, but when he is left to his own discretion in dealing with exceptional circumstances which are not covered by regulation, the taxpayer may suffer a  great  injustice. T can understand the determination of the Commissioner being binding where the case with which he is dealing is  so-  ..r"ea by some regulation, but in the absence of such a regulation, there should be an anneal from the assessment made by him. 
 In many countries it is the practice to tax income earned outside the particular country in which the taxpayer resides, but. I understand that the Commonwealth Government is anxious to avoid the taxation of income earned beyond  the  Commonwealth. I agree with many honorable senators that the Commissioner should not be given arbitrary power to tax in every case, but  Senator Pearce  has shown clearly that there is  great  difficulty in providing regulations to den 1" with every individual case that may arise. 
Two cases have been decided by the courts, and in future the decisions given in those cases will guide the Commissioner. But cases in which the circumstances differ from those upon which the court has given its decision will have to be viewed from a different stand-point. How can we provide regulations to deal with them? In cases such as those mentioned, I do not think we shall be running any risk. We would be in a very much worseposition if the Government were introducing legislation, such as is in operation in other parts of the world, under which taxation is levied on ex-Australian incomes. The tax will be imposed only on income derived in Australia. I have been endeavouring to determine how a regulation could be framed to meet all cases. 
In the absence of this provision, the department is losing a considerable amount of revenue, and as a similar law has been in operation in New Zealand for a considerable time, without inflicting any hardship, I think the committee should oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Elliott,  and allow the clause to pass in its present form. 
.- In view of the opinions expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and  Senator Robinson,  I ask leave to withdraw my amendment, with the object of submitting it in another form. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
.- I move - 
That the words " whose determination shall not be subject to objection," proposed new section Kie, be left out. 
If those words are deleted, the Commissioner's determination may then be subject to objection. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What ia the total decrease or increase in tonnage and number of passenger and cargo vessels respectively since 1021 to the date of latest returns ? 
What is the total decrease or increase of seamen employed in the .Australian shipping industry since 1921 to the date of latest returns ? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Have any alterations been made recently in the regulations governing the licensing for importation into Australia of foreign-made aniline dyes; if so, what are they? 2.. Have any licences been granted by the Board of Trade in London for importation into Australia of  UrsoI  D and  Ursol  P dye-stuffs during the last six months ;  if so, for what quantities and on what grounds? 
Have any licences been granted in Australia for importation into Australia' of  Ursol  D and  Ursol  P dye-stuffs during the 'last six months; if so, for what quantities and on what grounds? 
The honorable the Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
No. 
No. 
No. Limited quantities of  Ursol  D and  Ursol  P dye-stuffs have, however, been imported during the last six months under permits previously issued in special circumstances. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- 
Whether Parliament will have an  opportunity  of considering the proposal of the Government to grant a bounty of ls. per ton upon coal exported from New South Wales before it is given effect to? 
No indication' can at present be given as to when it will be possible to give effect to the proposal of the Commonwealth Government, as negotiations in the matter are still proceeding, the action proposed by the Commonwealth being dependent upon a reduction of 4s. per ton in the price of coal for local consumption. 
[3.13]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators will recall that prior to the last recess the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  promised that legislation would be introduced this session to provide for the appointment to the Federal Capital Commission of an elected representative of the residents' of the Federal Capital Territory. This bill is in fulfilment of that promise. It is also desirable to make clear the position of the Federal Capital Commission in respect of the supply of essential services, such as electricity and water, from the Territory, to persons outside the Territory; and the supply of electricity to the Territory from bodies outside the Territory ; as well as to make an adjustment in regard to the liability incurred as between the Federal Capital Commission and the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner in respect of the railway within the Territory. Further it is considered desirable to remove any doubt as to the retention by the Governor-General of the power conferred by the "Seat of Go'vernment Administration Act 1910, to make ordinances relating to the Territory. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is not a large fly after all. 
In regard to representation, the bill provides that the commission shall consist of a chief commissioner, a second commissioner and. a third commissioner. The chief and second commissioners are to be appointed by the Government and the third commissioner is to -be an elected representative of the people. The tenure of office of the three commissioners is to he twelve months. The term of office of the present Chief Commissioner will terminate in a year, so that Parliament will have an opportunity, if it so desires, to review the provisions necessary for the future government of the Territory. The third commissioner as the elected representative of the people, will be entitled to attend and vote at meetings of the commission, but will not otherwise take part in the executive or administrative work of that body. The election of the third commissioner is to be conducted by the Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth under the general provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act as applied to the election of members of the House of Representatives. Subject to certain exceptions, any person resident in the Territory who is at least 21 years of age and is a natural born or naturalized subject of the King will be eligible for nomination as third commissioner. The exceptions are: - (a) officers or employees of the commission; (b) officers of the Commonwealth Public Service who are employed in that section of the service directly concerned in the administration of the act - under existing conditions this means the officers employed in the secretariat of the Home and Territories Department - and (c) persons pecuniarily interested in any agreement with the commission except as shareholders in a company. The bill provides for meetings of the commission to be held at not less than fortnightly intervals. At present meetings of the commission may be convened as may be considered necessary by the Chief Commissioner, subject to any direction issued by the Minister. The remuneration of the Chief Commissioner and of the second commissioner will be fixed at annual rates not exceeding £3,000 and £2,000 respectively. That of the third commissioner will be by way of fees in accordance with his attendance at meetings of the commission. The fee for each meeting will be £5 5s. while the amount payable in such fees is not to exceed £250 per annum. 
  Persons entitled to vote at the election for the third commissioner will be " owners " and " occupiers " as denned in the bill. In effect, the bill confers the right to vote on - (a) all owners of landed property in the Territory, if not let to other persons for occupancy. In such cases the occupiers shall have the right to vote; (b) all lessees of land in the Territory, if the lessees have not sub-let to some other persons for occupancy. In such cases the occupiers shall have the right to vote; (c) all householders in the Territory, if occupying houses under conditions requiring the payment of a rental not less than £15 per annum; (d) all shopkeepers or other persons engaged in any other business, or in any profession, if renting premises, the rental of which is not less than £15 per annum; and (e) trustees, or a body corporate, if an owner or occupier, will have one vote to be exercised by a nominated person. The condition as to rental is proposed after full consideration of the conditions in the Territory, and will meet all cases of householders or tenants of any other kind where the circumstances suggest permanent establishment in the Territory, although in many cases these persons are not in occupancy of property which is at present subject to charges for rates. The provision that as between an owner and an occupier, in respect of any particular property, the occupier shall have the vote is in agreement with a general principle of municipal representation. No person is to have more than one vote. The definition of " owner " or " occupier " has been framed to meet all reasonable conditions of tenancy. Action has been taken to meet the cases in which a property has been subdivided for business purposes and the building is occupied by several tenants. Where in such cases the tenant claims the vote it is considered reasonable that as a condition of its exercise the rental should not be less than £15 a year. This again is in conformity with a general principle of municipal representation which fixes a minimum annual value as a condition of franchise. In this connexion, regard has been given to the conditions of householders at various settlements known as the Causeway, Lower Acton Cottages, Westridge, and Molonglo, who occupy tenements rented from the commission. These tenements are structures designed to meet special conditions for the housing of workmen, and do not conform to the general standards for building construction in Canberra. The occupants are not charged rates and their tenancy is terminable at a week's notice. Generally, however, it is accepted that these householders are permanently established in Canberra, and it is considered that their interests in the Territory are sufficiently substantial to entitle them to vote. The rents paid range from 6s. to 18s. per week, and the amount of £15 fixed as a rental eligibility will not prejudice these householders. It is not proposed to regard residences at Russell Hill, or in the camps known as White City, Parkes' Barracks, Red Hill, Westridge and the Causeway Camp as giving eligibility to vote. At Russell Hill, blocks of land are rented from the commission at a charge of 4s. 6d. a week, for which also a garbage and pan service and a water supply are given, but no electric light. Structures of any kind can be erected on this land.- Generally, they are of a temporary or flimsy character, and might be regarded as huts or shacks. As these blocks become vacant they will not be re-let. It is the commission's intention ultimately to abolish the settlement, which was established to meet the circumstances of a migrant or nomad class. At the camps, the residents are single men or men living apart from their families. Cubicles are supplied at a rental of from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a week. The men make their own mess arrangements, but are supplied with firewood and electric light free by the commission. Persons who will be debarred from voting will therefore be persons who are boarding or lodging at the various houses of accommodation and are not occupiers or owners of property in the Territory, as well as men in barracks or camps, and those located at Russell Hill. 
Section 14 of the principal act defines the powers of the  Federal  Capital Commission. Doubt has arisen as to the powers of the commission to supply water and electricity to persons or bodies outside the Territory, and also as to the powers of the commission to enter into agreements with persons or bodies outside the Territory for the supply of requirements to the Territory. The commission at present supplies water and electricity to the town of Queanbeyan, and is considering the advisability of entering into an agreement with the Government of New South Wales for the supply of electricity to the Territory from the Burrinjuck system. The object of the relative clauses of the bill is to remove any doubt as to the powers of the commission in respect of the foregoing matters. Section 21 of the principal act provides that the commission shall be liable for the amount expended by the Commonwealth in connexion with the establishment and administration of the Territory prior to the 1st January, 1925, with the stipulation that such provision shall not apply to the expenditure incurred by the Commonwealth in connexion with the control of Parliament House. It is considered that the commission should be exempted from the liability for the expenditure incurred in connexion with the construction and maintenance of the railway from Queanbeyan to Canberra, and also with the expenditure in connexion with the survey of the proposed railway routes between Canberra and Jervis Bay, and between Canberra and Yass.  The responsibility  for such expenditure should rest upon the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. Clause 14 of the bill proposes to exempt the commission from the liability for this expenditure. The amount deducted from the commission's liability . in respect of railway expenditure is £75,360 5s. 10d., of which £74,837 14s. 3d. is in respect of the railway from Queanbeyan to Canberra, and £522 lis. 7d. in respect of the survey of railway routes between Canberra and Jervis Bay and between Canberra and Yass. 
The amendment of the principal act embodied in clause 16 is proposed to settle beyond any doubt a question which arose recently in connexion with the question of housing. A housing ordinance was framed to enable the commission to be treated as a prescribed authority under the Commonwealth Housing Scheme. In July 1928, the legal advisers of the Commonwealth Bank called attention to section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, which prescribes that until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory, the Governor-General may make ordinances having the force of law in the Territory. The point was raised by them whether by the appointment of the commission under the 1924 act some other provision had not been made by the Parliament for the government of the Territory and that therefore the power of the GovernorGeneral to make ordinances relating to housing had expired. Whilst they recognized that the point was a doubtful one they suggested that the doubt should be removed. The Government is advised that the position is-not as set out by the solicitors and that the powers of the commission in relation to the government of the Territory are subject to ordinances made under the act of 1910, and that the existing ordinances are perfectly valid. In order, however, to place the matter beyond doubt, the proposed amendment is being made. 
Yes. It is most undesirable that any doubt should exist as to the power to make these ordinances. Not only the ordinance' referred to, but also every ordinance made since 1910, might be affected. The question was raised by the Commonwealth Bank authorities in respect to the housing ordinance after that body had been asked to become the " authority " in the Territory under the Housing Act. As sums of money would be involved it was thought that there should be no doubt whatever as to the competency of the commission to make the ordinance. 
It will do no more than remove- any doubt which exists in respect of any ordinance. It will validate all the ordinances which have been made. The Attorney-General doubts the necessity for any validation, but seeing that the question has been raised, it has been thought, advisable to remove the possibility of doubt by inserting a validating clause in the bill. 
I suggest to honorable senators that this bill merely carries to a further stage the provision already made for the government of this Territory. If anything could lower the dignity of this Parliament it is that municipal matters affecting Canberra should be continually brought forward on the floor of Parliament. The affairs of a city with a population of less than 8,000, while suitable for discussion by a municipal body, are certainly not matters to be brought before the National Parliament. 
-When this bill becomes law, and the representative of the residents of Canberra takes his place on the commission, the citizens will have an opportunity through him to voice their grievances and to express their views at the meetings of the commission. Their representative will have ° power to call for papers, to inspect books, and to find out what is going on, and he will be able to voice his opinion in the proper way in the meetings of the commission. If this bill does nothing else, I trust that it will remove the discussion of these matters from this Parliament, so that they will be dealt with in the right place. 
It must be remembered that the Federal Capital Commission is different from ordinary municipal bodies in that it spends money contributed not only by the residents of the Federal Capital Territory, but. by the ratepayers of the whole of Australia. There are some who think that the expenditure of money in Canberra is a matter affecting only the people who live here, but I point out that the great bulk of the money expended in the Federal Capital Territory is supplied by the people of Australia, the residents of Canberra providing only a small proportion of it. It is therefore only right that the predominating control in the commission should be held by men who represent the taxpayers of Australia as a whole. 
Probably during this debate some honorable senators will take the opportunity of criticizing what has been done in Canberra. It is quite easy, when any big constructional work has reached a certain stage of development, for anybody to come along and point out that it could have been better done in some other, way. lt is easy to be wise after the event. But some consideration should be given to the% circumstances in which the 
Federal Capital Commission had to construct Canberra. When the transfer of the Seat of Government to Canberra was first contemplated, it was regarded as a process that would take a considerable number of years to accomplish. However, through the pressure exerted by public opinion, and the desire of the people of New South Wales to have effect given to a definite promise that had been extended to them that the Federal Capital would be established in this Territory, the commission was called upon to make a concentrated effort in order to achieve, in about two years, what normally would be effected in five or six years. The early constructional activities in this Territory took place at a time when Australia had not recovered its industrial equilibrium, when1 it was still suffering from the effects of the war, when it was exceedingly difficult to obtain efficient labour - due to the fact that building activity was great in all the cities of the Commonwealth - and when exceptionally high wages had to be paid to entice craftsmen to leave the more settled centres. In viewing all the circumstances one should be fair enough to admit that while mistakes have undoubtedly been made, and construction costs have been higher than some might regard as reasonable, a wonderful work has been accomplished. While it is the bounden duty of every representative of the people to be critical of public expenditure, and to call attention to faults of administration, in this instance criticism might well be tempered by a generous recognition of the difficulties under which the commission laboured to establish the Federal Capital. 
I shall give one illustration, not necessarily to honorable senators, but to those critics outside whom it may reach, in order to bring home to them that things are not as black as they are painted. Most honorable senators who are now in this chamber were members of the Senate when the Federal Parliament was housed in the State Parliament House, Melbourne. They know how inconvenient was that building, how scanty the accommodation, how difficult it was to obtain rooms in which committees could meet, the dearth of accommodation for Ministers, and the many other drawbacks which made the place ill-suited to house this Parliament. Externally it is a magnificent building; internally it leaves much to be desired. It cost the taxpayers of Victoria £750,000, and was built at a time when the best paid tradesmen received not more than 10s. a day, and when labourers' wages were from 5s. to 6s. a day. Honorable senators have seen what was achieved under most favorable conditions for that cost. -Not one of the critics of the Federal Capital has ever held up the State Parliament House of Victoria as a brilliant and shining example of how things used to be done in the "good old days." Let me contrast it with this building, which, inclusive of fittings, cost less than £700,000. It was built in a territory situated a considerable distance from our principal centres of population, in what was then the bush, at a time when it was difficult to obtain both labour and material, and when wages were at their peak. Labourers received 25s. a day, and tradesmen as much as £2 a day. Yet, while this building may not be so imposing externally as the building in Melbourne it is infinitely superior to that structure in its internal fittings and accommodation. I ask the critics who complain that money has been wasted in Canberra to contrast the two buildings. Personally, I consider that we have secured a better return for our expenditure of considerably less than £700,000 than was secured by the people of Victoria for their outlay of £750,000. 
I had thought of moving the adjournment of this debate, being under the impression that this was a bill of vast importance which needed a considerable amount of thought. Having examined it, I do not think that it is worth spending very much time on it. For that reason my remarks will be brief. When this Government first introduced the Seat of Government Administration Bill four years ago, that measure met with the' strenuous opposition of my colleagues and myself. We contended that there was no necessity to appoint a Federal Capital Commission. A considerable amount of work had been done in the Federal Capital by the Home and Territories Department, and many foundations had been satisfactorily laid  by the officers of that department, which at that time was responsible for 'constructional and development works in this Territory. My colleagues and I pointed out that just when favorable progress was being made, and the major portion of the difficult work had been accomplished, the Government conceived the idea of appointing a commission of a very expensive nature to' do what might be termed the fancy work. The Government took away all responsibility from the department which had acquitted itself so well. Four years have elapsed since the commission was appointed, and I have not changed my opinion. I still believe that it should not have been appointed. Had this Government introduced a bill to annul the Seat of Government Administration Act, I should have supported it cheerfully. I cannot support this measure, as it is neither fish nor flesh, nor good red herring. It is a most spineless thing and is no adequate reply to the requests,.^ the people of this Territory for representation on the commission. It is merely fencing with a somewhat difficult situation in which the Government has found itself. I shall not take up the time of the Senate in debating whether the commission has done good or bad work, and shall make only a passing reference to the apologia of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate on behalf of the commission. I shall content myself with examining one or two features of the measure. First of all it proposes to extend the duration of the appointment of the first and second commissioners by one year, at their present salaries. It also makes provision for the election of a third commissioner, and purports by that means to satisfy ,the request of the people of the Territory for representation. 
Not by any . means, and if the Government thinks that it will it is making a colossal mistake. It must be remembered that the citizens of this Territory have at present no voice in the affairs of the nation. 
Until quite recently they were fully enfranchised citizens of Australia and it is merely through the exigencies of their method of livelihood that they are compelled, to transfer their residence to this Territory. 
As  Senator Graham  suggests, they are foreigners in their own country. They are similarly placed to the Uitlanders  of South Africa who precipitated the South African war. They have sought a voice in the affairs of the Territory in two ways. First they sought representation in this Parliament on the same basis as that granted to the citizens of the Northern Territory. Their request was not unreasonable, and no stable argument could be advanced against it. However, such representation was. denied them. Then the citizens of this Territory solicited representation on the commission itself so that they might have a voice in what the Leader of the Government has termed the scheme of municipal government. It is really something more than that, as greater responsibilities and activities are involved in this instance. The Government is prepared to grant such representation by countenancing the election of a third commissioner. But that alleged representative will be elected by only a comparatively few people resident in the Territory, and quite a large number will have no voice at all in his election. Such a form of franchise is ridiculous, and I contend that nothing short of adult franchise will satisfactorily meet the situation. 
I  believe  that the citizens of this Territory are endowed with sufficient intelligence to be granted a vote to enable them to elect a representative of , the commission. Prior to their transfer to Canberra they enjoyed the privilege of adult franchise and voted for their representatives in both this and the State House. I shall deal now with the representative himself. He must not be an officer or employee of the commission. But why should an officer or employee of the commission who feels that he is  qualified to fill the position of third commissioner be deprived of the right to offer himself for election? No municipal council or roads board in Australia will deny to its employees the right to submit themselves for election as members of the council or board as the case may be. 
I wish the honorable senator would let me proceed. Under the provisions of this bill, the position of third commissioner will not be  a  permanent one. He will attend a sitting of the commission once a fortnight, and his remuneration is not to exceed £250. He will have the right to vote, but his voice will be that of one crying in the wilderness. He will have two other commissioners against him, and one of those will be armed with a casting vote. 
If the people of Canberra are to be represented on the Federal Capital Commission, their representative should bn elected by adult franchise, and the powers of their representative should at least be equal to those of the second commissioner. In other words, the third commissioner should be authorized to be constantly on the work of the commission. All that this bill will allow him to do is to attend a meeting of the commission once a fortnight, and record his protest against anything that may have been done; but he will have no power to remedy it. That kind of representation is  a  farce, and I venture to suggest that if a plebiscite of the citizens of the Territory were taken, the Government's proposal would be rejected. 
That the third commissioner should be elected by adult franchise and that he should have a permanent seat on the commission and share in the commission's work. Members of the Development and Migration Commission have different spheres of work allocated to them, and in the same way  a  share of the Federal Capital Commission's work could be entrusted to the third commissioner. In reply to  a  question of .mine to-day, the right honorable the Leader of the Senate frankly admitted that clause 16 of this bill is ,a validating provision. This clause reads as follows : -  (1.) After section twenty-eight of the principal act the following section is inserted : - " 28a. Section twelve of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 is amended by omitting the words ' Until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory,'." (2.) This section shall be deemed to have commenced on the date of the passing of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924. 
This provision was inserted in another place on an amendment moved by  Sir Neville  Howse, who was the Minister in charge of the bill. At the moment, I do not propose to discuss the ethics of including a provision of this character in such a bill as this, but I call attention to the fact that when  Sir Neville  Howse was asked in another place whether the clause was intended to validate ordinances he replied in  the negative, yet to-day,  Senator Pearce,  in answer to my question, frankly admitted that it was a validating provision. Either  Sir Neville  Howse was ignorant of the purpose or effect of the amendment he was moving, or I am reluctantly compelled to the conclusion that he wilfully misled honorable members in another place. It is quite evident that this clause has been added to the bill in order to validate the Kerbing Ordinance so recently discussed in the Senate, and other ordinances issued by the Federal Capital Commission.  Senator Pearce  said that we should not bring forward in the National Parliament matters that could be better handled by the Federal Capital Commission, because they are merely details of municipal administration. I think that he should not have asked the Senate to waste its time on a worthless measure such as that we have now before us. I hope the bill will not be carried. 
The bill will prove to be most unfair to the people of Canberra, who asked the Government for bread and have been given  a  stone. 
It is hard to understand how a Government which believes in adult suffrage for the election of members of this Parliament  should seek to deprive the residents of Canberra of the full franchise. If adult franchise is right, as I believe it is, it should be given to the residents of Canberra. If the Government were really anxious to help the people of the Territory it would give them a direct representative in this Parliament, or, failing that, something in the form of a municipal council, so that they could to a great extent govern themselves, subject, of course, to this Parliament. To my mind, the days of the commission have gone by. Indeed, I am of opinion that it was quite unnecessary to appoint a commission in the first place. For some years the development of the Capital was undertaken quite well by the Works and Railways Department, and if the Government cannot see its way to grant the measure of reform of which I have spoken, why cannot it still control the Territory through the Minister for Works and Railways? I am sure that it would have been a better method of administering the affairs of the Federal Capital than is now proposed. I am afraid that the Government's proposal will not afford any great satisfaction to the residents of Canberra. If I were placed in the. position of these people I should resent what the Government offers. The people of Canberra have been forced to come here by the transfer of the .seat of government from Melbourne, where they lived under excellent conditions, and where they had the privilege of voting for those they thought fit to represent them in Parliament. They are isolated from the big cities and from, the many comforts and. privileges to which they were accustomed. They are suffering many disadvantages, and one of them is the  great problem of what to do with their children when ' they reach the working age.. 
 I regard that as a stupid interjection. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Certainly I withdraw it. The other cities of Australia are industrial centres in which there is ample opportunity for placing boys and girls in employment when they reach the working age. 
Canberra is supposed to be the federal city, and not a country town, yet it does not provide an outlet for the children who are growing up. That is one reason why the residents of the Territory should be governed well and democratically, and why they should be given every possible privilege. The only opportunity they will have to get democratic legislation is through a change of government, but, unfortunately, being disfranchised, they are not allowed to vote for any one in this Parliament, and even their franchise for the election of a third commissioner is a restricted one. If the third commissioner were given some power, the position would not be so bad; but, with his limited powers, what value would he be to the citizens? If honorable senators believe in a democratic franchise for the people of Australia, they cannot . refuse to give it to the people of Canberra. 
I should not have spoken on the second reading of this bill if  Senator Hoare  had not described my interjection as a stupid one. 
Order! The honorable senator has withdrawn his remark. 
I rose more particularly to refer to the lack of opportunities for the children in many out-back centres, and to compare their position with those of children and their parents living in Canberra.  Senator Hoare  surely is aware that in Canberra there are excellent educational facilities, electric light, water supply, and sewerage services, motor buses, perfect roads and footpaths, kerbs and gutterings, tennis courts, and recreation grounds generally. I believe the average public servant in Canberra will say that his conditions are not altogether bad. 
.- I welcome this measure as an attempt, although a feeble one, on the part of the Government to remove some of the disabilities under which the citizens of Canberra are living; but something much more drastic must be attempted at an early date. It appears to me that the first step to be taken is to abolish the Federal Capital Commission. Now that Parliament is functioning in Canberra there seems to be no valid reason why all the constructional work to be undertaken should not be placed under the control of the Department of Works and 
Railways. In place of  Sir John  Butters we need a man of experience in the administration of municipal matters. The Government should obtain the services of a man with an experience similar to that of the Town  Clerk  of Melbourne or of Sydney, who should have associated with him, in a subordinate capacity, an engineer to advise him on technical matters such as road and footpath construction. The actual work of building construction' could be carried on departmentally. I have frequently raised my voice in the Senate against the policy which the present commission is pursuing in regard to the construction of the Federal Capital. There is not a single complaint which I have made, or a prophecy upon which I have ventured, which has not been fully confirmed by experience. Quite recently it was discovered that tons of cement which ought to have gone into the foundation of the permanent administrative building had not been so used. I do not know yet what are the facts which led to this particular blunder, but a very little inquiry convinced me that the cause would probably be found in the lack of business acumen displayed by the commission in selecting a supervisor for the work. I am informed that the architect entrusted with that work was an undischarged bankrupt whose previous career would hardly bear inspection. While no one expects that the commission should personally oversee every detail of construction, there can be no question about it being the duty of that body to see that only men of good reputation and character are employed on that class of work. In this matter, at all events, the commission appears to have failed lamentably. 
I have repeatedly complained of the extravagant form of construction that was forced upon the tenants of the Civic Centre. On more than one occasion I raised my voice against the folly of tenants there being compelled to buy and bring tiles all the way from Ballarat to roof the buildings when tiles were manufactured in the Territory itself. No sufficient explanation has, to my mind, ever been furnished for this action, except the suggestion that the Chief Commissioner would suffer from a severe headache if he had to contemplate a building with, any other form of tiles. 
I decline to allow  Senator Cox  to teach me my duty in this matter. I am a member of this Senate, and if I conceive it to be my duty- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order 1 I ask honorable senators not to indulge in personalities, which lead to disorder. 
When I raised this question in the Senate the only explanation offered was that the use of ordinary tiles would be an outrage on the artistic sense of the Chief Commissioner. I say deliberately that this is not a satisfactory explanation. Certainly the action of the commission in compelling some of the tenants to pay an additional £200 merely to gratify the taste of the Chief Commissioner cannot be justified. The conclusion to which I am now strongly inclined is that some form of commission on these contracts found its way into the hands of the architect responsible for the original plans of these buildings. 
Again, very recently I had occasion', in conjunction with  Senator Duncan,  to protest against the amending Building and Services Ordinance 1924-1925, No. 17. That ordinance was fully debated in the Senate, and I very much regret to say that honorable senators were grievously misled by the Leader of the Senate in regard to it. 
With all respect to you,  Mr. President,  I submit that my remarks are relevant to the bill, the concluding clause of which contains a provision to validate the ordinance to which I refer. On the occasion in question the Leader of the Senate led us to believe that the Attorney-General had been asked to advise upon the situation, and had given his opinion that the ordinance was within the powers of the commission, and was otherwise fully justified. The opinion set out in the note read by the right honorable gentleman appeared to me, however, to be so astonishing that I was led to make further inquiries with the result that later he was forced . to admit that the AttorneyGeneral had not personally seen it. I was then informed that it had been handed to  Senator Pearce  by an officer of the Attorney-General's Department. The Minister stated further, that the Attorney-General had not given a written opinion upon the matter under discussion, and it was very evident, from the statement of the Leader of the Senate, that no real consideration had been given to the ordinance. In fact, from a perusal of the substance of the note handed te the Minister, one can only come to the conclusion that they were prepared by an office boy. And yet  Senator Pearce  had no hesitation in attaching to such legal nonsense all the fame and prestige of the Attorney-General's great legal reputation,  and asserting that the Government would welcome an appeal to the courts tj test the issue. There is no doubt whatever that his attitude then was responsible for many honorable senators taking their stand behind the Government. 
I remind honorable senators that the burden is laid upon them individually to scrutinize all such ordinances and disallow them if, in their  opinion,  they ave not fully justified. I ask them now to consider the  position  in which they have placed themselves by their action- on that occasion. When confronted with the. prospect of litigation, the Government was compelled to admit that there was at least grave uncertainty as to the legality of such an ordinance, and it threatened that if such proved to be the case, itwould bring in a bill during this Parliament to put the matter, in its opinion, beyond all dispute.  Apparently  this is now being attempted in the concluding clause of the measure now before the Senate. 
I think it is. If the Government does pass this clause it will be a gross act of. repudiation and will- afford ground for all of the tenants of the Civic Centre, if. not of the whole city area itself, to throw up their leases and demand full compensation for all the improvements which they have mad&gt;3 since the beginning. I say this with a full sense of my responsibility. The leases represent a bargain between two parties. If these ordinances are legalized there is a possibility that additional responsibilities, will be thrust upon the tenants willy-nilly. We cannot tolerate a bargain , like that. I decline to believe that the High Court will allow it. Only on Tuesday last a case, on somewhat similar lines, arose in the Victorian courts, and is reported in the Melbourne  Herald.  It is headed - 
I am a shareholder in a company that has a leasehold here. 
The Government has been led into this position by the continual blundering of the Federal Capital Commission. It would appear that the responsible Minister has become a mere rubber stamp in the hands of  Sir John  Butters. He appears to be ready to accept any proposition put forward by the commission, and ready also to bolster up his case with notes obtained, so far as one can see, from the office boy of the Attorney-General's Department, for no one with any real legal knowledge, or regard for his reputation, would accept responsibility for the absurd proposition put forward in this chamber by the Leader of the Senate. The Minister on the occasion to which I have already referred took the stand that the tenure in Canberra was equal to freehold, and asked - " Are we to make the residents of Canberra a privileged class at the expense of the rest of Australia? This ordinance," he said-I am quoting from the  Hansard  report - " does no injustice to the people of Canberra. It merely places them on the same footing as other citizens in other parts of the Commonwealth." 
I invite honorable senators to turn to section 17 of the Rates Ordinances of 1911, the revenues under which are to be applied for the purpose of road making, &amp;c. It is clearly laid down in that section, that the rates derived from the tenants are to be applied for the particular purpose of road-making, street-making, &amp;c. The disallowance of the ordinance would not consequently have the effect of placing the cost of street-making, kerbing, &amp;c., on the taxpayers of the Commonwealth, but individuals would not be singled out to pay the first cost. The burden will still be borne by the ratepayers in general of the Territory. When we were discussing this matter on a former occasion,  Senator Robinson  interjected that it appeared as if every one wanted something for nothing. It was obvious that he was not familiar with the ordinances in question. The Leader of the Senate relied on the fact that honorable senators could not be expected to examine carefully the volumes of ordinances and regulations which are issued by the cartload by the various departments. Let us examine the Roads and Footpaths Regulations, dated 20th October, 1927. According to the definition clause a " lessee " means a lessee under " a lease for a term not less than ten years at the time when the footpaths and kerbing or guttering is being formed." This is very carefully worded. If honorable senators will examine the remainder of the regulation, and particularly section 4, they will find that, if a man has had a lease for ten years, then, although he might be in his last year of the lease, and consequently would gain practically no benefit from the construction of the footpath, kerbing, or guttering on the road, he would have to pay the whole of the cost of such work. Should the lease be forfeited the new tenant would .be assessed on the value of the lease as improved. Is that freehold or equal to . freehold ? In the face of that regulation how can the Leader of the Senate reconcile with the facts his statement that the tenure is equal to freehold? The result of the Senate's disallowance of the ordinance is indeed grave. The tenants will be at the mercy of the commission. If the construction of footpaths is a " service " - a most extraordinary use of the term - we may next find the commission charging lessees for the running of the buses, because transport is just as much a service as is the construction of footpaths. 
The power to do so is here. I remind, the Senate that the footpaths in Canberra referred to in this ordinance are not what are ordinarily referred to as footpaths. The footpaths constructed under the arcade at Civic Centre have already been paid for as part of the buildings, and the tenants will have to maintain them. That is not done anywhere in Australia under the freehold system. Beyond those footpaths there are some geometrical designs in concrete, known as paths. The tenants under the ordinance have to pay for them as well. I have been unable to discover in legal history anything to compare with this *. ordinance. The only thing approaching it of which I know, is told in Kipling's  Life's Handicap.  In one of the " Soldiers Three" stories we are told that there was a shortage of a certain class of liquor, and that  Private  Mulvaney and his companions set out to raise the means to obtain some. To their joy they soon found a railway construction plant. Mulvaney made an  investi-gabon.  Let me tell in his own words what he found - 
Wid  that I whit to the shed an' found twas pay day among the coolies. Their wages was on a table  forninst  a big fine red buck av a man -  sivun fut  high, four  fut  wide, an' three  fut  thick,  wid  a fist on him like a cornsack. He was  payin'  the coolies fair an' easy, but he  wud  ask each man if he would raine that month, an' ' each man  sez  " Yes " av course. Thin he  wud  deduct from their wages accord in'. Whin all was paid, he filled an ould cigar-bos full av gun-wads, and  scatthered  ut among the coolies. They did not take much joy av that  performince,  an' small  wondher  A man close to me picks up a black gun-wad an' sings out, " I have ut." " Good may ut do you,"  sez  I. The coolie  wint  forward to this big, fine, red man, who threw a cloth off av the most  sumpshus, jooled,  enamelled an' variously  bedivilled  sedan-chair I  iver  saw." " 'Twas a most  amazin'  chair - all lined  wid  pink silk an' fitted  wid  red silk curtains. " Here ut is,"  sez  the red man. " Here ut is,"  sez  the coolie, an' he grinned weakly-ways. "Is ut any use to you?"  sez  the red man. " No,"  sez  the coolie ; " I'd like to make a  presint  av ut to you," - " I am graciously pleased to accept that same," says the red man an' at that all the coolies cried aloud in  fwhat  was mint for cheerful notes, an'  wint  back to their  diggin'.....  I  wint  to a coolie to ask questions.  Bhoys,  that man's name is  Dearsley,  an' he's beep  rafflin'  that ould sedan-chair monthly this matter of nine months. Ivry coolie on the section takes a ticket - or he gives 'em the go -  -wanst  a month on pay day. Ivry coolie that wins ut gives ut back to him, for 'tis too big to carry away, an' he'd sack the man that tried to sell ut. _ , 
Think av that - Two thousand coolies defrauded  wanst  a month! " 
That is the only parallel I have been able to find to the conditions existing in Canberra to-day. Unless there is a change in the treatment meted out to leaseholders those who have constructed shops in Canberra will find them as great a burden as that sedan chair was to its temporary owner. But Mulvaney got even with Dearsley. He went back to the camp, and took with him a big Yorkshireman, who fought Dearsley to determine the ownership of the chair. The Yorkshireman won and took possession of the chair. Its former owner could not complain to the police, because that would have rendered him liable to prosecution for having engaged in an illicit trade. Eventually the chair was exchanged for a supply of liquor. 
I hope that in this matter the Senate will stand by the tenants. When the amending ordinance was under discussion I attempted to point out that it was most unusual in its terms. Nowhere else is the provision of footpaths, kerbs and gutters regarded as a service. The word "service" is limited to the provision of water, electricity, sewerage, the collection and disposal of garbage, night soil, and the like. In each case there is a definite service rendered to an individual householder, but in the case of the construction of streets, footpaths, kerbs, and gutters whatever is done is rendered to the community at large, although, incidentally, it might be of some advantage to the leaseholders as such. These extraordinary variations from the generally accepted form of legislation on such subjects are disclosed gradually. The first of these ordinances, the Building and Services Ordinance 1924-25, deals with the subject quite normally. I quote section 2, which reads - 
  The Minister may make provisionfor the supply of water, electricity and other services to residents of this Territory. 
It is obvious that that was never intended to relate to footpaths. Footpaths are not supplied; they are constructed. So far this legislation is quite normal. Section 4 of the ordinance goes on to say that the commission may make regulations for,  inter alia - 
The charges to be made for services supplied in pursuance of this ordinance. 
There is no objection to that; nevertheless, it is a dangerous policy to establish that whilst the ordinance itself must be brought before Parliament, so far as the regulations are concerned the commission is free. Relying on this freedom, the commission took the power, by regulations purporting to be made under this ordinance, to impose charges for footpaths. That clearly was not within the ambit of the ordinance. 
I refer the Senate also to section 17 of the Rates Ordinance 1911, which provides that the rates are to be expended on the "formation, construction and maintenance of roads, streets, culverts and bridges." The wording of this ordinance is thus quite different from that dealing with services, properly so-called. This distinction has been followed in every local government act with which I am familiar. " Services " are something " supplied " to the individual, while "roads, culverts, footpaths," are referred to as something " constructed." 
The first departure from this method in Canberra was the regulation which I have already quoted. It was passed on the 20th October, 1927. It endeavored to include the " construction " of footpaths in the term " services," and was obviously illegal. Since then the Government has made frantic endeavours to overcome the difficulty caused by these regulations. 
From this outline of the facts honorable senators will see there is entire justification for my charge that the Government, and in particular the Minister, has throughout, been led by the nose by the commission. In his address in the Senate  Senator Pearce  said - 
Further, an examination of the figures relating to the reserve prices placed upon blocks shows that it is almost incredible from a practical point of view that kerbing and guttering hadbeen taken into account. 
Considering that the Government obtained the land at between £4 and £4 10s. per acre and that in the Civic Centre the lowest price it realized was £20 per foot, or between £4,000 or £5,000 an acre, it does not seem in the least incredible that the enormous gross profit so made should have been intended to include the cost of kerbing and guttering, and footpaths, which in Melbourne cost about 30s. a foot. The Government could well afford out of such prices to pay this charge. But it is to be remembered, also, that comparatively few lessees obtained their blocks at the upset price of £20 per foot. Many have paid from £135 to £150per foot or between £20,000 and £30,000 an acre. 
Surely there is nothing incredible in the suggestion that something should have been set aside out of that enormous profit for the making of kerbs and guttering, for it is to be remembered that at the Civic Centre all the footpaths, using that word in the usually accepted sense of paths along the edge or front of allotments, have been actually constructed by the lessees at their own expense and that these footpaths must be maintained free of cost to the commission for the term of the leases. In fact, the more one contemplates the position the more iniquitous the position appears. 
In the report of the Public Accounts Committee on housing and building costs in the Federal Capital Territory is a table giving particulars of three auction sales at Civic Centre, as follows: - 

<graphic href="119332192809200_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

If we accept £150 a foot as the average price, the land realized £30,000 an acre. I should be glad to buy land at from £4 to £4l0s. an acre and to sell it at £7 a foot, after I had constructed roads, kerbs, gutters and footpaths. 
The tenants are by no means anxious to rush into litigation with a government department. Recently I read to the Senate a letter written by lessees to the commission asking whether, if they paid these charges, they could have a written guarantee that no further costs would be inflicted upon them. I also read the reply, which declined to give such a guarantee, but stated that while it was hoped that there would be no further charges on the tenants, the commission could not promise anything in that direction. Where is the thing to end? The Minister suggested that tenants might just as well try to avoid payment of rates as to avoid the payment of kerbing and guttering charges, inasmuch as the leases are equally silent on both points. I consider that as each lessee is paying something like £3 a week for 20 feet of barren land, without a single improvement, he might well conclude that his payment includes rates. 
I ask the honorable senator to examine the leases, they do not mention such charges. 
Leases should be construed here as they are elsewhere, and the fact that a lease is silent on the point means everywhere else that the landlord pays such charges. The rating ordinance itself is a most objectionable measure, and it is almost certain that many tenants will be driven to test its validity. For example, if, through misfortune, the widow of a public servant who is purchasing a house, is more than 30 days overdue in her payment of rates, the amount due is automatically increased by one-tenth. One must compare like with like. In Victoria, in the centre from which I come, if any one fails to pay his rates, he is charged 6 per cent. per annum on the amount due, but there is a proviso in the act which does not permit a council to impose that penalty unless a person is more than six months overdue in his payments. Obviously that is a fair provision. Here the limit is 30 days, and then the unfortunate individual is saddled with a charge which, looked at purely as a matter of principal and interest, works out at the astonishing rate of 120 per cent. per annum. It would take a widow who was waiting probate, more than 30 days before she could receive money from the estate of her late husband. The whole thing is amazing. The curious part isthat while the commission avails itself of unlimited powers in every other direction, when complaints are made in this matter it simply passes the onus on to Parliament and asks " What is the use of coming to us when Parliament has passed the act?" Its officers fall on your neck, weeping for sympathy, and that is the last one hears of it. Are these the "equal to freehold" conditions described by the Minister. 
The commission takes the stand that it must observe the very letter of the law. 
-No, it is afraid to depart from the letter of the law, fearing that it will be attacked for leniency. 
The commission merely replies that the regulation has been approved by Parliament and cannot be altered. Honorable senators who fail to scrutinize these ordinances, should realize the responsibility sought to be thrust upon them by the commission for their neglect. These ordinances are brought forward by the commission, or by the Minister at its instigation, and quietly, almost . surreptitiously, laid on the table of this chamber, and if no one successfully objects to them, they become the law of the land, for which this Parliament is blamed. If one goes on a mission of protest to the commission, its officials weep and wring their hands in apparent helplessness. The situation would be Gilbertian, if it were not tragic. I can only compare it with that described in that famous fable by  Mr. Lewis  Carroll of the Walrus and the Carpenter. Honorable senators will remember that the walrus and the carpenter persuaded the oysters to go for a walk on the sand, and when they reached a convenient spot for a picnic, proceeded to devour the oysters. I shall quote a couple of the verses, which exactly depict the attitude of the Federal Capital Commission to its tenants - "It seems a shame," the Walrus said, "To play them such a trick, 
After we've brought them out so far, 
And made them trot so quick!" 
The Carpenter said nothing but "The butter's spread too thick!! " " I weep for you," the Walrus said : " I deeply sympathize." 
With sobs and tears he sorted out, 
Those of the largest size, 
Holding his pocket-handkerchief 
Before his streaming eyes. " O oysters," said the Carpenter, " You've had a pleasant run ! 
Shall we be trotting home again?" 
But answer came there none - 
And this was scarcely odd, because 
They'd eaten every one. 
The simile is an excellent one.  Sir John  Butters, I apprehend, is the walrus, and  Sir John  Harrison the carpenter. The unfortunate tenants are in the position of the oysters. Those who have already surrendered their leasesand forfeited their good money represent the young oysters already devoured, while the others are expecting to meet a similar end, and to be forced out of their holdings. Honorable senators must surely realize that they will be blamed by the public for these blunders. I ask them to remember the War Service Homes scandals, and how badly the Government fared then. The activities of this commission appear in even a worse light. Blunders innumerable have been made in the valuations. I refer the Government to the following extract from the first annual report of the Land Administrative Board of Queensland for the year 1927, which reads - 
Mention should also be made of the principle laid down by the legislature many years ago that rent should be fixed according to the amount which experienced persons would be willing to pay for land of a similar quality in the same neighbourhood. This is sound enough in theory, but unless great care is exercised, can become very mischievous in its application. Experienced persons are found to pay fancy prices for land, and thereby establish rental values, which, if applied generally to the industry, might be ruinous in their effect. Even at the present time of stress, grazing properties are changing hands at very substantial figures. The prices paid for the properties are not always influenced by business considerations alone, but by a great variety of reasons and factors varying with the individual. They are, therefore, at times, a very poor guide to correct values. 
SenatorReid. - Why does not the honorable senator send a copy of that to the commission ? 
If I were in charge of the department concerned I should have it inscribed in letters of gold, and place it above the door of the offices of the Federal Capital Commission. 
Canberra valuations, for some reason, are based on those of Goulburn, which is a gross anomaly. Goulburn is a wellsettled area with excellent and centrally situated railway communication. At the time the Canberra land sales were made, a gross misrepresentation occurred, as the plans represented the main railway station to be at Ainslie. Every one was under the impression that the line would be continued over the Molonglo bridge, and that the principal station would be at Ainslie. Three years have since elapsed, and no move has been taken in that direction. All goods for Ainslie have to be landed at Eastlake and carted 4 miles to the Civic Centre - a very different condition of affairs from that which prevails at Goulburn. 
The Leader of the Senate has consistently endeavoured to dragoon honorable senators into following his lead in this business. Blind obedience to orders and perfect discipline are of value on the battlefield; but even there they are somewhat out of date, and have been largely superseded by the discipline of reason. I recently read a book written by a British staff officer on this subject. He cited the case of a battle on the Somme as ah example. An attack had been ordered to be made by a British regular battalion behind a barrage, and, consequently, had to proceed at the extremely slow rate of 30 yards to a minute. The zero hour came, and by some failure of liaison with the artillery the barrage did not materialize. Nevertheless, at zero hour the battalion climbed out of their trenches, formed line, shoulder to shoulder in no man's land, and advanced, their colonel leading them at a stately slow march. Of course, every single officer and man was shot down long before they reached the enemy. The same staff officer goes on to relate with approval the remark made by an Australian soldier who witnessed the British attack and its result.  His  comment is illuminating. "Well, Bill," he said to his mate, "it strikes me these professional soldiers are natural-born b- amateurs." That officer proceeds to condemn this blind obedience, even on the battlefield, when circumstances have entirely changed. I have no doubt at all that had our distinguished and gallant colleague,  Senator Cox,  been present on that occasion, he would have been of the same mind as this British colonel, and would have launched his men to the assault in the same gallant but unreasoning manner with the like result. 
 Senator Cox's  attitude towards the Government reminds me of a story that I heard during the recent visit of the American Fleet to Sydney. An Australian sailor in the city , rather tired of the " win-the-war " claim of the Americans, turned to a messmate, and said, " I had a fine swim outside the Heads this morning, Bill." Some one remarked that he was foolish, as the sharks would get him. He replied, "Not at all. I was perfectly all right. I wore a costume with the stars and stripes in front, and on the back the words, 'I won the war,' and even the sharks would not swallow that." I am sure, from my observations in this chamber, that in like circumstances our honorable, distinguished, and gallant colleague would have no difficulty in swallowing any statement provided it was " O.K'd " by the Leader of the Senate, but I venture to say that the remainder of us resent the attitude of that honorable gentleman in endeavouring to force down our throats a system of discipline so rigid and unreasoning that it has been largely discarded on the battlefield. On the last occasion when this subject was discussed the whip was cracked over us. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate on the 5th instant threw out this challenge: - 
The honorable senator, who is a lawyer and also a ratepayer in Canberra, has an opportunity to distinguish himself by taking the case to the High Court on behalf of his fellow ratepayers here. 
I accepted that challenge and on the same day I wrote to the commission as follows :  - 
The Secretary, 
Federal Capital Commission, 
Canberra. 
Dear  Sir, 
Referring to previous correspondence herein, and as it is evidently quite impossible to arrive at a satisfactory solution, the abovenamed company formally notifies you that it objects to paying the amounts referred to in your letters, on the following grounds: - 
That the work referred to was not performed. 
That no notice was given to the company of intention to do the work as required by section 5, regulation dated 20th October, 1927. 
That under section 4(3) of the above regulation it is provided that if a kerb crossing is the kerb crossing in respect of two or more parcels of land, the payment for the kerb crossing would be borne by the lessees in equal proportions, but in this case, although there was only one parcel of land with one entrance, four (4) kerb crossings have been charged for. 
That the regulation is  ultra vires. 
That the ordinance is  ultra vires. 
As the matter should be finalized as early as possible,I have to request that proceedings should be instituted forthwith against the company, to recover the amounts, and I notify you that the necessary papers may be served upon me personally or at the registered offices of the company at 94 Queen-street, Melbourne, or alternatively, service of the papers will be accepted by the company's solicitors. 
There is no beating about the bush in that letter. The only reply I have received to date is that my communication will receive the consideration of the commission. Since then the Minister has declined to answer questions in reference to the matter on the ground that litigation is threatened. Who has threatened the commission with litigation? So far as I know no one has done so. How then does the Minister justify his attitude in withholding information?  His  attitude reminds me of an incident which occurred on Gallipoli. Head-quarters staffsent a message to me that they desired the services of a cook's offsider. I chose a man named Campbell who went on duty with the general staff. Four days afterwards he came back under escort.It appears that he was lefttoo near the quartermaster's rum and as a result he wanted to kiss General Birdwood. When they refused to allow him to do so he wantedto fight all and sundry, with the result that he came back under escort with an impolite message as to the class of man I had in the 7th batallion. I was naturally annoyed with Campbell and told him that he would have to be courtmartialled. But then a thought struck me. I had just come back from the front line where a very active Turkish sniper was causing a great deal of annoyance. A periscope which I hadput up carefully over the parapet had been smashed by him, and fragments of the glass had pierced my shoulder. I told Campbell that if he would bomb that sniper out I would let him off the court-martial. Being filled with rum at the time, of course, he wanted to go off straight away to do so, but I told him he would have to wait until night. He went away still under escort, but about 2 o'clock in the afternoon he sent word that he wanted to see me. I told the guard to bring him along. He came, saluted and said "  Sir, I  should like to look at yon place." I. said to the guard " Take him to post 3, and let him have a look at" it.". He was taken to the post and carefully observed the sniper'sposition for half an hour, and then came back to me, saluted and said "  Sir, I'll  tak' the coort-martial ". He had thought very hard over the matter and preferred to take the courtmartial rather than face the sniper. The Minister for Home and Territories has evidently been thinking very hard over my communication and the Government's reply to it is this clause in the bill to validate ordinances. The Government will not face the sniper. The commission has hitherto been a law unto itself. 
The roads and footpaths regulations provide that before any work is done under them, notice must be given to the tenant. This is provided for in regulation 6 which says: - 
Before the formation of any footpaths, kerbcrossings for vehicles, kerbing or guttering on any road is commenced, the secretary of the commission shall notify in writing each lessee of land adjoining the road of the portion of the cost payable in respect thereof by the lessee and the period within which it is payable. 
In no single case that I have been able to trace has that notice been sent, and if we look at the Public Accounts Committee's report we begin to suspect the reason for it. The report says - 
Footpaths. - The cost set down by the commission for footpaths, viz., £25, on which tenants had to pay rental, was regarded as grossly excessive. In some cases rental on paths had been charged to tenants months before the paths had been constructed. 
I wondered why the commission was so reluctant to proceed to extremes, and, having some suspicions about it, I looked up the matter, only to find that it is good English common law that, when a statutory duty is cast on a public officer, if he disregards it, he is amenable to the law. I refer honorable senators to  Archbold's Criminal Pleading,  26th edition, page 6, which, under the heading "Disobedience to Rules and Orders made under Statutory Authority," contains the following : - 
Where a statute, the matter of which concerns the public in general, delegates to commissioners the power to make orders under it, disobedience to an order made by them .in pursuance of such power is an indictable misdemeanor at common law. 
A case cited is that of  Queen  v.  Walker,  reported in  The Law Reports, Queen's Bench Cases,  volume X. I venture to say that the Cabinet will find this case much more to the point than the decisions already cited in the Senate by  Sir George  Pearce. ' It reads as follows : - 
By the Epping Forest Amendment Act 1872 ( 35 and 30 Vict. c. 05), s. 5, the com-  missioners were authorized to make orders prohibiting, until the expiration of the session of Parliament next after their final report, any  inclosures  of land made before the act of 1871, and for the prevention of any waste, injury, or destruction of vert, herbage; trees, &amp;c, in" or upon any land within the forest subject in their judgment to any  forestal  or common rights. The commissioners made an order, that until the expiration of the session of' Parliament next after their final report, " all persons be and are hereby prohibited from committing any waste, &amp;c, in or upon the waste lands in the forest within the manor of  Theydon Bois  (including enclosures of waste lands made within twenty years next preceding the said 21st of August, 1871), all which lands are distinguished, on  a  plan annexed, by the colour green." 
The defendant was the occupier, as tenant, of a piece of land, part of the above waste lands, which was inclosed some time since 1851, and is part of the land coloured green on the plati, and persons claimed right of pasturage over all the waste lands. The order was served upon the defendant, and he afterwards committed waste by digging marl and clay, £&amp;c; upon which an indictment was pre:ferred against him for disobeying the order. A verdict of guilty having been entered: - 
Held, that the order was good: and that disobedience to it was a misdemeanor. 
I want to know if the Government intends to carry out the law. We have the 
Government with a great parade setting about enforcing the Crimes Act against some unfortunate workmen who have been misled, and asking the Senate to assist it in passing further legislation. I am informed that the commission has itself flagrantly defied the law. In the Senate I have asked questions on the subject, but they have been side-stepped. In the report of the Committee on Public Accounts we find that the commissioners themselves have disregarded the terms of their own building ordinance, which provides that no unregistered builder shall be employed on any building in the Territory. The committee has found that the commission has constantly employed such persons. Every move one makes is met with the outcry that the claim is an imposition on the taxpayers. I have shown that that charge is false, in so far as it relates to the tenants, but questions reluctantly answered by the Minister have shown how shamefully the commission has been imposing on the taxpayers. One is in a state of profound apprehension as to what it will do or be found to have done next. The situation recalls  irresistably  one of Joel  Chandeler  Harris' fables: - It was at a coloured dance in South Carolina under a pavilion, when a merry party was surprised by the appearance of a small black and white animal. At its approach, the ladies screamed and jumped upon the seats, and the men ran out leaving the old fiddler alone with the visitor. The animal spoke - "I ain't done nothin', what do they run for"? The old fiddler leaned low and spoke. " T'aint what you'se gone and done,  Massa  Skunk, cause yo ain't done nothin' yet; its what you'se goin' to do they run fur ".  [Extension of time granted.)  Are we to wait until we, as a party, have been discredited beyond remedy by the commission ? Or shall we seek cover at once ? The Minister in another place has valiantly defended the commissioners, as he was bound to do. It is in fact a refreshing contrast to the attitude adopted by Labour Ministers in Victoria,, who have had no scruple in attacking their Chief Commissioner of Railways,  Mr. Clapp,  and their Commissioner of Police,  Mr. Blarney.  But I am under no obligation to defend the Federal Capital Commission, and I say deliberately that  Sir John  Butters, when he was giving evidence before the Public Accounts Committee, repeatedly went remarkably close to committing perjury in regard to a lease in which I was interested. 
I say it deliberately now as I said it on oath before the Public Accounts Committee. 
Apparently the honorable senator would appoint a commission and allow it to do exactly what it pleases without any word of protest. I decline to remain silent. I raised this point before the Public Accounts Committee, and I stated that one df my objections to the' administration of the Territory was that I was compelled to buy four -blocks of land when I wanted only one, and that the commission had set its face against my selling the three blocks that I did not require. 
The  chairman  of the commission,  Sir John  Butters, denied on oath that such was the case, and actually produced a letter I had signed undertaking to build on the whole four. He said, in effect, " This proves him a liar." I ' returned home and from my file of correspondence I took a letter from Woodgers and Calthorpe, the agents for the commission, in which was enclosed the form which I had signed, and which was to the effect that unless I signed the documents binding me to build on the whole four blocks, the transfer to me would not be agreed to. In addition, the circular, issued to all lessees, saying that whilst the first purchaser was allowed to sell, no subsequent purchaser would be permitted to do so, and must bind himself personally to build. Every lessee received such a circular. Four leases were transferred ou my account, and the Chief Commissioner raised the point that the commission would not allow four leases to be re-issued to me and compelled me to consolidate them into one lease. As a result of that action I must hold an area with an 80-ft. frontage in one parcel for 99 years. Instead of looking for a single purchaser at £3,000 I must obtain one who is willing to give £12,000. That is not a fair way of conducting business. That lease was issued, and yet, in face of that,  Sir John  Butters denied, on oath, that pressure had been placed upon me in any way to prevent me from selling a single block. 
As a means of improving the bill, I intend, in committee, to move an amendment which will have the effect of enabling the commission to dispose of the freehold of the land. The amendment is to insert after clause 14 a new clause, 14a, to read - 
Section 15 of the principal act is amended by omitting sub-section 4 thereof. 
I again refer honorable senators to the report of- the Public Accounts Committee from which, although it has made no definite finding on the subject, it is clear that an overwhelming majority of lessees prefer the freehold system. They practically all agree with the views expressed by  Sir Arthur  Cocks, when he said - 
Fundamentally it seems to me that the idea of a leasehold with periodical appraisement will he the biggest drawback that the city will have to encounter. Leasehold is repugnant to the general ideas of the Australian. Leasehold is repugnant to the man who is prepared to advance on building or land, because * of the unknown operation of that appraisement factor, that gives you possession with a string attached thereto that may make your possession a burden instead of an asset. 
The conditions are not at all comparable, but the Government has not made any move in the direction of reverting to the leasehold system there. I am convinced that we cannot hope for any improvement in the Federal Capital Territory until we dispense with the leasehold system.  Sir Arthur  Cocks declared that' it has been proved by bitter experience that a leasehold is only a grant to which a string is attached. 
.- I regret that  Senator Elliott  has thought it necessary to abuse everyone and everything associated with the Federal Capital Territory. The Government has been very fortunate in securing the services of such able and honorable men as those now in control of affairs in 
Canberra, who have carried out a stupendous task in a highly satisfactory manner. The Federal Capital Commission has, in accordance with the act under which it was appointed, undertaken its work in a business like way, and has disposed of the leasehold of certain areas of land in the prescribed manner; but  Senator Elliott  and others who have acquired blocks are now complaining because they have not derived that return which they expected. There are some who will always squeak, and even now when the commission has overcome the initial difficulties, and the activities at Canberra are proceeding smoothly, persist in finding fault in every direction. I understand that the block of which  Senator Elliott  complains is returning him 7 per cent. in interest. 
When Canberra was first seriously mentioned as a site for the Federal Capital, a good deal of objection was raised down South but the influence of New South Wales was sufficient to overcome all obstacles. The work of establishing a city here was undertaken somewhat hurriedly, and some honorable senators appear to overlook the difficulties with which the commission was confronted in obtaining suitable labour and material at a price to enable big developmental works to be completed at a reasonable figure. This is a beautiful city. It has no slums such as are to be found in other cities. 
The commission cannot complete houses to meet the immediate requirements of new residents, and must, consequently, build in anticipation. Vacant houses and shops can be seen in all parts of Melbourne and Sydney. 
The commission places an upset price on the leases, and if some persons pay ten times more than the price fixed, it is not the fault of the commission or the Government. If the leases could be sold at higher prices than those at which they were bought, we would not hear any complaints. If  Senator Elliott  has sufficient courage to hold on to his leases for a few years, he may find that he can dispose of them at a good profit. Canberra has the support of a majority of the Australian people, and I do not think anything will prevent it from becoming one of the most beautiful cities of the world. 
The honorable senator has not seen the new Jerusalem in Palestine. I have, and I can assure him that it is about one of the most uninviting places that any man has ever entered.  Senator Elliott,  in the course of his speech, said that I had disregared orders. 
Well, he said something like that, and went on to suggest that we on this side of the Senate are dumb-driven creatures, doing everything at the behest of the Minister. I have been in association with the Leader of the Senate for about eight years, and I can honestly say that I have never known him to attempt to drive any one. At all events, I should like to see the man who could drive me! Members of this chamber are elected by the people for a term of six years. 
I agree with the Minister. It is most pleasing to think that having been elected to this chamber, a member of it, bar accidents, has six solid years ahead of him. 
I think it is an excellent measure, and I intend to support the Government. 
.- I could not help feeling, when  Senator Elliott  was speaking, that, because of his personal losses and grievances against the Federal Capital Commission, he was altogether too severe in his strictures on that body. It is not fair that any honorable senator should air personal grievances in this chamber, especially in view of the fact that the members of the commission have no opportunity to reply. 
As a member of the Public "Works Committee, I have been in touch with the commission for some years, and I am thoroughly conversant with all building operations that have been carried on in the Territory. I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Senate, in his secondreading speech, refer to the good work that has been done by the commission. I endorse what he said. That body has done excellent work despite the blunders that have been made. 
The honorable senator has had ample opportunity to put that question to witnesses before the Public Accounts Committee, which has recently concluded an inquiry into the activities of the commission. Therefore, he should be in a position to say who was responsible for the blunders. 
Possibly the commission has made some blunders in the course of its work here. Although that body has been severely criticized, the critics forget that it was called upon to do a great deal of work in a limited time. If any one is to blame for wasteful expenditure in Canberra, the representatives of New South Wales in this Parliament must take their share of it, because when Parliament was meeting in Melbourne they brought strong pressure to bear on Ministers to transfer the Seat of Government to Canberra without delay. The initial work in connexion with the erection of Parliament House was carried out by the Works and Railways Department. At that time, owing to the wave of prosperity in all the States, it was almost impossible to get qualified artisans  here.  There was so much work available in our capital cities that they refused to take jobs offering in Canberra except at specially high rates of pay. While on this subject I should like to say that  Colonel Owen,  whose name now is never mentioned, deserves much credit for his excellent work in connexion with the layout of Canberra, and the erection of the earlier buildings. In order to induce artisans to accept work here, the Works and Railways Department advertised that workmen would be paid 5s. a day in excess of rates ruling in the capital cities; "but even then it was impossible to get men in sufficient numbers to allow of satisfactory progress being made. Later  Colonel Owen  advertised that workmen would get wages wet or dry, and finally, as building operations in the capital cities were slowing down, men were induced to come to Canberra because of the improved conditions offering here. This arrangement to pay wages to workmen in all weather was responsible for an additional £80,000 in the expenditure on Parliament House. 
I do not wish to discuss that matter at this stage. I admit that there was a slowing down, and that for some time many men did not do a fair thing by" their employers, the people of Australia. We also have to thank  Mr. Murdoch,  the Commonwealth Chief Architect, for .his work in connexion with this building. We should not forget that when the commission was appointed it received definite instructions that -all public buildings required for the opening of Parliament should be ready by a certain date, so that the inaugural ceremony could be performed by the Duke of York. The commission completed the work in time; but only as a result of immense expenditure. Any one who has any knowledge of the organization necessary for the development of a city must admit that the members of the commission could not be everywhere. Subordinate officials had to be appointed. Some of these may have neglected their work, and, as a result, the commission has to accept the blame. Much of the trouble was due to the fact that everything had to be ready by a certain date. It is only fair, when bo much blame is being attached to the commission, that the good work which it has done should be noted. Prior to its appointment all building operations in Canberra were carried out by the Works and Railways Department. As the city developed, and as people came here to live, it became necessary to provide for an administrative body, because the Works and Railways Department is not  in  any way concerned with civic administration. 
That department could not be expected to function satisfactorily as an administrative body from a civic point of view. I say, therefore, that the Government acted wisely when it appointed the commission, although I do not agree with much of what the commission has done. I do not agree, for instance, with the commission's proposal to debit the citizens with the cost of  footpaths,  guttering, and kerbing. Since the Territory hasto be developed on the leasehold system, tenants should not be required to pay for such works, because in time all leases will revert to the commission, as a trustee for the people of Australia. I have always objected, and will continue to object, to the action of the commission in this matter. The cost of footpaths, kerbing and guttering around the dwellings of the citizens of Canberra is just as much a charge upon the people of Australia as is the cost of such works around Parliament House. The position is the same in connexion with land values. Some persons, keenly desirous of obtaining certain blocks, ran up the price to a figure far beyond the value of the land. I am not greatly concerned about their having to pay high rentals in the circumstances; but the fictitious values thus placed upon the laud were used as a basis for fixing the rentals of the land set apart for the erection of houses for public servants. Moreover, the houses themselves cost far too much. The commission will have to write down their value to a proper economic basis. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that the amount paid as rates by the residents of Canberra was small in comparison with the sum contributed by the general taxpayers for the development of the Federal Capital Territory. The third commissioner proposed in this bill will not represent the" general community whose money is being spent in Canberra, but mere.'y the public servants who are the paid servants of the people generally. The control- of Canberra should be placed in the hands of two commissioners.  Sir John  Butters is not a weak man who tries to please everybody, but a man with a mind and a will of his own. Indeed, his will is rather too strong to suit a number of people. I admire a man of strong character, especially when he is occupying a position of responsibility. Had a man of the jellyfish type been Chief Commissioner, the large amount of work already done in Canberra would not have been carried out.  Sir John  Butters has not yet learned how to handle the public; but time will remedy that defect. 
It is natural that a man with the temperament possessed by  Sir John  Butters should sometimes clash with the citizens. I should leave to the Chief Commissioner the general administration of the Territory, and as second commissioner would have a man experienced in architecture and town-planning. In those respects Canberra is lacking. If there is to be a third commissioner, he should be paid more than is proposed in this bill. He will represent about 8,000 residents in Canberra whose grievances he will have to hear and consider. 
But they have not to deal with their grievances. The general taxpayer is represented in Canberra by the members of this Parliament. For the first year at least the third commissioner should be paid £500 or £600. 
There is no need for that; but I consider that for the work  which  he will be railed upon to perform, the third commissioner should be paid :'n  adequate salary.  He will  have  not only to attend the meetings of the commission, but al.°o to inspect the various works being carried out. 
The committee can do no more than offer suggestions.' The  man who is to accept the responsibility must see things for himself; he must know what he is doing when he raises his voice at the meetings of the commission. 
The Government has acted wisely in restricting the franchise to persons who might be described as permanent residents. Those who pay the money should have a voice in the spending of it. Many of the present residents of the Territory are casuals, who have no real interest in its future. I agree that they should not have a vote for the election of a third commissioner. But I consider that every permanent resident, whether a leaseholder or a person resident in an hotel, should have a vote, because if not a ratepayer directly, he pays rates indirectly. 
I am not prepared to support the proposed amendment suggested by  Senator Elliott  relating to a change from the leasehold to the freehold system of land tenure. While I recognize the disadvantages of the leasehold system, I consider that they are out-weighed by the advantages. Some day Canberra will be one of the most beautiful cities in the world, and if the leasehold system is retained, the accretion in the value of property will be so great that the city will pay for itself. Of course that will take time; but it would be unwise to effect any change of the present tenure. I regard the system in operation here as a wise experiment, and shall vote to retain it. The commission, however, does not understand the leasehold system; it is trying to superimpose upon it conditions which properly relate only to the freehold system. That is the cause of much of the discontent among the residents. I have always maintained, and do still maintain, that the values of land in Canberra have been fixed too high. The residents of Canberra have, for the most part, been compelled to live here, and it is unjust to force them to pay exorbitant charges for their land and houses. Our treatment of them while just, should tend towards generosity. 
Even senators are compelled to spend a portion of their time in this city. I do not say that the public servants should be. rewarded for coming here, but they should at least be treated fairly. The conditions under which public servants live in Canberra are different from those which apply to postmasters and bank managers, who are liable to be transferred from place to place. They can acquire a freehold. Already the commission has made a great deal of profit on its leaseholds at the expense of the residents and business people of the Territory. The high prices charged for land and the consequent high rentals are killing business in Canberra. 
The values placed on business sites are far too high. 
In connexion with the disposal of land in Canberra, I favour a system under which a value is being placed on each block and all applications for it go to a ballot. 
No, I should provide against that by stipulating that only those persons who undertook to build within a specified period should participate in the ballot. 
SenatorFoll.  -  Would that not be a gamble ? 
The system which has been followed hitherto is a gamble, because the competition has forced up prices unduly. A ballot would be the fairest way of disposing of the land. Although I favour control by two commissioners, rather than three, I support the bill which I regard as an experiment along right lines. I repeat that, in my opinion, the Chief Commissioner should confine himself largely to matters of administration, while the second commissioner should be a man with architectural and town planning experience. 
 I shall support this bill. For a long time I have thought that the residents of the Federal Capital Territory should have some representation on their local governing body, and I believe that this measure will afford them adequate  representation for the time being. Canberra is in but an embryo stage, and later, as it grows, the functions of the representatives of its citizens will probably be increased. 
I cordially agree with the speech delivered by the. Leader of the Senate on this bill, and particularly with his appeal to honorable senators to view fairly and generously the operations of the commissioners, bearing in mind the extreme difficulty of the task with which they were faced. Through my association with the Committee of Public Accounts, I have had recent and ample opportunity to hear a great volume of evidence upon building operations and costs in this city, and also the replies of the commission to criticism on the subject. The whole thing boils down to the fact that Canberra was built during a peak industrial period, at a time when  labour  was extremely expensive and frequently inefficient. "Further, the commission was called upon to perform a job in two years that ordinarily would have occupied five or six years. Consequently, some things were done which would not have been  done  had those concerned been given more time to perform the task. I inspected Parliament House a few months before the opening ceremony took place, and I was incredulous that the job could possibly be completed in the time expected. Contemporaneously with its erection, a great number of nouses were being constructed, the secretariat was in progress, Government House was being redesigned, and all essential services were being carried out. That the commission was able to complete its task within the scanty period allotted, reflects great credit upon its energy and ability. I have formed the opinion that the commission did its work really well. I have been associated with the Chief Commissioner in another big undertaking, and I know that he is a competent and able administrator, who never spares himself in the conduct of his duty. The job which he has just completed could not have been better done by anybody else, and the Government might easily have appointed some one who would have done it very much worse. The task of constructing Canberra in the time allotted was a stupendous one, and all fair-minded individuals will view with generosity any mistakes that may have been made. It is absurd to claim that anybody could build such a city in the time allowed without making mistakes ; mistakes are inseparable from any big public undertaking. It is the easiest thing in the world to play the game backwards, and for one to inspect a great undertaking when it is completed and point out how errors could have been avoided. Those who criticize the Federal Capital Commission should mentally place  themselves  in the position of that body two or three years ago. Labour was scarce, dear, and indifferent; it was a task to obtain material, poor communication existed with the large cities, and a tremendous number of different jobs were going on at the same time. I am convinced that if there has been any wastage of public money, the amount involved would have been even greater had the job been in the hands of other people. 
I understand that the Senate is to be called upon to decide the issue of leasehold versus freehold. All my life I have been an advocate of the freehold as against the leasehold principle. I like to own my own piece of ground. But we have to recollect that Canberra is a new city, and that a great experiment is in progress. I wish to see leasehold given a chance, and I "do not think that this is an opportune time to effect any change in the system prevailing here. It is claimed that the price of land in Canberra is inflated, but if so that is the fault of purchasers. The leasehold principle is undoubtedly responsible for any inflation, because land will always carry an inflated value if one can obtain the use of it without the cost of acquiring the freehold. I know of two instances in different parts of one State in Australia which bears out the truth of that statement. In one section the land was sold on long terms and very small deposits, while in the other it was sold either for cash or for half cash down. Where it was sold on long terms, conditions similar to the leasehold system which obtains in Canberra, there were inflated values, while in the other section, where cash was paid, there was a solid value throughout. The Public Accounts Committee took that example into consideration, and a great improvement' could be effected here by adopting the recommendation of that body that land should be valued atthe upset price, the buyers to pay cash for anything in excess of that price. Such a system would prevent the inflation of land values. 
Yes, after the land had been valued by the commission. Actually, no one can say with certainty whether the price of land in this area really has been inflated. I believe that the building of Canberra should have begun 50 years hence; but now that it has started I wish to see it proceed along sound lines. I believe that local land values will increase as the years pass, much the same as has been the case in the other cities of the Commonwealth. 
I hope that the Minister will clear up one specific point when replying. It relates to the last clause of the bill. Some little time ago a certain ordinance was debated in this chamber, and the Minister stated that he had obtained legal advice upon it, and that it was valid. I do not question either the statement of the Minister or the soundness of the advice he has received, but certain people have stated that they intend to go to law over the matter. I hope that this clause will not deprive them of any rights that they possessed before the bill was introduced. I cannot bring myself to believe that it would be right to pass a law that would deprive people of rights which existed prior to that action. 
That is not a fair way of looking at the matter, although if a man likes to spend his money on litigation he may do so. The law courts are there for his convenience. I hope that the clause is not framed for the purpose of preventing access to the court, and I am confident that the Minister will clear the matter up when replying. 
I wish to know whether it is proposed to do something that will prevent anybody from going to court to obtain an interpretation of a situation that existedbefore this measure was introduced. If it is, I shall have to reconsider my opinion, because I cannot bring myself to believe that that would be a right action to take. I hope that the Minister will again deal with the clause in his reply. 
The appearance of this bill really marks the occurrence of a second thought on the part of the Government as to what is the best method to control the affairs of this Capital. A second thought frequently occurs to one in the affairs of every day life, and I see no reason why it should not be justified in this instance. When the Federal Capital Commission was first appointed I objected to it on the ground of expense, but I am now fully convinced that if one. is to have any form of control at all it means the expenditure of a good deal of money.This city is entirely different from those towns which spring into existence spontaneously. It derives its existence from the fact that the nation wished to set down in a specific area certain buildings and instrumentalities of its own. Sydney, Melbourne and other cities attained their present dimensions from very small beginnings, and gathered around them many activities that are a necessary concomitant to such cities and their immediate neighbourhood. In this instance big buildings were erected, and works undertaken, not at the instance of the people living here, but at the instance of the people of the Commonwealth generally. One is struck by the apparent folly of paying so much to maintain a commission to conduct the affairs of a small community such as this. The administrative cost of Sydney and Melbourne, which cities have an annual budget of from £3,000,000 to £4,000,000, represents but 5 per cent. of the total expenditure, whereas in Canberra those costs are very much higher. But the unique position of this city places it in an entirely separate category, and no satisfactory comparison can be made with the other cities of Australia. 
A great deal of cricitism has been indulged in about the alleged maladministration of the affairs of this community, and I am afraid that the old saying " Falsehood flies while truth comes limping after " has had too much application  here. Recently there has been an extensive inquiry into the affairs of the federal Capital by the Public Accounts Committee, upon which is represented every complexion of political opinion in the Commonwealth. That committee has now submitted its report, and so far  as  I can gather from its findings, there has been nothing seriously amiss in the conduct of the affairs of this Capital by the Federal Capital Commission. Some sinister suggestions have been made about money and material finding wrong destinations, but the Public Accounts Committee must have failed in its duty if such things really happened because it has not given credence to the insinuations. That leads one to the conclusion that those who made the allegations spoke too hurriedly. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 With other honorable senators I disapprove of the method of giving representation to the citizens of Canberra which is outlined in this bill. We are livingin too democratic an age for votes to be based on bricks and mortar. The people who live in the Federal Capital Territory have my deepest sympathy. After listening to the flowery speech delivered by  Senator Elliott,  I have come to the conclusion that I must, like my colleagues, vote against the bill, and I claim the honorable senator's vote for adult suffrage in the Federal Capital Territory. There is no doubt that tie public servants who are compelled to reside in the Federal Capital Territory suffer great disadvantages. One honorable senator declares that they ought to be satisfied seeing that they have electric light, a wonderful water supply, and a sewerage system, but they had all these things in Melbourne, and, furthermore, there they had the right to vote for the election of members to represent them in the Federal Parliament. In these circumstances, it behoves the Government to give them not only adult franchise in the election of the gentleman who is to represent them on the Federal Capital Commission, but also a representative in the Federal Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the make  a  few observations with regard  to the  point raised by  Senator J.  B. Hayes. On the second reading I pointed out  that  when the Commonwealth Housing Act was passed  the  Minister for Home and Territories instructed  the  Federal Capital Commission  to get in  touch with the directors of  the  Commonwealth Bank with a view  to the  commission becoming  an  authority under  the  Housing Act. The commission  did so, and  the Commonwealth Bank referred  the  matter  to  their legal advisers. The advice given by  the  bank's solicitors  is set out in the  following letter : - 
Wigram House, 10 Castlereagh-street, 
Sydney. 10th July, 1928. 
The Governor, 
Com mon wealth Bank of Australia, 
Sydney. 
Dear  Sir, 
We are in receipt of your letter of the 4th inst., with enclosures, which we have perused. 
Ordinance No. 11 of 1928 purports to have been issued under the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909, and the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, but we very much doubt whether the Governor-General had power to make such an ordinance in connexion with housing, and for the following reasons: - 
The Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 does not provide for making ordinances. The Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 provides (see section 12) as follows :  - " Until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory, the Governor-General may make ordinances having the force of law in the Territory." 
The Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924 provides for the establishment of the Federal Capital Commission, and confers various powers on the commission, including " such other matters as are specified in any regulation made under the Act," and also gives the commissioner power to make by-laws approved by the Governor-General for carrying out or giving effect to any power conferred upon the commission. 
The Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1926 confers upon the commissioners the following express powers(inter  alia) - 
The advancing upon such conditions as the commission determines to lessees of land in the Territory of money for the purpose of building or other development work on that land. 
You will see from the above that Parliament has by these last-mentioned acts made express provision for lending money to lessees of land in the Territory for the purpose of enabling them to erect houses, and consequently, under section 12 of the act to 1916 already mentioned, the power to make ordinances upon the same subject has come to an end. 
It is true that in the acts of 1924 and 1926 the powers given thereunder to the commission are subject to any ordinances made in pursuance of the act of 1910, but when you consider the very plain wording of section 12 of that act, we cannot help feeling that the courts might (if that point was ever raised) very well hold that the words " subject to any ordinances made in pursuance of the act of 1910 " referred to ordinances made prior, and not subsequent to the act of 1924, or 1926, as the case might be. 
In the absence of any judicial decision on the point, and bearing in mind the frequent occasions upon which the members of the High Court bench take different views upon the points of law submitted to them, we feel that you would be justified in asking the Federal Government to remove all doubt by providing by regulations and by-laws under the act 1924- 26 for the same matters as are covered by the ordinances No. 11 and No. 12 of 1928. 
Yours faithfully, (Signed) Allen Allen  &amp;  Hemsley. 
.- I move - 
That after Sub-section (5) of proposed new section 6 the following new sub-section be inserted: - (5a.) If at any meeting of the commission any commissioner disagrees with any decision arrived at he may request that a memorandum of the grounds of his objection be recorded in the minutes of proceedings of the commission, and thereupon the Chief Commissioner shall cause a memorandum to be so recorded and a copy of that memorandum to be forwarded to the Minister within seven days after the date on which the meeting was held. 
In his second-reading speech the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  took some exception to this clause, and said that from the view-point of the residents of Canberra the work of their representative would be practically valueless. He said that there was no provision in the clause whereby the opinions of the third commissioner, who might take a stand on behalf of the residents against the other two commissioners, would be recorded and considered. The amendment I have moved provides that where any single commissioner disagrees with the decision reached by the other two commissioners the grounds on which a decision has been reached shall be reported to the Minister. The onus of accepting the decision of the majority of the commission will then rest upon the Minister, who will determine whether the decision of the majority of the commission shall stand or whether steps shall be taken to overrule it. I anticipate that this provision if adopted will give more influence, shall I say, to the elected commissioner. It will ensure at any rate that when he finds that he has to take a definite stand on behalf of the residents of Canberra against the two other commissioners the grounds upon which he has reached his decision will be forwarded to the Minister in a memorandum containing the views of the majority and of the minority. Such a memorandum would I am sure receive the fullest consideration from the Minister and the Government. This is really a safeguard, and will provide a check upon the action of a majority of the commission. 
Any Minister, particularly the honorable gentleman at present administering the act would not hesitate to take a stand against a majority of the commission if he thought it necessary to do so. I trust the amendment will be carried, as I believe it will strengthen the bill and safeguard the residents of Canberra. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of 
Government will accept the amendment, which I think will serve a useful purpose. It provides a means of bringing under the notice of the Minister any matters of importance upon which there may be a difference of opinion. It will enable him to study the reasons which have prompted the majority to reach a certain decision. In that way the Minister will be made conversant with all important decisions reached by the commission. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The preceding clause provides that if an  officer  of the Public Service is elected as the third commissioner he shall be permitted to servewithout loss of salary. If a public servant is elected, he  will  be entitled to draw his departmental salary, in addition to fees as the third commissioner, amounting to a sum not exceeding £250 a year, so that if he is receiving a salary of £750 a year, his total remuneration will be in the vicinity of £1,000 a year. Being a public servant, he will be entitled to leave to enable him to carry out his duties as the third commissioner; but the head of his department may, at his discretion, "dock" him portion of his Public Service salary or require him to make up the time for which leave is granted to attend to his duties as third commissioner. We may assume that the citizens will make an effort to get the most eligible man for the position. If their choice falls upon a business man, he will be expected to devote a considerable portion of his time to the duties of the commission, for which he will receive a sum not exceeding £5 5s. for each sitting, and not exceeding in the aggregate £250 per annum. It is hardly fair to expect a man with a growing business to sacrifice it for a remuneration not exceeding £250 a year. What inducement is there in the clause as it stands, for a private citizen, not being a public servant, to offer his services? It may be argued that the work appertaining to the office of third commissioner will be similar to that of a member of a municipal council.I do not view it in that light. I consider that if the third commissioner is to discharge the duties of that office effectively, he will have to apply his individuality and intellect to the job. He will have to get a grip of the problems peculiar to Canberra and bend the whole of his energies to the task. I am afraid that, if he is going to be of any use to the community, he will be " snowed under." I anticipate that the third commissioner, whether he be a public servant or a private business man, will be inundated with requests from deputations, that he will have countless telephone calls, and otherwise be fully occupied, both in and out of departmental or business hours. If he happens to be a business man, he will have to sacrifice his business or make other arrangements to carryit on. In my opinion he will have to give much more time to his public duties than is required of an alderman in a municipal council. If the reform is worth introducing at all, we should be prepared to pay for it. If we wish to attract to the office a man who is to be of real service to the community, a man who will not be a mere figurehead, we must offer more substantial remuneration than is provided in the bill. I suggest, therefore, that the Minister in charge of the measure should agree to amend proposed new sub-section 3. It reads as follows: - 
The remuneration of the third commissioner shall be by way of fees not exceeding the sum of £5s. 5s. for each day upon which he attends a meeting of the commission, and not exceeding the sum of £250 per annum. 
If all the words after " shall be " are left out, and the words "one thousand pounds" substituted for the words "two hundred and fifty pounds," thesubsection will then read - 
The remuneration of the third commissioner shall be £1,000 per annum. 
If the Minister will accept this suggestion, it can be sent to the House of Representatives as a request. I realize, of course, that it will be necessary then to recommit the bill for the further consideration of clause 5, because if the amendment is carried substituting £1,000 per annum in lieu of fees as at present provided for, there will be the anomaly that a public servant is appointed at a salary of £1,000 a year he may, in addition, draw his departmental salary. I take the view that the third commissioner  should be required to devote the whole of his time to his duties, and that £1,000 a year is a reasonable remuneration. 
If a public servant is appointed, he may be seconded from his department for the term of his office. 
Not necessarily. A business man, if elected to the position, could make the necessary arrangements for the conduct of his business. 
I am afraid that the honorable senator is inclined to be over-generous on the eve of an election. I do not wish to say anything about the salary of  Sir John  Butters. I think he is worth what he is getting. There are very few men who could fill his post. It is a most difficult one. The Chief Commissioner is an "AuntSally " to be shied at by every one. I do not envy him his position. It is almost as bad as that of a Minister of the Crown. As far as the other commissioner is concerned, I assume that he also is worth his salary. The commissioners have been appointed by the Government, and their appointment has not been terminated, so we may assume that, in the opinion of the Government, they are worth the salaries paid to them. The point I wish to emphasize is that the third commissioner should be required to give the whole of his time to the service of the commission. This should be part of the contract. I do not wish to say anything derogatory of any public servant, but I do not think that any officer in the service could discharge his departmental duties satisfactorily and at the same time prove efficient in the office of third commissioner. It must be a full-time job. 
[8.45]. - The point raised by the honorable senator was considered by the Government when the bill was being drafted. I draw the attention of the committee to the fact that the bill contemplates that the first and second Commissioners shall be the administrators of the Federal Capital Territory. In addition to attending the meetings of the commission, they will be called upon to perform executive duties in connexion with the carrying out of the policy decided upon at those meetings. The commission will necessarily do things affecting the life and the property of the residents of the Territory, and for that reason the Prime Minister promised that they would be given representation on the commission. The scheme embodied in this bill will give them a voice in the administration of the Territory, because their representative will be present at the meetings of the commission when decisions are arrived at. The third Commissioner may bring forward matters for discussion at the meetings; he will not be limited to discussions on matters brought forward by the first and second Commissioners.  His  duties will be similar to those performed by a municipal councillor. Throughout Australia thousands of estimable ladies and gentlemen give their services, in the interests of their fellow citizens in connexion with the control of municipal affairs. The third Commissioner will watch the interests of the ratepayers in this community, and express their views at meetings of the commission. Although he will do no more than is being done by thousands of public-spirited men and women throughout the Commonwealth for no payment whatever, the representative of the citizens of the Federal Capital Territory will not be called upon to work without payment. He will at least receive £5 5s. a fortnight, for the bill provides that the commission shall meet at least once during that period. Probably its meetings will be held more frequently; I think honorable senators will agree that the remuneration proposed in the bill is adequate for the duties to be performed. There is an objection to the proposal that the third Commssioner should be a full time Commissioner at a high salary. For a considerable portion of the time he will have nothing to do. What would a person who resigned from the Public Service to accept the office do with his spare time ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.We are not justified in paying a man £1,000 a year merely to engage in that delightful pastime. Most of us have to pay for a similar privilege. The provision in the bill for apart-time commissioner and the remuneration proposed to be paid to him should commend itself to honorable senators. 
.- I am sorry that the Leader of the Senate has not seen fit to accept the suggestion of  Senator Abbott.  I therefore hope that the honorable senator will move an amendment along the lines he indicated. 
My grievances are small in comparison with those of some of the residents of the Federal Capital Territory. The honorable senator knows of my complaint, because I have been able to make myself heard in this chamber; but there are others in this community who are suffering to a greater degree than I am. Some of them would be glad to avail themselves of an opportunity to make their views known to honorable senators in this chamber. I admit that throughout Australia numbers of persons who have retired from business or are otherwise favorably situated, devote a great deal of their time to municipal matters, and in a purely honorary capacity render good service to their fellow citizens; but just as in a new country there are few who can devote their time to parliamentary' affairs without payment, so in this new settlement it may be difficult to find men able and willing to devote their whole time to the performance of the duties connected with the office of third Commissioner. 
They might not be the most desirable candidates. 
He may not suit the electors. One of the complaints against the present Commissioners is that they are practically inaccessible to the inhabitants of Canberra unless they are introduced by a member of Parliament. 

 - His duties would include visiting works in course of construction in order to keep a check on them. In this way much valuable work could be performed. Both in another place and in this chamber the bill has been subjected to considerable criticism. It would be more satisfactory, both to this Parliament and to the people of Australia, if the Government would accept an amendment along the lines of that suggested by  Senator Abbott. 
The duties of the third Commissioner will be entirely different from those performed by municipal councillors throughout Australia. Municipal councillors have the assistance of subcommittees and council officers and staff. Canberra is a city in the making; it is admitted on all sides that the ramifications of the Federal Capital Commission are wide spread. I should think that the first and second Commissioners would welcome the appointment of a full-time third Commissioner, in order to assist them in the administration of the Territory, and in dealing with matters affecting its residents. The duties of the third Commissioner will not end with his attendance at the meetings of the commission. There will be many other matters to occupy his time which do not fall to the lot of an ordinary municipal councillor. The best interests of all concerned would be served by the appointment of  a  full-time commissioner. I therefore move - 
That the words "by way of fees not exceeding the sum of Five pounds and five shillings for each day upon which he attends a meeting of the commission and not exceeding the sum of Two hundred and fifty", sub-section. (3), be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words "one thousand." 
SenatorREID  (Queensland) [8.56].- I understood the Leader of the  Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to say that the  third 
Commissioner would attend only those meetings of the commission at which certain subjects were discussed. 
SenatorVerran. - It will be a school of enlightenment. 
SenatorREID. - I cannot see what duties the third Commissioner will have to perform other than those relating to the supply of light, water, and sewerage, and matters relating to footpaths, kerbs, gutters, and the removal of garbage. Those duties would not take up a great deal of his time. Probably his chief duty will be listening to, and dealing with, the grievances of the citizens. I do not envy him his job, but I do not regard the office as being worth £1,000 a year. I therefore hope that the Senate will not agree to the amendment. In Brisbane aldermen are paid £400 a year, but the area under their control is the largest of any city in the world. In that council there are committees which look after different sections of administrative work. No doubt this ratepayers' representative will visit different parts of the district in which improvements are being carried on, and for such additional duties he should receive extra remuneration. But I fail to see any justification for a salary of £1,000 a year if his capacity as a commissioner is to be so restricted. 
Where is the line of demarcation to be drawn? 
SenatorREID. - That is the point that I wish to hear elucidated by the Minister. I am very strongly opposed to the taxpayers' representatives taking any active part in allocating the expenditure of national money. 
SenatorREID. - I do not think so. He would be theremerely to represent the grievances of the ratepayers, and it would be absurd to pay £1,000 a year to a man appointed merely to hear petty grievances. I admit that for the first six months his life would be a burden, as he would be pestered with people who had grievances. I can just visualize him listening to those of  Senator Elliott,  and the honorable senator says that there are others with even greater grievances than his. I should be glad to know from the Minister precisely where the line of demarcation is to be drawn between the third commissioner's duty of hearing grievances and taking part in the administration of the commission. 
[9.5]. - Section 14 of the principal act sets out the powers of the commission, among which are - 
the control and management of Crown lands...... . 
That is controlled by an ordinance, and the commission has merely to administer that ordinance. The ratepayers' representative would have nothing to do with that section of its administration. 
the levying and collection of rates upon land...... 
That again is partly dealt with by ordinance, but the commission will decide the amount of the rates. The ratepayers' representative may voice the view of the ratepayers as to what the amount of rates ought to be, but the administrative work involved in looking after officers collecting those rates will be done by the first and second commissioners - 
The construction, maintenance and operation of tramways; 
If the time ever arrives when tramways will be laid down in Canberra their administration will be under the care of the first and second commissioners - 
The construction, maintenance and control of roads, bridges, culverts..... 
Meetings may be held to draw up programmes for the construction of roads, footpaths, &amp;c., at which the ratepayers' representative will attend. He will be allowed to put forward the opinions of those whom he represents, but once the programme is provided for, he has no further voice in the matter, and its administration will be carried out by the first and second commissioners - 
The provision of gas, electricity, water and sewerage; 
There will be little need for meetings to discuss these matters, which are all covered by ordinance - 
The destruction of vermin and noxious weeds ; 
Meetings of the' three commissioners will be held only to deal with purely municipal matters, and the ratepayers' representative will be able to set forth what he believes to be the opinions of the ratepayers on such matters. 
.- I hold the opinion that the only satisfactory way to give effect to the desires of the taxpayers in this area is to elect a full-time representative. I am aware that an officer of the Public Service elected to such a position might be somewhat invidiously placed if the appointment were only a part time one. However, as the bill is to operate only for twelve months, and the whole thing is rather an experiment, I do not feel justified in supporting the amendment to pay the representative a salary of £1,000. I prefer to wait until the experiment has had a twelve months' trial. No doubt the business carried on at commission meetings will be similar to that which takes place at council or departmental meetings. The commission will decide upon its requirements and submit its estimates for the consideration of the Minister. The ratepayers' representative will attend such meetings and assist to determine what those estimates shall be. 
I disagree with the honorable senator. I consider that he would have a voice in the preparation of the estimates for the year. Proposed new sub-section 5 of section 6, which is dealt with by clause 4, says - 
The third commissioner shall he entitled to attend and vote at all meetings of .the commission, but shall not otherwise take part in any of the executive or administrative work of the commission. 
Naturally, he would have a voice in the preparation of estimates. That is essential, and I see no harm in it. 
That is so, as estimates arc often cut down by a careful Minister. 
But he would have a vote as to what should be expended during the year. 
The commission would prepare its estimates, and each member would have a vote in their preparation. I believe that we shall eventually have to agree to the election of a full-time representative of the residents, but meanwhile I am prepared to vote for the bill as it stands, in order that it may have a twelve months' trial. 
.-It  was not my intention to take any further part in this debate except to indicate my opposition to certain clauses by calling for a division; but as the amendment proposed by  Senator Abbott  may go to a division, I have no wish that my vote upon the matter shall be a silent one. It has been pointed out that the maximum remuneration of the third commissioner can be only £250 per annum, but there is every probability that it will be very much less, because, although clause 6 specifies that meetings shall be held not less than once a fortnight, a proviso is added to the effect that the Minister may, if he thinks fit, direct that meetings need not be held once a fortnight. Of course, that could be construed both ways, as the Minister could order meetings weekly, monthly, or quarterly. The Leader of the Senate has enumerated the duties of the commission as set forth in the original act, and he indicated that the third commissioner will merely be a nominal representative of the taxpayers. 
I do not interpret the act in that way, because if one reads clause 4 .of the amending bill in conjunction with the principal act he will find that - 
The commission shall consist of three members, namely a chief commissioner, a second commissioner, and a third commissioner. while section 14 of the principal act states - 
Subject to this act, and to any ordinance made in pursuance of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, the powers of the commission in relation to the Territory shall include the following .... 
Consequently, the third commissioner, according to the wording of the principal act, will have similar powers to those of the first and second commissioner, except, of course, that the Chief Commissioner has reserved to himself the right of a casting vote as well as a deliberative vote. I heartily concur with  Senator Abbott  in the opinion that the position calls for a full-time occupant, who should attend commission meetings on practically an equal footing with the other commissioners. 
I admit that such a qualification exists ; but it has my opposition. Not only should the salary be higher, but the position should be a full-time and permanent one. I would allocate the duties of the three commissioners as has been done in connexion with the Development and Migration Commission, where the  chairman  receives a certain salary, the second commissioner a slightly smaller salary, and the third a still smaller salary. If I were in favour of commission control of the Federal Capital Territory, I should advocate the payment of a salary of £1,500 to the third commissioner, but as I am opposed lock, stock and barrel to commission control of the Territory, I cannot support the amendment. I opposed the appointment of the present commission, and have not since changed my mind. I do not think that the commission has justified its existence, and I regard the payment of salaries to members of the commission as throwing good money after bad. I would rather revert to the original method of controlling the Territory by a Commonwealth department. Officers of a Commonwealth department started the capital and did good work. I have no desire to reflect on the ability of the commissioners. I am simply on principle opposed to the control of the Territory by a commission. It is true, as an honorable senator has said, that magnificent work has been done on this building by the officers of the commission, but equally good work could have been done by officers of the Works and 
Railways Department. As I am not in favour of commission control of the Territory, I cannot support the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted - " 14a. Section fifteen of the principal act is amended by omitting sub-section (4) thereof." 
Section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1926 reads - 
Section 15 of the principal act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead- 
"15...... 
The Commission shall not dispose of the freehold title to any land except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910." 
This sub-section thus prevents the commission from disposing of the freehold title to any land, and the object of my amendment is to remove that limitation to its powers so that if the Government directs the commission to do so it may dispose of the freehold title to any land. 
I hope that honorable senators have not made up their minds. The Public Accounts Committee  has been taking evidence on this question for some months, and has reported - 
According to evidence tendered the principle of leasehold in the Territory was not generally favored, the chief objections to the system being - 
Uncertainty due to reappraisement. 
Creation of artificial values at auction sales, resulting in high rents, rates and increased cost of commodities. 
On that point it is silent. Possibly it felt that the question of leasehold tenure was outside the scope of its inquiry. Nevertheless, it heard a great deal of evidence, and summarizes that evidence in the way I have just read. I have no hesitation in saying that there will be no substantial progress in the Territory until we have the freehold tenure here. The commission is at its wits end to know how to finance its activities. It has approached the banks, but the banks, with the experience of the Civic Centre before them, said, " No more for us." It has recently tried to tempt some of the life insurance companies to put money into the Territory. I venture to prophesy that before we are very much older the Government will find itself compelled to bring down an amendment on the lines of that which I am now moving, because the present system will bring about so much difficulty that it will not know where it stands. The amending provision is an attempt to straighten out an internal tangle which has arisen in endeavouring to operate this system. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.32]. - I submit that this is not the time to discuss the merits and demerits of the freehold and leaseholdsystems. A previous Parliament passed the law under which a large number of leaseholds have been sold in the Federal Capital Territory.  Senator Elliott  stated that the Public Accounts Committee took evidence from a large number of leaseholders, all of whom said that they preferred the freehold system. There is nothing very extraordinary about that. 
The evidence was not taken only from those holding leases. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There is no freehold land in this Territory. 
But evidence was taken in Melbourne, and I understand in other cities on the question of land tenure. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Certain persons having acquired leases now wish to be presented with the freehold. 
They would be willing to pay for it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.All these gentlemen would hail such a proposal with great enthusiasm. I remember an incident which occurred in South Australia -  Senator Thomas  will also recall it - when a State Government placed a number of unemployed on leasehold . land in the Adelaide hills. Those lessees were in the first place enthusiastic supporters of the leasehold system- they were supporters of the Labour party, as  Senator Verran  will remember, and insisted that the land should be leased - but after settling on the blocks they formed themselves into a freeholders' organization, turned out the sitting member for the district, and returned one who promised to obtain, and eventually did, obtain, the freehold for them. I do not know if they were any better off as a result, but those are the facts. It has always been the experience that a leaseholder eventually wants to obtain the freehold. We have to remember, however, that millions of pounds of the taxpayers' money have been spent in the Federal Capital Territory, and that expenditure is giving an added value to the land. The time may arrive when it may be thought advisable to convert leaseholds into freeholds. I am not going to be dogmatic, but when the Government is spending such large sums of public money in the Territory, and it is difficult to arrive at the true value of the land, such a change should not be made. The suggestion to present leaseholders with the freehold of their land is one which the Government cannot favorably consider. We could not dispossess these people if we converted their leaseholds into freeholds. 
I intend to support  Senator Elliott's  amendment. This is a young, but decadent city. Houses and shops are empty and businesses are going into liquidation. 
I am not speaking of Launceston, but of a place conceived in parochialism, and nurtured in selfishness. We should not be here,  but  for the selfishness of certain persons in New South Wales. I do not believe that this city can be properly developed under the leasehold system. 
Tasmania is small in area and financially weak; but it is proud and independent, and its people are not parochial.  Senator Thomas,  who seems to suggest that this is a desirable place in which to live, was even complaining because he could not return to Sydney to-night. The unsatisfactory atmosphere of this place has been created by the leasehold system. It is dead. The investment of private capital is unknown. There is a' lack of individual enterprise. The love of possession is inherent in the human breast.. That love is apparent in a child in the cradle, and as it grows, the desire develops. If that right is taken away from the people the place in which they live becomes lifeless. There is an absence of progress such as is strikingly apparent in Canberra. 
I am referring to the conditions in a new city, and not an old one. Canberra is not developing as it should, and its people are pessimistic. We ought to stay our hands and spend as little money as possible; when expenditure is incurred, it should be only upon essential works. Wonderful things have been done in Canberra. I rejoice to realize that the residents have had sufficient sense to decide that it shall be " wet ", as that will do something, to aid its development. We shall shortly enjoy  more of the pleasures of civilization, and I congratulate the men and women of Canberra upon voting as they did. Their action will give the place a little more life and lead to the encouragement of private enterprise. Those of us who are here to-day will not live to see Canberra grow very much larger, but if we wish to assist in its development, we should enable the residents to secure the freehold of the land. They would then feel that they had an interest in the place and quite unconsciously would be assisting its development. If one wishes to purchase a collar stud or a safety pin, a journey of several miles by a coach or bus is necessary. I look upon the sorrowful faces of the women of Canberra, and I pity them in their desolate surroundings. I am sorry to see them shut up in their box-like homes without fences to keep out the bandicoots or the rabbits. I trust honorable senators will seriously consider the beneficial effects which would result from a change from the leasehold to the freehold system, and that they will support the amendment moved by  Senator Elliott.   The Minister said that if such a change were made, the Government would have to present the leaseholders with their blocks. That is .not so. They would have to pay a consideration. 
-No. the Minister gave the whole show away when he said that they want the freehold. They are not satisfied with existing conditions. 
That could be prevented. 
It makes a lot of difference. A man likes to say that the block on which he lives is his own. . 
Exactly, and that is what is seriously retarding the development of Canberra. 
It is amusing to hear the remarks of those opposed to the leasehold system, particularly as there are hundreds of acres of land in Sydney, the most prosperous city in the Commonwealth, held under that system. It is a most equitable system to grant a lease of the land for 99 years, and I . trust the Government will adhere to it. As the Minister stated, millions of pounds of the taxpayers' money have been spent in the Federal Capital, and it is only right that the people should benefit from the added value so given to the land. 
I have not. A cansiderable area at Vaucluse and Bondi, in Sydney, is occupied under the leasehold system, and the land there is worth almost unlimited money. 
No; it is in the Cooper and Gibbons estates. 
The honorable senator is talking without his book. The land I speak of $s held under a 99 years lease. ' The Crown has the freehold iu Canberra, so land here is in exactly the same category as land held under lease from the Cooper and Gibbons estates. The people who occupy land in those estates have built on it, and are quite satisfied. 
Of course it has. Johannesburg, one of the finest cities in the Southern Hemisphere, has been developed on the same principle. The re-appraisements there are made every twenty years. The leasehold system is also largely in operation in Parramatta, one of the most prosperous cities in Australia. The Church of England authorities there hold about 50 acres, which have developed under leasehold. 
It is under the leasehold system. Originally it was an unattractive piece of land, but people have taken it on a 99 years lease, and although one-half of the term has expired they can get bigger prices for the balance of the leasehold than they paid for it originally. Any person who says that the 99 years leasehold system is wrong does not know what he is talking about. 
I should not have taken part in this debate except for the extraordinary statements that have been made about the effect of the leasehold system on the development of a country. Those who suggest that it is retarding progress in Canberra are shutting their eyes to. the records of human progress. The adoption of the leasehold system has been a plank in the platform of the Labour party for many years. Wherever it has been adopted there has been considerable development. Many people have risen to prosperity under it, and, such is human nature, some have become conservative. I know from personal experience that but for the subdivision of large estates and the right to occupy that land under the leasehold system many people who have done well as primary producers, would never have had an opportunity to go on the land - and that under Liberal Governments before Labour reached power. The use-value in regard to land is the important consideration. One need not concern oneself about who owns it. I have to confess that I am an owner of a small freehold myself, because I realize that when I am in Rome I must do as Rome does; but I am discontented about it because while having to bear heavy rates I cannot use it. I am a firm believer in )he leasehold system. Actually all that the freehold does is to give the owner of land a little larger share of what is known as its use value. Probably the ownership of a freehold enables a man to dispose of a property more readily; but where land is held under a 99- years lease, as in Canberra, there need be no misgivings  as to the sale of the  lease. Freehold does not give the owner greater protection from taxation authorities, and in that respect it does not offer any marked advantages over the leasehold system. I was very much interested when 1 came to Canberra to find that a large socialistic experiment is being tried out iu the Federal Capital. Under this system of land tenure the gambling element is to a large extent eliminated, and I feel sure that future generations will appreciate at its worth what has been done for them. The people of Australia generally will applaud the action of the Government in preventing, as far as possible, a gambling orgy in land values in the Federal Capital Territory. This issue in 1907 caused the biggest split that has ever occurred in the Labour party in Queensland. As honorable senators are aware, one of the principles of the Labour party is to prevent any further alienation of Crown lands. I think this is a good thing. The leasehold system has been in operation in the Northern Territory ever since that portion of Australia has been occupied, and I understand that, in a majority of instances, the leases have been for a term of 42 years. In New Zealand the term of a lease from the Crown is limited to 66 years. In Canberra it is 99 years, so there is a very considerable margin above the term in other countries. Even  Senator Ogden  will admit that it should serve his time. 
 I am glad to have that admission from the honorable senator. I was surprised to hear him speak so gloomily about the environment of this beautiful city. I have been over most of the States of Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria, and I can say that the site selected for the Capital City of the Commonwealth is as fine as any to be found in any of the three States mentioned. It is the purest  drivel to talk about people in Canberra being disappointed with their surroundings. If those who complain had had the bad luck to spend a little of their time in some of the .back-block towns of Queensland and New South Wales they would welcome the idea of returning to the charming surroundings of the National Capital. I well remember the condition of many back-block villages in New South 
Wales nearly 40 years ago. There was then no talk about socialistic experiments and the leasehold system was practically unknown. AH these towns were being developed under freehold, and so gloomy and deserted were they that it was almost impossible sometimes to find even a stray animal, let alone a human being, from one end of a main street to the other. This is not an uncommon experience in many of our smaller towns where private enterprise has full sway. If  Senator Ogden  had to spend a few hours in some of those towns he would become so discontented that we might even see him back on these Labour benches, and again a firm believer in the leasehold system. I intend to support the Leader of the Senate and  Senator Cox,  though I marvel to find myself in their company. I applaud the present Government for its attitude to the leasehold system as applied to Canberra, and I hope that there will never be a change to the principle of freehold in the Territory. 
 I have always been an advocate of the leasehold system, and shall not now depart from the principle. It is a sound system of land tenure. Australia to-day is suffering from inflated land values; for many years the land jobbers have been reaping a harvest. No wheat-growing land is worth £23 an acre, yet as much as that has been paid for it. If land in Canberra were obtainable on  a  freehold tenure we should see men flocking here from all parts of the Commonwealth to obtain it, for " Wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together." It was a wise act on the part of those who laid the foundations of this Capital "City to provide for leasehold tenure. I should, not like to see freehold property in this city. We shall soon have public houses in Canberra, so probably the next cry we shall hear will be - " Freehold for the pubs." The" police will have enough to do in looking after the- "pubs" without having to keep an eye open for land "sharks" as well. In South Australia the activities of some land agents were such that it was found necessary to introduce legislation to deal with them. 
They had disregarded God's law, " Thou shalt not steal." I am sorry for any man who has made losses on land transactions in Canberra, but he took the risk, and should abide by the consequences. Parliament is indeed a poor place in which to complain of having made a had bargain. Some people decry Canberra, but I marvel at what has been accomplished in so. short a time. Men of brains must have been active here. I do not know  Sir John  Butters, but judging by what I see in this city he must be a capable man.  His  offence is that being a man of powerful personality he has upset the preconceived ideas of many people. When I find a nian discussed to the extent that  Sir John  Butters is discussed I feel that he must be of value to the community.  Senator Elliott  has his troubles, and I am sorry for him; but surely he should be satisfied with a 99 years lease. Freehold land in Adelaide has brought as much as £1,000 a foot, and in Sydney even more than that. I hope that legislation will never be introduced to provide for freehold tenure in Canberra. At one time the late Honorable Thomas Price, when Premier of South Australia, was approached by a number of persons who held some leasehold pro,perty not far from Adelaide with a request that they be given freehold tenure. He granted their request; but before he died they returned and asked that it should revert to leasehold. I shall vote for the bill as it stands. 
While a general discussion on the relative merits of freehold and leasehold tenure would no doubt be of great interest, my reading of the amendment moved by  Senator Elliott  is that its effect would be to leave a discretionary power in the hands of the commissioners to grant freehold tenure if they thought it advisable. 
If the Federal Capital Commissioners have the confidence of the people of Australia, as has been suggested, we shall not be taking a very great risk if we grant them a discretionary power in the matter of land tenure. 
I can understand the Leader of the Labour party in this chamber advocating leasehold in preference to freehold, and that Senators Verran, Thomas and Reid, who have graduated from the ranks of the Labour party should also advocate leasehold. Those honorable senators are still Labour men at heart. I was nurtured in Liberalism. 
Men who advocate leasehold have never had to develop a leasehold property and make it productive. When a man holding land seeks financial assistance the first question he is asked is, "What is your tenure " 1 If he replies that it is leasehold, he experiences difficulty in obtaining financial assistance. The Leader of the Senate, who so ably represents the Government in this chamber,, is continually referring to the huge expenditure in connexion with' the development of the Federal Capital Territory. The trouble is that financial institutions will not make advances on leasehold property. As one who has experienced the difficulty of developing and financing leasehold proper* ties. I say unhesitatingly that the  progress of this Territory would be greater if the commissioners were given a discretionary power to grant freehold tenure in certain cases. I am a great admirer of the Federal Capital City. Members of this Parliament are prone to talk disparagingly of what has been done here, but when one bears in mind the conditions under which results have been achieved, one cannot but be proud of them. I believe, with  Senator Elliott,  that ho great harm would be done if the commission were granted a discretionary power to allot freehold or leasehold tenure in certain circumstances, and I shall be pleased if  Senator Elliott  calls for a division on the matter. That would enable us to get down to first principles, and it would allow those who may in the future be curious on the subject to see that there were at least two or three in this chamber who appreciated the nature of the obstacle that was retarding the progress of Canberra, and endeavoured to remove it. I am confident that freehold tenure will eventually obtain in this area. 
 I must confess that I am somewhat of an agnostic so far as systems of land tenure is concerned I do not pin my opinions to one side or the other. In each case the special conditions governing the situation need consideration. Canberra has to face its own peculiar problems; they are different from those which obtain elsewhere in Australia. I ask honorable senators to view the matter from the point of view of the residents themselves. I appreciate to the full the argument of  Senator Elliott  as to the extreme difficulty of enticing money lenders to advance money against land which is held under a system of leasehold tenure.But one must consider the other side of the case. The persons referred to by  Senator Elliott  arc small land-holders of comparatively limited means, and even if they were able to secure freehold tenure for their blocks, they would be unable to raise sufficient money to continue with any very considerable building programme. They would be faced with the immediate necessity of finding a fairly considerable sum of money to pay for the freehold. Of course, their difficulty would be less if they were able to obtain extended terms, but then the position would not be far different from what it is at present. 
That is very likely, as they would need a great deal of money. Under the present system there will be an ever-increasing revenue flowing into the coffers of the commission in the shape of rents, on which revenue the commission must to a great extent depend. If freehold tenure were substituted for leasehold, that income would be immediately cut off, and it would be necessary to obtain revenue by some other means. 
I believe that the commission would have to impose an unimproved land value tax on the inhabitants of the Territory in order to recoup itself for the loss of rents. A similar tax is enforced in many of our capital cities, and it is a fairly heavy burden. The Sydney City Council has resumed many freeholds which, when they are again parcelled out, are on a leasehold tenure. 
A similar procedure occurred in London. Where a freehold tenure exists, a fairly heavy unimproved land value tax is imposed. Does the average civil servant and householder in Canberra desire to be faced with the necessity, in future years, of paying an ever-increasing land value tax ? I submit that it is infinitely preferable that, for some years, we should leave in the pockets of those people the capital they would have to pay for their land under a system of freehold tenure. I believe that the tax they would have to pay would be practically equal to the rents nowpaid, and they would labour under the disadvantage of being deprived of the greater portion of the capital that they had accumulated. Whilst admitting that there are advantages in the scheme proposed by  Senator Elliott,  I believe that they are more than outweighed by its disadvantages. There is no reason why the Government and the commission should not come to the rescue of the residents of Canberra and advance them the money necessary to establish homes of their own. The housing scheme which was recently dealt with by this Parliament will shortly be available to Canberra residents under a leasehold tenure, and its operations may be extended to overcome the difficulties mentioned by  Senator Elliott.  I regret that I cannot support the honorable senator, but I believe that the time is inopportune to inaugurate the freehold system. 
 When I spoke on this subject this afternoon I said that I had a very deep-rooted conviction in favour of freehold. As the land tenures of this Capital city are in the nature of an experiment, I should like to see that experiment carried through, and really have no wish to stop it at this stage. But I understand that  Senator Elliott's  amendment gives discretionary power to the commission to grant either leasehold or freehold, as it thinks fit. I see no harm in that. After having listened to the various speeches on the subject, which have been of general application, I cannot bring myself to vote against the convictions that I have held all my life in favour of freehold. 
I found it somewhat difficult to follow the argument of  Senator Duncan.  It seems to me that his financial ideas differ radically from mine. Honorable senators are aware that the commission is borrowing money at an average of about 6$ per cent., which it is lending at 5 per cent, to people who purchase land in the Territory, thereby' losing at least 1^ per cent, on the deal. If the land were sold on a freehold basis and the proceeds utilized by the commission, it would save a clear  li  per cent, of the taxpayers' money. 
I fail to see where that unearned increment comes in. The report of the Accounts Committee states that land in this Territory is bringing up to £175 per foot, which is equal to £35,000 an acre. The Government, with the assistance of the Valuer-General of New South Wales, searched that State high and low in an endeavour to locate cities with land values which would compare favorably with those of Canberra during the next 50 years. Goulburn and Bathurst were two of the cities chosen, and by some remarkable method of calculation the average land value in Canberra was fixed at £20 a foot, or about £4,000 an acre. But when the land sales eventuated here, the commission, finding that about 60 people wished to purchase blocks, put up only ten or twenty and so forced people to bid one against the other. The commission admitted to the Committee of Public Works that land values had been inflated. Although £20 a foot was the value determined upon, the commission by a "get rich quick Wallingford " stunt, brought about an inflation of values, and it will be at least 150 years before that inflated value becomes the actual value here. 
Those bidders certainly paid too high a price, and I fail to see where the unearned increment comes in. 
If, as the commission admits, those people purchased at inflated values, there obviously cannot for many years be anything in the nature of unearned increment. 
About 900 square miles, but I am dealing with the city area. It is only in the capital cities that there is likely to be any unearned increment. Land is cheaper in Ballarat to-day than it was 50 years ago. Land in Kalgoorlie which cost £20 a foot 30 years ago, can now be bought for a song. It is population that gives an increment to the value of land, but there is nothing to induce people to flock to Canberra. We had in Victoria some most enthusiastic Labourites who were in favour of the leasehold principle at Wonthaggi ; but the moment they got their leases they began to feel the shoe pinch. No one would finance them when they wanted to build better houses. That great reservoir of finance - money held in trust for investment - cannot be tapped by the leaseholders of Canberra. Honorable senators have referred to London leases. Those leases are for extended periods without re-appraisements. If there were reappraisements, there would be no financial stability about the London leases. 
I am not an authority on what has happened in the Northern Territory. All that I know is that the present Government amended the law to permit of the sale of land in Darwin under the freehold system. The 
Labour Government in Victoria is patting itself on the back for selling workmen's blocks at Fishermen's Bend under the freehold tenure. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
I move - 
That thebill be recommitted for the reconsideration of clause 16. 
As the  Chairman  put the question, " That clause 16 be agreed to," before honorable senators had resumed their seats after the division which has just been taken, I was precluded from moving an amendment to clause 16, which is the most important in the bill. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [10.47].  -  I cannot agree to the course suggested by  Senator Elliott,  who I do not think has been altogether fair to the  Chairman  of committee  (Senator Plain).  The honorable senator was on this side of the chamber when the division was taken, whilst I was on the Opposition side, and I had time to resume my seat before the  Chairman  put clause 15 and subsequently clause 16. While that was being done the honorable senator was engaged in conversation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is not the point. He fully ventilated the subject which I understand he wishes to discuss on the motion for the second reading. I ask the Senate not to agree to the recommittal of the bill. 
 I am rather surprised at the attitude adopted by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  on this occasion. There has been a slight misunderstanding, and I think there should be extended to  Senator Elliott  the courtesy of agreeing to the recommital of the bill. There should not be any desire to burke discussion, especially as we shall be here until the end of the week. Such action leaves a sting in the breast of the honorable senator concerned. We may not agree with his opinions, but I think he should be given an opportunity to express them, particularly as he considers the subject of vital importance. 
 I hope the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  will agree to the recommittal of the bill. I do not agree with  Senator Elliott,  who asserted that the  Chairman  put the clause before he had time to resume his seat. There was ample time for the honorable senator to rise, but he was engrossed for the moment in his work, and was not aware that the clause was being put. He should be given the right to make the observations he desires to put before the Senate, and the debate should not be restricted in any way, particularly when the honorable senator is sincere in what he is endeavouring to do. I entirely disagree with some of his opinions, and have voted against him. On behalf of the Opposition I ask the Minister to reconsider his decision. 
As this measure has been introduced ostensibly with the object of instituting a change in the system of government in the Federal Capital Territory, it is astounding to find that this clause which is quite foreign to the subject-matter of the bill, has been inserted.The Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  dealt with this subject in his second-reading speech, and read a letter from Allen Allen and Hemsley, a firm of solicitors acting presumably for the Commonwealth Bank, the concluding part of which is important, but which does not contain any justification for the sweeping amendment introduced by the Government. It reads - 
In the absence of any judicial decision on the point, and bearing in mind the frequent occasions upon which the members of the High Court bench take different views upon the points of law submitted to them, we feel that you would be justified in asking the Federal Government to remove all doubt by providing by regulation and by-laws under the act 1924-26, for the same matters as are covered by the ordinances No. 11 and No. 12 of 1928. 
It will be noticed that the firm has not suggested any amendment of the act, and the regulations to which reference only is made are thrown in sheafs on the table of the Senate from time to time. Neither of these ordinances was under considera tion, and this clause has apparently been inserted for some other purpose. It reads -  " 28a. Section twelve of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 is amended by omitting the words ' Until the Parliament makes other provision for the government of the Territory,'." (2.) This section shall be deemed to have commenced on the date of the passing of  the  Scat of Government (Administration) Act 1924. 
Those words seem to be quite harmless, but they have an important bearing upon the conditions under which residents of the Territory are to live. 
They are intended to do exactly what was intended in another form by the retrospective ordinance which was discussed at length the other day. 
SenatorReid.  -  Will the clause do an injustice to any one? 
Of course it will. I believe that even this attempt on the part of the Government would be overruled by the High Court on appeal. Substantial rents are charged to lessees who, in some instances, pay from £3 to £4 a week for blocks 20 feet by 80 feet absolutely unimproved, and if this clause is passed it will give the commission power to superimpose upon the already exorbitant rents all manner of charges. We have seen the way in which the footpaths have been torn up in front of this building and replaced, and if this clause is passed it will enable the commission to tear up roads and footpaths at the expense of the lessees to their heart's content. 
If they can do it under a retrospective ordinance, there is no need for this provision. The commission is now awaking to the fact that its ordinances are invalid, and to. make the position quite secure, without the slightest regard for the lessees, the Government ask the committee to adopt this proposal. Is that a fair deal? 
No. When the Minister threw out his challenge,I sent  a letter to the commission the next day saying that "we were not going to pay these charges as they were invalid and asking it to issue a summons. A fortnight afterwards - a day or so ago - I received a letter to the effect that the commission was considering the matter. It has been thinking hard, and has found that what I said is true. 
Quite so. That is the position. The charges cannot be enforced, but the Government hopes that, by inserting this provision in the bill, to make it still more difficult to prove their invalidity. If a tenant decides to contest the charge and briefs counsel from Sydney, counsel will charge a fee of perhaps a hundred guineas and the police magistrate has not authority to order more than about £5 5s. costs. The leases are drawn in black and white, duly signed, sealed and delivered, so they should determine the relation between landlord and tenant. The Government as the landlord, with an obedient Parliament at its back, claims to read into the leases by means of their ordinances or regulations any terms that it wishes to have introduced, however, oppressive they may be; but if the court considers that the terms are iniquitous, it will, in my opinion, declare that the exercise of this legislative power is  ultra vires,  because there is a provision in the Constitution that a man's property shall not be acquired except on just and equitable terms.  If by means of these amendments it is possible for the Government to import any terms it pleases into a lease, clearly the Government has power to do what it likes, to the extent of even forcing him to give up his property. 
That is so, in effect. I believe, and my view is strengthened by the opinion of counsel, that even this amendment will be ineffective. But no one is anxious to contest the issue. I therefore appeal to honorable senators to support me. The Government had its legal advisers. The bargain is in black and white. "Why .should the weight of the Commonwealth Parliament be thrown in the scale against the tenant? I ask the committee to reject this clause. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [11.5]. - I have already dealt with the point raised by  Senator Elliott,  and I can only repeat now what I have said previously, namely, that this clause did not originate, as  Senator Elliott  believes, out of the position with regard to charges for guttering and kerbing. That matter is King Charles' head with the honorable senator. This amendment originated out of a doubt expressed by the solicitors to the Commonwealth Bank, whether there was power to make, an ordinance relating to housing. The reasons were set out in the letter which I have read from the solicitors acting for the bank.  Senator Elliott  can see nothing but the ordinance  relating to kerbing and guttering. That is not the only ordinance involved. If the doubt that has arisen is well founded, not only that ordinance, but other ordinances made by the Federal Capital Commission since 1910 are involved. Rather than allow that doubt to remain, * and because of the confusion and loss that would result, the Government deems it wise to validate all ordinances back to that year. In what way will this validating provision prejudice any one except those who wish to embarrass the Commonwealth by taking advantage of a technicality? All those ordinances have been legally made, or if they were not legally made, it was through an oversight on the part of the legal advisers to the Crown. Nevertheless, the Government passed the ordinances in good faith, and contracts have been made under them as between landlord and tenant. What  Senator Elliott  is asking honorable senators to do is to leave the issue open to doubt. If they vote against this clause that will be the position. Are we as legislators, legislating in the interests of the people of Australia, justified in leaving this matter open to doubt, and all that that means? The charges for guttering and kerbing have nothing to do with this clause at all. The merits of that particular ordinance were debated on a motion submitted by  Senator Elliott  recently. That was the time to raise this issue. It is not involved in the clause under discussion. The question now is, shall we allow all the ordinances made since 1910 to be open to challenge with all the loss that may be involved? I appeal to honorable senators to support the Government. 
 It seems to me to be highly improper, if leases have been entered into in good faith, to allow a tenant to take advantage of any weakness or flaw in those leases. I could not support an amendment having that end in view. If it was  Senator Elliott's  desire in asking the committee to reject this clause, merely to prevent any variation or alteration in the conditions under which leases have been issued, for the purpose of imposing additional penalties on the leaseholder, I should feel disposed to support him. But we have had an assurance from the Minister on this point, and I feel sure that the Leader of the Senate would not mislead honorable senators. I appreciate the position in which  Senator Elliott  finds himself; but I think it undesirable that we should do anything to make it possible for tenants to evade their just responsibilities under their leases. 
Clause agreed to. 
Bill reported without further amendment; reports adopted. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) proposed - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 
[11.16].  -  It is the desire of the Government, and I am sure of honorable senators generally, that we should go straight ahead with the business still to be transacted, so that honorable senators and members of another place may return to their electorates. The business remaining is the consideration of the Estimates, and a bill dealing with employment on the waterfront, in addition to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, which is already on the Senate notice-paper. That measure will be the first business to be dealt with to-morrow. It is anticipated that of the measures still to come from another place, one will reach the Senate to-morrow, and the other on Saturday or Monday. It is the intention of the Government to go straight ahead until the business is completed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Min ister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is  it  a fact that the Government proposes to transfer a dilapidated wooden structure from Jolimont, Victoria, to the Civic Centre, Canberra)! 
In view of  Sir John  Butters' remarks as to the necessity for the use of Roman tiles in buildings at the Civic Centre, has his opinion been obtained on the question of this transfer? 
It is proposed to remove to Canberra the wooden buildings at Jolimont which have been utilized for the purpose of housing officers of Government departments. 
Yea. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What salaries are paid to matrons and nurses in - (a) the Territory of New Guinea; (b) the Territory of Papua; (c) the Territory of North Australia? 
Is the salary paid in Papua and New Guinea below that fixed as a minimum for a nurse in North Australia? 
If. so, what is the reason for such difference ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Home and Territories supplies the following answers.' - 
New Guinea - Matron, £216-£240; nurse, £162-180. Papua- Matron, £216-£240; nurse, £170-£194. North Australia- Matron, £264- £300; nurse, £210-£246. 
See answer to No. 1. 
The rates fixed for New Guinea and Papua were determined by a classification made in 1925, based upon rates paid in Australian hospitals, with the addition of a sum to meet tropical conditions. The North Australian rates were fixed by a classification made this year. They are practically the rates paid prior to the classification and it was not considered desirable to disturb them with a view to making them uniform with the other territorial rates. The rates for the nursing staff in New Guinea and Papua are at present under consideration as to review in the light of altered conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
When will appeals made against the rate assessments in Canberra be heard? 
What is the nature of the proposed tribunal to hear these appeals, and when will it be appointed? 
Will interest be payable on the amounts paid under protest while the appeals are pending? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What has been the result of the inquiries instituted into the allegation that the specifications relating to the contract for the administrative block at Canberra had not been carried out? 
I have had an opportunity to read the bill and, with the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, I have to confess that I cannot claim to have expert knowledge of measures of this nature. The first Federal bill imposing estate duties was passed in 1914, in which year the Commonwealth Government entered that arena of taxation in order to secure additional revenue urgently required for the conduct of the war. At the time it was thought that the taxation would be temporary; but having entered the field, the Government is reluctant to vacate it notwithstanding that the war has been over for ten years. Prior to 1914 estates were heavily taxed by State authorities and, so far as I can gather, they are still being exploited by State Governments. As I understand it, the object of this measure is to stop the leakages that have been responsible for certain losses in revenue. Frequently this form of taxation falls heavily upon those who have to pay it. This is particularly true of small estates. In addition to Federal and State taxation, certain estates have to provide for heavy legal and administrative expenditure. Estate duty is levied on the taxable value of property at the time of the death of the testator when it passes to other persons named in the will or when the owner dies intestate. I understand that as a result of the practice of transferring property immediately prior to decease, there has been a considerable loss in revenue and the object of the bill is to protect the revenue. The experience of the department shows that these transactions occur frequently, with the result that considerable revenue is lost. An independent valuation by a competent valuer would, in many instances, reveal a higher value than that included in the returns submitted to the department. 
The bill contains a departure from the practice hitherto followed in connexion with joint tenancies. In the past it has not been the practice to collect estate duty from the survivor or survivors when one partner in a joint tenancy died. In the case of a joint tenancy comprising three or four partners, it would be reasonable to expect that estate duty would not be charged until at least two ofthe partners died; but the Government proposes in this bill to make the duty payable at the time of the first death occurring among the partners. Apparently the experience of the department has been such as to justify this short cut being taken, and therefore I shall not offer any objection to the new proposal. I hope, however, that in administering this legislation the department will not act harshly towards citizens, who, not fully understanding the law, and without any attempt to evade payment of estate duty, fail to comply with its requirements. I support the second reading. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee. 

Clauses 1 to 17 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) agreed to. 
That clause5 be reconsidered. 
Clause 5 - 
Section 8 of the principal act is amended- 
by omitting paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (4) and inserting in their stead the following paragraphs - 
which a person having been absolutely entitled to, has voluntarily caused to be transferred to or vested in himself and any other person jointly whether by disposition or otherwise (including any purchase or investment effected by the person who was absolutely entitled to the property) either by himself alone or in concert or by arrangement with any other person so that a beneficial interest therein or in some part thereof passes or accrues by survivorship on his death to such other person, to the extent of such beneficial interest; or 
[11.19]. - After the committee had agreed to clause 5, I was advised of an amendment of paragraph  (d),  which it is considered necessary to make. I therefore move - 
That paragraph (d) be left out with a view to "insert in lieu thereof the following paragraph -  " (d)  being the beneficial interest held by the deceased person, immediately prior to his death, in a joint tenancy or joint ownership with other persons ; or " 
The amended wording now suggested for inclusion in the bill in place of the present wording of paragraph  d  in clause 5, has been found necessary in order that all cases might be covered. The House of Representatives inserted the wording, of the Victorian Probate Act in reference to joint tenancies, but that wording is not as clear as might be desired. The bill as introduced into the House of Representatives had provided for the inclusion in the dutiable estate of a deceased person of the value of any property which' he had vested in a joint tenancy of himself and other persons, and in which he had a beneficial interest immediately prior to his death. That House amended the provision with the intention to include in the dutiable estate only the value of the deceased person's beneficial interest in the joint tenancy. It is desired to express that object more clearly and concisely than has been done by the amendment  made in another place, and that result will be secured by the amendment now submitted, which is, in substance, really the same as what is now contained in paragraph  d  of clause 5 of the bill, but expresses the intention of Parliament in clearer language. 
 I am not quite clear whether this amendment is preferable to paragraph  d  of clause 5, which it is proposed to leave out. That paragraph reads - 
which a person having been absolutely entitled to has voluntarily caused to be transferred to or vested in himself and any other person jointly whether by disposition or otherwise (including any purchase or investment effected by the person who was absolutely entitled to the property) either by himself alone or in concert or by arrangement with any other person  bo  that a beneficial interest therein or in some part thereof passes or accrues by survivorship on his death to such other person, to the extent of such beneficial interest; or 
Will the amendment make the law harsher in its application to the survivor or survivors of a joint tenancy? I have already indicated that this estate duty assessment law sometimes operates harshly upon those who have to pay it, and I gave my reason for that assertion. I accepted the bill as it was originally presented to this chamber, but now we are confronted with a hurried amendment with which, perhaps, even the Leader of the Senate himself is not fully conversant. The honorable gentleman has informed the committee that another place inserted certain words, and that this amendment is intended to clarify the position. Clarification may be necessary, but I wish to be sure that the amendment will not inflict any additional hardship upon the survivor or survivors of a joint tenancy. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [11.25].  -  Anybody who reads clause 5 of this bill must admit that it is very involved and difficult to understand. The purpose of paragraph  d  is this: Suppose that a person had £10,000, with which he purchased shares or a property in the name of himself and others as a joint ownership, and that within twelve months of the transaction he died. When his death occurs that £10,000 is not dutiable, although obviously it be longed only to the individual who died. That practice is a common form of evasion of probate duty. Technically it is a joint ownership, but actually the ownership is confined to an individual. The amount passes to the nominal survivors of the partnership, and the beneficiaries can repeat the process, so that the estate never becomes dutiable. The intention of paragraph  d  is to combat such practices, and to bring the amount involved into the taxable arena. It was found that the wording of the paragraph did not quite meet the case, and it is considered that this amendment does so in a simpler and more effective form. 
I did not speak on the second reading because I realize that it is usually futile to raise one's voice on such matters. However, I now register my protest against the Government enlarging its sphere of direct taxation, when it has led us to believe that it is vacating that field as fast as it can. The method of establishing a joint ownership is a practice advised by lawyers to married people, in order to avoid the expense of probate. 
The savings banks will pay the residue of an estate over to a beneficiary provided that it does not exceed a certain amount and that a certificate of death is produced. It seems to me to be particularly reprehensible and abhorrent for the Government and its taxgatherers to be hanging around the deathbed of a man, practically waiting to snatch the* bread out of the mouths of the widow and children. It reminds me of nothing so much as a shoal of sharks hanging around a boat after a death has occurred aboard. 
Of course it does, but it is particularly reprehensible in this instance, because it applies to married couples. 
But it is aimed at the usual provision recommended by lawyers to people in a married state. Although nominally the husband may own the money, the wife, by her labour, is entitled to her share of it.  II  the husband fails to effect a joint ownership, the taxgatherers come round at hia death and claim their pound of flesh. The whole thing is repugnant to any fair-minded individual. It is not always wise for a man to make over the whole of his estate to his wife, as there is a possibility of a dispute occurring which may result in divorce, in which case the wife would have complete control. If an estate is held in the name of both, each party is entitled to a share. It would be exceedingly dangerous for any man to allow his property to be held under a joint tenancy or ownership with another person even with whom he was on the most friendly terms in order merely to escape estate duty. I have great respect for the Leader of the Opposition, but I would not enter into a joint tenancy with him merely for the sake of avoiding estate duties. Human nature is a check on any attempt to defraud the revenue, as there is always the risk under a joint tenancy of one of the parties after the death of the other putting in a claim for the whole of the estate. Under such a system the estate reverts to the survivor. 
There is always the natural check which I have mentioned. We have to recognize the facts, and the honorable senator does not suggest that such a thing occurred in the case to which he refers. It is useless theorizing; the possibilities mentioned never occur. 
It is governed by human nature. For years we proceeded smoothly in the absence of estate duties without approaching bankruptcy. The ravenous tax-gatherer is always on the doorstep for his share. 
In a case with which I have been associated recently the Income Tax Department has been pressing its claim; but liabilities of the estate are such that I do not think there will be anything for the beneficiaries and consequently nothing for the Taxation Department, yet they make demands for returns. I do not intend to oppose the measure; but I am sorry the Government still deems it necessary to pursue taxpayers even to the grave. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [11.35]. - One would think from the remarks of  Senator Elliott  that the Government was introducing an estate duties measure for the first time. As this principle has been in operation since 1914, and every State has similar legislation on its statute-book, there is no occasion for the honorable senator to oppose it on this amending measure. The schedule to the principal act is as follows . - 
Rates of estate duty payable on the estates of deceased persons dying after the commencement of this act: - 

<graphic href="119332192809211_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

That is after all debts are paid. This is a form of taxation that is generally regarded as just. It is imposed by the State Governments, and for the honorable senator now to argue against the principle is beside the question. The amendment is merely to simplify a principle that Parliament has already adopted. 
 I realize that in this instance no new principle is involved, as this form of taxation was adopted by the Government in 1914. The doubt which existed in my mind concerning small estates has been removed by the Minister. 
Federal taxation, including the estate duties, is additional to State taxation, and the only objection I have is that the Federal Government which introduced this system of taxation during the war period as a temporary measure is still continuing it. senator Elliott.  -  This is the conscription of wealth, which the honorable senator favoured. 
When the manhood of the nation is conscripted I shall always advocate the conscription of wealth. I think the committee can safely support the amendment moved by the Minister. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General yet able to give me a reply to my question of recent date, in regard to the profits of the Beam wireless service ? 
The information has not yet come to hand. 
Referring to the reply given . yesterday by the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories, to my question in regard to the removal to the Civic Centre, Canberra, of the wooden buildings at present occupied by the Repatriation Department at Jolimont, to the effect that  Sir John  Butters had been consulted on the matter, will the Minister intimate to me the nature of the Chief Commissioner's report in that connexion ? 
Reverting to the reply given to my question No. 3 on Notice Paper No. 142, by the Minister representing the Minister for Home and Territories, in view of the fact that the secretary of the Federal Capital Commission is charged a rental of only £3 13s. per week for a house costing upwards of £4,203, will the Minister - 
furnish the names of occupants of other official houses at Acton; 
give the cost  of  each house and the rent payable; 
state whether the rental includes rates, cost of kerbing and guttering and/or any other or what charges; and 
state whether the secretary of the Federal Capital Commission is or is not  a  member of the Commonwealth Public Service f 
Is it not a fact that the extra living allowance in Canberra was taken into consideration in fixing the salary of the secretary? Is it not also a fact that the Public Service Board refused to grant the usual Canberra allowance to this officer, on the ground that the allowance had been taken into account in determining his rate of salary? If such be the case, what were the grounds, if any, for giving the officer preference in the matter of rentals, and can any and, if so, what steps be .taken to recover the amount due from him on the basis of his being a member of the Public Service-? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs yet secured the information which I have requested, in regard to the negotiations that are proceeding respecting the Tasmanian coastal shipping service ? 
The information has not yet come to hand, but as soon as I receive it I shall forward it to the honorable senator. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-. General yet in a position to advise me of the result of the negotiations which have been proceeding, with the object of improving the mail service between Tasmania and the mainland? If the negotiations are still proceeding, what stage have they reached, and when are they likely to be completed ? 
[11.18 a.m.]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill raises the clear-cut issue: Are we to have in Australia constitutional government and obedience to the law, or anarchy. Let us first of all, look at the facts that have led to its introduction. This Parliament has passed a law known as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, providing for the settlement of industrial disputes, and under that act strikes are illegal. In the Arbitration Court, Judge Beeby heard a dispute between- the Waterside Workers Federation and the steamship owners of Australia, and gave an award. In some respects that award was more favorable to the waterside workers than that under which they were previously working. In certain other respects the workers regarded it as not  being  so favorable to them as the old one.  Accordingly,  the Waterside Workers Federation then met in conference and resolved to repudiate the award. On the other hand the steamship owners accepted it and were prepared to work under it. The Waterside Workers Federation has declared a strike against the award, and the Labour party in the Federal Parliament says to the Government " You must not enforce it. " The Government, however has proceeded to carry out the law, and has initiated a prosecution against the Waterside Workers Federation for participating in a strike, which is a punishable offence under the act I have named. The Labour party in the Federal Parliament also says to the Government "You ought to override the court and disregard the law which this Parliament has passed ; you ought to call a conference of the owners and the employees in respect of this award and this strike." That, however, is not the duty of the Commonwealth Government. To think that it is, is to have an entirely erroneous impression of the position occupied by the executive of this country in respect to the law. The executive is sworn to carry out the law. It is for the Government to give effect to the law; it is for the court to interpret it. What would have happened if the position had been reversed? What would the Labour party have said if the steamship owners had defied the court and had repudiated the award, and the Government had announced that it would not institute proceedings against the owners, but would call a conference ? 
What is the history of the transport industry of Australia since 1917 ? Let us take our minds back to the strike of 1917, which was the beginning of a series of industrial revolts in this particular industry. As a matter of fact, there has been more industrial trouble in this industry than in any other in Australia. The war was in progress in 1917, and Australian shipping was engaged in taking reinforcements and food and clothing to our men at the front. Hospital ships were also running between Europe and Australia bringing back to our shores soldiers who had been wounded and invalided home, and returning with necessaries for the hospitals and for the wounded overseas. Yet that was the time chosen for a strike in the shipping industry. Transports which were ready in our ports to carry badly-needed reinforcements and food and clothing to our soldiers at the front, and hospital ships that were needed to proceed to Europe and bring back our wounded countrymen, were held up. They were even refused permission to load the necessaries required by our hospitals and our wounded overseas. From that time on, as 1 say, there has been a series of industrial revolts in this industry - a series of mutinies and job control tactics. First, there was the British seamen's strike, which paralysed our overseas trade, and was supported by the Labour party in Australia. At any rate, not one voice in the Labour party of Australia was raised in condemnation of it. Then followed the Australian seamen's strike - something which was also against the law of this country. Yet not one voice was raised by the Labour party to condemn it. Then followed a long series of job-control tactics. Vessel after vessel was held up by firemen walking off at the last moment after their ships had been loaded. Cargoes of perishables were left to waste in the ships' holds. Then came the cooks' strike, also in defiance of the law of this country; and when on that occasion the Government proceeded to enforce the law, it met with opposition from the Labour party in the Federal Parliament. Not one of the spokesmen of the political Labour party condemned that illegal strike. Now we have the waterside workers' strike, and still Labour is not raising its voice in favour of the act which it claims it was responsible for placing on the statute-book. 
What are the facts of this particular strike? There has been issued in Australia a publication which urges that the time chosen for strikes of this nature should be when the greatest damage can be done. That is to say, this publica"tion advocates that strikes in the waterside industries should be brought about at a time when the primary products of Australia are ready for shipping overseas. This strike has occurred just when our wool and wheat are ready to be shipped overseas. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is the  Pan-Pacific Monthly,  the official organ of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which is affiliated with the PanPacific Secretariat at Shanghai. The result, of having this strike at this particular moment is- that the wool sales - a matter of vital importance to the financial well-being of Australia, one of those fundamental things upon which our financial security is based - have had to be postponed. Thousands of tons of maize and sugar lying in the northern ports of Queensland cannot be shipped; although the shipment of those commodities is essential for the well-being of the northern portion of Queensland. At Geraldton, in Western Australia, hundreds of tons of tomatoes awaiting shipment to the Melbourne market are held up. Probably by this time they are of no value whatsoever, and many settlers in the Geraldton district are thus deprived of their means of livelihood. Their year's work has gone for nothing. 
In yesterday's  Argus  appears the following telegram from Hobart : - 

 Argus, 21st September, 1928. 
As a result of the uncertainty of services to maintain a supply of manufactures to fill orders on the mainland Cadbury, Fry, and Pascall Limited intends to close its cocoa and confectionery factory at Claremont at the end of this week. Employees will not be reengaged until an adequate shipping service is restored. A statement issued by  Mr. N.  P. Booth, manager of the factory, says: - "We have no assurance in the case of several States when goods consigned there will reach their destinations. We have large consignments delayed in transit, and are congested with other shipments still in our warehouses at Claremont. In fairness to our employees we cannot expect them to be kept in a state of indefinite suspension of work in the event of their being able to find other employment. Hence our act in technically severing their connexion with us this week." 
I do not know how many persons are employed by this firm. 
Because of this strike thousands of men and women in all our capital cities will be thrown out of work, and unemployment will increase. But official labour raises no voice in protest against this breach of an arbitration award, and defiance of the laws of this country. The Waterside Workers Federation is either unwilling or unable to discipline its members. Yet when the Commonwealth Government comes forward with a proposal to permit the resumption of our shipping trade by enabling work to be performed under the law of the land by unionists and others who are willing to work, that proposal receives the bitter and strenuous opposition of those who profess to be in favour of arbitration. It is obvious that we cannot look to the unions to discipline their members, or to secure the due performance of awards. I have spoken of the record of the maritime unions since 1917: the continuance of lawlessness, and the constant interruption of trade, while no effort, apparently, was made by any of them to discipline their members, or to ensure that industry would be carried on. Are the Government and Parliament to sit with folded arms while these unions continue to flout the law? 
It will be said by honorable members opposite, as it was suggested in another place, that the Government already has sufficient powers to do what is needed, if it will only exercise them. What powers does the Government possess? It has power to  punish  those who break the law when it can secure sufficient evidence on which to base a successful prosecution. That power has been, and is being exercised. Because of the interruption of the essential lighthouse service, and the hold-up of the ships which convey to the lighthouse keepers their food and other supplies, and thus enable the lights on our coast to be kept burning for the safety of shipping, certain men were prosecuted and fined. Then Johnson, the late secretary of the Seamen's Union, was convicted, and is now under sentence, for a breach of the Crimes Act. Garden, again, was charged  with intimidation and terrorization. This case is still proceeding. The Government has taken this action to enforce the law, but it is obvious that the mere prosecution of offenders is not sufficient. Something must be done to restore order, and to guarantee to those who will work the opportunity to do so. The strikers not only refuse to work themselves, but, by a policy of intimidation and terrorism, attempt to prevent from working those who are willing to obey the awards. This bill is an attempt by Parliament to bring about order on the waterfront, and to ensure that those who are willing to obey the law shall have an opportunity of doing so. It is an attempt also to prevent those who are not willing to obey the law, who will not allow peace to prevail, from coming back to their jobs when the trouble is over in readiness to take part, in the next trouble which occurs. The bill contains the provision that those who engage in the transport industry shall be registered and licensed, and those who are not so licensed will not be allowed to participate in the work. 
This measure is not aimed at unionism. Unionists and non-unionists alike can register under the act, if they are willing to work, and to obey the laws of the country. The bill provides further that those who are willing to assist in carrying on the industries of the country shall, so far as the Government and Parliament can do so, be guaranteed continuity of employment. We shall not allow mon who have rendered good service in time of industrial trouble to be thrown aside by the employers as soon as peace has been patched up, as has happened too often in the past. It is intended that the last word in such matters shall not rest with the employers. The bill will be a protection both to the workers and to the community. Its objects are clear, and its administration will be directed by the Government with a sense of responsibility to the electors and to Parliament. But Ministers will not hesitate to use to the full every power it gives them  to secure the carrying on of essential services for the community, to ensure the employment of those who are willing to work under the law, and the protection of law-abiding workers from victimization. 
.- I have listened with very keen interest to the speech that has just been delivered by the Leader of the Senate in moving the second reading of the bill that is now before us. He gave  a  very concise and terse explanation of what the bill really meant, and said that it presented a clear-cut issue between law and order and anarchy. With the permission of the Senate I shall take up the gauntlet which he has thrown down. Let me remind the Leader of the Senate that it is not so very long ago that he himself, as the leader of a band of timber workers in Western Australia, defined law and order, and defied every dictum and command of the Arbitration Court of that State. He was then just ordinary  Senator George  Foster Pearce. He was not  a  member of this Government, which, he states, is out to secure a clear-cut issue between law and order and anarchy. No; he was then the trusted leader of the workers of Western Australia, who raised him from the humble position of  a  working man, and gave him his first chance in public life. He successfully defied the laws of his State, and the award of the Arbitration Court which decided against the timber workers, and was instrumental in removing the funds of the Timber Workers Union beyond the reach of the law, which maintained that those funds should not be used to help" the timber workers in their revolt against the award. Now this same gentleman tells us that this bill presents a clear-cut issue between law and order and anarchy. 
I advocated nothing of the kind. I ask honorable senators to allow me to proceed with my speech, and to afford me the same hearing which this side gave to the Leader of the Senate when he was speaking. I shall make my speech in my own way, and shall not be ashamed of anything I say. I have been asked if I advocated a breach of the law. I did not. I stand here advocating what I have always advocated : Arbitration, and the peaceful settlement of industrial disputes. 1 shall go further, and say that I regret very  much that the men engaged on the waterfront of Australia have not obeyed the orders of their conference, and of their executive officers, to resume work.  The Leader of the Senate mentioned certain industrial disputes which have taken place since 1917. He referred to the seamen's strike of 1925, and said that the voice of labour representatives was never raised in an endeavour to bring about peace. He seems to forget that a conference was called and assembled in Sydney for the purpose of trying to settle, not only the dispute with the Australian seamen but that with the British seamen as well. I do not think that he really forgets this, but he is not fair enough to give the accredited Labour leaders in the industrial and political arenas due credit for their efforts to  settle  disputes. The then leader of the Australian Parliamentary Labour party,  Mr. Charlton,  was all the time busily engaged in trying to bring about a settlement of that unfortunate industrial disturbance. The Leader of the Senate also referred to the recent cook's strike. Again he refused to give credit to the leaders of political and industrial labour for their efforts to promote peace. Those efforts were eventually successful in bringing about  a settlement, when the action of this Government might have resulted in an extension of the trouble. 
Now I come to the measure itself, the provisions of which are contained almost entirely in one brief clause. I maintain that the bill has not been brought before Parliament with the  intention  of settling the present industrial trouble. It has been introduced with the intention of aggravating that trouble, in the hope that the industrial conflict may continue, and that the minds of the jury which is to give its verdict on the 17th November may be so inflamed that the misdeeds of the Government will be forgotten. 
The Leader of the Senate stated a few moments ago that the Labour leaders inside and outside Parliament were silent on this matter. Let me remind him that genuine efforts have been and are still being made by the industrial and political leaders of Labour to restore industrial peace. At the result of the efforts of the Leader of the Parlia mentary Labour party,  Mr. Scullin,  and of the Premier of Victoria,  Mr. Hogan,  a conference of representatives of the waterside workers assembled a few days ago and decided by resolution to instruct the men to return to work. Those efforts are being continued at the present moment, and none regrets more than the members of that conference and the Labour representatives in this House that the instruction of the conference was not obeyed. In the midst of these negotiations the Government introduces this provocative measure, which is handicapping the leaders of Labour in their attempts to bring about a resumption of work. 
The threats made by this Government prior to the introduction of the bill, and the summonses issued under the Crimes Act, have not in any way helped to bring about peace on the waterfront. The conference to which I have referred was representative of all branches of the Waterside Workers Federation throughout Australia. Yet no sooner had it issued instructions that  Mr. Justice  Beeby's award was to be observed than men, who had done everything possible to see that the law was obeyed, were brought before the court. Is that the way to cause peace in industry? The minds of the men were inflamed, and consideration must be given to the element of human nature in matters of this kind. If Ministers were placed in the positions occupied by the waterside workers, they would look at the matter from an angle very different from that from which they now view it. While I recognize that the law has been broken, the bill is not likely to bring about a settlement. It will encourage the ship-owners to obtain free labour to handle their cargoes. The Leader of the Senate asks what Labour would say if the ship-owners had broken the law and the Government had not taken action to prosecute them. I, in my turn, ask him what did the Government do when food was rotting on the northwest coast of Tasmania and the shipowners refused to provide the necessary vessels for its shipment? Did the Prime Minister prosecute the shipowners? No; and that trouble was not due to the men on the waterfront. 
The bill gives unlimited power to the Governor-General, which means, in other words, the government of the day, to make regulations. He may make regulations that will have the force of law notwithstanding any other act on the statute-book. It will enable the Government, in the name of the GovernorGeneral, to make regulations to abrogate any act of the Commonwealth Parliament.Within a few days from now this Parliament will be dissolved, and Australia will have no national legislative until after the coming election. The country will be in the hands of a dictatorship controlled by the present Ministry. This authority will be able to do exactly as it likes; there will be no parliament to review its actions. The granting of such power is contrary to constitutional practice. The bill empowers the Governor-General to make regulations to engage and dismiss transport workers, and all those to be employed as such must be licensed. Those who have no licence will be prevented from obtaining work. What would happen if a shipping company agreed to have a conference with the men, and arranged for a resumption of work under the conditions determined upon by the court? Those ship-owners would be unable to work their vessels unless they had a licence from the Government. In other words, unless they did everything that the Governor-General ordered they would be unable to engage workmen. The representative in Australia of His Gracious Majesty the King is to be given a power that will make him a super-organizer of the employers of labour. 
The Leader of the Government declared that the measure was not aimed at tradeunionism; but I contend that it is a deliberate and preconceived attempt to smash . organized labour. In most of our legislation there is a section stipulating that regulations made under it must not be inconsistent with the spirit of the act. In this bill there is no such limitation; absolute power is given to the Government, irrespective of any act on the statutebook. Thus, the Government is to receive a blank cheque. This means legislation by the Governor-General instead of legislation by Parliament. It amounts to the declaration of martial law so far as the workers of this country are concerned. A letter was sent from the secretary of the ship-owners' organization to the conference of the Waterside Workers Federation, quoting a portion of  Mr. Justice  Beeby's award, and it helps to prove at least that the men attending that conference acted within the law and within the scope of the award. The letter said - 
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of 10th September, for which I thank you. In reply I am directed to inform you that I am instructed to draw your attention to clause 21 of the award. 
This clause states - 
Future Agreements. 
 This award shall not abrogate the right of the federation or any of its branches to arrive at agreements with the employees for any port or ports concerning any matters included in the award or any other matters relating to the loading and discharge of ships. Any agreement so arrived at may, on the application of any of the parties thereto, be embodied in this award. 
Thus it will be seen that clause 21 authorized the holding of a conference between the parties concerning matters contained in the award. The action of the federation in asking for a conference between the ship-owners and the waterside workers was in strict conformity with the terms of that award. The Leader of the Senate also told us that the bill was being introduced to enable the Government to enforce law and order. If this Government, instead of becoming a partisan to the dispute and throwing its weight behind the ship-owners, had acted in concert with the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr. Scullin)  and the Premier ofVictoria  (Mr. Hogan)  a conference would have been held to consider the questions at issue. 
SenatorFoll. - This Government is not throwing its weight behind the shipowners. It stands for law and order. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator  the  Hon. Sir John  Newlands).  - Order! I call upon  Senator Foll  to obey the Chair. I have twice ruled that  Senator Needham  must be heard in silence. If  Senator Foll  offends again I shall be obliged to take other action to have the authority of the Chair upheld by the Senate. 
There is every probability that if a conference had been held work would have been resumed at all ports. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate also referred to certain action that had been taken by the Government under the Crimes Act. I remind the Senate that in the Crimes Act, in the Peace Officers Act and in the amended Arbitration Act, the Government has all the power necessary to deal with industrial disputes. In addition, there is the common law, and the States themselves have adequate legislation to deal with any situation that may arise. There is no necessity for the introduction of this bill, which will make it possible for the Government to declare industrial martial law. 
At the 1925 elections, the Government asked for, and claimed to have received a mandate from the people to deal with industrial disturbances. Ministers promised that, if returned to power, they would do all that was necessary to ensure industrial peace. The fact that there are only six members of the Opposition in this chamber out of a membership of 36, and 23 out of 75 in another place, suggests that the mandate asked for was given. But what has happened since the elections? The Crimes Act has been passed, also the amended Arbitration Act and the Peace Officers Act. And still the Government has failed to preserve peace in industry. The Government is looking not for peace, but for a political advertisement. Provocative and tyrannous legislation will not bring about peace in industry. Refusal on the part of men to work is not a crime, though it may be an offence against the law of the land. If it is, the existing laws are sufficiently comprehensive to enable the Government to deal with men who break the law. Refusal to work should not be regarded as a criminal offence. Men are offering at many ports under the Beeby award. At other ports they object to the provision for two pick-ups instead of one, which has been the practice for several . years at a number of ports. In these times, when all vessels are in wireless communication with the principal ports, owners can tell to an hour when a ship will arrive, so there should be no occasion for men to be kept waiting about all day to secure employment. Surely the waterside workers should reap some benefit from the advancement in the science of wireless. They should not now be compelled to wait about on the wharfs for hours for work. If they are informed at the first pick-up that they will not be called that day, they will be free to search for casual employment for the remainder of the day, and in this way may earn a little money. 
There should be more of the spirit of conciliation in the relations between employers and employees. The title of the conciliation and arbitration act itself suggests that conciliatory methods should first be employed when any dispute arises. Why did not the ship-owners accept the invitation to meet the men and discuss the matters at issue? The leaders in the Labour movement have, on innumerable occasions when Australia has been threatened with serious industrial disputes, endeavoured to bring about a peaceful settlement of the trouble. This Government does not believe in that method. By its action in introducing this bill, it has aggravated the present dispute. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of yesterday's date there appeared the following report concerning this crisis on the waterfront: - 
Members of the Waterside Workers Federation are now working under the terms of the new award at the following ports: - 
Cairns, Townsville, Port Alma, Sydney, Port Kembla, Tasmanian ports, Port Pirie, Port Lincoln, Port Augusta, Bunbury, and Albany. 
The leading ports where the men refuse to work under the award are: - 
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle. 
The statement with regard to Melbourne is not altogether correct, because ships are being worked at that port under the old award. This shows that work is proceeding in all but four of the principal parts, so the Government was not justified in bringing forward this provocative legislation. It will not help to bring about industrial peace. Let me quote briefly from a recent speech of the Prime Minister. His remarks have a particular application to the present industrial crisis. The right honorable gentleman when speaking at a dinner given by the Victorian Employers Federation, said - 
There is only one way in which these problems can be dealt with, and that is by resorting to a spirit of conciliation and good will. That must fill the gap which political action is unable to bridge. 

 His action in introducing this bill is in marked contrast with those sentiments. I can only come to the conclusion that this Government does not desire industrial peace. On another occasion, when addressing a number of business men in Melbourne he is reported as saying - 
Many Empire problems had been solved by understanding and mutual sympathy. Surely in their own small sphere Australians could bring about a similar spirit. Were they getting it? Was there riot a tendency towards antagonism in every direction? 
This spirit of antagonism was harmful to Australia and the future prosperity of its people. He viewed with the greatest misgivings such a spirit being engendered. 
Speaking at York, in Western Australia, he said - 
I trust that better counsels will prevail in. industry, that the two sides will come together and thresh out the problems and try .to create a better understanding, so that there will be more co-operation....... and at the same time ensure peace in industry. 
But at the very hour when the two parties were coming together, when the executive officers of the Waterside Workers Federation had instructed their members to resume work, and when the industrial and political leaders of the Labour movement were straining every effort to end the dispute, the Prime Minister, who preached the doctrine of conciliation and co-operation in York two months ago, drove this wedge of martial law between them in order to drive them further apart. Instead of helping the Premier of Victoria to heal the breach he is deliberately widening it. I contrast the sentiments he expressed at York with this coercive legislation, this endeavour to terrorize the workers by substituting force for reason. The right honorable gentleman said at Glenalvie, in Victoria - 
Whatever they might hear, he asked them not to believe that the great mass of Australian workmen were permeated with the communistic, bolshevik spirit of the few wild men and extremists who had managed to secure some power. That was only a temporary phase. 
These men have been too successful in the past. Through them the fair name of Australia has been defamed throughout the world. It is for me to see that the activities of these few men are definitely stopped. 
What has he done to stop the activities pf these few communists ? Can the Leader of the Senate point to any action of the Government, legislative or administrative, to control the few wild men to whom the Prime Minister referred? Nothing has been done to stamp out unlawful associations; Walsh and Johnson are still abroad^ To-day the Government throws the blame, not on a few wild men and extremists, but on the whole Labour movement, and, because a small number of men refuse to obey the order of their executive to resume work, the Government has resorted to what is practically a declaration of martial law. Addressing the Women's National League in Melbourne, the Prime Minister said - 
It was recognized that Australians were a first-class people .... They had to help in the solution of the Empire problems, and the only way to do it was to follow the spirit of the Imperial Conference, the spirit of mutual understanding and sympathy and the spirit of co-operation and unity. 
I contrast those words with his actions to-day. And in support of my opposition to this measure, I place in the witness box the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham).  About twelve months ago, when introducing the amending Arbitration Bill, he declared that Australia was freer of industrial disputes than any other civilized country. He has not since denied that statement; rather did he reaffirm it in the course of the debate on this bill in another place. Despite that declaration, he and his leader are cosponsors for this legislation. 
This Parliament is hurrying to its close, and I do not wish to delay it. I have made my protest against this illadvised proposal. I have told the Senate that I stand for arbitration as I have done throughout my life, not only in this, my adopted land, but in the land of my nativity where from fourteen years of age onwards, I took a humble part in trade union activities. Throughout my life I have set my face strongly against the use of the strike weapon, but at times one must make allowance for human passions; and when the political and industrial leaders of the Labour party are still endeavouring to bring the waterside workers to a realization of their folly it is wrong to enact legislation of this character. 
The bill will receive the imprimatur of this Parliament because the Government parties are in the majority. The voices of honorable members on this side of the chamber are like that of John the Baptist crying in the wilderness. But we take comfort in the knowledge that there is a higher tribunal, before which all parties will shortly have to appear. I leave this matter to the final arbitrament of the people, but, with an intimate knowledge of the industrial movement I tell the Leader of the Senate, what he must know of his own knowledge, that this is not the way to bring about industrial peace. We of the Labour party are prepared at all times to help not only to re-establish industrial peace, but to prevent industrial* war. I hope that even at the eleventh hour the Government will realize the mistake it is making and withdraw the bill, and that the Prime Minister will summon the representatives of both parties to conference so that this trouble may be settled without resort to the mailed fist. 
 We must not lose sight of the fact that this measure has been introduced to maintain law and order at a critical time when, according to the admissions of honorable gentlemen opposite, a huge industrial upheaval may occur. This trouble is not merely a dispute between two parties, who might be left to fight out- their differences as they think fit; the community is a third party to the dispute. Listening to the honorable gentleman, one might be led to believe that the employers were responsible for the present situation. This Parliament has made certain laws for the settlement of industrial disputes, first by methods of conciliation, and, those failing, by the processes of the Arbitration Court. The rules and procedure of the court provide for each party getting a full hearing before an award is made. Do the members of the Labour party believe in the maintenance of law and order, and in obedience to the acts of this Parliament, or do they think that the laws of the land shall be set aside, so that a small body of communists may be able to hold up all the industries of Australia and practically take the bread from the mouths of hundreds of thousands of people? The Leader of the Opposition would have us believe that a large number of men are adversely affected by the award of the court. But the waterside workers are very few in comparison with the many thousands of people who will be directly or indirectly affected by their action. Yet they have the audacity to hold a pistol at the heads of the community. In effect, they say: "It is true that you have laws and awards. You 6,000,000 people may think that you should be considered, but we, the waterside workers, say ' To Halifax with your laws and Arbitration Court and awards. We insist on getting what we want in spite of the judgment of any tribunal '." If all sections of the community were allowed to take the bit in their teeth in that way, law and order, and justice according to law, would cease to be. Our parliamentary and judicial institutions have evolved slowly through the centuries; Magna Charta, the Petition of Rights, and the Reform Bill in the House of Commons are epochal events in the Briton's struggle for political and social freedom, and the equality of all men before the law. This Parliament is a board of directors, representing the 6,000,000 shareholders in Australia, and we should fail in our duty, if we did not make our laws effective. 
Listening to the Leader of the Opposition one might think that the ship-owners have done some monstrous and audacious thing which had caused the present intolerable state of affairs. After the award of Judge Beeby had been made, the members of the Waterside Workers Federation approached the court for a variation of that award. The men said that they were not prepared to continue to work under the old conditions. The Arbitration Court promised to deal with their case only on the condition that the waterside workers gave an undertaking to abide by any award that the court might make. That undertaking was given by the Waterside Workers Federation in the following terms: - 
That the committee of management of the Waterside Workers Federation hereby undertakes to advise its members to carry nut the existing awards and agreements covering the work of our members. It also undertakes to exercise all the powers conferred upon it, the federal council of the union to enforce strict compliance on the part of members with any future award made by the court and/or any agreements arrived at from time to time. 
That was a definite undertaking by the Waterside Workers Federation that if  the court would hear and deal with its plaint its members would observe any award the court might make. Upon that undertaking being given the court agreed to hear the case. The judge published his award, but did not bring it into operation immediately. He afforded both sides an opportunity to express any objections they might have to it. Both parties took advantage of that opportunity, the Waterside Workers Federation raising a number of objections, including that of the two pick-ups. Having heard those objections the court made an award which was to come into force on the 10th September last. In spite of the undertaking given by the federation to abide by future awards, the following resolution, which it is reported was agreed to unanimously, was carried by the federation 
That the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia repudiates entirely the pernicious and vicious Beeby award of 1028. 
In face of that repudiation will honorable senators say that the Waterside Workers Federation is entitled to further consideration? The federation has not openly instructed its men not to work, because it knows that to do so would render it liable to heavy penalties. But the fact remains that although that resolution was passed, individual members of the federation along the greater portion of the coastal frontier of Australia refused to work. It may be said that there is no stoppage of work in New South Wales, that the waterside workers there are prepared to work. That may be so ; but it is useless for ships to be loaded in one State if when they get to another State the waterside workers there will refuse to handle their cargo. A stoppage of work in two-thirds of the ports is tantamount to a hold-up throughout Australia. The position which confronts us is that men who obtained an award of the court on the understanding that they would carry it out now snap their fingers, and say that, because the  award  does not suit them, the primary products of the country can rot on the wharfs. 
Australia's prosperity depends on our primary products - chiefly wool, wheat and butter. It is significant that this trouble has occurred at a time when our staple products are ready for export. The wool sales have had to be postponed, with the result that wool worth millions of pounds is in jeopardy. Our export trade in butter and wheat is also at a standstill because of the action of these recalcitrants whom  Senator Needham  referred to as " a few communists. " To a primary-producing country like Australia any hold-up of the export of its staple products is indeed serious. During 1925-26 Australia exported  goods to the value of £145,000,000 or £24 15s. per head of the population. Of that total, pastoral products, chiefly wool, represented £81,000,000 ; agricultural products, mainly wheat, £34,000,000, and dairying products, principally butter, £9,000,000. Of the total value of our primary and secondary products exported that year only £4,000,000 represented manufactured goods. Is it right that the labours of our primary producers for twelve months should be in vain because a few irresponsibles refuse to allow the ships to be loaded ? If Australia is -prepared, to submit to her primary products remaining on the wharfs because the waterside workers choose to disregard the awards of the court many persons now engaged in primary production will have to seek other avenues of employment. 
This bill means that men who are prepared to work in terms of the award of the court will be permitted to do so, and that in their work they will be protected by the Government against victimization and terrorism. Is it wrong for the Government to guarantee protection to those who carry on the business of the country? Why should it not license men as transport workers in the same way that it licenses men to do other work in the community? Honorable senators opposite are not prepared to advocate that our produce should not be exported, or that the laws for the preservation of law and order should not be obeyed. But they avoid the main issue, and repeat the cry that the Government is adopting coercive measures. Any man who is -prepared to work in terms of the court's award will be able to  obtain  a licence. The Leader of the Opposition said that the trouble was caused by a few communists. Is he prepared to let a few communists prevent the members of the Waterside 
Workers Federation from doing their work and thus to hold up the trade of Australia? To say that a national parliament has no right to pass legislation of this nature is an acknowledgment of impotence which I am not prepared to make. What kind of men are the rank and file of the Waterside Workers Federation if they are prepared to allow themselves to be dominated by a few communists? The happenings on the waterfront show how the communists are seeking to control the wheels of industry and to terrorize law-abiding citizens. A few days ago, when a number of waterside workers signed on at the first call they were jeered at. Eventually they decided not to accept employment. They had not the pluck to do an honest day's work to earn sufficient to buy bread for their wives and families. In the face of such incidents how can any one say that the Government is adopting coercive measures? The laws of the land and the awards of the court exist for the benefit of the workers as well as of the other sections of the community. The present situation on the waterfront is a challenge to this National Parliament. Shall we give way to a few irresponsibles in our midst, or shall we insist  on  the laws of the country being obeyed? Instead of opposing the passage of legislation of this nature honorable senators opposite would do better if they made it clear that they intend to uphold law and order. A definite stand by them to uphold the law' would result in greater obedience to the awards of the court than has been the case in the past. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

In conclusion I point out that the strike is not against the terms dictated by employers, but against the decision of a legal tribunal which has impartially considered the claims of both sides. Judge Beeby saw that the waterside workers were attempting, by various forms of direct action, to secure the control of waterside operations throughout  the  Commonwealth and he warned them accordingly that that policy could not be tolerated by the Arbitration Court. The court's investigations showed that there was n noticeable reduction in the amount of work in the overseas section of trade in 
Melbourne, notwithstanding the liberal payment to men for a fair output. These are the words of Judge Beeby: - 
In the interstate trade the trend has been downward. The unions have fomented unrest for other and improper purposes, lt has indulged in pin-pricks by sectional strikes and the holding up of individual ships. It has made demands for illegal restrictive conditions, for excessive rates, for special work, for arbitrary increases of the number of nien fairly employed on jobs, the destruction of the mobility of waterside labour, the substitution of drastic local rules and regulations for the award, and it lias incited to slackness and inefficiency. 
The Arbitration Court exists to ensure industrial peace on the basis of industrial justice. That was the object of the Beeby award. It is the law and a strike against it is illegal. Men who refuse to work under the award have no right, legally or morally, to prevent others who are willing to do so from accepting employment in accordance with its terms. 
Compulsory arbitration is a dismal failure. If the Arbitration Act is to operate only when employees get what they demand, and they are to be free to strike in order to compel negotiations with them whenever they are displeased with an award, there can no longer be the smallest doubt as to the utter breakdown of the system. There is no reasonableness in claiming the benefit of arbitration to the extent of having it enforced on employers if the award suits the employees, the latter reserving the right to strike if they are dissatisfied. Labour leaders appear to be concerned only about the political aspect of the trouble, and while conscious of the difficulties of their own position cannot spare a thought for the disaster that the turbulent and uncontrollable extremists of their party are inflicting upon Australia. 
This bill at least will do one thing that has never been done before. It will give protection in future to the loyal workmen who come to the assistance of Australia in her hour of need, men who loyally support her and her people and endeavour to carry out the laws of the land. Those workers are now to be given a measure of protection against intimidation and interference, a protection which they have not had before. 
 1 liken the position of to-day to that of 1925 when this Government faced the electors with the cry that the extremists were holding up the transport of this country and were a menace to the community. The Nationalist Government at that time got away with that stunt. It was successful in sweeping the electors off their feet by a cry, that as  I  shall show presently, was all moonshine. It went to the country asking for a mandate to deal with a menace to Australia - the red element consisting, according to the Government, of two gentlemen. It won the election, and the electors gave &gt;t the mandate that it sought to deal with those persons so that peace might be established in industry. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate what improvement has there been in the industrial position since that mandate was given to the Government? 
With others on this side of the chamber, I stand for arbitration and conciliation. If any section of industrialists is not prepared to accept an award that has been given by the Arbitration Court I deplore the fact. But the position to-day is that half of the unionists who are affected by Judge Beeby's award are at work. The others refuse to accept the dictation of the Arbitration Court. This skeleton bill has now been introduced to deal with persons who are said to b&lt;2 holding up the trade and commerce of this country, by virtue of refusing to accept the Arbitration Court award and going on strike. During the last three years nothing has been done in the way of prosecuting the friends of honorable senators behind the Government for holding up trade and commerce. The Government dare not do anything to them. Even when this law is passed, the Government will not be game enough to put it into operation. lt will be held in abeyance until after the election. This is purely an election stunt, and I warn honorable senators opposite that the public of Australia will not be gulled twice by the plausible tale that the Government requires a mandate to enable it to maintain law and order. This is a coercion measure, designed to coerce the workers. No penal ties are stated, but they will be fixed by the Executive by regulation. The workers will be penalized, not only those who refuse to work, but also those who are prepared to work under the award. I am surprised that the Government is stooping to such methods to win an election. In 1925, Johnson and Walsh were, according to the Government, to be hanged, drawn and quartered. 
What happened to Walsh? Nothing. He was invited quite recently by the Nationalists to deliver an address before the Constitutional Club. The Government is now prepared to take Walsh to its bosom, but previously it tried to put him in gaol. What a wonderful achievement it was for this great Nationalist Government to stand or fall on the issue of the deportation of these two men. A few years ago Walsh, it was said by the Government, held up the trade and commerce of this country. He was to be dealt with, gaoled, fined, and deported. To-day he is friend of the Government. 
Evidently, the honorable senator has not forgotten the lessons that he learnt at Sunday school, but I am not now dealing with the question of repentance. I am showing that the Government is prepared to bend the knee, to stoop, to lick the feet of a man who, in 1925, it was prepared to prosecute, and declared to be a menace to the community. Is there any honour at all amongst the members of the Government? 
I am reminded of what happened in 1892, when industrial trouble took place at Broken Hill. At that time it was impossible for the employers to subdue the miners, although the mine-owners had funds amounting to £7,000,000. Broken Hill was at that time the hub of trade unionism. The mines were opened in July of that year, and the owners invited free labour to work on the mines under the  protection  of mounted constabulary and the infantry of New South Wales, each unit being armed with rifle, ball cartridge and bayonet. I remember seeing these men with drawn swords riding four abreast up and down Argent-street. Their object was not to quell any trouble, but to force the people to take some retaliatory action so that weapons could be used against them. 
Yes. Under an act that was passed during the reign of George III., a man who died and rotted over a hundred years ago, the miners of Broken Hill were forced to obey the dictation of their employers and to return to work at less than a living wage.  Senator Abbott  has said that the employers do not wish in any way to inflict hardships upon the workers, and that they are always prepared to accept the Arbitration Court award. Were the employers at Broken Hill prepared to accept an award? No; they were not. They kept the mines closed for at least seven months, despite the fact that peak prices were . ruling for metals. Were those employers working in sympathy with the men? No; the employers' object was to crush unionism, and on that occasion their efforts were successful. The Government to-day, under this bill, is aiming a blow at unionism. I stand for arbitration and conciliation for the settlement of industrial disputes. If this Government were imbued with a true spirit of Nationalism, it would get together the parties concerned with a view to bringing about an amicable settlement of disputes without resorting to mean, despicable, and dirty tactics such as it has resorted to to-day by introducing a bill to coerce the workers, no matter whether the principle be right or wrong. 
I deplore the holding up of our transport, which is inimical to the best interests of Australia, for not only will the shipping magnate suffer, but thousands of people who have not refused to abide by the law will be thrown out of employment and penalized. How gratifying it must be to belong to a Government which is prepared to thrust a dagger into the backs of the people who are the very foundation of the country - the workers ! Capital is not worth a snap of the finger unless it has labour which it can employ. In this instance, the shipping companies are as culpable as the wharf labourers, because they are extremely anxious to tie up their ships. 
Because they are obsessed with a desire to assist the capitalistic section of the community  to  break the back of unionism. That is the real purpose of this bill. We are asked to hand to the Government an unlimited power which will enable unscrupulous individuals to introduce drastic regulations to persecute the waterside workers. I really do not think that the Government has belly enough to take such extreme measures. I have no wish to be vulgar, but I repeat that favourite saying of  Senator Verran  and apply it to the Government. We have been overwhelmed by the supplications of supporters of the Government to observe law and order. A similar plea was broadcast in 1892, when martial law was proclaimed, and any two or three men who gathered together in the street and engaged in conversation were deemed to be conspiring against the law. Thousands of people were fined 5s. each for practically doing nothing more than blowing their noses. This measure is merely a repetition of that introduced by the Eight Honorable W. M. Hughes, when as a result of the "Warwick egg incident," he inaugurated the Commonwealth PoliceForce. I know that the Government, by bribing the unscrupulous and callous, will gather together special policemen and men of the air force, who would be prepared to drop bombs, even on their own fathers and mothers if necessary, to comply with the behests of those who pay them. There are some who declare that this bill will cause a revolution in Australia, but I am confident that we shall never have a revolution here, because the Government will never be able to goad the people sufficiently far to achieve its purpose. Honorable senators will recollect the Victorian Police Force strike when, after making requests for three years for better conditions, the men in that force took the extreme step of going on strike. I deplore the use of such a barbarous weapon, but it was the only one left to those men. 
That question is answered by the results obtained. Volunteer constables, both mounted and foot, were brought in from the country districts of Victoria, and the new force was granted conditions far better than those applied for by the original members of the force; so that it is apparent some good is achieved by the sacrifice of a few. This bill is neither more nor less than a party political move to destroy the solidarity of the labour movement. Honorable senators know well that at the last general election Tom Walsh and Jacob Johnson were linked up by the Nationalists with the Labour party - to which they never belonged - and that that was the greatest asset of the Nationalist party at the election. This time there is no Tom Walsh, and Johnson appears to be in gaol, so that the Government is forced to fall back on a substitute. 
The occasion is so serious, that the levity of the honorable senator is ill chosen. Tremendous hardship will result from the operation of this bill, and many innocent people will suffer. I ask even  Senator Herbert  Hays, who so frequently seeks to have repealed the coastal sections of the Navigation Act in order that black labour may be employed on the vessels which ply between the mainland and Tasmania, to join me in a christian endeavour to cause this Government to stay its hand. There is nothing on the horizon to warrant the people of Australia believing the alarmist statements of honorable senators opposite, who claim that the sinister forces of bolshevism are undermining the stability of this country. The Government would have the- people believe that a satanic influence, spon-' sored by Russia, awaits a favorable moment to plunge the dagger of discord into the national heart of Australia. No one knows better than honorable senators opposite the source of the literature dealing with the Russian bolshevist movement, which inundated Australia. 
That propaganda was disseminated  in  the hope that Australians would believe that malcontents, by the use of Russian gold, and through the instrumentality of our industrial movement, were seeking to bring about chaos in this Commonwealth. A similar happening took place during the war, when the insidious statement was circulated that the Labour party was  influenced  by German gold, and was prepared to go the whole hog, in association with Germany, to overthrow the capitalistic system of Australia. I never saw any of that gold, and I should like to know if honorable senators opposite did. 
This bill has been so mildly supported by the followers of the Government that I am satisfied that the Prime Minister and his lieutenant, the Attorney-General, have bitten off, on this occasion, something that they will have difficulty  in  making the electors swallow on the 17th November next. I protest against the introduction of this iniquitous and despicable measure, which is merely skeleton legislation to be filled in as desired by the Government. If that is the way the country is to be governed, I ask that God may save us from our friends opposite. I hope that 'the Government will look before it leaps, and that, instead of brewing trouble, and inflicting untold hardships upon innocent people, it will allow itself to be influenced by a christian spirit and endeavour to bring about a settlement of the waterside dispute without resorting to the repugnant methods of militarism. 
.- I have listened with a great deal of attention to the Leader of the Opposition, to  Senator Graham,  and also to a number of Labour members of another place. Practically every one of them has declared that he believes in ,,arbitration. One would imagine that such a principle was the very foundation of all their beliefs. But I ask honorable senators opposite and their colleagues what sort of arbitration do they believe in? The majority of the people of Australia believe in arbitration. It  is  merely a small minority that is endeavouring to bring the system into disrepute. It must be acknowledged that at least nine-tenths of the advantages 'enjoyed by the wage-earners of Australia have been  attained through the Arbitration Court. It is quite unnecessary to rake up the dead past by quoting ancient history. I shall deal with the present. The prevailing trouble could be easily settledwithout Government intervention, Labour or otherwise, if the union leaders would but do their duty.  Senator Needham  urged that we should realize the frailties of human nature and be lenient and long suffering when dealing with an emergency such as this. The honorable senator would have us spoon feed a certain section of the community, no matter what tactics it employes to attain its objective. I believe that any one who appeals to the law should accept its decisions. I fail to see why the unionists of Australia do not abide by the awards of the Arbitration Court, and why they should be granted the privilege of alternative action. They applied to that court for an award which, after evidence was heard, was formulated only to be promptly defied by the waterside workers. Yet not one honorable senator opposite has had the courage to denounce them for defying the law. 
Yes, frequently, and I shall do it again when necessary. I am impartial in this matter; I have no prejudice against either side. I am a strong believer in upholding the laws of the country. "We live under a democratic constitution which gives every person a voice in the framing of our laws, and they should be obeyed. I do not blame the average worker so much as the industrial organizer and the Labour parliamentarian. They are the people who are destroying the tranquillity of Australia, merely because they have not the courage to insist that their followers shall be law abiding. In this instance, as soon as the Government intimated that it would have to resort to the application of the Crimes Act, the Labour leaders called upon the men to return to work, but they found that they had started a fire which they could not extinguish. To-day trade is paralyzed in every Queensland port with the exception of Cairns. Melbourne, Adelaide and Fremantle are in a similar position. If honorable senators opposite wish to keep unsullied the credit of unionism all they have to do is to tell these men that if they do not return to work they will be turned out of the union. The executive of the union has not the courage to compel the men to obey the law. The court is not prejudiced either way, but if anything it has been very lenient to the wage-earners. I do not know of one award that has been made against the workers. The present campaign director of the Australian Labour party at one time occupied, the position of Premier of Queensland. During his progress to wealth in that State, he bought a sugar farm in the Tully district. Under the award of the Cane Prices Board the cane cutters are obliged to sign a contract to obey certain orders in the cutting of the cane. They did not carry out the agreement they had made with  Mr. Theodore.  What did he do? He issued a summons against them for failure to carry out the agreement. 
He may have held a conference with them; but the point I wished to stress is that he haled them before a court and obtained a decision against them. 
I do. When a man enters into an agreement he should carry it out. In view of the attitude which he then adopted,  Mr. Theodore  should now be prepared to stand behind this Government and every one else who wishes to see the law observed. In that case he was protecting merely his own interests. In this case he can help to protect the interests of thousands upon whom misery is being inflicted.  Senator MacDonald  is acquainted with the personnel of the Board of Trade in Queensland. It comprises two trade unionists, with a solicitor as  chairman.  Its attitude generally, and the decisions it has given, have inclined towards labour. 
It has, in nine cases out of ten. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! The honorable senator will have an opportunity later to reply to  Senator Reid.  I ask him, therefore, to allow the honorable senator to make his speech without interruption. 
The wharf labourers all along the coast, as far north as Cairns, have acted in defiance of the Board of Trade, because of their objection to the rotary system. Last year there was an outbreak of lawlessness at South Johnstone.  Mr. Dunstan,  a member of the Board of Trade and a former general secretary of the Australian "Workers Union, visited that centre on four or five occasions to try to effect a settlement; but the men would not listen to him. Today the Queensland Government is standing behind the wharf labourers, a-nd sacrificing the interests of the Burdekin cane-growers. The Commissioner of Railways says that he will not supply trucks for the carriage of cane until the wharf labourers at Bowen have returned  to work. How can men be expected to abide by awards when neither Labour Governments nor union leaders will denounce them for defying the law? Some communists from Mourilyan Harbour obtained control on the wharf in Cairns, and their rate of loading was 12 tons an hour, compared with 37 tons by the local wharf labourers. How can an industry carry on in such circumstances? In Newcastle the day before yesterday free labourers loaded wool into the ship at the rate of 150 bales an hour. When trade unionists, did the work the rate was only 70 bales an hour. 
There is no doubt about that. The leaders of the unions are always wanting conferences. Even if the ship-owners agreed to a conference in this case, and the trouble was patched up, would there he lasting peace? Not at all. Within a month there would be a further outbreak. This bill has been rendered necessary by the action of the unionists themselves. There is no taint of martial law about it. If any unionist cares to register himself and work under the award of the court, he will not be interfered with. 
The Government proposes to do only what the leaders of the union have refused to do; that is, to discipline the men. 
My attitude in 1891 has nothing whatever to do with this case. I know more about trade unionism than  Senator MacDonald  is ever likely to know. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order!  Senator MacDonald  is not in order in trying to carry on a discussion across the floor of the chamber. He must obey the Standing Orders of the Senate just as other honorable senators have to do. If he offends again, I shall ask the Senate to take action against him. He will have an opportunity at a later stage to reply to  Senator Reid.  In the meantime, he must allow that honorable senator to proceed with his speech without interruption. 
The question at issue is a very simple one. There is nothing for which I need apologize, and nothing for me to retract. I am not in the least afraid to face the people of Queensland. I stand for obedience to the laws that have been made by this Parliament. Those who are prepared to observe the law, as laid down by the Arbitration Court, will benefit from this legislation. It will not interfere with the liberty of trade unionists who believe in law and order; but, on the contrary, will protect those who wish to observe the awards of the court. That is the exposition of it which I shall give wherever I go. Honorable senators opposite have not the courage to denounce men who flout the Arbitration Court. They are more cowardly than the men themselves. I have no time for leaders who will not discipline their followers. The Government has been forced into taking this action, to protect those who wish to observe the awards of the court. I shall support it wherever I speak, because my long experience of industrial matters teaches me that it is acting wisely and judiciously. This is the simplest and easiest way out of the trouble. The industries of Australia have been paralysed because of a dispute over the question of two pick-ups. There is nothing else at stake. Wages have been increased, and in many respects the conditions of the workers have been made easier. It has been customary to have two pick-ups in some of the States. Judge Beeby, in his wisdom, has said that two pick-ups are necessary. Therefore, why should not that system be given a trial ? The men ought long ago to have been instructed along these lines, and those who refused to observe the award should have been dismissed from the union. If that had been done, there would have been no necessity for the Government to introduce this bill. If the men will only accept the advice of their leaders there will be no occasion for the Government to intervene. 

 Senator MacDONALD (Queensland) [3.1 J.  -  Although the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat addressed his remarks to me instead of to the Chair, I do not intend at the moment to deal with the points he raised. Despite the honorable senator's harangue I say at once that I believe in arbitration, not because I think that it is better than any other system and that we must adhere to it in every particular; but because so far as I can see it is the best system to ensure industrial peace. There is no system in the world that has not some defects, and arbitration has so many that the British workers have refused to have anything to do with it. If  Senator Reid  will take the trouble to study Sydney Webb's  Industrial, Democracy  - perhaps the finest work on industrialism that has ever been written - he will find some very strong reasons why the British workers have refused to accept arbitration although in Australia we have adopted it. There are many more millions of workers in Great Britain than there are in Australia, but they do not believe in arbitration.  Mr. Webb  clearly sets out that the British worker is against arbitration 1 cause he realizes that he cannot expect to receive much consideration when his case is determined by a biased judge receiving perhaps £3,000 or £4,000 a year- £60 to £80 a week - who inquires into the struggles and ambitions of the poor unfortunate toiler receiving perhaps only £4 or £5 a week. The British worker knows that a judge who receives £4,000 a year must be the agent of the forces arrayed against him in his struggle against starvation. The British workers have said that a system based on such unsound foundations will not have their support. Hence we in Australia have to look upon arbitration with a certain amount of distrust. The British worker is independent and like some honorable members in this chamber takes a great pride in the stock from which he has descended. Despite the fact that the arbitration system has been in operation in Australia for 30 years, the British worker refuses to have anything to do with it. 
I have not heard one reference during the debate to the real cause of the present industrial trouble on the waterfront. It has been occasioned by Judge Beeby providing in his award that there shall be two pick-ups instead of one as has been the case in most of the States. There are thousands of honest working men who say they cannot work under this award which provides for two pick-ups in the one day. In order to illustrate the way in which this portion of the award affects the men I shall refer briefly to my own experiences. I believe there arc some honorable senators opposite who like myself have had some experience in the printing industry. As a young man I was engaged in the mechanical section of that industry in which the hours were definitely fixed at 56 a week until as a result of militant unionism they were reduced to 48. The system in that industry is better than that operating on the wharfs to-day. When I entered the higher calling of journalism in a country newspaper office, 27 years ago, I was supposed to work from eight in the morning till eleven o'clock at night. Of course I was not on duty all the time, but 1 had to be at call. Like the poor unfortunate waterside worker I had at times to lounge about the streets or hotels, and was unable to take full advantage of the benefit of home life. I objected to the system ; but  as there were only three journalists employed in the office we could not alter the system, although I would have liked to form a union to improve the conditions under which we were working. I might have taken part in a' strike, :is there was no other means of rectifying a wrong. Later when I went to Melbourne and worked on the  Argus  and the  Age  I found that instead of having to wait about the office or spend my time in hotels until I was marked for an engagement, I could get away after completing the number of engagements for which I was marked. There was no occasion to wait about for hours such as the poor unfortunate waterside workers are expected to do. Some of those same big city newspapers are to-day opposing the waterside workers, because they are asking for the very system that is followed in their own offices. 
Whatever may be said regarding this industrial fight we have to admit that a large number of workers are dissatisfied. We all know there have been occasions when the representatives of the two great political parties have told the workers to do certain things which they thought wrong, and after long arguments and bitter fights these two great parties have found that the workers were right, lt may he in this case that the men are right and that the two great political parties are wrong, because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Scullin)  in another place showed us the political attitude of our side in this case. I agree with him that the Labour party does not want this fight. We should be cutting our own throats if we did anything to encourage an industrial upheaval, and I am sure my colleagues do not want  a strike. We may be wrong, but it appears that big men commanding millions of capital have paid agents at work endeavouring to cause an industrial upheaval at this particular time. 
That has been said by others and there is some evidence of it. I have made a close study of politics since 1907 and I have seen a remarkable change during the last twelve years. We need only refer to the  Commonwealth Hand-Book  to show that a great change has come over the Commonwealth since 1914. That publication since the war exalts only the military achievements of federal members and forgets that great things have been done by civilians. It ignores the achievements of peace. There are times perhaps when war is necessary, but the victories of peace are as great as the victories of war. A study of the politics of this country shows that certain military strategists are operating in our midst. I suppose we should not. complain about that as " all is fair in love and war," and I suppose it is in politics. We object however, to being maligned and misrepresented as we have been by the last  speaker  for whatever we do. A strike at this time is against our interests. It seems that the people have been so deluded and fooled by military strategists that I cannot -expect a political victory. I have nothing to lose. I can speak the honest truth as I see it. We are so far behind in Queensland that it does not seem likely that we can win; but  I  shall always stand four-square to my political beliefs. I shall speak frankly and freely as I have always done and I hope I shall be able to continue to do so. 
I repeat that the system of two pickups is unnecessarily harsh. I give credit to two great Australian newspapers for installing and adopting a humane system long before the coming of the journalists union. The difference between a journalist's assignment and a waterside workers pick-up is only a matter of language. Some object to the workers having a union, but the barristers' union is one of the strongest in the world. The members of the legal fraternity fix their own fees and conditions of work. No one has power to prevent them from getting what they ask. They get as much as they can- By passing this bill we shall be giving the Government a blank sheet, with power to fill it in as they please. It has been inferred that it applies only to waterside workers ; but I point out that the principal clause reads : - 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears - " Transport Workers " means persons offering for or engaged in work in or in connexion with the provision of services in the transport of persons or goods in relation to trade or commerce by sea with other countries or among the States. 
In my opinion the bill includes within its ambit not only the waterside workers, but the seamen and also the carters and drivers and other transport workers engaged in carting produce to the sea coast. In Queensland we have a body known as the Inland Transport Union which carts produce to the railways for transhipment to the sea board. The members of it would, in my opinion, come within the provisions of the bill. Some time ago the Queensland Railways Union unsuccessfully endeavoured to bring about an amalgamation of the Seamen's Union, the Carters and Drivers' Union, and its own organizations so that all the transport workers of the State would be in one union. If the scheme had been carried into effect, the union would have had a membership of 20,000 which would be a large body of workers for a numerically small State like Queensland. The Carters and Drivers' Union, however, has recently made provision to include motor lorry drivers in its membership, and is now called the Transport Workers Union. It realized that with the passing of horse-drawn vehicles it had to do something to maintain its strength. I submit that workers employed from 600 to 700 miles from the sea-board may be brought within the provisions of the bill. Certainly the measure will not be limited in its application to those who lump cargo on the' wharfs. It would even include tally clerks who are members of the Waterside Workers' Union. 
I wonder whether the Government realizes that if the bill is agreed to it may have ultimately to issue hundreds of thousands, if not a million, licences. This is no small matter, although actually it seems nothing but an electioneering stunt. For my own part, if I should by any mischance fail to secure re-election on the 17th November, I shall be able to return to my former calling, and I hope always to be able to state my views frankly. 
There appears to be an unfortunate inclination on the part of honorable senators opposite to libel the Australian workers. We are told from time to time that they are a crowd of rowdies, that they are a pack of lazy bones, and that they have never done anything for the welfare of the country. Some honorable senators would also have us believe that Australia is the only place that has serious industrial upheavals. But when I was in London in 1911, I found that the National Union of British Railway Men, which had a membership of about 1,000,000, was engaged in a strike of wide ramifications. Previously, I had the idea that Great Britain was a model of industrial stability and sweet reasonableness. I had the same idea of Europe in general. But my experience while I was abroad gave me quite a new understanding of the situation. During that strike, I saw 40,000 professional soldiers camped in Hyde Park, Battersea Park and other similar open spaces, in order to be on hand to crush the workers if they did anything objectionable to the Government of the time. 
Although I have never been actually connected with a strike, I have been victimized because of them, and because of my connexion with unionism. When I was a lad in the nineties, I was camped with my father on a billabong in New South Wales. My father, after eleven months of unemployment, obtained work in a shearing shed. A strike occurred two weeks later, and he in common with the rest of the men ceased work, and properly so. That was my first experience of a strike. But I have had a good deal to do with industrial struggles since. It would be a very sad day for the workers of Australia if they should lose the power to strike to improve their conditions when they believed that that was the only method available to them which promised success. 
I think they are necessary at times, though I do not suggest that this one is necessary. Quite frankly, I say that, in my opinion, the waterside workers would have been well advised to accept the award, and seek to establish the principle of the one pickup by more peaceful means. That also is the opinion of the Labour party, and the leaders of the Waterside Workers Federation. We have endeavoured to settle this strike, but have not been successful. We might have had more success if the 
Government had assisted us, but it seems determined to do everything it can to foment trouble. There are times when men who feel that they are suffering from serious grievances will not listen to the advice of persons not directly associated with them. In those circumstances it might appear to some people that the only thing to do is to use the dum-dum, as the British military forces did with the Dervishes in the Sudan, and the only way that the British authorities could deal with them effectively was to blow them sky high. There are times when that may be the only way to meet the situation, if we are to adopt the attitude of some members opposite. 
A good deal has been said about the failure of the waterside workers to stand by their undertaking to observe the award of the court; but it often happens that other bodies of men and women refuse to abide by their solemn pledges. We are making great advances in other walks of life, and we should be able to advance our industrial standards. For instance, just think for a moment of what  we can do to-day with the radio. I have spoken over the air from Brisbane across the Tasman Sea, and my parents were able recently to hear my voice for the first time in sixteen years. I sent them a cablegram in the morning, and they listened in at night. Last night I telephoned to Melbourne and Brisbane and had to wait only about ten minutes to get through. Our advancement should not be limited merely to the' conveniences of life, but could easily be extended to relieving waterside workers from having to tramp two or four hours in search of a job. 
It is possible to handle men effectively without causing any industrial upheaval. I have had from 60 to 100 men under mo, and have not found any great difficulty in discussing and settling satisfactorily such grievances as they brought under my notice from time to time. I may have debated the matter very warmly with them; but that did not prevent us from ultimately reaching an amicable -settlement. I may have had the power to be an autocrat for a month or two or year or two; but it was not worth using it. In ten years I have had to dismiss only one man in conse- quence of an industrial disagreement, and I dismissed him because he cast aspersions upon my personal courage. Many of the great captains of industry in Australia are able to settle their industrial trouble without recourse to a strike or lockout.  Senator Reid  said that the award to which the waterside workers had objected is really " beautifully simple." lie also insinuated that the workers were the only class in the community which disobeyed the awards of the court. 
The honorable senator made the broader statement in the first instance, and it was only when I took him up on it that he qualified it in any way. As a matter of fact, men may break awards in many ways. They may do it by a direct honest strike, as the waterside workers have done; they may do it by reducing their output; or they may do it by the more violent means of sabotage. 
 There is no doubt at all about that. Graham, in his history of the Industrial Workers of the World movement in America tells us that no matter how strenuous or bitter was the fight that the members of the Industrial Workers of the World put up - and many of them were extremists, almost revolutionists, who talked of everything short of murder so far as their bosses were concerned - in the end they always had to get to a round-table conference with their employers, and admit that capital and labour had a lot in common, and that the interests of both dovetailed. I have mentioned" the ways in which awards of the Arbitration Court can be broken by the workers without resorting to strikes. Do I need to mention how they can be broken by the employers? 
Some people can dissimulate so well that others believe they are speaking the truth, but so far as the honorable senator's remark is concerned, my reply is a  non credo.  The employer has ample opportunity to get away from an award. For instance, he can pass on the added cost by increasing the price of his products, and thus in spirit at any rate, if not in actual fact, he breaks the award. Employers can break awards by sacking men wholesale, by retrenching their employees, on the score of reducing costs. The only time the average employer is found to be maintaining an award is when it does not hurt him; but when it hurts him he can find a thousand ways of breaking it. He can close his place of business or his factory. That has been done, and will still be done. 
I have been amused at certain references to the law. The law is a great thing, and, if we all respected it, would continue to be a great thing, but my brief experience in this chamber six years ago rested on the very insecure foundation of a majority of two votes in the Queensland legislature. I honorably accepted the law of the land. I thought that it was fair that I should be chosen as senator under the provisions of the Constitution. I was not aware that, at the time, there were Tory forces in Queensland quite capable of attempting to buy out the whole Queensland legislature, so determined were they to show their respect for the law of the land. I could go further and refer to a very painful incident well known to every honorable senator. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I ask the honorable senator not to deal with that matter. 
 I do not intend to do so, but when we roast the poor humble waterside worker, or for that matter any worker who is dependent for his livelihood on the sale of his labour, and expect him to obey the law of the land, we have to recall that not only in America, but also in Australia, there have been several incidents of the worst kind of law breaking, which were not associated with the workers. We ought to ask ourselves, if each and all of us have set as good an example to the waterside workers as we ought to have done. 
 I have not, but I recollect a happening in this chamber twelve years ago, where an endeavour was made to get something by certain means which were beyond the law. It is fair to bring it under notice because ofits political nature, but I have no desire to go into the matter. When we hear talk about the need for the waterside workers to respect the law of the land and recall these incidents, it seems to me that the less we talk here of respecting the law of the land the better it will be for all of us. That seems to have been the point made by  Senator Reid. His  creed is to obey the law. 
Then I ask the honorable senator to fight tooth and nail to see that the employer is kept up to the mark, for it will not be done by this bill. Armed force will be found necessary to keep the employer up to the mark; nothing short of the use of the military forces. 
Senatorcox. - The honorable senator would do away with the military forces. 
 I do not want to be credited with that lack of intelligence. Military forces are necessary in Australia to-day. They were necessary in the times of Cromwell, the French Revolution, and the American War of Independence. I am not the democrat who would have peace at all costs. I should not have been here if I had been too peaceful. 
If we are all concerned in the prosperity of Australia we should try to end the present trouble on the waterfront ; we should use our endeavours to bring about some understanding between the two sides to the dispute. Although most awards of the Arbitration Court have been accepted by both sides, there is often dissatisfaction on one side or the other. It is quite evident to me from the stand the waterside workers are taking that they are firmly convinced that they are losers by the award, or there is some deeper significance in their action than appears on the surface. I have no desire to put myself on a different plane from that of  any other man who sells his labour. Just as I would not rush hurriedly into a strike and cut off my means of revenue, so I believe the average worker is anxious to continue in his work, particularly if he is paying off a home, as I am doing. I am sure that the waterside workers are not anxious to have a serious interruption of employment. If they feel that they have been sufficiently injured to cause them to lose their employment, it must be because they have suffered serious injury. My experience as a journalist in the days before we had arbitration tribunals has made me a believer in the present arbitration system. Nevertheless, I know that it does not give entire satisfaction. The British worker and, I suppose, also the British employer regard the Australian arbitration method as useless. I remember writing an article on it for a British publication, but the proprietors were not interested in arbitration, having already formed their own conclusions about it. We are well aware that there are direct action ists on both sides. They are to be found among the employers. Many large employers of labour who have given a close study to the question are against arbitration. But the vast majority of the people of Australia, being democratic and anxious to meet one another, and having thrown off the European tendency to fight one another on all occasions, are anxious to adhere to our present system. For myself, I should like to adhere to it so long as it can be used to secure for labour a fair share of the product of industry. My desire is to have not so much direct action or arbitration as co-operation, and mutual understanding between employer and employee, because it is on those lines I think Australia will advance to the greater Commonwealth we hope it will be. The worker is entitled to a larger share of the product of his labour and will not be satisfied until he gets it. But he cannot get it under our present industrial system. 
Honorable senators of the Labour party do not want this strike. Personally I do not want it, although, in view of the results of the Senate voting of three years ago and the big handicap I am already facing, it is really quite amusing to think that it could be a matter of great concern to me. But having had a fair amount of experience in industrial matters, I am considerably disturbed about this present trouble and the suffering and hardships that will follow. Honorable senators on the other side declare that the leaders of the waterside workers should have stopped the strike. I ask how they could possibly have done so. 
If they did that there would soon be no union left. What happened to some of the honorable senator's friends when they tried to exclude the Labour party from the labour unions? What happened to Billy Hughes ? 
I ask the honorable senator to devote his time to the bill. 
The honorable senator has taken a long time to explain it. 
SenatorFoll. - I wish the honorable senator would induce the parties to do that. 
Peacehath her victories, and 
No less renowned than war.  and that after the election this whole business will probably be dropped ; it will have served its purpose. It is certainly suspicious that there should be turmoil on the waterfront on the eve of every Federal election. There are in Queensland men whom we call " Bellyachers ", who are prepared to sell their services to the other side, and devote their time to stirring up industrial trouble. If we had a secret service of our own we might be able to pillory these persons, but, as it is, they go their way, always with plenty of money, and taking things very easily. Any attempt to put this measure into operation will cause a terrible industrial disturbance, and that, if it happens, will certainly not be of benefit to Australia. 
.- While listening to the speech of the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat, I wondered what the Senate was really supposed to be discussing. At the outset he said that there was nothing in the bill. Evidently he must have creative powers, because he has been able to speak on nearly every subject under the sun while allegedly dealing with a bill which, according to him, contains nothing at all. I was very much struck by one remark he made at the conclusion of his speech, when he stated that he intended to regard this matter merely as an electioneering stunt. Is this industrial turmoil, with its consequent distress and suffering to the people of Australia, to be regarded by  Senator MacDonald,  who is shortly to seek the suffrages of the people of Queensland, merely as an electioneering stunt? There are thousands of primary producers in Queensland on the verge of starvation because of this trouble. Yet  Senator MacDonald  regards this as an electioneering dodge. He referred to the advantages of one pick-up as against two pick-ups. The question of one or two, or any number of pick-ups, has nothing whatever to do with the matter we are now considering. The question really is whether we are to have arbitration and direct action at the same time. The privileges and benefits of arbitration have been accepted by organized labour, and we have to consider whether, having accepted those benefits, organized labour shall be re quired to obey the awards of the Arbitration Court.  Senator MacDonald  delved into ancient history during the course of his argument, and referred to the time when workers had to toil for 50, 60, and 70 hours a week. He spoke of the struggle for liberty in Britain and Europe, but he did not mention that those countries had not the expensive arbitration system which we have here. This waterside workers' dispute is not a question of better conditions, more money, or shorter hours. There is work waiting for the men to do at award rates, and they have refused it. By their action they have thrown hundreds of thousands of others out of employment just as we are approaching the Christmas season. Not only do the men refuse to do the work themselves, but they will not allow others to work. The Government is adopting the right attitude when it says to these people : "You have got the protection of the court, the 44-hour week, and the basic wage. If you will not work, and carry on the industries of the country, we intend to ask somebody else to do it, and we shall see that they are properly protected. "  Senator MacDonald  said that the party which he represents is in a minority of 48,000. He professes to be a democrat, and to believe in the principles of democracy, yet he confesses that he represents a minority of 48,000. If that is so, he should not be here at all because democracy means majority rule. 
The situation in North Queensland at the present time, is very grave, and nothing that the Government could do to relieve it would be too drastic for me, I am prepared to support the Government right up to the hilt. On the Atherton Tablelands, as  Senator MacDonald  very well knows, the maize crop is now ready for shipment to southern States. There are several hundreds of returned soldiers there who have been battling against bad crops and low prices for years. Now, when for the first time they have a prospect of a successful season, the whole of their crop has been hung up at Cairns. The sugar industry has also suffered very seriously as a result of these repeated interruptions to shipping. The ordinary cane grower in Queensland is a small farmer, but he employs a considerable amount of labour. Until the sugar refineries receive the sugar from the mills, no money goes to the mills. Until the mills get the sugar-cane from the farmers, the farmers receive no money, and until the farmers receive their money the storekeepers and the cane-cutters have to go without theirs. As a result of this trouble, therefore, the whole of the Queensland sugar industry is in a state of stagnation, and will continue in that state until the transport services are restored. The Leader of the Senate pointed out the position of the tomato growers at Geraldton, and the tomato growers at Bowen are in a similar plight. These men work hard throughout the year preparing their crops, in the expectation of selling on southern markets at this time when prices are high; but owing to this hold-up they cannot get their crop to the market. As  Senator Reid  has remarked, the Commissioner for Railways in Queensland has refused to accept orders for trucks required for the transport of the sugar crop. Wool to the value of £5,000,000 or  £6,000,000  is waiting to be shipped overseas. Is all this trade to be held up because a few individuals in the wharflumpers union take exception to a particular section of an award of the Arbitration Court?  Senator Needham  observed that the leaders of organized Labour had done everything possible to see that the award was obeyed, and were still taking action to that end. I have not heard public utterances from them to that effect. Why does not  Senator Needham  state plainly from his place in this chamber that the wharf lumpers should go back to work and accept the two pick-ups? 
I heard a half-hearted justification of the strike, but no wholesale condemnation by. the representatives of organized Labour of the attitude adopted by the unionists. The true opinion of organized Labour on this matter may be gauged from the following paragraph that was published in the Melbourne  Argus  yesterday : -  
Ti e emergency committee of the Australian Council of Trade Unions met in the morning, and a long deliberation arose on the best methods to be adopted. It was originally proposed to convene a conference of represen tatives of all maritime unions involved in the trouble, but before taking this step, it was decided to obtain the views of the federal management committee of the Waterside Workers Federation, which has been in session in Melbourne since the interstate conference. As the result of this consultation, it wag agreed that the whole of the resources of the unions should be thrown behind the waterside workers in the fight with the ship-owners, on the ground that the waterside workers were justified in resisting the new award on the two " pick-ups " question. 
While these men say they are in favour of arbitration, they propose to use the whole of the resources of organized Labour to assist the wharf labourers in disobeying an award. 
Before the bill was brought down. This conference was held on Thursday last. 
I stand corrected in that respect, but the introduction of any bill in another place would not justify a body of individuals in disobeying the law of the land. Not very long ago, when an upheaval by the transport group was threatened, the Leader of the Labour party in the Senate was reported in the press to have said that if a certain law were carried into effect he would have no hesitation in assisting to upset it. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The Leader. of the Opposition asks for either proof or withdrawal of the statement. 
The honorable senator has been challenged with having made the statement, and he has never denied it. A body known as the Council of Action of the Labour Federation met in Sydney two or three years ago.  Senator Needham  remarked on that occasion that if the Deportation Bill became law he would do his utmost to see that it was not obeyed. Simply because I may not be able at the moment to produce specific proof that the statement was made, I should not be called upon to withdraw it. I read the statement in the press, and the honorable senator was challenged with having made it. 
By the Leader of the Senate. The honorable senator has a short memory. If he assures me now that he did not make such a- statement, I shall accept his word. 
The honorable senator does not deny that he made the statement that I attributed to him. 
The primary producers should be permitted to obtain their just reward for the work that they have done during the last twelve months, and should not be threatened with another industrial upheaval on the waterfront. The Government will have my fullest support in passing this measure. 
 I listened with interest to the speech of  Senator MacDonald,  and noticed the number of times he repeated the same statement in a different way. By some means, he worked into the discussion of the bill a description of his early career, when he was working for a newspaper in a country town. He described how he used to sit in hotel bars waiting for some one to turn up, either to "shout" or provide him with news, and honorable senators all felt like sobbing. Then,  Mr. President,  you directed him to confine his remarks to the bill. The measure affords sufficient scope to enable any honorable senator to speak on it at least for the time allowed by the Standing Orders. 
It is designed to meet special circumstances, and for that reason it is limited in its application.  Senator MacDonald  declines to admit this limitation, and has read into the measure many things that are not found in it. He said that the words, " by sea or with other countries, or among the States," imply that all men engaged in the bringing of goods to the sea are included within the scope of the bill. He would probably include the men handling the cargo carried by the Murray " whalers " and the Darling " dreadnoughts." In my opinion, it applies only to the handling of goods when they are actually on the seaboard. I do not think it involves even the trolley drivers and railway men who bring the goods to the wharfs. 
I do not imagine for a moment that this measure will become a permanent part of the legislation of this country; at least, I hope not, because like most emergency legislation, it is somewhat extreme in its application. 
I am not doing so. The Minister need not become annoyed. I was under the impression that the Government considered it a special measure to meet special circumstances. If I am assured that that is not its purpose, I shall have to re-consider my attitude. I realize the necessity to take some action to meet the circumstances now presented to us. We are faced with an impossible situation. 

 Senator Needham has addressed himself to a variety of aspects of the case, but has not faced the main facts. He does not admit that the situation is as serious as the Government and the party behind it believes it to be. Unless something is done to put an end to the present trouble, it may extend and dislocate industry throughout the Commonwealth. This is not the time to talk about a settlement by negotiation. The trouble is there, and it can only be met by legislation calculated to put an end to it by providing that those who contravene the law shall be punished. This measure will provide the machinery for the punishment of persons for certain offences. I hope that all those who are working on the waterfront will realize the real purpose of the bill. Thousands of men who have been employed on the wharfs for very many years must clearly understand that unless they register for employment and abide by the provisions of this new law, they will be denied employment in their occupations for ra term of years. This to them will be a serious matter. 
Honorable senators opposite argue that it is not a fair thing to say to men that unless they do so and so, they shall not have an opportunity to obtain employment in- their particular industry. le not trade unionism doing this every day, not only in respect of work on the waterfront, but also in other occupations? It declares that men have the right to employment not as men, but as trade unionists. In other words, these organizations elevate unionism above manhood. This is something which neither this nor any Parliament in Australia will tolerate. The party behind this Government declares that the interests of the men and women of Australia are infinitely more important than the interests of trade unionism. 
Arbitration is only a means to an end. To strike as these men on the waterfront are striking, is an attempt to force the will of a minority on a majority. Will the honorable senator deny that the waterside workers are a minority? And will he advocate that the will of the minority in the Waterside Workers Federation must be imposed on the people of Australia? 
Are we to permit the minority to do these things? We should be recreant to our trust as representatives of the people, as a Parliament and a party, if we acquiesced in the demands of the waterside workers.  Senator Needham  has told us that he is an advocate of arbitration. All that I can say on that point is that the friends of arbitration may well wish to be saved from such advocates.  The honorable senator and those associated with him, may- be regarded as being in the double-headed penny class of arbitration - as the " Heads I win, tails you lose " arbitrationists. When arbitration awards suit them the system is all right; but when it does not, they are prepared to take other action. 
It is Significant that all legislation brought down by this Government is bitterly opposed by honorable gentlemen opposite. They are not willing to join with the Government and its supporters in legislating in the interests of the people.  Senator Needham  waxed indignant this afternoon, when the right honorable the 
Leader of the Senate charged Labour with being silent in regard to the present industrial dispute. The Leader of the Opposition and  Senator MacDonald  are the only two representatives of Labour in the chamber at the moment. Neither of those honorable gentlemen directed his remarks to the bill itself, nor did either advance any reason why it should not be enacted. Labour is silent on this issue, because it dare not be otherwise. Our honorable friends opposite know that the men who are in control of the Waterside Workers Federation to-day are the same men, not perhaps the same individually, but certainly the same in sentiment, as those who are in control of many other trade union organizations throughout Australia. Only one industrial organization, the Australian Workers Union, can truthfully be said to be standing solidly by the principle of arbitration. Has the Australian Workers Union anything to fear from this bill? Not one thing. It is not directed against the Australian Workers Union or any other trade union organization whose members observe the awards of the court. This Government has at all times endeavoured to ensure the observance of these awards. Employers who have evaded them have been punished repeatedly. In many instances they have been fined heavily, and we have never heard one word of protest from honorable senators opposite. The position is entirely different when action is taken against trade unions for disobeying awards of the court. We are then told that it is unreasonable to ask men to observe awards which, in their view, are not quite fair and just to them; and that it is unreasonable to inflict punishment upon them. We all have objections to certain phases of the law, but, nevertheless, we observe it. 
That is so; but if we object we do so in a constitutional manner. Similarly members of the Waterside Workers Federation, if they do not agree with the award of the court, if they think that they are not getting a fair deal, should work under it until they can again approach the court to secure a modification of its terms. If it is an unfair award they should be able to  advance reasons why it should be altered. But, instead of doing that, they plunged the Commonwealth into a serious industrial trouble which threatens to bring ruin upon many thousands of people. 
  It may be said that the bill is drastic. 
Extreme cases call for extreme measures. What could be worse than an outbreak of war? We all abhor war, but we are all ready to fight in defence of the national honour and for the preservation of those principles which are dear to us. This trouble with which we are confronted to-day is a species of industrial war, and the Government is going into action not on the side of one of the disputants, but in the interests of all the people. This legislative action is being taken to ensure that there shall not be a recurrence of such disputes. It is a perfectly proper attitude for the Government to adopt. This bill is not, as  Senator Needham  has suggested, an attempt to smash organized unionism. Are we to infer from the honorable senator's remarks that he brackets all the other trade unions in the Commonwealth with the Waterside Workers Federation? If he does, then I am quite sure that organized trade unionism will be quick to resent the suggestion that they are in line with the waterside workers in this dispute. This proposed law is not directed against any particular industrial section. Inferentially it may be directed against a particular organization, but actually it is directed only against those who break the law. So long as organized trade unionists observe the law they will have nothing to fear. Is  Senator Needham  afraid that trade unionism in Australia is going to run amok as the waterside workers have done, and smash their industrial agreements and Arbitration Court awards, thereby causing industrial chaos? Certain action taken by the waterside workers has made it imperative for the Government to introduce this legislation to prevent a recurrence of the trouble. There is no doubt that the bill contains drastic provisions ; but, as I have said, desperate cases call for desperate remedies. 
SenatorFoll.  - This bill is protective of the interests of the people. 
It is. I hope, however, that it willnot be necessary to retain itfor any length of time on the statute-book. I am hoping that the waterside workers will realize that they cannot play fast and loose with the community. 
I am afraid that the application of the law permanently from one end of Australia to the other would involve us in considerable trouble and difficulty, apart altogether from the question whether it is desirable to retain such a law on the statute-book. If the permanent operation of the principle be good for this industry, we must logically apply it to other industries, and I shrink from imagining a condition of society in which a man would be allowed to work only if he were licensed. Therefore, I hope that this measure will serve the purpose for which it is designed, namely, the establishment of industrial peace on the waterfront, and that when the waterside workers have a clearer understanding of their responsibility to society, the bill can be repealed so that they may work on the same basis as men in other callings. They can then be trusted to observe the canons of constitutional trade unionism, and not resort to the extremes that have been peculiar to their industry and allied occupations. 
the Minister has said that members of Parliament who attendedthis conference were defying a law of the Commonwealth. 
I was; and I shall dp so again if I think a law is unjust and tyrannical. 
T'hematterwith whichthis bill deals is so important that it will undoubtedly figure prominently in the coming election campaign, when each member will have the fullest opportunity .to explain to the public his reasons for- supporting or opposing it. Honorable members who are associated with the' Leader of the Opposition have said that the bill is an electioneering stunt. Indeed,  Senator MacDonald  declared that it was becoming a practice for people to ask, when trouble occurred on the waterfront, if an election were likely to take place. Honorable senators will recollect that, preceding the general election three years ago, trouble arose on the waterfront many months before Parliament was due to go to the country. The then Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr. Charlton)  criticized the Government's attitude towards the strikers,, and challenged it to go to the country on that issue. The Prime Minister accepted the challenge, and the result of it was a complete vindication of the Government's policy. If tho industrial upheaval on that occasion was a major issue of the election,  Mr. Charlton  was the person who made it so.  Senator Graham  said that the Government does not intend to, and, indeed, dare not, give effect to this legislation. The honorable gentleman must have a short memory. At the last election the Government told the people that it proposed to take certain action against extremists, and that, if it had not the requisite legislative authority, it would ask Parliament to confer upon it additional power. The Government did not hesitate to carry out that undertaking, and when it was found that the then existing legislation did not give the requisite power to deal with undesirables, it took the earliest opportunity, in accordance with the mandate of the people, to ask Parliament to grant further powers. Parliament legislated as the Government desired, and the Ministry has not hesitated, when the circumstances warranted, to take action against the principal  al disturbers of industrial peace. We have been told that the proposed legislation will allow the Government to become tyrannical. I admit frankly that the powers conferred by the bill are very wide; but do honorable senators suggest that in a democracy like Australia the public would tolerate an abuse of the trust reposed in the Government? If the Government exercised  tyranically  the powers conferred upon it by Parliament it could not survive an appeal to the people. What is the fear of honorable senators who are opposing the bill? It aims at giving protection to those who will honour and observe the awards of the Arbitration Court. The critics of the bill would have us believe that all the waterside workers throughout Australia are opposed to working under the award. I venture to say that if a ballot were taken of the members of the organization 75 per cent, of them would vote in favour of returning to their jobs under the conditions awarded by the court. 
Probably tEat is a conservative estimate. 
The honorable senator said that all the waterside workers would be affected by this legislation. ' That is not so. Those in Tasmania are at work to-day, and I am confident that they desire to continue on the job. It seems to me that we are approaching a time when a general review of our industrial legislation will be necessary. We shall have to consider whether the workmen in certain ports, who have always observed the awards, are to be drawn into every industrial dispute on the waterfront in the larger States. To the best of my recollection not one of these troubles has originated in Tasmania. The waterside workers there share the desire of the people that they shall not be drawn into the disputes. Under the provisions of this bill those who are prepared to observe the awards will, I hope, receive that measure of protection to which they are entitled. There is a large body of workers who always have been agreeable to accept the Arbitration Court as a tribunal for the settlement of their industrial grievances, and who believe that the presiding judge deals impartially with each plaint'. When they believe that their conditions of employment should be reviewed they are prepared to go to the court, and leave the judge to decide fairly between them and the employers.Such men will hail with satisfaction this  legislation which will enable them to follow their avocations peacefully in accordance with the awards of the court. 
.- My attitude to this measure may be expressed in a few words. I endorse the Government's action, and will back it up to to the fullest extent in this chamber, and in the constituencies. In supporting this endeavour to give protection to the law-abiding sections of the community, I speak as one who knows the industrial movement and the Labour party. I watched at its cradle; I do not wish to follow its coffin, although the indications are that it is1 being headed for destruc-tion. I put this phase to the Senate: If this measure is as iniquitous as its critics have said, the Government is foolish to introduce it on the eve of an election, for it runs the risk of punishment by the electors. A prominent leader in the Labour movement said a few days ago that the Government's action would tend to create a new and more virile Labour organization. If that should be the result of this proposal the Labour party will have reason to rejoice, and we of the other parties will share its happiness. Apart from my desire to assist the honest trade unionist, and protect him against the militants and the " reds " who are leading him into wrong paths, I support this bill because of the peculiar circumstances of the State I represent. Tasmania is an island, and its produce can be placed on the markets of the mainland only by means of sea transport. We are especially hard hit when a trouble of this kind arises. It is regrettable that a small section of militant leaders in Sydney or Melbourne can, by a stroke of the pen, throw out of employment factory workers, primary producers, miners and other workers throughout Australia. I welcome the introduction of this bill, for its passing will mark the dawn - of a new era for the genuine worker. With this legislation on the statute-book, we can tell the few extremists in our midst that no longer shall they dictate the terms under which the trade and commerce of this country shall be transacted. In the . exercise of the powers conferred by this measure, -I trust that' the Government will show wisdom, that it will administer the law to protect the genuine workers. If that is done - as I believe it will be - thousands of honest, genuine, workers in the trade unions of this country will offer up a prayer of gratitude for a Government that has rescued them from leaders who, instead of being their friends, are their mortal enemies. 
 I support the bill, which is a measure to deal with dishonest men as they should be dealt with, and to protect honest men. We have in our midst a set of rebels who seek to injure this country. I am astonished that men, who otherwise may be regarded as sensible, should be so foolish as to obey them. No one invited these rebels to Australia, and no one would regret their departure; they are not an asset to the country. The best policy to adopt with them is that which is usually adopted in connexion with useless things, namely, get rid of them as soon as possible. The question confronting us is whether the Government, or a set of rebels, shall rule Australia. The condition of many of our trade unions is such that no common sense man dares to stand up at a meeting and express his honest opinion. If he did, he would be hounded down. I speak as a man who has led men for nineteen years. The only real trade union in Australia to-day is the Australian Workers Union ; the other unions are iri the hands of rebels. Eighty-five per cent, of the workers of Australia are almost ideal men, whose only desire is that they shall be allowed to work out their own salvation. A man is either good or bad; he is either within the law or without it. Those who stand for constitutional government believe that in this crisis the Government must rule. A lot of balderdash is talked about the Government trying to manufacture an election cry. Do honorable senators opposite think that the people of Australia are simple enough to believe that? Eighty-five per cent, of the workers are only waiting the opportunity to demonstrate their desire for liberty. Yesterday's newspapers contained a report that a stationmaster in Queensland had refused to send trucks tq load sugar. There is something to which  Mr. McCormack,  the Premier of Queensland, should give his attention. Notwithstanding that a continuation .of 'this  strike will cause men, women and children to suffer, the only concern of honorable senators opposite is whether out of this trouble they will gain or lose votes, whereas their duty as members of this Parliament is to legislate in the best interests of all the people. We should congratulate ourselves that there is in office a government which is prepared to do its duty. I am not concerned about chickens that are not hatched, but I am concerned that those which are hatched are trained properly. Where would any of us be to-day were it not for the discipline to which we were subjected in early life? The workers of Australia to-day need as leaders men with enough common sense to discipline them. The rebels in Australia who have come from Moscow should be sent back to Russia or anywhere out of Australia. On one occasion a number of men were deported from South Africa. No letters have been received from them since they left; they had. no friends to write to. Honorable senators opposite plead on behalf of the " poor worker ". The Leader of the Senate and some other honorable senators, including myself, have in times past raised the same cry : we have talked about the aid widow woman who kept a shop and pleaded the cause of the poor old fellow with one leg who conducted a barber's saloon. Honorable senators opposite are trying to do to-day what we did years ago. They forget the changes which have taken place.  Senator MacDonald  condemned the provision for two pick-up -periods .. daily. What about the miner at Broken Hill who has to attend at the mine at 8 o'clock in the morning, again at noon, and also in the afternoon at 4 o'clock, looking for a job? I do not say that it is right that these conditions should obtain, but we cannot expect to get all we want at once. Honorable senators opposite are looking for a new Jerusalem; but they are going the wrong way to find it. This bill,  when it becomes law, will mean the salvation of Australia ; it will open the way to greater- freedom and will give to everyman an opportunity to work out his own salvation. Hundreds of men to-daylivein a constant state of terror. I liken SenatorOgden and . myself to David and Johnathan, because our love of truth and our concern for the Empire have drawn us together. We are prepared" to sacrifice much to maintain the freedom and liberty for which the British flag stands. . We do not want in Australia a repetition of what took place in Russia. The people there, dissatisfied with the Czar, killed him, but in his place they established two other Czars in Lenin and Trotsky. I shall vote for the second reading. 
[4.59]. - In view of the little time at our disposal I do not propose to traverse the various speeches which have been made, but to one statement made by  Senator Duncan  I feel that I must, on behalf of the Government, make reference. The honorable senator said that he regarded this as a temporary measure which, he anticipated, would be discarded after the settlement of the present industrial upheaval. 
I desire that there shall be no erroneous impression as "to the attitude of the Government. The Government intends that the protection which is now being offered under this bill to those who will undertake to work under the terms of the awards shall be of a permanent, and not of a temporary nature. Of course, the continuation of that protection may not be under this bill - it may be considered advisable to introduce other legislation for the purpose - but I wish to unhesitatingly make it clear that the protection that will be afforded will be of a permanent nature. 
[5.16]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As honorable senators are aware, it is the practice each year to pass a bill fixing the income tax rates. This bill fixes, as from 1st July, 1928, the same rates that were in operation last year. As there has been no change in the rates, I ask the Senate to agree to the second reading of the bill without delay. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
Under normal conditions3 the members of the Opposition would discuss in detail the bill now before the Senate, but in view of the fact that on the motion for the ;printing of the Estimates and budget papers I availed myself  of the opportunity to criticize the financial position of the Commonwealth as revealed by the Treasurer's budget speech, and that there is a desire to conclude the present sittings of Parliament to-day, I shall mention only one or two important matters in the hope that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  or the Minister representing the departments concerned will be able to give me a reply before the Senate rises. 
The first matter which concerns the Defence Department' is one to which I have previously referred. On the 6th October, 1927, I brought under the notice of the Minister for Defence  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  the decision of the High Court in an action brought by his department against the Electric Company of Australia, Sydney. The Minister in his reply stated that when the next amendment of the Defence Act was being considered, he would see that the anomaly I mentioned was considered. The facts are these: Under the compulsory training provisions of the Defence Act an apprentice employed by the firm named had to attend training camps. At the end of the lad's term of apprenticeship the firm said he would have to serve an additional term to cover the period during which he was absent from his employment while in camp. The Defence Department brought an action against the company and the magistrate fined it £10. On appeal, the Supreme Court of New South Wales quashed the conviction. The matter was then carried on appeal by the Defence Department to the High Court, which, on. the casting vote of the Chief Justice, decided in favour of the company. I consider this matter of sufficient importance to again bring it before the Senate. I contend that any youth who, in obedience to the law of the land attends a training camp, should not have added to his period of apprenticeship the time he was in camp. I ask the Government to fulfil the promise made by the Minister for Defence, who said that an amending bill would be brought down to cover such cases. 
I also wish to bring under the notice of the Government an incident that occurred a few months ago at Fremantle, when 52 prohibited immigrants were discovered by customs officers carefully stowed away in a steamship. To summarize the position, I shall read the following  memorandum  issued by the Home and Territories Department for the information of all searchers and watchers endeavouring to prevent the entry of prohibited immigrants. 
Home and Territories, 22/6717 (16th June, 1922 ) . 

 Coloured Stowaway Traffic. 

Adverting to my circular memorandum on the 19th January last, I am directed to inform you that the Minister is pleased to note from the reports received from the various States, the precautions taken by way of watching and searching to prevent coloured stowaways from gaining illegal entrance to the Commonwealth, and he desires that there shall be no relaxation of efforts in this direction. 
As an incentive to searchers and watchmen to exercise their utmost vigilance with a view to suppressing this traffic, the Minister has approved of a reward of £25 being offered to customs officers for each coloured stowaway discovered by them, and in respect of whom the master or agents of the ship concerned are convicted of a breach of the Immigration Act 1901-1920. 
It is intended that the master and agents shall be prosecuted in all cases where a coloured stowaway has been discovered by a customs officer, and whose presence on board has not been reported by the master in accordance with section 9n of the act. (Signed) J. 6.  McLAREN,  Secretary. 
The  52  stowaways were discovered as a result of the vigilance of searchers and watchers, but instead of the full reward, £20 was the maximum amount that each man received. It may be claimed by the department that some information had been received that these men were on a steamer due to arrive at Fremantle, but the name of the vessel was not specified by the intelligence officer. It therefore remained for the searchers and watchers to discover not only the vessel but the stowaways. I ask the Minister to see that these men receive the full reward to which in terms of the circular they are entitled. 
I also wish to bring under the notice of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral a matter relating to contracts let by that department. The  general secretary of the Australian Labour party in Western Australia -wrote to me as follows : - 
It 1ms come to my notice that the contract made by the Postal Department for clearing the track for the telephone lines from Toodyay to Goomalling has been let to Southern Europeans. I asked for information from the department by telephone, and was requested to write. I have done so, as follows: - 
Could you kindly inform me as to thu name of the contractor who cleared the track for the telephone line from Toodyay to Goomalling, which has been recently completed ? 
Could you also inform me whether there is any stipulation in the contract let by your department that preference shall be given to Britishers or naturalized British subjects? Trusting to receive an early reply. 
In reply to which I received this answer - In reply to your memo, of 18th July, 1928, I have to advise that the name of the contractor for the ToodyayGoomalling clearing is  Mr. P.  Omodei. 
There was no clause in the conditions of contract which stipulated that preference was to bc given to British or naturalized British subjects. (Sgd.) J. G. Kilpatrick, 
State Engineer. 
I direct the attention of the Minister to the fact that Southern Europeans are obtaining contracts to the. exclusion of British or naturalized British subjects. Power should be given to the department to stop such a practice. I presume that contracts are let to the lowest tenderer, but provision should be made in future tenders that foreigners shall not have preference over British subjects. The only other matter I wish to bring under the notice of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General is the case of T. J. Myers, of 29 Victoriastreet, Kalgoorlie.  Mr. Myers  is a returned soldier. He suffered from trench fever at the front, and one of his eyes is affected as the result of war activities. He is now receiving a war pension of 10s. 6d. a week. The affected eye is not as good as the other, but he has the use of it. For seven years he has been engaged as a linesman in the Postal Department. He passed an examination for permanent appointment, and while he was working in Wagin was gazetted. He submitted himself to a medical examination, and the doctor told him that he was all right. Vet, because of his impaired eye, the Public Service Board refuses to approve of his permanent appointment, declaring that he is not fit for a permanent position. 
I should like the Minister, if possible, to give me a reply to the matters I have brought under his notice. There are other subjects, under the various votes, to which I could refer, but realizing that the Senate cannot properly discuss an Appropriation Bill under at least two days, I have not the slightest intention of endeavouring to discuss this bill in the limited time now at our disposal. 
In view of the general desire of honorable senators to put this bill through quickly, although there are very, many subjects to which I wish to refer, I shall confine my remarks to the reply furnished to me on the 13th September last, in regard to the cost involved in sending a telegraph message from Broome in Western Australia to Cape York in Queensland, a distance along the telegraph lines of about 7,500 miles. I asked whether the cost per mile of the telegraph poles was £70 and was informed that they cost £14Q, which was considerably more than I expected. The idea I had in view in submitting my question was to bring under notice the fact that, whereas we can send telegrams at Id. a word over 7,500 miles of telegraph lines which have cost up to £140 a mile the charge for sending a Beam wireless message is ls. lOd. a word although the cost of erecting the plant to send those messages did not exceed £120,000. In his reply to my questions the Minister after admitting a difference in the financial aspect of the question, said - 
The destination of ordinary messages delivered in the Commonwealth is via land line, 
Of course we knew that -  but the destination of Beam wireless messages referred to is England. Therefore the services are not similar. 
I should like the Minister to explain why the services are not similar. I have a brother-in-law in Adelaide and one in England. If I send a telegraph message to my brother-in-law in Adelaide and a Beam wireless or cable message to my brother-in-law in England, is not a similar service performed in each case? There is a cable between the mainland and Tasmania. If I send a message by cable to friends in Tasmania and another message by cable to friends in England is that not also a' similar service? If it is not why is it not? The Minister's reply proceeded - 
Over each of the channels of communication a variety of classes of traffic is sent, 
I admit that -  and the rate charged for any particular class of traffic is not necessarily based on the capital investment or the cost of rendering this service. 
That opens up the very important question of whether the policy of the Postal Department is to render services as near as possible at cost price, or make a prout. 
1 quite admit the possibility of a loss being sustained by carrying telegraph messages at a Id. a word over costly land lines, and I want to know why the charge should be ls. lOd. a word for the transmission of messages over the Beam wireless the cost of which is infinitesimal in comparison with that of telegraph lines. Is it the policy of the Government to make the Post Office an instrument for levying taxation? The Telegraph Department is certainly not used for that purpose, because it is giving a wonderful service at less than cost price. "What, I ask, is the policy in regard to beam wireless charges? The Government has a definite interest in the Pacific Cable Board, and holds more than half the number of shares in the beam service company  in Australia. The Minister admitted that the Government was consulted before the charges were fixed for the Canadian  service, and I take it that it has also some say as to what those charges should be. Is the Government to be quite indifferent to the cost of the service which we receive or is it intended that these messages shall be transmitted at. as near cost price as possible? I know the policy of the English post office has been to raise revenue for the Government, and sometimes as much as £8,000,000 a year profit has been made. In the past, however, it has not been the policy in Australia to use the post office for raising taxation. I had intended to speak on other matters, but I shall refrain from doing so in the hope of receiving a satisfactory answer to these questions. 
.----I am disappointed that nothing has been done during the last six years. towards putting in hand the construction of a railway line connecting the Northern Territory with the railway systems of Queensland and New South Wales. In 1914," during the regime of the Cook Government this work was considered of sufficient importance for a decision to be arrived at to proceed with it, subject to endorsement by the Queensland Government; but the State Ministry headed by Messrs. Denham and Barnes refused to accept the Federal offer. The matter was brought up by  Senator Foll  recently by way of a resolution, but after it had been debated nothing more was done. It may be said that . this is a parochial matter affecting Queensland only, but Queensland has not been very well treated in the matter , of Commonwealth expenditure. Queensland may not be exactly the Cinderella State of the Commonwealth, but it is certainly not the most favoured State. For instance, the General Post Office in Brisbane is an eyesore. We take a pride in Brisbane in our State and civic buildings. The new treasury block in that city is equal to anything in any of the capital cities of Australia. Indeed, it will compare favorably with public .buildings in any part of the world, and I had an opportunity some years ago of inspecting corresponding buildings in London and Paris. The new Roman Catholic Cathedral in Brisbane will, when completed, be a magnificent building, which ' will be equal, or superior to, the cathedrals in Melbourne or Sydney. Very fine mercantile buildings are being erected by private concerns, but in contrast to these the general post office, in the heart of the Queen city, makes a very . poor showing. Indeed, there is no imposing Commonwealth building in Brisbane. 

 Senator- MacDONALD. -  They are proceeding very slowly with it; The new  town hall, which is now nearing completion, will be the best of its kind in Australia. 
If this railway to the Northern Territory had been completed during the present drought, which has been the worst within the memory even of the aborigines, it would have been the means of saving millions of sheep. Thus it would have. been of benefit, not only to Queensland, but to the whole of Australia, and might have been the means of reducing the Commonwealth deficit. The Northern Territory Commissioners, in their report, support the construction of the railway. I do not want to make unfavorable comparisons between this line and that being constructed from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs; but I urge that no time should be lost in connecting the Northern Territory by means of a north-east line with Queensland and New South Wales. 
Repeated requests .have been made to the Department of Trade and Customs to have re-surveys made of portions of the north-west and west coasts of Tasmania. The survey of the north-west coast was made many years ago. It is plotted on a very small chart, and complaints have been made from time to time by shipmasters that it is not complete. The west coast, on account of storms, is extremely hazardous to navigate. The Strahan Marine Board has repeatedly requested that this work be carried out. I understand that the department has asked the State Government to prepare certain landmarks, to enable the survey of the west coast to be made. I do not say that that is an unreasonable request; but the fact remains that the State Government has not seen fit to comply with it. The question as to who should prepare the land-marks ought not to be allowed to hinder the carrying out of this very important work. Even though the State is not prepared to share in the cost, the Commonwealth should still undertake. the surveys in the interest of the navigation of Tasmanian waters. 
 Senator Needham  seems to delight in " having a dig " at the Defence Department. Speaking to the motion that the Estimates and budget papers be printed, he stated that millions of pounds had been spent upon that department, and that the Commonwealth had nothing to show for it. 
The honorable senator's speech did not contain anything constructive. Are we to understand that he has not a policy, or that he would abolish the department and not make any attempt to defend Australia? 
Is it the policy of the Labour party to abolish the Defence Department? 
--Senator Needham stated that we had nothing to show for our expenditure. That is quite false. We have been giving effect to a very definite programme for a number of years, and obtaining excellent results. A navy is being established. It is a fine one of its class, even though it is small. A visit to Point Cook will show honorable senators what is being done in connexion with our aircraft. Honorable senators opposite declare that there is nothing down there; but they have not paid a visit to the place, and, therefore, cannot speak authoritatively. Every year, young cadets attend a course in aviation, after which they resume their occupations in civil life with a pilot's certificate. That training is most valuable. In the past, when  Senator Gardiner  led the Opposition in this Senate, he pinned his faith to aircraft and submarines. 
That is not apparent from the speeches of honorable senators who sit opposite; but, if it is so, they ought to derive gratification from the fact that the Government is developing its policy along those lines. 
I wish to direct the attention of the Minister to the great dearth of landing grounds in the Commonwealth.  Senator Guthrie, Senator Plain  . and I had this impressed upon us very vividly last week, when we were taken by air from Canberra to Melbourne. The pilot stated that, with the exception of that at Cootamundra, there is no landing ground worthy of the name. That town is not in a direct line between here and Melbourne; you have to fly due west for a distance of 75 miles before you strike it. There are sites which could be made satisfactory landing grounds at Benalla and Seymour; but in their present condition it is dangerous to attempt to land upon them, because one is liable to crash. They have a number of stumps upon them, but these could be cleared at very little expense. To-day a wire was received from  Senator Guthrie,  stating that he had had to descend near Seymour. Apparently the machine was put out of order, and he was not able to continue his journey. It is undesirable that flying should be discouraged in this way. Engine trouble is always likely to be experienced, rendering it necessary to land. If possible, arrangements should be made with different country towns to provide landing grounds. 
The War Office is urging that senior military officers should be encouraged in every way to become accustomed to being aloft and making observations from an aeroplane. This is worthy of the serious attention of the Government. In the old days it was possible to ride a horse to within a few hundred yards of the enemy's lines, and reconnoitre his position. It is no longer possible to approach within a mile or so, and thus useful information cannot be obtained in that way. Consequently, there has been substituted reconnaissance from an aeroplane. It would be useless in time of war to send officers aloft without any previous training. One is just as much liable to be attacked by air sickness as by sea sickness, and should that occur an army's plans might be disarranged. I was disappointed at not receiving' any encouragement when I applied recently to the Minister of Defence for permission to use one of the department's planes. Air Commodore Williams stated that he had a number of young officers who would be only too glad of the opportunity to fly to Canberra, pick us up and take us back to Melbourne. Seeing that the function which we wished to attend was closely connected with the military forces, I think the Government might have permitted these officers to perform this service. 
Although our military force is small it is by no means to be despised. I suggest to honorable senators opposite that they should visit Williamstown on the first  Saturday  afternoon they have available to see the youngsters of the forces go through their firing exercises. In my opinion there is no army, either professional or citizen, in the world which could teach these youngsters much in the way of rifle shooting or Lewis gun work. I am sure that no honorable senator would be prepared to risk his head and shoulders in the place of the headandshoulder targets that the citizen forces use for their practice. The extraordinary development of rifle and machine gun practice throughout the forces is due in a large measure to the encouragement given to it by General Brand who, with his experience and enthusiasm, has done a great deal to encourage the boys. The presence of other senior officers on the range has also been a great benefit to them. Great credit is likewise due to the civilian rifle clubs for the assistance they have given in. this respect by acting as coaches. 
The question of the mechanization of the army is referred to in the report. Sixwheeled lorries are gradually taking the place of horse teams, but the guns have not been built te stand being rattled along at 15 miles an hour at the tail of a motor lorry. Consideration must shortly ' be given to the provision of pneumatic tires on the guns. A good deal in this direction has already been done in Great Britain, but it cannot be said that the mechanization of the artillery, or that the adoption of specific types of motor vehicles, has been in any sense standardized. The Government would be well advised to give some attention to this subject. 

 Mr- MacRobertson deserves the utmost credit for his round Australia tour, one of the objects of which was to demonstrate the usefulness of motor transport. The Government should encourage other people to purchase similar plant by granting subsidies to them. These transport facilities would then be available at any time for defence purposes. A good deal is being done in England at present in that direction, though the transport is by no means stabilized. 
Motor transport would be of extreme value in signal work. With our far-flung battles we are coming to realize more and more the importance of signal equipment. The work that has been done in the camps in this direction has been very successful. 
It is regrettable that there is such a great shortage of officers and noncommissioned officers. According to appendix A of the Inspector-General's report, we are 112 commissioned and 452 noncommissioned officers short in the first military district and 236 commissioned and 586 non-commissioned officers short in the second military district. The total shortage is 608 officers and 1,771 non-commissioned officers. We have been relying, since the war, upon the services of men who were on active service, but the time has come when we should pay a good deal more attention to this matter. I feel sure that an investigation would reveal that one of the reasons for the shortage is that the reduced period of service does not make it worth while for men to undertake the higher training. As soon as money is available we should increase the length of service by one or two quotas. 
The Inspector-General's report had a commendable word to say about the advisableness of adopting a smarter uniform for the troops. The old blouse with which we are so familiar gave good service in the Australian Imperial Forces, but it does not make any appeal in these days to the boys on parade or their sweethearts. I advise the Government to consider the adoption of something more brilliant and cheerful. 
 In reference to the remarks of  Senator Needham  about the Toodyay-Goomalling telephone line, I have received the following report from the Postmaster-General : - 
Toodyay-Goomalling Telephone Line. 
Tenders were invited for the abovementioned telephone line, as shown hereunder : - (re) Clearing. 
Supply of poles, delivery to be made at peg marks. 
Distribution of material. 
Complete job. 
Regarding (a), only one- tender (nonBritish) was received, and was accepted. 
Six tenders were received for (6), three of which were British. Each British tender was for the supply of poles free on rail and not at peg marks. When freight and cartage were added, the foreign tender was lower by  12$  per cent. 
A non-British tender only was received for (c). 
No tender was successful for  (d),  and the work was carried out departmentally. 
That is a matter of Government policy. Does  Senator Needham  suggest that the Government should give the contract to British firms irrespective of how much their price is above the price of foreign firms? 
Attention has been directed by the honorable senator to the case of  Mr. A.  T. Myers, who was declared to be medically unfit for a permanent position in the Telegraph Department. I am informed upon that matter as follows: - 

 Mr. Myers, who is a returned soldier, was temporarily employed as lineman, and upon his passing the examination for permanent appointment, and his turn arriving, he was required to undergo the usual medical examination. From medical advice received it was found that his vision is very poor, and could not be improved with glasses.  His  medical history showed that the eye condition existed prior to his leaving Australia, and was not attributable to active service, although possibly aggravated by such service. 
Regarding the remarks of  Senator Thomas  about the Beam service, I point out that the charges for this service are not similar to those for the ordinary telegraphic service; because in the latter case, the whole of the work is performed by the Commonwealth Administration, but the Beam service is administered by the Commonwealth in conjunction with the British Post Office. 
[6.11].  -  Senator Needham  raised the question of the position of apprentices under the Defence 
Act, and quoted the case of a young apprentice who was penalized by his employers who required him at the end of his apprenticeship to serve an additional period to cover the number of days during which he was absent from his employment on military duties. The matter was brought under the notice of the Minister for Defence  (Senator Glasgow)  who said that he would consider amending the act with a view to meeting such cases. The matter was then referred to the Attorney-General's Department with a view to having such an amendment of the act made. The Solicitor-'General on 24th January last replied that, in his opinion, it would be advisable to amend the section in order to ensure that trainees under indentures of apprenticeship would not suffer any detriment as a consequence of rendering the service required by the act. In a further communication from the AttorneyGeneral's Department, dated 28th June,  Sir Robert  Garran states that the amendment itself appears to be one of some difficulty in view of the fact that apprenticeship is a matter governed by State law. He further points out that where a person is serving articles of apprenticeship the mere fact that he is required by Commonwealth law to perform military training, does not affect his obligation under the terms of his apprenticeship to complete the full period of service in the trade or occupation to which he is apprenticed. The insistence of an employer upon full compliance with that requirement has been decided by the High Court not to fall within the scope of section 134 of the Defence Act. In other words, the employer, by insisting upon the full term, does not "penalize" his employee.- In the circumstances, therefore, it appears that an employer is within his rights in requiring apprentices to make up the time which they have served by way of military training. 
The Solicitor-General further points out that it is difficult to advise on cases without seeing or being informed as to the contents of the actual indentures of apprenticeship. For instance, it is quite possible that the indentures may contain some provision under which the apprentice agrees to serve for a certain number of years, and to exclude, in reckoning the period of his service, all time during which he is absent, irrespective of the cause of his absence. He goes on to refer to the fact that the decision of the three judges constituting the majority of the High Court in the case of  Wells  v.  English Electric Company of Australia Limited  (38  Commonwealth Law Reports,  page 295), was to the effect that on the facts of the case the employee had not' been " penalized " in his employment, seeing that he could have enforced his rights by legal action. He states that the case may be regarded as an authority for the view that on an indenture of apprenticeship drawn in the form used in that case, the employer has no right to require the apprentice to make up the amount of time spent by him in the annual training required by the Defence Act. The department is prepared to do everything in its power to see that apprentices are not penalized for having performed the training required by the act, and to investigate cases in which questions arise as to whether the apprentice has been penalized. The court held that the apprentice in that case could have insisted upon the termination of his apprenticeship on the day fixed by the indenture without serving the additional days required by the defendant. The dissenting judges took the view that the employer in that case had penalized the employee within the meaning of that section. Apparently their view is that the employer had no power to require the employee to serve for the additional days required by him. This Parliament cannot interfere with the full right of a State Parliament to pass a State law. 
Not in a matter in which a State has full power. If a State law provides that an apprentice shall complete three years of training, notwithstanding that he gives part of that time to military duties, this Parliament cannot override the State law. If the honorable senator considers that the time spent in military training should be taken off the period of apprenticeship, then it is the State law that must be amended. 
I have a  minute from the Home and Territories Department referring to the discovery of 50 Chinese stowaways on the steamer  Almkerk  on the 20th  October,  1927. It states- 
 In 1922 the then Minister approved of a reward of £25 being offered to customs officers for each coloured stowaway discovered by them and in respect of whom ' the master of .the ship was' convicted and fined £100 for a breach of the Immigration Act. The object of this offer was to act as an incentive to searching officers to make every effort to discover Chinese stowaways. 
In the case of the 50 men discovered on the  Almkerk,  definite information was received beforehand that 52 Chinese stowaways were on board this vessel when she left Rotterdam, and that they were all secreted in the tank. 
The customs officers worked strenuously to remove many tons of cargo in order to get at the tanks, and they deserve great credit for the successful results of their search. The position, however, was not the same as if they had discovered the men without the precise information to guide them.  . The question as to the amount of reward to be distributed to the officers concerned was referred to the Collector of Customs for his recommendation, bearing in mind the special circumstances of the case. As a result, a sum of £270 was distributed amongst the officers in accordance with the Collector's recommendation.' 

 Senator MacDonald referred to a railway proposal in Queensland. This subject was raised by  Senator Foll  in a motion which has been discussed in the Senate. The Prime Minister received a deputation on the matter in Queensland, and promised that it would receive the consideration of the Government. 
As to the complaint that Brisbane has not had a fair deal in the matter of Commonwealth expenditure, I remind the honorable senator that the Commonwealth Government voted a considerable sum towards the cost of constructing the BrisbaneKyogleSydney railway. A magnificent telephone exchange has been erected in the Queensland capital, and a fine Commonwealth Bank building has been placed on a prominent site there. The delay in the erection of the Commonwealth offices in Brisbane is entirely due to the request of the local authorities that it should not be built until a decision has been reached regarding Anzac Square. The Public Works Committee recommended the building of these offices, and they would have been erected two years ago except for the circumstance that I have mentioned. 
A request was made by  Senator Herbert  Hays for a survey of a portion of the Tasmanian coast. I have no personal knowledge of this subject, but I shall bring it under the notice of the responsible Minister. 

 Senator Elliott referred to the lack  of landing places for aeroplanes and the need to encourage senior military officers to make observations from the air. These matters and his remarks about sixwheeled tractors will be brought under the notice . of the Minister for Defence. 
Question resolved in the  affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
[6.19]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
When I presented the budget papers I gave honorable senators a full statement of the financial -position. My remarks on that occasion comprised practically an epitome of the Treasurer's budget speech. I then invited honorable senators to discuss finances generally. As honorable senators have had a full opportunity to deal with the budget in general outline, I content myself now by asking them to support the second reading of this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee? 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
First schedule agreed to. 
Second Schedule. 
Proposed vote, £22,992,927. 
I direct the attention of honorable senators to the items under the Joint House Department relating to the salaries of waiters in the refreshment rooms. There is provision for one waiter at £294, three at £270, one at £293, and three at £266 10s. These waiters have to appear in proper dress, and I believe that their uniform costs approximately £3 15s. The highest salary is £5 10s. a week. ' Is it possible to make an allowance to the waiters for trousers? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - There is a considerable number of employees in the Joint House Department and Parliament provides uniforms for all who are expected to wear uniforms. White coats are furnished for the waiters. Certain men from the cleaning department are also called upon to wait at table at lunch time and dinner in an emergency. It would not be reasonable to expect the department to provide these men with uniforms for the dining room, but they are supplied with as many white coats as are necessary. It is considered that this meets their requirements. When the Seat of Government was in Melbourne we were able, at short notice, to secure temporary employees to assist in the refreshment rooms. In Canberra this avenue is closed to us, so we utilize, when necessary, the services of a number of men from the cleaning staff, to assist in waiting at the tables. 
 I notice, in the estimates of the Postmaster-General, that the number of telegraphists employed is less than in the previous year. In New South Wales there is a reduction of 20 employees; in Victoria, 7 ; in Queensland, 12 ; in South Australia, 17; in Western Australia, 17 ; and Tasmania, 1 ; making  a  total of 74. Is this because of greater efficiency in the department, or is it due to loss of traffic? 
.- Under the Department of Trade and Customs I desire to refer to a matter that closely concerns the State- which I assist to represent in this chamber, namely, the effect of the Navigation Act on the coastal shipping trade. There is considerable discontent over this matter in Tasmania. A number of our people believe that the State is suffering more than it should suffer from the operation of the Navigation Act. This belief may result in the expression of a wish to secede from the federation. I do not think that this view is held seriously; but- 1 know that some people are thinking of secession. Since I have been a member of this Parliament I have endeavoured to get an expression of opinion by the Senate on the effect of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act upon coastal shipping generally, but without success. I had a motion on the noticepaper for two years. The Government and honorable senators kept putting the discussion off from time to time, "with the result that Parliament prorogued before I could get a division on the motion. The act is not doing what it was intended to do in stimulating our passenger coastal shipping services. In 1921, 24 passenger ships, aggregating 104,000 tons, were running. In 1926, the tonnage had decreased by 40,000 tons, and the number of ships by eleven, making a total of only thirteen ships with an aggregate displacement of 64,000 tons. That is the result of granting assistance to one small section of the community, comprising about 15,000 seamen. It is not right that the whole community should be penalized to such an extent in the interests of that small section. I, therefore, move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the vote " Department of Trade and Customs, £911.260," by fi. 
I do this to test the feeling of the Senate in a matter of such importance to all the people of Australia. 
[6.32].  -  To ask honorable senators to vote on this amendment as a means of ascertaining their views on the Navigation Act is scarcely reasonable, because honorable senators who might share the opinion of  Senator Ogden  regarding that legislation might not desire to embarrass the Government by voting to reduce its Estimates. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Undoubtedly it would, because the Estimates would have to go back to another place. I remind the Senate that a royal commission, the Public Accounts Committee, and various public bodies have made representations regarding the Navigation Act, and that the Prime Minister has promised that they will receive the consideration of the Government. With the election only a few weeks off, honorable senators will understand that it is  impossible for me to say more than that. The only person who can now express the policy of the Government is the Prime Minister ; the mouths of other Ministers are closed. 
Bequest negatived. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
On the 30th August, 1928,  Senator Thomas  asked the following questions: - 
What is the profit or loss of the working of the beam wireless between Australia and England? 
I am now in a position to advise him as follows : - 
As previously indicated the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, has been communicated with in this connexion, and the matter has been considered by the Board of Directors. The managing director of the company has intimated, however, for reasons which have already been given  (vide Hansard  of 27th March, 1928, page 4155), the board feels that it would not be advisable to publish sectional figures of the company's business other than those supplied to shareholders with the directors' annual report. 
[6.37].- I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
As we shall probably not meet again this year, I desire on behalf of the Government to thank you,  Mr. President,  for the consideration you have always shown to honorable senators in the conduct of the affairs of the Senate, and also to thank honorable senators generally for their courtesy and consideration. The officers and staff of the Senate are likewise entitled to our thanks for the manner in which they have discharged their duties. 
On behalf of the Opposition I endorse the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate. As the right honorable gentleman has stated, we shall probably not meet again this year. I therefore wish all honorable senators a very happy Christmas, and I express the hope that the new year will bring them prosperity and peace. To you, sir, the Senate is indebted for the courtesy and consideration you have always shown. I am glad that, of late, your health has improved, and I feel sure that I am voicing the wishes of honorable senators generally when I express the hope that it will continue to improve. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear! 
I thank the clerks of the Senate for the assistance they have .rendered ; the members of the  Hansard  Staff for the manner in which they have discharged their duties, and the staff generally for their courteous help. I convey the thanks of honorable senators on this side of the chamber to the officers of the Senate generally. Without doubt, they have at all times rendered careful, efficient, and valuable service to honorable senators. As we may not all meet again in this chamber, I express the hope that, however radically we differ in our political opinions, our personal friendships may endure. I heartily endorse the remarks of the Leader of the Senate. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Before putting the motion, I desire to express my very keen appreciation of the courtesy and consideration that honorable senators have invariably extended to me. I thank both the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Leader of the  Opposition  (Senator Needham)  for their kindly interest in, and references to, my state of health which, I am pleased to say, has improved very appreciably. I feel particularly grateful to honorable senators and the officers of the Senate for their unfailing courtesy and kindness during what was, to me, a very trying period. 
This is an occasion when one should recognize services worthily rendered, and censure those deserving condemnation. I am in the fortunate position of having nothing but commendation to offer to the staff generally. I desire specially to thank the Clerks at the table for the valuable assistance which they have unstintedly extended to me at all times. 
Their knowledge and help have very considerably lightened my work. I also tender the thanks of the Senate to the  Hansard   staff, who are efficient and generous in the service they render- to honorable senators and myself. Honorable senators are aware that the move to Canberra imposed a very heavy burden on all officers of the House, but, though the task was difficult, occasionally unpleasant, and at all times strenuous, the attitude of the officers of the Senate was, without exception, exemplary. I should be lacking in my duty if I failed to express my appreciation of the services of the housekeeper and his staff. On many occasions visitors to parliament House have unreservedly praised its clean, well kept, and attractive appearance due entirely to the efforts of that staff. Our messengers have been particularly attentive to the requirements of honorable senators, while the chef and his assistants, who have attended to our creature comforts, are deserving of much commendation. I cannot overlook the services rendered by the engineer and his staff, who have so splendidly attended to the essential services of the building; while the gardeners deserve our thanks for their untiring efforts to convert Canberra into a veritable Garden of Eden. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at G.45 p.m., till a day and hour to be fixed by the  President. 
By His Excellency the Right Honorable John Lawrence, Baron Stonehaven, a Member of His Majesty's Most Honorable Privy Council, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George, Member of the Distinguished Service Order, Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Commonwealth of Australia. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Whereas by the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia it is provided that the Governor-General may from time to time by Proclamation or otherwise prorogue the Parliament, and dissolve the House of Representatives : 
<para pgwide="yes">And whereas it is expedient to dissolve the House of Representatives : 
<para pgwide="yes">Now therefore I, the Governor-General aforesaid, do by this my Proclamation dissolve the House of Representatives as on and from the ninth day of October, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight, and I discharge Honorable Senators from attendance on that date. 
<para pgwide="yes">Given under my Hand and the Seal of the Commonwealth of Australia, at Canberra, this twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord (l.s.)  One thousand nine  hundred and twenty-eight, and in the nineteenth year of  His  Majesty's reign. 
