I regret to have to inform the Senate of the death on 18th November last of
               Senator David  Andrew. On behalf of the Senate I
            took steps to convey to Miss Andrew an expression of sympathy pending the more formal
            resolution of the Senate. 
I have further to inform the Senate that pursuant to the provisions of the
          Constitution I notified the Governor of the State of Victoria of the vacancy caused in the
          representation of that State in the Senate by the death of  Senator Andrew  and that I have received through His Excellency the
          Governor-General a certificate of the choice of <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
            Richard</inline> Hartley Smith Abbott as a <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
            to</inline> fill such vacancy. 
Certificate laid on the table and read by the Clerk. 
Senators R. H. S. Abbott, Cooper, Daly, Dooley and O'Halloran made and subscribed
          the oath of allegiance. 

 Sitting suspended from 10.54.a.m. to 3 p.m. 

I have to inform the Senate that on the 7th December last, on behalf of the
            Parliament, the following cablegram was despatched by <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
              Speaker</inline> and myself to the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs: - 
On behalf of the Commonwealth Parliament we desire to express deep sympathy with Her
            Majesty the Queen and members of the Royal Family in their anxiety, and to convey
            earnest wishes for the recovery of His Majesty the King. 
The following reply has been received : - 13th December. Your telegram of 7th December
          containing terms of a message from the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the
          House of Representatives has been laid before His Majesty the King. I am requested to
          convey to the President and members of the Senate and to the Speaker and members of the
          the House of Representatives an expression of grateful appreciation from Their Majesties
          the King and Queen for their kind message of sympathy. 
[3.25]. -  (By leave.)  - I desire to
              announce to the Senate that the following changes have taken place in the Ministry: -
              The resignations of the Right Honorable S. M. Bruce, C.H., P.C., M.C., as Minister for
              Trade and Customs, the  Hon. Sir Neville  R. Howse,
              V.C., K.C.B., K.C.M.G., as Minister for Home and Territories, the Hon. W. C. Hill as
              Minister for Works and Railways, and <inline font-weight="bold">Senator the
                Hon.</inline> T. W. Crawford as Honorary Minister, have been received. 
The portfolios of Home and Territories and Markets have been abolished, and the new
            portfolios of Home Affairs, Industry, and Markets and Transport . have been created. 
The following appointments have been made : - The Hon. J. G. Latham, C.M.G., K.C.,
            Attorney-General, to also hold office as Minister for Industry; the Hon. W. G. Gibson,
            Postmaster-General, to also hold office as Minister for Works and Railways; the Hon. T.
            Paterson to be Minister for Markets and Transport; the  Hon.  H. S. Gullett to be Minister for Trade and Customs; the Hon. C. L. A.
            Abbott to be Minister for Home Affairs; and <inline font-weight="bold">Senator the
              Hon.</inline> J. E. Ogden to be Honorary Minister. 
I have to report that I have received a copy of the speech just delivered by His
            Excellency the Governor-General at the opening of the Parliament. 
[3.32]. -  (By leave.)  - Since the
            representatives of the people in this chamber last met, an event has occurred that has
            occasioned profound concern not only throughout Australia but also throughout all other
            portions of the British Empire, and, I think I may add, throughout the civilized world.
            I refer to the serious illness of His Majesty, King George V., which, as honorable
            senators are aware, has now extended over several weeks. For many days His Majesty was
            dangerously ill and his life was almost despaired of, but we have noted with the
            greatest satisfaction from the more recent reports received that there has been a
            considerable improvement in his condition. 
The people of Australia, in common with the rest of the Empire, have watched, with
          feelings of grave anxiety, the progress of His Majesty's illness, and their deepest
          sympathy has gone out to Her Majesty the Queen and the members of the Royal family in
          their hour of trial. I feel sure that every honorable senator will agree with me that it
          is the first duty of the Senate, on assembling for the opening of the eleventh Parliament,
          to express its sympathy with His Majesty in his illness, and its gratification at the more
          reassuring news as to his progress that is now coming to hand. I accord ingly move that
          the following message be conveyed to His Majesty the King: - 
We, the President and members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in
            Parliament assembled, avail ourselves of this earliest opportunity to express our deep
            sympathy with His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and the members of the Royal
            family in the illness of His Majesty. 
We are much gratified by the improvement which has already taken place in His
            Majesty's state of health, and fervently hope that a complete recovery may speedily
            be effected. 
, - On behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber, I second the
            motion. Without doubt the illness of His Majesty for many weeks has caused his subjects
            a vast amount of anxiety. Just as they were deeply concerned with the gravity of His
            Majesty's illness, so are their minds relieved to-day by the news that he is on the
            road to recovery, and it is hoped that, with the blessing of Divine Providence, the
            improvement will continue and that His Majesty will long be spared to reignover the
            Empire. Her Majesty the Queen and every member of the Royal family, have had a most
            trying and anxious time, and I am sure that their anxiety has been shared in every home
            throughout the British Empire. His Majesty, throughout his reign, has endeared himself
            to his people, and it is only in accord with the fitness of things that we as duly
            elected representatives of the people in this far-flung outpost of His Majesty's
            dominions, should avail ourselves of the first opportunity to express our deep regret at
            his illness and our thanks that he is now on the road to recovery. On behalf of the
            Opposition in this chamber, I voice the hope that the improvement in his condition of
            health may continue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.37].-  (By leave.)  - I move -
            
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the Right Honorable
              Andrew Fisher, P.O., and places on record its appreciation of the distinguished
              service rendered to Australia by him as Prime Minister of the 
Commonwealth and subsequently as High Commissioner for the
              Commonwealth in Great Britain. and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow and family
              in their bereavement. 
I submit this motion with strong personal feelings because I had the
            honour to be associated with the late Right Honorable Andrew Fisher in the first
            government that he formed. To work with him and to know him personally was to entertain
            for him the most profound respect, for he was a man of the highest integrity; a man of
            sterling character and one of nature's gentlemen. A true patriot, he was proud both
            of the land of his birth, and of Australia, the country of his adoption.  Mr. fisher  was born in Scotland but no native Australian
            could have had for Australia a more intense love than he had. Arriving in this country
            in 1886 he settled on the Gympie goldfields, Queensland, in 1888. In 1893 he became a
            member of the Queensland Parliament and remained a member of it until 1896. He was
            elected to the House of Representatives in 1901, and in the first Labour Government of
            the Commonwealth, that formed by the Honorable J. C. Watson, held the portfolio of
            Minister for Trade and Customs. 

 Mr. Fisher was Prime Minister of the Commonwealth
            during 1908-9 and again from 1910 to 1913, as well as during 1914 and 1915. I venture to
            say that during those years he made an indelible mark on the history of Australia.
            During his last term of office as Prime Minister he suffered the greatest trial that
            could come to any man in charge of the affairs of a nation, since the empire of which
            Australia forms a part was involved in war. That world catastrophe occurred when the
            Commonwealth was in the throes of a general election campaign. The Labour party, of
            which  Mr. Fisher  was the then leader, at that time
            formed the Opposition in this Parliament.  Mr. Fisher 
            had no difficulty in deciding where he stood in connexion with the war and what should
            be the attitude of Australia. He realized what it meant to this great continent of ours,
            and that it was the duty of this country to do all it could to ensure that the empire
            should emerge successfully from the conflict. In the course of the campaign he coined a
            phrase that will never be forgotten. He said in a sentence what others had taken hours
            to express, when he declared that Australia was ."in the war to the last man and the
            last shilling ". He was equally definite in dealing with every subject with which he
            was confronted. He was sincere, he was thorough, and having made up his mind that a
            certain course of action was the only right one to follow he went straight ahead
            regardless of whether the goal at which he was aiming was popular or not. It was his
            integrity, his sincerity, his obvious honesty of purpose rather than any great
            intellectual attainments that gained for him the respect of his colleagues, and the
            confidence of his party and the people of Australia. When <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
              Fisher</inline> became the High Commissioner for Australia in London, he was somewhat
            removed from the ken of the Australian public, for, during the war period, the work of
            that- office was largely of a routine nature, but all that came to his hand he did well.
            I met him on several occasions after he left Australia and again on his return to this
            country. On my last visit to England his powers were failing, but I found that he was
            still keenly interested in the progress and development of the Commonwealth and in all
            that appertained to its well-being. 
It is fitting that we should place on record this expression of our appreciation of
            the great services which the Right Honorable Andrew Fisher rendered to Australia, and,
            indeed, to the whole empire. It is fitting also that we should tender our deepest
            sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
              Fisher</inline> was essentially a home lover. Those of us who were privileged to visit
            him in his home know of the strong ties of affection that existed between him and his
            wife and children -and realize to the full how keenly they will feel their loss. No
            words that we might utter can adequately express that loss, but I am sure that in the
            heart of every honorable senator there is a feeling of sincere sympathy with his widow
            and family in the bereavement they have sustained. 
I rise to second the motion moved by the right honorable the Leader of the
              Senate, and on behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber to endorse his
              remarks. The name of Andrew Fisher is a household word, not only in Australia, but
              also in every pari of the British Commonwealth of Nations. For three successive
              periods he held the very high and responsible office of Prime Minister of Australia,
              and carried out his many onerous duties with fidelity and sincerity. Andrew Fisher was
              the soul of honour and, as  Senator Pearce  has
              said, was a fearless champion of every principle that to him was right. He was slow at
              times in coming to a decision, but once that decision was reached nothing could stop
              him from carrying it to its conclusion. Despite that characteristic determination, his
              demeanour was always courteous and dignified, and won him many friends throughout the
              Commonwealth and, indeed, the British Empire. 
In all his work  Mr. Fisher  was imbued with and
            actuated by noble and high ideals. He was, undoubtedly, loyal to the country of his
            adoption, his party and bis colleagues. The greater part of his life was devoted to
            public service, and he was always eager to advance and protect the interests of his
            fellowmen During the period that he had the honour to be Prime Minister of Australia, he
            established a unique record, inasmuch as he was instrumental in the years 1910 to 1913
            in having placed on the statute-book of the Commonwealth every plank of the platform on
            which the Labour party went to the electors in 1910. In the intervening years that
            legislation has withstood the test of time and, with the exception of that which related
            to the Commonwealth Bank, not one section of it has been altered. Could there be a more
            striking tribute to. his capacity? 
By the death of Andrew Fisher the British Commonwealth of Nations has lost a great
            man; but an even greater loss has been sustained by his widow and family, and I and my
            colleagues join with honorable senators opposite in extending to them our very sincere
            sympathy in their bereavement. It may be fittingly claimed that the name of Andrew
            Fisher will be honoured and his memory revered while love lingers to kiss the lips of
            death. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places.
          
[3.53]. -  (By leave.)  - I move -
          
That the Senate places on record its profound regret at the death of the Honorable
            Henry Bournes Higgins, late Justice of the High Court of Australia, and its appreciation
            of the notable services rendered by him, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow in
            her bereavement. 
The late  Mr. Justice  Higgins had a
          distinguished career as a legislator and as a Justice of the High Court of Australia. He
          was a former member of this Parliament, and in the first Commonwealth Labour Government
          held the portfolio of Attorney-General. On the 13th October, 1906, he was appointed a
          Justice of the High Court, and held that office until his death. For some years, whilst a
          Justice of the High Court, he was also President of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation
          and Arbitration, and brought to bear upon his work a zeal, sincerity and enthusiasm which
          it would be difficult to rival. While holding that office he laid down the principles on
          which the basic wage judgments of the industrial tribunals of Australia have been framed
          up to the present time. It is not too much to say that, in doing so, he enunciated maxims
          which then, to a great many people, appeared to be revolutionary. They were, however,
          based on humanitarianism and have come to be accepted as just and equitable principles to
          be observed in the assessment of what should be the basic or living wage of a community.
          In Australia and elsewhere, wherever industrial matters are discussed, the principles
          enunciated by the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins, as
          President of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court, have received
          considerable attention from every student of economics. The late Justice was a man of
          strong character and opinions, with a high sense of public duty. During his life-time he
          filled many important positions and he has left behind him a record of honorable and
          faithful service. 
I second the motion moved by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate. The
            news of the death of 

 Mr. Justice Higgins came as a very great shock to the
          people of Australia. For a very long time, in the legal and political arenas, he had
          played an important part in the public life of Australia and had rendered yeoman service
          to its people. He was a man of a very lovable disposition, of high scholastic attainments,
          and an eminent jurist and publicist. The outstanding feature of his long and useful career
          was his presidency of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court. Entering that
          office without the advantage of having precedents to guide him, he had to travel a
          difficult and uncharted sea; but no one can question the good work that he did in that
          industrial tribunal. He laid the foundations upon which it has been built up, and all his
          decisions were characterized by the utmost impartiality. By his death Australia has lost a
          great man, and his place will be difficult to £11. We, on this side, join with our
          friends opposite in tendering to  Mrs. Higgins  our
          sincere sympathy in the loss that she has sustained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places.
        
[3.57]. -  (By leave.)  - I move -
          
That the Senate express its sincere regret 
Bt the death of the late <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
            David</inline> Andrew, and places upon record its appreciation of his long and
          meritorious publicservice, and extends its profound sympathy to his family in their sad
          bereavement. 

 Senator Andrew, whose death occurred on the 18th
          November last, subsequent to the adjournment of the Senate, was elected to this chamber as
          a representative of Victoria in 1925. During the time that he spent with us he exhibited a
          high sense of public duty, and by his genial disposition and kindly manner endeared
          himself to all his fellow senators. The circumstances surrounding his illness, and the
          death of his wife a few months prior to his own demise, were most tragic, and evoked
          universal sorrow. He was a popular citizen of the city of Bendigo. Those who had occasion
          to visit that city while he was an honorable senator know how highly he was respected by
          his fellow citizens, and what valuable services he rendered to them. He threw himself
          whole-heartedly into the many activities connected with the civic life of Bendigo. His
          work in connexion with the Country Fire Brigades Board was exceptionally fine. He was
          always an energetic worker in the cause of charity, and during the war period assisted
          materially the appeals for funds that were launched by the Red Cross. In every respect
             Senator Andrew  lived up to the highest ideals of
          citizenship. We desire to place on record our regret at his death and our appreciation of
          his many valuable public services. 
I second the motion moved by the Right Honorable the Leader of the Senate,
            expressing regret at the death of the late <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Andrew.</inline> It is most remarkable that, although the Commonwealth Parliament has
            been functioning in this capital city for a period of only 21 months, whenever we have
            re-assembled after an adjournment we have had occasion to mourn the death of one of our
            members. The death roll of the Parliament since we first met here now totals seven, to
            which has to he added the death of  Mr. Gale,  the
            Clerk of the House of Representatives at the time of transfer, and his immediate
            successor,  Mr. J.  R. McGregor. 
The late honorable senator did not have a very long stay among us, but he certainly
          won a host of friends, since he possessed a lovable, kindly, and charitable disposition.
          The remarks of the Leader of the Senate with respect to his activities in his home town of
          Bendigo can be supported by many of us. During my short acquaintance with him I learned
          not only to respect but also to love and revere him. He performed many acts for the good
          of his fellows, but in such a manner as to avoid publicity. Had he been spared, he would
          have been of very great assistance to the members of this chamber in dealing with the
          legislation of the Commonwealth. We are sorry that he has been called so early to his
          reward and his usefulness thus brought to a close. Doubtless, the loss of his partner in
          life accentuated his trouble and hastened his end. My colleagues and I join with honorable
          senators opposite in expressing regret at his death, and sympathy for those who have been
          left behind. 
[4.1]. - Filling, as I do, the vacancy which
          was caused in the representation of the State of Victoria in the Senate by the lamented
          death of  Senator Andrew,  and having been associated
          with him in the city of Bendigo during practically the whole of my life, I desire to say
          how greatly the people of Bendigo and, indeed, of the whole of Victoria feel his loss.
          Although his death was not altogether unexpected, it nevertheless had all the poignancy of
          a sudden blow. For very many years the late honorable senator occupied the highest
          positions in the gift of the citizens of Bendigo. He was a member of the City Council, and
          upon several occasions held office as Mayor. During the war period he rendered signal
          service to the different associations for the raising of money for the alleviation of
          distress, and particularly to the- Red Cross movement. His efforts to promote the
          collection of. funds for charitable purposes, particularly for the Bendigo Hospital, made
          his name a household word in that city. One of his most notable achievements was the
          establishment of the Country Fire Brigades Board, which throughout the length and breadth
          of Victoria has rendered yeoman service. During his captaincy of the Bendigo Fire Brigade,
          which extended over a period of from twenty to 25 years, he exhibited a knowledge and an
          ability in the fighting of fires that made him an outstanding figure. 

 Senator Andrew felt keenly his inability to contest the
          last election, and his disappointment was shared by everyone with whom he was acquainted.
          There is not the slightest doubt that had he been well enough to take part in that
          campaign he would have been returned with a substantial majority. Fate, however, ordained
          otherwise. 
I feel that it may appropriately be said of him - 
He was a man, take him for all in all, 
I shall not look upon his like again. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places.
[4.4]. - As a mark of respect to the memory of the late honorable gentlemen,
            I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.6 p.m. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 38, I hereby appoint the following senators to be the Committee of DisputedReturns and 
[3.14]. -  (By leave.) -  I inf orm the Senate that Ministers in the House of Representatives will be represented in this chamber as follows: - The Prime Minister and the Treasurer by myself; the Minister for Home Affairs and the Minister for Health by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow; the AttorneyGeneral, the Postmaster-General, the Minister for Works and the Minister for Trade and Customs by  Senator McLachlan;  the Minister for Markets and Transport and the Minister in charge of Repatriation, in addition to the Department of Industry, by  Senator Ogden. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Government place the Kellogg Peace Pact before the Senate for consideration before the Easter adjournment? 
In compliance with the wish of the honorable senator, a copy of the Treaty for the Renunciation of War will be laid upon the table of the Senate, and an opportunity will be provided for a discussion of its provisions. 
 I am perfectly satisfied with, the proposed personnel of this committee, but I should like its powers to be amplified in order that two matters of considerable moment to honorable senators, and members of another place may be placed on a more satisfactory footing. First, I wish to refer to the accommodation provided for members of this Parliament at the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney. If the provision of accommodation there were entrusted to the House Committee I feel sure that the requirements of members would be more adequately met than is the case at present. It seems to be nobody's business to provide for the comfort and convenience of the members of this Parliament when they are in Sydney. A number of government departments which now occupy rooms on the 8th floor of the Commonwealth Bank building, might well be housed elsewhere in order to provide more adequate accommodation for members. Moreover, such accommodation should be divided to suit the requirements of the several political parties. Under the existing conditions a few persons may each occupy a room while others have to take what they can get. 
Another matter to which I desire to make reference is the inability of members of this Parliament to obtain books from the parliamentary library during the hours that Parliament is not sitting. Those of us who are compelled to live at Canberra during the session are unable to obtain books from the library when we most desire them. It should not be difficult for the librarian to arrange for one member of his staff to be on duty each evening to attend to the requirements of members. If necessary, that officer could be allowed time off the following day. If, as a prominent member of the House Committee informed me, the subject to which I first referred is not a matter for that committee, the necessary power to deal with it should be vested in that body. If the House Committee is to serve any useful purpose its powers should be extended. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I am not aware who has control of the Federal members' rooms in the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney; but I do not think that they are under the jurisdiction of the House Committee. Steps will, however, be taken to bring under the notice of the proper authorities the remarks of the honorable senator. 
I have no doubt that the library committee will take into consideration the remarks of the honorable senator with reference to obtaining books from the library during hours other than those when Parliament is sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to - 

 To His Excellency the Governor-General - 

May it Please Your Excellency: 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
The result of the recent election proves conclusively that the people of Australia are satisfied with the present Administration. That a Government which has been in office for over six years - the longest period that any Government has remained in power since the establishment of the Commonwealth - should still retain the confidence of the electors speaks well for the members comprising it. I feel sure that during the next three years there will be no change of Government for the people of Australia realize that the present Ministry is equal to any demand that may be made upon it. That fact was demonstrated recently when, in order to deal with the crisis which arose in connexion with the transport workers' strike, the Government introduced regulations under the Transport Workers Act. Had honorable senators opposite, during the critical days when the strike was pending, given sound advice in the proper quarters much of the trouble which has arisen might have been prevented. Unfortunately, there was only one man among them who was prepared to do so. Honorable senators opposite would allow the whole of the transport of Australia to be thrown into a state of chaos, thereby countenancing the sacrifice of the year's output of the primary producers of this country, which would be allowed to rot on our wharfs, vainly awaiting shipment to overseas markets. Honorable senators opposite refused to raise their voices in an effort to induce their followers to resume work. 
No. They were afraid to take any action. 
That may be, but surely they come here pledged to keep the wheels of industry turning. It was their duty to urge those men to return to work. Our primary producers toiled throughout the year to bring forth a satisfactory harvest, but their efforts were nullified merely to humour the whims of a few labour agitators. I have no doubt that a number of these individuals who continue to stir up industrial strife were also associated with the deplorable endeavour that was made during the Great War to bring about a general strike in Australia, and so starve our nurses and soldiers who had gone overseas to serve the Empire. It is scandalous that, as soon as the country has an opportunity to attain prosperity, these agitators introduce the poison of industrial strife. Fortunately the regulations under the Transport Workers' Act, introduced by this Government, have temporarily steadied the extremists. Possibly they will try to circumvent those regulations, but I am confident that, eventually, they will be checkmated. This Government consists of men who are honest enough to say what they think and who perform the job which they were elected to do. 
That little interlude was staged merely for our own amusement, and to give honorable senators opposite something to talk about. If they had not something of the kind to discuss I am afraid that they would go melancholy mad. It is significant that the recent referendum for the alteration of the Constitution to provide for the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States was carried by a tremendous majority in every State. That indicates that this Government is on the right track. Honorablesenators opposite raised a storm in a teacup when the proposed agreement was debated last year, and prophesied that it would not have the support of the people. The action of the Government has been vindicated, and it now remains for it to ratify the agreement. That ratification is assured, as the Government possesses a satisfactory majority in both Houses. 
Certainly, it has a majority in both Houses. 
The only hope of honorable senators opposite is that some of our supporters may die, but there may be casualties on both sides. I regret very much that during the last election this party lost such excellent men as exSenators Abbott, Eobinson, Thomas, and Verran, who were very well known and respected in this chamber. Unfortunately, some have to fall by the way. 
That is so, and the Government now has a greater majority in the Senate than it had prior to the election. That is conclusive proof that the people of Australia are perfectly satisfied with the Government. It is gratifying to find that the present Ministry is composed mainly of young Australians in the prime of life; men with unblemished careers, who have done well in both private and public life. The majority are returned soldiers, who sacrificed everything they had in order to fight for the Empire in the Great War. Now they are here to fight for and help to keep this country fit for good Australians to live in. That is why the Government was returned for the third time in succession at the last general election. The people of Australia wanted to give them an opportunity to perfect the work which they had begun. To indicate how alert and up to date is our Government, I cite its action in scrapping our obsolete warships and submarines and substituting ships that are the latest in war machines. 
The honorable senator is behind the times, possibly having been in rustic seclusion in Victoria. Our new submarines and cruisers are in Australian waters, while the seaplane  Albatross,  which was built in Australia, has been commissioned. I hope that the Government will pursue the same progressive policy in the military arm of defence. I understand that it is giving favorable consideration to  Sir John  Salmond's report on our air force. 
No doubt our aeroplanes in common with other military equipment were becoming worn out. The Ministry, realizing this, secured a report upon our air force by the most up-to-date man in the world in regard to air defence, its idea being that when steps were taken to reorganize our air defence, the very latest equipment should be secured. The Minister for Defence  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  is not the man to let members of our air force get into the air unless they have the very best planes under them. To my mind the Government was wise in securing this report from  Sir John  Salmond before taking steps to improve our air defence. 
It is and I feel sure that the Government will carry it into effect. 
I shall support it in whatever proposal it puts forward to bring our military forces up-to-date. Any form of defence is useless unless it is kept up-to-date. Our land forces have a staff that is second to none. The members of that staff are highly trained. They have had an experience thatvery few staffs, prior to the last war, had the opportunity of gaining. I trust that on the military side the Minister for Defence will put forward a steady programme of development for the next five years such as he has just carried through on the naval side. 
Just when Australia is moving ahead, we find a lot of men attempting to bring about a widespread strike. I appeal to my friends opposite to use their best endeavours to get these men to cease bringing about industrial turmoil and abide by the award of the Arbitration Court, thus allowing the industries of Australia to work smoothly. The men get fairly good wages. Some of them do better than honorable Senators. If they will not work they are not playing the game. If care is not exercised the coal contracts of 
Victoria and South Australia will be lost to New South Wales, and if that should come about it would be a national catastrophe. I ask my friends opposite fo get the men to come down to " tin tacks ". Let them urge the men to obtain a regular living, not to make £20 by two or three days' work and then knock off for a fortnight. If the men would only work on steadily it would be far better for them and for the whole country. I trust that common sense will prevail. If honorable senators opposite will endeavour to get the men to play the game, we shall be only too pleased to help them. 
I am conscious of the great honour the Government has conferred on me by asking me to second the motion for the address-in-reply to the speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General, Lord Stonehaven. The opening of this Parliament is a memorable one, because this is the first session of any Parliament opened at Canberra by the GovernorGeneral. 
The speech delivered to us outlines a policy founded on a national spirit which finds expression in the Federal Capital itself. The Bruce-Page Government meets Parliament again after six years of intense legislative and administrative effort, and I congratulate it on the confidence and admiration it has earned from the people of the Commonwealth by reason of its past endeavours. The composite Government is returned once more to power with the blessing of the majority of the people of Australia. There is nothing in the life of any Parliament that tends to bring about success more than impartiality, fair dealing and a desire for fair play among all sections of the community. 
During the past six years' the present Government has aimed at removing the disadvantages which Australia has suffered through the neglect of past Parliaments to recognize the fact that primary production is the backbone of the country, and during the period to which I have referred a remarkable number of measures have been passed to restore the balance between the country and the city. 
An outstanding feature of the legislation introduced during this period has been the Financial Agreement, which at the last election was accepted by the people by an overwhelming majority, and which will, . I understand, very shortly be submitted to this Parliament for ratification. This  agreement will bring about a great saving in the amount of interest annually paid on our national debt. The establishment of the sinking fund provided for, which will wipe off the total indebtedness of the Commonwealth and States in a certain period of time, will put the credit of Australia on a far higher plane than it has hitherto reached. 
I regret very much that during the past few years there has been a certain amount of industrial trouble which, no matter how we may view it, must bring about incalculable and irrecoverable loss to the community; because not only is the production which could have been achieved during the progress of a strike lost for all time, but also the wages that would have been circulated in the community. The citizens of the Commonwealth are to be congratulated that during this trying period there has been in office in the Commonwealth a Government, of which I am proud to be a supporter, capable of dealing with the difficult situations that have arisen both firmly and impartially. I stand for the principle of arbitration - for fair wages and general employment under fair conditions. I am convinced that during the past six years the Government has done all in its power to make the machinery of our arbitration courts run smoothly and to bring about that good will between employer and employee which, to my mind, is an essential factor in any form of production. At all times it has put forward its best efforts to bring industrial disputes to a final settlement by peaceful means, and where it has failed to do so, it has never allowed the dignity of the Government and constitutional authority to be dragged in the dust by those who desire disruption and strife. At the last and also the previous election, by an overwhelming majority of votes, the people indicated that they were in agreement with the sane and very necessary policy of the Government, that the Government's view was their view also, and that they would support a continuation of its steady policy of development, notwithstanding the tactics of a few foreign extremists who have been trying to disrupt the industrial conditions of Australia. I have in mind the recent trouble along the water front. Our primary producers are already sufficiently handicapped by having to produce under Australian conditions, and to sell in the world's market in competition with the produce of foreign countries where the standard of living and the rates of wages are very much lower, and the interference with their products at the clearing houses, the ports of Australia is not only aggravating, but also selfish and unpatriotic. In Queensland our wool has been hung up over two sales, that is to say, for a period of four months, with great loss to the primary producers, who have not been able to get their produce away. 
As a primary producer, I should like to refer to the great benefits which have been conferred on the man on the land by the present Government. For instance, the Rural Credit Act enables' the producer to spread the sale of his products over the whole year, whereas previously he was sometimes forced to sell at an inopportune time and take whatever price was ruling at the moment. The advancing of money upon produce before it is sold has had the great effect of stimulating greater production by men on the land. This is but one illustration of the legislation which has been introduced by the Bruce-Page Government for the benefit of the man on the land. Export Control Boards have been set up and have secured markets for the sale of Australian fruits and similar produce in Great Britain and other parts of the world. A special tax concession has been given to the man on the land, in relation to the improvements he effects. Those improvements are very expensive, especially in the pastoral industry. The practice now is to regard their value as a direct charge against capital, instead of to compel it to be returned as income and thus be taxable. The conferring of these benefits by this Government has gone a long way towards bringing about a more equitable balance between the country and the city. Primary and secondary industries must go forward hand in hand if the welfare of the individual, as well as of the nation as a whole, is to be conserved. The policy of the Government in the past can be aptly summed up by the use of the term " development " ; and I am pleased to note that that policy is to be continued. The appointment of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will assist materially to solve the problems of competitive production. 
As a representative of Queensland, which covers a vast area and has many isolated outposts, I have been greatly impressed by the development that has taken place in connexion with our postal services, more especially in our country districts. I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral upon the splendid work that he has done and the consideration he has invariably shown to country districts during the past six years; and I hope that during the life of this Parliament we can look forward to an even greater improvement than that which has already been achieved. I trust that the time is not far distant when many country districts will have installed the rural automatic telephone. Such an innovation would be of considerable advantage not only to the primary producer himself but also to the family, because it would make far more attractive the lives they have to live, and bring into greater harmony the conditions of country and city life. I am proud to think that Australia now possesses the second longest telephone line in the world - that between Cairns and Adelaide, a distance of approximately 3,000 miles. I understand that, before very long, telephone communication will be established between Cairns and Perth and that that will be the longest telephone line in the world. Communication by means of the telephone, the telegraph, railways, roads and airways, is of vital importance to every citizen of the Commonwealth. 
It is gratifying to learn from the Governor-General's Speech that the Government intends to seek the cooperation of the States in dealing with the question of transport generally. That it  is the function of the Commonwealth Government to take the initiative has already received recognition in the acceptance by the States of a grant from the Federal Government for the construction of main roads. It was possible to commence the work of unifying the railway gauges only because the States of New South Wales and Queensland agreed to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government in having constructed a new railway line of standard gauge between Kyogle and South Brisbane. That line, I understand, is to be opened for traffic very shortly. Already a transport commission has been appointed, in conjunction with the States, to go into the matter of internal freights and to coordinate the two great public utilities of roads and railways, and. the Government announces that it is prepared to discuss with the States further proposals for placing the railways on a firmer foundation. If the Government in conference with the States can formulate some scheme whereby the severe handicap placed on country districts by the lack of co-ordination in the matter of freights and the design of lines which have regard to State boundaries, can be overcome, then I venture to say that that alone will justify the confidence reposed in the Administration by the electors. 
By the adoption of the principle of co-operation the matter of health has been placed upon a national basis. A health council has been appointed, comprising representatives of the States and the Commonwealth, to inquire into every aspect of national health. Very little attention has so far been devoted to the sanitation of our country districts. This is of the very greatest importance in relation not only to health, but also the population of our country centres. With proper sanitation and the provision of other conveniences, life in country districts could be made much more congenial, and manufacturers would have an incentive to establish large industrial undertakings, because they would know that the conveniences available were not less up to date than those obtainable in the cities. It is necessary that attention be given also to the question of water power. The Commonwealth cannot alone do effective work, and naturally it is too big a matter to be tackled by local bodies. The Governments of the States are confronted with a number of other domestic problems. Therefore there must be co-operation between the Commonwealth and the' States if the desired result is to be achieved. 
Another matter which closely affects country residents is that of electric power. If we are to avoid a repetition of our experience in connexion with the railway systems of Australia, we must immediately place this matter upon a proper basis, because many units have already sprung up. I understand that an electric power survey committee has been appointed to go into the question of the standardization of electrical machines throughout the Commonwealth. The provision of electric power and a proper system of sanitation will place our country districts in as advanced a state as the countryside of other nations, and also make more nearly equal the benefits enjoyed by the country and the city dweller. 
I thank honorable senators for the indulgence they have shown me during this, my first, speech in the Senate, and trust that they will appreciate the importance of the subjects to which I have referred. 
 May I, in the first place, congratulate my old friend,  Senator Cox,  upon the very entertaining speech he delivered in moving the Address-in-Reply to the speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I commend him upon its brevity. I also extend congratulations to  Senator Cooper  upon his very fine maiden effort. Whether I agree with him or not, I admit that he said very well what he had to say. Prior to  His Excellency  the Governor-General advising this Parliament, and through it the Commonwealth of Australia, as to what was in the minds of the present Government, I thought I would devote some time to the consideration and discussion of the speech of  His Excellency,  as given to him by his ministerial advisers, but having perused the document very carefully and deliberately, I have come to the conclusion that I ought not to delay the Senate by discussing such a vague, and, with all due respect to the representative of  His  Majesty the King, such a futile document. 
I remind my honorable friend that I said nothing of the sort. Reference to  Hansard  wilafford confirmation of that statement. The speech is full of generalities, it is vague, it is verbose, and, as I have already mentioned, it is futile. When recently reading a life of Burns, I noticed that at one time the great Scotchman was entertained by one of the lairds and  wa3  not treated very well, and that in the course of a poem referring to the function he wrote that it was deeds, not words that make men loved. Australia's great need to-day is not words but deeds. It is, therefore, my intention to permit the Government to proceed as quickly as possible with its legislative work. I find that the speech is simply a repetition of certain previous promises, many of which have not been fulfilled. The mover of the motion under consideration prided himself upon the fact that the present Government had had six years of office, but he failed to tell the Senate what the Government had done during that period for the advancement of the country's interests. It would be impossible for me to supply that information, because the Government has done nothing that has in any way advanced the interests of Australia. 
I notice on the Treasury bench to-day a gentleman who, in the last Parliament, was seated on my left. I refer to  Senator Ogden.  According to  Hansard  of the 10th August, 1926, the honorable senator said that the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  had ruined the Country party. 'Now, as a member of the Ministry, the honorable senator is going to help the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  to ruin Australia. - 
I am not concerned so much about what the speech of His Excellency the Governor-General contains as I am about what it does not contain. On the eve of the 1925 election the Prime Minister made a definite promise to the people that he would bring down a measure for the purpose of providing national insurance against unemployment. To this day that promise has not been fulfilled. 
It is true that a measure was introduced in the other branch of the legislature providing, as the speech tells us, for national insurance against sickness, invalidity and death, but there is not one word in that measure, or in this document, indicating that the promise made by the Prime Minister will be fulfilled during the life of the present Parliament. No mention is made in the speech about the unemployment that is rampant in Australia to-day. There is no reference to the misery and privation being experienced by the wives and children of those men who are vainly searching for employment. The present Government poses as the friend of the workers, but it is silent regarding this serious economic position. The speech makes no reference whatever to the subject of national insurance against unemployment. 
Another subject to which the Government gave prominence at the 1925 election was a great social reform that had been agreed to by the two big parties in this country, the so-called Nationalist party and the Labour party. I refer to childhood endowment. This subject was mentioned in the policy speech of the Prime Minister in 1925, and although he did not make a definite promise to institute the reform, he led the people to understand that the Government would take steps to do so. 
There are other subjects of vast and vital importance to the people, who expect them to be brought before this Parliament for discussion by their duly elected representatives, but they have hoped and waited in vain. The business sheet before us indicates what the Ministry will do in the next week or two. If the notice-paper may be accepted as  a  guide to the business to be transacted, it will be of a very meagre character. I do not say that the Government has no business to bring before us, but if it has, I invite it to lose no time in doing so. For these reasons I have no intention to continue the debate on the document we are now discussing. I invite my honorable friend the Leader of the Senate to proceed with the business of the country. 
I congratulate  Senator Cox  on his breezy speech and  Senator Cooper  upon his clear and dignified exposition of the  facts that face us to-day as he sees them. I wish briefly to commend the Government for its sane acts of administration in the last six years. The various departments have been well administered. The policy of the Government has not been spectacular, but it has been sound, sane and constructive, designed to benefit this great Commonwealth that we love and all sections of the people. 
The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber spoke of the miserable conditions ruling in the country. There is, undoubtedly, much' unemployment, and this we all deeply deplore. It is a great pity that means cannot be found for securing continuity of employment for all who desire to work. Unfortunately, however, unemployment is largely due to the fact that certain sections of the workers obey the dictates of their union leaders or agitators, and are not allowed to accept profitable work when it is offered to them. Although they all claim to believe in the principle of arbitration,, they do not obey the awards of the Arbitration Court. Hence, during the recent Waterside Workers' trouble, not only did thousands throw themselves out of work, but they were also the cause of thousands of other men being deprived of employment, thus bringing misery and starvation to women and children, who in all industrial upheavals suffer first and most.  No  sooner was the Waterside Workers' dispute settled than there was a threat of a terrible upheaval in the timber industry, owing to the members of that union desiring, apparently, to flout an award of the Arbitration Court. We also have trouble brewing in the coal mining industry, which is of vital importance to- our industrial enterprises. That coal should be procurable at a reasonable price is an essential requirement of our manufacturers. Owing to the high wages paid to them, some of the coal miners seem to be able to work for a couple of days a week and devote the rest of the week to fishing or pony racing. 
I understand it would be possible to reduce it by 4s. per ton, the Commonwealth, the State Government, the mine-owners, and the mine employees each to contribute ls. per ton to the reduction. If that it not done some of the State governments will be forced to buy their coal from abroad. I have always held the opinion that Australia should purchase as little as possible oversea. We should be enthusiastic in our support of local industries and their products. I am strongly of opinion that if the people of Australia were loyal to the products of their own country and insisted on giving their first preference to Australian goods, and their second preference to goods from other portions of the Empire, there would be very little genuine unemployment in the Commonwealth. 
I take it that every worker in the Commonwealth is an Australian; otherwise he would not be here. 
I suppose that by the term " dagoes " the honorable senator refers to Italians, our allies in the Great War, who have been enthusiastically welcomed into the trade anions of Australia.  Mr. Theodore,  when Premier of Queensland, said that the Italian settlers in that State were splendid citizens and good unionists, and that he welcomed them into this country and into the unions. Surely honorable senators opposite are aware that the departures of Italians from Australia during the last twelve months, exceeded the number of arrivals from that country. They must know also that under the arrangement made by  Mr. Bruce  with the Prime Minister of Italy the only Italians who may now enter Australia are the parents of children already here, the children of parents already here, or the Wives or husbands of Italians settled here. 
Instead of gaining a reputation for loading our produce quickly and effectively, Australia has received a bad advertisement because of the amount of pilfering which takes place on the wharfs. Our record in this connexion is the worst in the world. I deplore the fact that, in so many of our great industries, men are not allowed to work as they desire. The effective annual wages paid in Australia are the highest for any country in the world. 
I refer to real wages, but not to daily or weekly wages. I repeat that the annual effective wage is higher in Australia than in Canada, the United States of America or elsewhere. I had not intended during this speech to deal with controversial matters. 
I welcome their interjections. I hope that the workers of Australia will seize the opportunities they have for regular employment, short hours and high wages - opportunities, which no other country offers. 
I am pleased with the report of the British Economic Mission, and consider it to be a masterful document, containing a splendid summary of the conditions prevailing in Australia. The report should be helpful to all who are entrusted with the destiny of this nation. I congratulate the Prime Minister on having induced these leaders of industry from the Old Country, at considerable selfsacrifice, to come out to help us. Whatever our political opinions, we must admit that the report is sane, able and helpful. 
The Government is also to be congratulated on having brought to Australia the great aviation authority,  Sir Johu  Salmond.  His  report, which pointed out clearly that Australia was far behind other countries in aviation matters, should be helpful. More should be done to assist both civil and military aviation in this country. We are at the beginning of the air age. In the future aviation will bear an important part in the exploration and development of this country, the carrying of mails, the transport of people in the outback regions, as well as in defence. We are proud that our airmen are second to none in the world, and rejoice that an Australian airman - Bert Hinkler - has been acclaimed by the aviators of the world as the outstanding aviator during the past year. We should be proud also of the wonderful record of 
Western Australian Airways Limited. One of its leading men,  Mr. Brearley,  a fellow townsman of mine, has established a wonderful organization. The distance flown by the company's machines and the immunity from loss and accident constitute a wonderful record. In Queensland also good work has been done by our aviators in developing the country and safeguarding human life. The value of civil aviation was demonstrated recently when a well known Melbourne surgeon travelled by aeroplane to Mount Gambier, in South Australia, reaching there within three hours of the receipt of the message calling him to attend a woman whose life was despaired of by four doctors. The operation he performed was successful, and the woman's life was saved. Many other instances could be given of the usefulness of aeroplanes in conveying injured or sick persons to hospital or in taking doctors or nurses to them. I trust that the Government will make better provision for the development of aviation in this country. We have not nearly sufficient aerodromes, while those we have are unsatisfactory. In all our capital cities and larger towns aerodromes should be provided, as well .as emergency landing places throughout the country. Australians are a sport-loving people; it is said that wherever a few Australians reside there is a race-course. The Government should see that these race-courses are cleared of trees, and made available as emergency landing grounds for our airmen, who daily take their lives in their hands, owing to the dangers of taking off and alighting. It must not be forgotten that in developing civil aviation we are providing for our own defence should it become necessary. 
I applaud the decision of the Government to encourage scientific research into our primary and secondary industries, and for bringing to Australia probably the greatest animal pathologist the world has ever known, in the person of  Sir Arnold  Thieler.  That South Africa is habitable by white people and is stocked with cattle and sheep in large numbers is largely due to his work. I urge the Government to make every effort to retain his services permanently for Australia. Although Australia is the most healthy continent for live stock, and probably also for human beings, our great sheep industry loses not less than £4,000,000 per annum because of the blowfly pest. Foot rot is responsible for a further loss of probably £2,000,000 per annum. 
I rose particularly to draw attention to a ridiculous action contemplated by the Federal Capital Commission. According to the local press, the  Commission  intends to lease the water catchment area of the Federal Capital for the agistment of starving stock. To save a paltry 7,000 sheep - those who know my interest in the sheep industry will not misunderstand me - it is proposed to prejudice the purity of the city's water supply. It is further reported that the Commission contemplates lopping all the willow trees in the city area - one of the few beautiful things in this isolated portion of the Commonwealth - to provide fodder for starving sheep. 
The action said . to be contemplated is ridiculous and ill advised from every point of view. If these sheep are starving it can safely be assumed that 20 per cent, will die. Thus we shall have probably 1,400 carcasses on the catchment area to pollute the water supply of the Capital after the first rain. The idea of saving the starving stock of Australia by lopping all the willow trees in the city area to provide fodder for them is most absurd, and would be Gilbertian if it were not tragic. It is a tragedy, because it will be broadcast over the globe and will prove to be an extremely bad advertisement for Australia. We have the greatest stock country in the world and, although we are experiencing a temporary dry spell locally, there are millions of acres of splendid grass, and thousands of acres of good stubble available elsewhere. It would be much saner for the local authorities to lease some of those areas and move their stock to them rather than to endeavour to feed seven thousand starving stock in this territory in the manner suggested. Those lessees whose stock are starving have my sincere sympathy and perhaps should be assisted by the Federal Capital Commis sion or some other body. But it would be much wiser to take the stock elsewhere than to turn them adrift on the watershed reserve and allow them to pollute the water supply of the city. 
So far the health authorities have not made any move. I am ventilating the matter in the hope that somebody will indicate to the Federal Capital Commission the stupidity of the suggestion. 
It is very serious indeed that scare headlines should be used to promulgate the fact that drought conditions prevail in the Federal Capital Territory and that it is necessary for the Commission to cut down the city's willow trees in order to provide feed for starving stock. It is indeed a sad advertisement as to the barrenness of the Federal Capital City. 
Unfortunately, it will. It is inevitable that, in such a large continent as Australia, drought conditions should prevail occasionally in some of its areas. But it is remarkable that whenever any minor catastrophe occurs, whether it be a local drought or flood, a fire, a murder, or a strike it is immediately cabled to the press the world over. Apparently the British and foreign press is only too eager to feature any disabilities which may affect this country. When abroad, I noticed with much concern that, while even in the British press Australia receives no publicity as to its wonderful record of development, its , potential producing capacity, its wonderful war record, or even the excellence of its people in sport, its faults always receive prominence. Australia is a land of sunshine, opportunity, and achievement. We have the finest country in the world, one which should be brought strongly before the notice of other nations; but only its superficial drawbacks are published abroad. Australia is the worst advertised country in the world. . Wow we find the Federal Capital Commission making this blunder, and the local press giving it undue prominence. 
It does not matter whether there are sufficient to feed 7,000 or 7,000,000 sheep. The wholeprocedure is unnecessary and ridiculous. When I first came to Canberra I was asked to express an opinion of the place and I said that I thought it was a good sheep station spoilt. It would seem that I was overpraising it, if, as we are told, the Territory is unable to feed the stock upon it without sacrificing its willow trees and depasturing starving sheep upon the water catchment area. I was correct, however, when I said that it was good sheep country, because last year it established a record for the highest-priced wool produced in Australia. This year Tasmania has that honour, and is likely to retain it for at least twelve months. 
No, to the record price for an individual lot. However, the average price obtained for wool from the Yass-Canberra district must at present be about the highest in Australia, even higher than that for the Western district of Victoria from which I come, where the wool, although lighter and brighter, it not so fine in quality. 
The Commission is responsible for having agreed to lease this particular part of the Territory, and for agreeing to cut down willow trees to feed starving stock. Although we have periodical droughts in Australia, our afflictions in this direction are not worse than those of any other country with the exception, perhaps, of Canada. 
Its pastures suffer from the ravages of black frosts, snow and ice. Australia is no worse off than Russia, South Africa and America in the matter of rainfall. Our great island continent may be divided into three almost equal sections. Section 
A contains 1,000,000 square miles of land adjacent to the coast, with a rainfall of over 20 inches per annum. Section B is situated inside of A, and has a similar area of 1,000,000 square miles, with a rainfall of between 10 and 20 inches per annum, while section C, the interior of Australia, also containing approximately 1,000,000 square miles, has a rainfall of under 10 inches per annum. In A, the coastal area, there is plenty of room for closer settlement and intense cultivation, and it is there that we should at present concentrate closer settlement efforts That area is most suitable for other than merino sheep and for the production of a vast quantity of produce that would be used locally and exported. Fortunately for us section B is most suitable for the production of merino sheep and wheat. The interior, section C, so far as we have been able to ascertain, can as yet be only partially developed by the larger pastoralists, who should be encouraged, not discouraged as at present. We hope that eventually it will be freely used to depasture sheep of the hardy merino breed. 
Notwithstanding its periodic droughts, Australia leads the world in the sheep industry. Our sheep are sought after by all other sheep-producing countries, and the record price of 5,000 guineas has been paid for one Australian ram. Australia holds every record appertaining to the sheep industry. It has the greatest number of sheep and produces far more, and wool of greater value, than does any other nation. We owe much to the great pioneers of the industry, John Macarthur, the Reverend Samuel Marsden and others, who initiated and developed the industry which has proved to be Australia's backbone and salvation. The industry had a modest beginning. The first sheep were landed in 1788, and consisted of 29 mongrel ewes and lambs from Bengal. This number was reduced to one during the same year. In 1796 there were only 1,531 sheep in the whole of this great country, and it was not until 1803 that the number reached 10,000. The greatest advance in the industry occurred, probably, in the year 1815, when those splendid pioneers, Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth, with their flocks, crossed the ranges from Sydney to the hinterland and gave a tremendous impetus to our pastoral industry. We should be proud of the industry, reverence the memory of those pioneers, and teach the younger generation what Australia owes to them. 
In 1820 there were 150,000 sheep in Australia. By 1860 the number had increased to 23,000,000. We reached our maximum, strange to say, as regards sheep in 1891, when we had 106,000,000. At the present time we have less than 100,000,000. It was John Macarthur who really pioneered the wool industry of Australia. He started his sheep station at Parramatta in 1793 with a modest flock of a few wretched ewes from Bengal and six or seven rams of mixed Spanish and English descent. He made his first great step forward in 1804 when he was represented at the sale of the merino flock of King George III. at Windsor, and purchased rams which were recorded as having given a clip of from 3 to 7 lbs. of wool per head. It will show honorable senators what Australia has done for the sheep industry, aided by the efforts of the pioneers and other pastoralists who have used their brains in the development of the industry, when I tell them that a good merino ram in Australia to-day produces anything from 20 to 30 lbs. I have seen many rams exceed 40 lbs. and some 50 lbs. per head. Because of the suitability of Australia for sheep, and the great energy and the amount of capital which the flockmasters employed in the development of the industry, the last half of last century was notable for a great increase in our flocks. As I have already said, we reached the maximum in 1891. But during the last third of a century, owing to careful selection and breeding, the increase in the quantity of wool produced per head of sheep has been the outstanding feature. In the year ended the 30th June, 1927, we had 103,000,000 sheep in Australia, which produced 2,712,000 bales of wool. It is anticipated that in the present year, ending the 30th June next, 98,000,000 sheep will produce over 2,800,000 bales, which will be a record. Let me compare those figures with the output of wool in 1891, when Australia had its maximum number of sheep. We had then 106,000,000 sheep, but they produced only 1,400,000 bales of wool, which, allowing for the greater weight of wool per bale in those days, would be equal to about 1,500,000 bales to-day. Thus, owing to the skill of our flockmasters, the quantity of wool per head of the sheep has been almost doubled during the last 37 years. In case that fact may be used as an argument in certain directions, I want to point out that, although the sheep in Australia to-day give twice the quantity of wool they gave 37 years ago, they are also easier to shear than they were in 1891. At that time the fashion was to have very wrinkley, short-woolled, greasy sheep. If we had that type of sheep in Australia to-day we could not get the shearers to deal with them. Thank goodness we saw the error of our ways, and that type of very wrinkley sheep has been entirely bred out. The sheep of Australia to-day produce a greater quantity of wool than previously; that is to say, wool for general utility purposes. It may not be so fine in diameter or fibre, but it gives a greater yield, has greater elasticity and has a greater commercial value per pound than it has ever previously had in the history of Australia. 
Yes. 
Not necessarily. Machinery was in use at the time I mention ; but in those days the sheep were so frightfully wrinkled that I have known an expert shearer to take three hours to shear one merino ram. That was when we had the craze for the Vermont merino type of sheep. 
The figures that I shall now ask honorable senators to memorise demonstrate the superiority of the Australian sheep and wool over the sheep and wool of any other part of the world. These figures will be useful for combating the statements of people of other countries, for instance at delegations and at other gatherings overseas. Because of the suitability of Australia for the sheep industry and the perseverance and skill of our flock masters, this country last year depastured 16 per cent. of the world's sheep and actually produced 27 per cent. of the world's wool ; the Australian sheep produce practically twice as much wool as the average of the sheep in the rest of the world. It is 'the actual quantity of clean, scoured wool that counts in the value of the wool produced by a beast. The Australian sheep gives a higher quantity of scoured wool per head for manufacturing purposes than is produced by sheep in any other country, and because this wool has a higher intrinsic value per pound than that of any sheep elsewhere the' sheep of Australia in reality produces more than twice the value of wool per head than the sheep of any other nation. I am proud of this as an Australian. I think we should all be proud of it and also of the fact that Australia produces over 50 per cent, of the world's supply of merino wool. 
At this stage I desire to sound a note of warning. We are not gaining ground as regards merino wool. Possibly at the moment we are slipping behind a little and the cause is our closer settlement policy. I do not wish any honorable senator to think that I am not a keen advocate of closer settlement and the subdivision of estates which are suitable for subdivision or can be put to better service to the nation by being subdivided for closer settlement purposes. I am a keen advocate of the subdivision of land when the conditions justify it. As a result, however, of closer settlement a great many of the estates that previously grazed  merinoes  have been subdivided, cultivated and "supered" and that land is now too rich for the merino. Again, the advent of the frozen meat industry has had the -effect that in at least one third of Australia, that is to say, the coastal belt, it is possibly more profitable to breed for mutton and lamb purposes and also for larger lambing purposes. All sheep other than the merino forage for their food singly, whereas the merino works in one big mob and destroys a lot of food.. For these reasons it is probably more profitable1 for the graziers in the coastal belt to produce crossbreds or sheep other than the merino. This factor has thus been responsible for some retrogression in the production of fine wools. I am in favour of closer settlement. Many of my friends have said that closer settlement would tend to reduce the output of wool and destroy our prestige in the wool world, but that has not been my experience. It is true that occasionally estates that are not suitable for closer settlement are cut up, but with closer settlement, sheep husbandry, in conjunction with agriculture, has led to an increase in the quantity of wool produced. I admit that the wool is sometimes rather inferior, possibly because those who combine wool husbandry with agriculture  are  hampered in their means to buy very high class rams with which to keep up the standard of their flocks. 
Many are inclined to think that this, the greatest of Australia's industries, is confined to a few people. I remind them that there are S0,000 families dependent for their living on growing wool. It will show how far closer settlement has proceeded in Australia when we learn that 95 per cent, of our flocks are less than 5,000 head. There are only 3,000 flocks in Australia numbering over 5,000 head, the average flock in Australia being 1,250 head. Clearly, the industry is' not in the hands of a few. 
The note of warning I want to sound is in regard to the unrestricted export of stud sheep. Our greatest competitor in the sheep and wool industry is South Africa. When I first went into the wool trade the quantity of wool produced in South Africa was only 200,000 bales. It was miserable, short, rubbishy wool, of comparatively little value; but owing to the unrestricted export of our stud rams from Australia, the South African wool clip in my time has increased to 800,000 bales. This year the clip will be nearly 900,000 bales of comparatively good and mostly fine quality merino wool. The splendid progress made by the industry in South Africa has been almost entirely due to the importation of a comparatively few highclass merino rams from Australia. I estimate that in a very short period it will be a very serious competitor with Australia, and will be producing over 1,000,000 bales of merino wool annually. We must give praise to the various South African governments for realizing the national importance of the sheep and wool industry. They have all given encouragement to the industry in almost every way. One instance will suffice. The man on the land in South Africa is taxed very lightly in comparison with the man on the land in Australia. The wages he has to pay arc very much less than they are in Australia, and his freight charges are very much less. On the whole, his production costs are very much lower than those of the Australian sheep and wool producer, but further than that, the man on the land in South Africa, who makes a profit and elects to invest it in the purchase of stud stock from other countries is exempt from income tax on money so expended. In every possible way the various South African governments are inducing the man on the land to import the very best stocksheep, cattle, horses or pigs. We in Australia have made a rod for our own backs. It is quite wrong to imagine that South Africa cannot grow good merino wool. As a matter of fact, wool tops made from South African fine wool are bringing a higher price than tops made from Australian wool. I fear the South Africans as competitors. Over a period of 25 years the total amount spent by them in the purchase of stud rams from Australia has not been greater than £500,000. Australia has benefited to only a small extent in this respect. A few flock masters probably have received a pound or two more for their rams when they have been offered for sale. We should give serious consideration to the position that is likely to arise if we continue to allow the unrestricted export of our stud sheep to South Africa, Russia and other countries. I have no wish to adopt a parochial attitude in relation to this matter. I realize that South Africa is a partner in the great commonwealth of free nations which comprises the British Empire. But let us consider what its attitude has been in the past. At one time it was suggested that Australia should import from South Africa ostriches and angora goats. Immediately a total embargo was placed upon their export, and not even an ostrich egg could be sent to Australia. South Africa has also placed heavy duties upon Australian products, such as wheat and flour, notwithstanding the fact that it is able to produce only one-third of its requirements of wheat. We gain practically nothing from the uncontrolled and unrestricted sale of our stud rams to 
South Africa and Russia, yet we are probably undermining our greatest national, most natural and most stable industry. 
Honorable senators may hold the view that there is not an over-supply of sheep's wool in the world to-day. I share that view. But the competition of rayon or so-called artificial silk, and to a less extent of  snaifil  or so-called artificial wool, both of which are vegetable products, being made from trees, is undoubtedly having a prejudicial effect upon the market for fine merino wool, which is in much less demand, and is bringing a relatively poorer price, than crossbred and other wools with which artificial silk is not competing so keenly. We shall merely accentuate the present position if we sell the best of our flocks to a competing nation like South Africa, which is growing wool equally as fine as ours. Should the volume of its output be considerably increased, it might become doubtful whether it would be profitable for Australia to produce fine merino wools in the years to come. 
We do not compete against Great Britain with our blood stock; but when war occurs she calls upon us to supply our incomparable horses for service in Palestine and other countries. I know that any suggestion to bolt the door before it is too late would be unpopular with 50 or 100 big stud merino sheep-growers in Australia, as well as in South Africa; but I do not think that the little which they gain by the export of stud rams should be allowed to weigh against the welfare of the 80,000 families who are dependent upon woolgrowing for their livelihood. If any protest were made by South Africa, it would afford good grounds for negotiation with respect to her hostile tariff towards us. I -have given this matter a lot of thought, and have discussed it with sheep-breeders and experts. I suggest that a committee of members of the Commonwealth Parliament, assisted by outside experts, should make a thorough investigation of the whole question. No harm could possibly be done, and much good might accrue. 
I wish to stress the preponderating importance of this industry to the Commonwealth. During the last seven years, sheep have been responsible for more than 50 per cent, of the total value of the exports from Australia. Last year, they were responsible for no less than 60 per cent., and it is probable that- the percentage will be about the same this year. In the five, years which preceded the war the average annual clip in Australia was 1,920,499 bales, which, on an average, brought into Australia £24,891,769 per annum. The average price was  9½d  per lb. During the war years, and- the period when Bawra fortunately had control of the destinies of our wool clip, 7,153,956 bales were dealt with, the average annual clip each year being 1,995,053 bales, and the average annual value, £51,000,000. As honorable senators are aware, the price at which we sold our wool to the British Government was ls.  3½d.  a pound, on a greasy basis. By the generosity of the Mother Country, we were allowed to sell upon the open market any of the wool that was not required for military purposes, with the result that the price received by the Australian grower for the 7,000,000 bales handled by Bawra worked out at ls. 7d. a pound. Since the appraisement period, and up to the end of last year, we sold over 20,000,000 bales of wool for a return of £470,000,000. The average clip was 2,137,423 bales, the average annual value £49,535,000, and the average price on a greasy basis ls. 6Jd. a pound. Unfortunately, there has been some decline in the market, and that may be accentuated if the outside competition to which I have referred becomes greater than it is at the present time. So far this year, we have sold 1,000,000 bales, at an average price of 17.13d. a pound, a decline of 1.64d. per pound, which represents a loss to Australia of over £5,000,000. That illustrates the tremendous influence of this industry upon the prosperity of the Commonwealth. 
During the last four or five years, wool has been the means of bringing to Australia annually an average of £60,000,000. 
Unfortunately there are still some people who decry this, the greatest of our industries. 
Yet it is the very backbone of our prosperity, if not of our existence. Very few Australians appear to realize that 80,000 families are dependent upon sheep for their livelihood, and that during the last seven years sheep have been responsible for over 50 per cent, of the total value of our exports. "We must carefully safeguard the keystone of the industry - our stud flocks. It would be a very serious thing for Australia if any more of our great merino stud flocks were dispersed as a result of an unwise policy of taxation by either the Federal or State authorities, or a desire to accelerate closer settlement. 
I know of valuable stud merino flocks that have been dispersed because of legislation passed by certain State Governments for the compulsory acquisition of estates. I am strongly in favour of closer settlement and intense culture in cases in which the land can be most suitably used in that way ; but there is a danger that, in our enthusiasm for closer settlement, we may do that which will compel a man to dispose of a stud flock which is of incalculable value to the people of Australia. A large amount of capital, an extensive knowledge, and a large area of suitable country are required to run a stud flock of merino sheep. It is the source from which the small farmer must obtain his supply of stud rams. Therefore, I urge all Governments to think well before they do anything, by way of taxation or compulsory acquisition of land, which will have the effect of crippling our great stud sheep industry. 
It is a mistake for a few men to export the best of our stud sheep for what is merely a temporary gain. The question demands serious consideration, and should be reported upon by a committee of members of the Commonwealth Parliament, which could readily obtain outside expert advice and assistance at very little, if any, cost, so that we may safeguard in every way the greatest industry we have in Australia. The Federal Capital Commission for its action in giving out to the world through the press, that the pastoral industry in this territory is in such a serious condition  that 7,000 sheep are starving and ought to be depastured on the catchment area of the Federal Capital Territory, should receive the ridicule that it deserves. These sheep should be removed to other areas where feed is plentiful, lest they die in numbers and pollute the city water supply. The world should be informed that the industry in Australia, far from being in a parlous condition, is in a very prosperous state. 
[5.3S]. - I do not wish the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  to think that I have treated his remarks discourteously by not replying to the several matters raised by him. I congratulate the mover of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and also  Senator Cooper,  to whose interesting speech we listened with great appreciation. I think also that we are indebted to  Senator Guthrie  for his informative address on the pastoral industry, and I hope that it will receive attention .beyond the confines of the Senate because he packed into his speech much data of value to the country generally. 
I have sympathy with the Opposition to-day. Knowing  Senator Needham  and his- confreres, I realize how painful the silence imposed on them must be. One cannot imagine anything more distressing to those honorable senators than the passing of such a self-denying ordinance as that under which they undertake actually to listen to other people speaking. When I heard of it, I thought that it was beyond the bounds of possibility, but by means of interjections, at any rate, some members of the Opposition intend to have something to say in this chamber. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.- I hope, at any rate, that honorable senators opposite will not observe this self-imposed ordinance so absolutely as to deny themselves even the privilege of interjecting, because if they deprive themselves of the right to criticize and attack the Government as well as forego the right to interject there will probably be serious physical consequences, since we know that nothing is more dangerous than the pre sence of pent-up gases! One can only assume that the Labour party have been having such a voluble time in the constituencies lately that they have talked themselves to a standstill. That may be the reason for their lack of loquacity on this occasion. 
The Leader of the Opposition in his brief speech made one or two statements to which I think I should reply. The honorable gentleman elected to deal with one subject of government policy in the speech of the Governor-General in respect of which, above all others he would have been wise to remain silent. I refer to the problem of unemployment. That is the last matter on which he should have had anything to say; but he thought fit to break his self-imposed rule of silence by criticizing the Government's attitude in respect to it. The honorable senator went back to the policy speech of the Prime Minister at the general election of 1925 and said that  Mr. Bruce  had then made certain promises about unemployment insurance. Let me point out that  Mr. Bruce  went before the electors at the last general election and frankly told them what had happened. He said - 
The question of unemployment has been receiving the serious consideration of the Government. In my last policy speech I anticipated that the royal commission on national insurance would recommend the institution of a general scheme of insurance against unemployment, and would indicate a practicable basis upon which such a scheme could be established. 
That was a perfectly honest statement. The Prime Minister made no secret of it. He went out of his way to point out what he had said at the previous election. He continued - 
The report of the commission when received, however, showed that as a result of their investigations they had found it impossible to prepare such a scheme, owing to the absence of reliable statistics and data. They also found it impossible to make an accurate estimate of the cost of such a scheme. In addition, they pointed out that the administration of any scheme of unemployment insurance was impracticable until employment bureaux were established throughout Australia. 
The Prime Minister then proceeded to elaborate the subject, and concluded in this way: - 
The best and most useful service that . can be rendered to the unemployed worker is to find him a job. The object of the conference with the States is to endeavour to bring this about by a better organization of public employment by utilizing the agencies under the control of the governments. The next step is the establishment of a network of employment bureaux which can organize the distribution of labour for all classes of employment. It is reasonably clear that this function can best be performed by the States, which have a more direct relation to industry by reason of their wider industrial powers, and which also have control of lands, mines and railways. Any system of unemployment insurance to provide for the residuum of unemployed must be administered in close conjunction with the employment bureaux, and it is the view of this Government that this is a function which can most effectively be undertaken by the States. 
That is the policy which  Mr. Bruce  put to the people aud which the electors endorsed by returning him to power again.  Senator Needham  was most unfortunate in the selection of this subject for discussion. I remind the Senate of the statement made by the honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  on the same question, as reported at page .15 of the leaflet distributed by the Labour party, entitled, " Labour Policy for the Commonwealth : Enunciated at Richmond, Victoria, on 4th October, 1928, by J. H. Scullin, M.H.R. (Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labour Party)." He said on that occasion - 
Earnest efforts will be made by a Labour Government to grapple with the problem of unemployment. Encouragement and protection will be given to primary and secondary industries. This will apply particularly to industries using raw material produced in Australia. We will co-operate with State governments and other public bodies to regulate public works to the demands of labour. To alleviate the sufferings of the unemployed, early action will be taken to establish a system of unemployment insurance, the fund created to be distributed, as far as practicable, in providing work. 
If any unemployed man could gather any crumb of comfort from that vague statement of policy by the Leader of the Labour party- if by the wildest stretch of the imagination he could accept that series of platitudes as a solution of the unemployment problem he would be a blissful optimist. I point out that this statement of policy was made at a meeting of  Mr. Scullin's  own constituents, who were, of course, not critical. The meeting at which it was enunciated took place in his own constituency, and his audience was prepared to accept as gospel anything said by the leader or any Other member of the Labour party. But the electors of the country generally are critical. As soon as  Mr. Scullin  made that statement they examined it and compared it with the policy enunciated by the Prime Minister, and they said, " We accept the statement of  Mr. Bruce."  They declared that the shadowy and vague promises contained in  Mr. Scullin's  policy speech did not convince them. ' There was a clear statement by  Mr. Brace  as to how unemployment could be dealt with. 
What a hollow mockery it is to say to an unemployed man, as  Mr. Scullin  did, that he is to be benefited by " a system of unemployment insurance, the fund created to be distributed, as far as practicable, in providing work " ? First of all the man out of work wants to know what the amount of the fund will be, and what measure of employment it will provide. I think the honorable member for Yarra said that 100,000 trade unionists were out of work ; at any rate, the number given by him was very large. If those figures were not used by him they were mentioned time and again by honorable senators opposite. Let us accept the statement that there are 100,000 trade unionists out of work, and let us suppose that a fund is to be created to find work for them. I understand that the basic wage would have to be paid for the work. That, I believe, ;s a fixed principle of the Labour party. I do not think that they "would be prepared to agree to the payment of less than the basic wage, which is £4 5s. per week. That would mean that for a total of 100,000 unemployed it would be necessary to provide over £400,000 per week, or well over £20,000,000 a year. How would such a fund be created? The honorable member for Yarra did not enlighten his audience on that point. Would it be raised by taxation ? The honorable member devoted one-fourth of his speech to a denunciation of the Bruce-Page Government for imposing excessive taxation. Probably that is why he did npt suggest that it would be necessary to raise the fund by means of more taxation ! 
It may be that they would print the money; but they did not say so. The policy speech of the Labour party was silent on that essential point of how this giant fund was to be created. 
The man who is out of work requires something definite. He has no use for vague promises and mere generalities; but alter Messrs. Scullin, Theodore, Blakeley, and Needham had put their heads together and produced Labour's policy speech,filled with all sorts of glittering promises, all they had to say to that section of their ranks to whom they must particularly appeal - the unemployed workers - was that they intended to do something for them by means of a fund to be created. No wonder the intelligent electors did not accept that policy. No wonder they preferred the more definite and clear statement of policy set out by  Mr. Bruce. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that he was returned to this chamber by reason of the Labour policy? 
The honorable senator will have difficulty in convincing me of the truth of his statement. I have some knowledge of South Australians, and regard them as fairly shrewd people. I am convinced that the question of unemployment insurance did not determine the election result in South Australia. If we were to read the speeches made by  Senator Daly  during the election campaign we should probably find that 75 per cent. of them dealt with the sins of  Mr. Butler,  the Premier of South Australia, and 25 per cent. with the virtues of the Labour party.  Senator Daly  knows that his presence in the Senate is due more to what he told the people of South Australia about  Mr. 
Butler and his Government than to any references he made to the policy-speech of  Mr. Scullin. 
I again express to honorable senators opposite my sincere sympathy because of the painful period before them. While honorable senators on this side of the chamber are free from all control, by the Government or any one else, and may criticize the Government where they believe it has done wrong, as  Senator Guthrie  has just done, honorable senators opposite have to sit and listen.  Senator Daly,  although an obedient and docile member of the Labour party, found difficulty in obeying instructions. He was not allowed to make a speech; but he could not refrain from making interjections. A speech by the honorable senator would have been worth listening to; but, perforce, he was confined to interjections. 
I also congratulate  Senator Needham  on his fine example of camouflage this afternoon. The honorable senator has always been interesting when he has referred to defence matters. This afternoon, when I looked across the chamber, I could scarcely see him because of the huge pile of  Hansard  volumes in front of him. I thought that we were to have a kind of resurrection, that things we had said in the past would again be brought to our notice; but I found that it was all an attempt to mislead us. The honorable senator sought to convey the impression that he was going to make a lengthy speech. He knows that on this side of the chamber there are not many honorable senators who speak, without preparation, for half an hour on any subject. . That qualification is peculiar to honorable senators opposite. For the most part, we on this side repair to the library, and with wet towels round our heads seek there information to put before the Senate. I realize, however, that the silence of honorable senators opposite is only temporary. I conclude by expressing the hope that they will not expect honorable senators on this side to observe the silence to which they have voluntarily subjected themselves. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sampson)  adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs been directed to a statementwhich appeared in the Melbourne press to the effect that the superintendent of the Melbourne Fruit Markets  complained that the quality of the bananas supplied by Queensland growers is so wretched that not even pigs will eat the fruit? If this is the case, will the honorable senator request the Tariff Board to inquire into the matter to see whether some alteration of the tariff is not warranted, toenable the people of Australia to enjoy the advantage of having available sound fruit from outside sources ? 
My notice has not been directed to such a statement. If the honorable senator can, upon inquiry, authenticate it the matter shall receive further attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer - 
Has the . attention of the Minister been drawn to a statement in the Melbourne  Eerald  of the 4th January last to the effect that it was being rumoured in London that Australian loans were being underwritten by the Japanese through international banking concerns in Germany and France? 
Will the Minister advise the Senate as to the truth or otherwise of this statement? 
Yes. 
The statement is not correct. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact that thousands of pounds have been spent to provide golf links in Canberra and to keep them in repair; if so, will the Government erect swimming baths for the lower-paid servants of the Commonwealth who for financial reasons are unable to take up golf? 
Will the Government have the work put in hand immediately? 
This question should have been addressed to the 
Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, who furnishes the following reply:- 
I regret that I am not in a position at present to answer it. The information desired is being obtained, and will be supplied at the earliest possible date. 
I welcome the opportunity which this motion affords me to address honorable senators with regard to the visit of the Empire Parliamentary Association to Canada last year. I am strongly of the opinion that the activities of that association cannot be too strongly commended. After my 7½ weeks' sojourn in the great Dominion of Canada, as one of the Australian delegates, I returned to Australia feeling satisfied that it is only by the personal contact enjoyed by members of the Parliaments of the Empire, when attending these conferences that we shall really come to understand one another's problems. Such fraternisation makes for a common understanding. It seems to me that the greatest value of the League of Nations is the opportunity it presents to representatives of the various nations to come into personal contact with one another. I feel that it is eminently desirable that the conferences of the Empire Parliamentary Association should be held annually instead of bi-annually 
The personnel of the delegation was an extremely interesting one. It consisted of 53 members, 20 of whom represented the United Kingdom, 8 the Union of South Africa, 4 New Zealand, 4 India, 4 the Irish Free State, 2 Newfoundland, 2 Malta, 1 Southern Rhodesia, and 8 the Commonwealth of Australia. "With the exception of those from Australia, the delegates represented all shades of political opinion, and it was a matter of very great regret to me that our own section did not include some of our colleagues from the other side. The Opposition, however, did not see fit to accept the invitation to send one of their representatives from this Chamber and two from another place. The tour was very interesting, and of great educational value to all who participated, in it. Whilst in the Dominion of Canada the delegates met the Premiers and members of the nine provincial parliaments and also the members of the Dominion Senate and House of Commons. Every opportunity was afforded us also to meet members of the boards of trade in the various provinces. The hospitality extended to us on all sides was splendid, and the experience was a very pleasant one ; but it was also very strenuous. The majority of us were wearied by the constant travelling, but the real value of the tour, when viewed in retrospect, is fully realized. Although the personnel of the delegation wa3 of such a mixed character, and the duration of the tour was lengthy, our relations throughout were most amicable. 
The chief value of such conferences is that all who are willing have something to learn from their neighbours. We were extremely fortunate in having as a member of the British Delegation the Secretary of the Board of Trade, and  Mr. Tom  Johnston, a Labour Member of the British House of Commons, who is on the Empire Marketing Board.  Mr. Johnston,  as we were crossing the Atlantic, gave us a very interesting resume of the objects and activi-  ties of that board. Undoubtedly, Australia must, in great measure, look for her future development to the remunerative export of her products. To-day, mainly owing to the high cost of production, our exports are limited practically to wool and to wheat. In order to build up a remunerative export business, Australia must bring down its cost of primary production to world's parity. It is futile to depend upon the artificial  fostering  of industry which now exists. Having artificially fostered our home market we find it increasingly difficult to market our surplus abroad. That is particularly noticeable with respect to our wine, dried fruits, and sugar industries. Our discussions respecting the Empire Marketing Board convinced us that if Australia is to foster an export trade within the Empire, she must make constant both the quality and the quantity of her output, so that those who purchase our goods will be able to rely upon the fulfilment of our contracts. The members of the delegation had the privilege of attending the Canadian Exhibition which is held annually at Toronto. Last year was their jubilee. It is one of the most marvellous exhibitions held anywhere in the world. We became so accustomed to being told that what we were shown was the biggest, the longest, or the greatest in the world, that we developed a degree of scepticism; but I am inclined to agree with their contention that their exhibition is certainly the biggest of its kind in the world. On the occasion of our visit as the guests of the executive, all previous records for one day's attendance were broken, those who paid for admission numbering 320,000 persons. During the fortnight that the exhibition lasted, it was patronized by no fewer than 2,179,000 persons. It would have taken us weeks to inspect it thoroughly, on account of the multifarious nature and large number of the exhibits. In some respects it resembles the Royal agricultural shows that are held annually in Sydney and Melbourne, but in addition it is a wonderfully fine manufacturing exhibition. The grounds extend over an area of 360 acres, on the shores of Lake Ontario, and have erected upon them magnificent permanent buildings. The point I wish to stress is that this exhibition affords Australia an almost unique opportunity to advertise her resources and her products. A large building was placed at the disposal of the Empire Marketing Board, for the housing of British Empire exhibits. I feel sure that the other members of the Australian delegation shared my hitter disappointment, and even shame, at the poor showing that was made by the Commonwealth cif Australia. Anyone not acquainted with this country could be excused for concluding that the Union of South Africa was the greatest wool-producing country in the world. It had an interesting and attractive exhibit, admirably displayed. Similarly, New Zealand, had an extraordinarily fine exhibit which was well laid out. Unfortunately, our exhibit was in close proximity to those of New Zealand and South Africa, and would hardly have done credit to an unenterprising grocer. I should like to learn who was responsible for it. 
I do _ not. The expense could not have been very great, and we missed an extraordinarily fine opportunity to advertise our wares. We have a reciprocal trade treaty with the Dominion of Canada, but the balance of trade is very much against us. I gave the matter a good deal of thought while journeying through Canada, and I came to the conclusion that we shall not be able to make the fullest use of the opportunities that are available in that country until we appoint trade commissioners or agents. So long as they are live men, it matters not what they are called ; but they must be young, and must possess a good business experience. It is of no use to send to the United Kingdom or to any other country old political hacks who have outlived their usefulness in Australia. We must send thoroughly able men who are well versed in the conditions that exist in this country. It would pay us handsomely if we had in Vancouver, Toronto, Winnipeg and Montreal, live men who would advertise Australia and keep us posted in regard to the openings that present themselves for trade. From one end of 
Canada to the other, we experienced the very greatest difficulty in obtaining Australian wine. 
It is a disaster to our wine growers not to be able to exploit such a big market. We must build up an efficient selling organisation wherever we desire to expand our markets. 
I do not think so. Only one of the nine provinces has prohibition, and it was the wettest that we visited. I refer to Prince Edward Island. One would imagine that there would be a better fighting chance of enforcing prohibition upon an island than in a State which is adjacent to others that have not similar legislation ; but our experience of Prince Edward Island was that it was wet enough for any reasonable man. 
During our stay in Canada we could not fail to be impressed with the extraordinary prosperity of that country. The authorities are very much alive to the necessity for appointing trade commissioners in the United Kingdom, on the Continent of Europe, and wherever else they desire to trade. They are out to get business, and they are succeeding in their aim. I was rather surprised at the paucity of knowledge of the Commonwealth that was possessed by the political leaders in the different provinces that we visited. Probably a similar charge can be laid against us with respect to Canada. Before I visited the Dominion I held the view that it was an expansive country, with large forests and lakes, and that.it relied mainly on the production of wheat. The few references to Australia that appear in the Canadian press relate to bush fires, floods, droughts - 
Strikes particularly. The people we met held the view that we were perpetually on strike, and a few jocularly remarked that apparently the strike was our main product. While on board ship we found that the wireless news regarding Australia was both faulty and incomplete. 
 What about the test match scores? 
We had facilities that are vouchsafed to few people to examine Canada's wonderful manufacturing development, that has been brought about largely by the provision of water power on a large scale,  and  the desire of the manufacturing interests that have their headquarters in the United States of America to establish branch factories so that they may obtain the benefit of Empire preference. We also had the opportunity to examine her great forest wealth, her wonderful paper pulp producing plant, and her fisheries. But what struck us particularly, especially in portions of Northern Ontario, was the mining development, which is only just beginning. The conditions of living are good, and the wages high. I have in  mind  a particular mine that has been paying dividends for many years, and is now  down  to a level of 3,800 or 4,000 feet. Although it is not a high grade proposition it is being worked at a profit. Some  of  the members of the party went down to the 2,500 foot level. 
 How do the wages compare with those paid in Australia ? 
We were impressed by the extraordinary facilities for handling commodities. I was particularly interested in the lumber industry, because for seven years before the war I was engaged in saw milling in Tasmania. I was also connected with the industry for some years after the war, and I was very glad to get out of it, although I left behind me my war gratuity bonds and my deferred pay. After the official work of the delegation had been concluded I recrossed the continent of America, and had some days in British Columbia, where I visited some of the large lumber concerns on Burrard Sound, and saw something of the fish canneries on the Eraser River. What struck me most in regard to all the various industries in Canada was that the men earned high wages. I want to stress that fact. I point out that they not only received high wages, but also earned them. This particularly applies to the lumber business, for the inspection of which I had unusual facilities. I was keen on getting down to bedrock, and I spent two days at one establishment on Burrard Sound. When this Chamber was discussing the imposition of increased duties on lumber I was rather prone to accept as gospel the statement that the men employed in the timber mills in Canada - I know nothing about the mills in the United States of America - were Chinese, Hindoos, or southern Europeans, whose standards of living were nothing like our own, and who worked tremendously long hours for low wages. It has been stated loosely in this Chamber that these employees work ten or twelve hours a day, and receive extremely small sums for doing the bullocking work in the mills. That may be the case somewhere, but it certainly does not obtain in British Columbia, which supplies the world's market with the bulk of the timber, such as Douglas fir, which we call  Oregon. 
I examined for a couple of days the working of the mill at Burrard Sound and its output amazed me. It turns out from 400,000 to 500,000 super feet of sawn marketable timber per day, and it employs about 360 men. It is the last word in efficiency and up-to-dateness with its handling appliances, and its almost illimitable timber reserves at the head of Burrard Sound. It employs  only white men, the bulk of whom are Canadian born. The lowest paid employee, a sort of rouseabout, receives 52 cents, which is over 2s. per hour. The men work 48 hours a week just as we were accustomed to do in the mills in Tasmania. I visited some of the other establishments, and found that similar hours were observed there. I noticed some double-toothed band saws which enable logs to be cut when being moved both forwards and backwards. I asked the saw sharpener what wages he was paid, and he replied. "seventeen dollars a day." This is well over £3 a day. Of course, the man is an expert and sees to the brazing, but the whole establishment is a triumph of efficiency. It is a fallacy to say that the employees in this industry work tremendously long hours and are paid low wages. During my sojourn in British Columbia, I saw no indication of such conditions. The manager of these mills, which I closely inspected, is a Canadian, and he remarked to me, "We want efficient labour that we can rely on, and we pay our men good money because it pays us to do so." In the bulk of these industries - I found it also in New Brunswick in the sardine and herring fisheries, and almost all over Canada - there are systems of bonuses on increased output, and they have proved satisfactory to both the employers and the employees. This was noticeable particularly in the mining world. I found also that the bulk of the men engaged in logging in winter preferred, as a rule, to do the work on contract rather than for wages. 
In Australia we must do some hard thinking about these matters. We find it practically impossible to build .up an export trade in some of our minerals. I am one of those who believe in high wages, but I want them to be earned. It struck me in my travels that the difference to a great extent between Australia and some of its competitors overseas is that we have rightly or wrongly based wages on the cost of what a man eats. This is a rather fallacious system. If we get down to the hard, economic facts, we must realize that we cannot take out of an industry more than we put into it. We may go on with the system of artificial stimulation, the granting of bounties, and so forth; but when it comes to the marketing of our products we sometimes fail because we have to meet the world in open competition. I was chatting with a member of the House of Commons in Canada, who was telling me of the way in which markets  were  rigged. He was speaking of the juggling that took place in the marketing of tin. I remarked, "When you get down to the final analysis, is it not a fact that the world's price of tin must be based upon the world's output of that commodity and the demand for it?" We cannot escape from this economic fact. We in Australia are living in a fool's paradise, if we try to evade these hard and sometimes unpalatable, economic truths. 
I do not wish honorable senators to imagine that I am endeavouring to show that the millennium has been reached in Canada. Far from it; but in many pursuits Canada is a long .way ahead of Australia in efficiency. 
I read with considerable interest the report of the British Economic Mission. It may be, as some critics have said, that it contains nothing new, but it sets out a number of facts in a clear and concise manner - facts which, unfortunately, we are prone to overlook. One of the greatest faults of the average Australian is his casual manner. The interjection of one honorable senator opposite yesterday, "What is a million, anyway?" is typical of our attitude towards many important matters. We should not forget that every million pounds we borrow has to be repaid and that until repayment has been made interest has to be paid on* the amount borrowed. I am not a pessimist, but it appears to me that until certain sections of the community are prepared to face the facts fairly and squarely we shall have a continuance of periods of depression. No one viewing industrial conditions in Australia can say that all is well. I commend to honorable senators the report to which I have referred, and crave their indulgence to read an extract from it:- 
But all measures designed for the increase of Australia's wealth production and power of absorbing new population tend to be defeated if there are strong forces within her which operate so to raise her costs of production that she cannot sell her products in the markets of the world, and is restricted within the limitations of her own home market. Here we approach the most vexed, and the most important of all Australian questions, that of the combined effects of the protective Customs Tariff, and of the legislative enactments, both of the Commonwealth and of the States, for the fixing of wages and conditions of labour, which we will call, for brevity, the Arbitration Acts. 
We could not fail to be impressed, throughout our travels in Australia, with the fact of which we were continually reminded, that, notwithstanding the magnitude of the interest on her external debt, and of her imports for which payment can only be made in goods or services or, temporarily, by fresh borrowing, Australia exports only an almost negligible quantity of the products of manufacture, unless we include therein minerals, such as lead, silver, and zinc; while, broadly speaking, the only primary products which she exports in important quantities, and which arc not directly assisted by tariffs or bounties, though they may be assisted indirectly by Government expenditure from taxation on roads, railways, water schemes, and the like, are wool, hides and skins, meat and tallow, wheat and timber. Of these, wool and wheat are by far the most important, and it has often, though somewhat loosely, been said to us that the primary industries concerned with these products are the only industries in Australia which stand on their own feet and sell their goods at the world's price; or even, still more loosely, and with a change of metaphor, that all Australia is riding on the sheep's back. Without committing ourselves to full acquiescence with these broad expressions of opinion, we may say that we have been strongly disposed to the view that the combined operation of the tariff and of theArbitration Acts has raised costs to a level which has laid an excessive and possibly even a dangerous load upon the unsheltered primary industries, which, having to sell in the world's markets, cannot pass on the burden to other sections of the Australian community, and, consequently, as between the various States, upon those, notably Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, which are poor in manufactures, and are principally concerned with primary production. These States, and Tasmania, probably, most of all, are further handicapped by the high costs of freight in interstate trade, which result from the operation of the Navigation Acts along with the other causes which we have mentioned. 
The mission is aware that some of the States have been assisted by grants from the Commonwealth, but, even so, such relief is only a temporary palliative. There is something seriously amiss in Australia, and we should have the courage to face the issues which confront us. 
While we were in Canada we heard a good deal about the Kellogg pact for the renunciation of war. 
To a very large extent, we must place reliance on the work being done by the League of Nations to bring about a general reduction of armaments, but no one believes that the mere fact that the nations have reduced their standing armies and navies will abolish war. I would prefer a general reduction of armaments. I would rather fight a mau with my fists than with long range guns, firing high explosive shells. If the nations follow the general principle of getting down to a general reduction of armaments and fighting one another with tooth and nail, it will suit Australia. But generally speaking, we must place our trust in the machinery of the League of Nations, grinding slowly though it may be, always bearing in mind that the agreements between the nations foster a feeling of security which banishes fear. And fear is one of those things that go a long way towards causing war. I am glad that we are a signatory to the pact; but I am also glad to learn from the GovernorGeneral's Speech that Australia will still pursue her policy of sound defence precautions. It is not an aggressive policy; but we must rely on ourselves to a large extent, and in any case a certain proportion of armed and disciplined forces is very necessary in any country to preserve law and order. To my mind, therefore, the signing of the pact has not altered the position in regard to Australia's defence policy. 
I am glad to notice in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that provision is to be made for the extension of existing air communications. When we were in 
Canada we saw quite a deal of what has been done by way of aviation there. Forest fires are of vital consequence to the Canadians, and the authorities have adopted a very. fine system of patrol by planes fitted with floats. During the summer these air patrols keep watch for forest fires, and, by the use of chemicals, they can extinguish small fires and thus prevent larger conflagrations. I am bitterly disappointed that no mention is made in the Speech of the long-promised air service between the mainland and Tasmania. I trust that it is an oversight and that at no far distant date an air service between Tasmania and the mainland will be in actual operation. Communications with the mainland are absolutely vital to Tasmania, and an air service will assist in a great measure to remove the state of isolation in which the people of Tasmania live to-day. 
I have to repeat to-day what I have said on former occasions, that I never could see very much use for the traditional . practice of debating an address-in-reply, especially when it involves a waste of the time of Parliament. 
I could quite understand the formal adoption of an address without wasting the time of Parliament, which is rightly regarded as precious ; but, as  Senator Thompson  has said, a motion such as this gives an opportunity to talk. It is usually availed of to arraign the Government, to hold up its shortcomings to the public gaze, and to present against it an indictment of several counts. But, apparently, on this occasion nothing like that is to happen. There is no executioner in sight; no sawdust or basket is lying about; there is not even an accuser. I do not know what change is coming "o'er the spirit of the dream." Honorable senators of the Labour party, although in opposition, appear to have no charges to make against the Government. They are here, but they have imposed on themselves a kind of self-denying ordinance whereby they are silent. 
I do not understand this silence., especially when I remember that they are usually such excellent talkers. The only conclusion to which an impartial spectator can come is that they think the Government has done nothing to warrant an accusation, and that it is told, metaphorically, " Go your way. You have done no wrong. " Personally, I do not intend to let the Government down so lightly. My regret is that, when the opportunity presents itself to review the administration of the Government, nothing is said. What will the man in the street think and say of the silence of the Labour party ? What will he think of that party which, during the recent election campaign, raised its voice in such general condemnation of the Government and yet, when the opportunity is presented, fails to vindicate its accusations, and imposes upon itself a voluntary silence ? The only rational conclusion is that either the members of that party did not believe in what they said during the election, or that they had not the heart to stand up to their jobs and press their accusations' to a finish. 
I join in the expression of goodwill and thankfulness extended to our Sovereign upon his improvement in health. In my juvenile period, and even after attaining maturity, I was one of those who had no time for an hereditary monarch. But I have lived in this country, which has a king, and in  another country  which has no king, and I returned to Australia firmly convinced that an hereditary ruler was no impediment to my progress. My observations ha.ve led me to realize the unique and important part that his gracious Majesty, King George V. plays in the destiny of the British Empire, and the salutory influence which he wields not merely nationally, but internationally. I appreciate the beneficent influence of the close analyses made and the keen judgment that has been manifested on many occasions by our present ruler, and by his immediate predecessor, King Edward VII., in solving domestic and international problems. I find that this is the best country on God's earth for mine and for me; for the man who wishes to create for himself a destiny according to his lights. For  Her  Majesty, Queen Mary, my admiration is unstinted. In this degenerate age, when too many women, at the dictation of effete man, have unsexed themselves, Queen Mary lives in such a queenly but withal motherly and homely state that she radiates a fine example which is reflected to the ends of the earth, and makes me proud that I am one of her loyal and humble subjects. 
One has often heard it remarked by latter-day wiseacres that the Senate has outlived its usefulness, and that it does not fulfil the purpose for which it was elected. If the Senate is at all lacking - and I shall dissect that matter later - the fault rests with the electors themselves. King Demos is the presiding genius that makes and unmakes Parliaments. This and the other chamber are the creatures of their outside creators. I shall prove that. At previous  elections  whenever a man stood as an independent and claimed that he did not belong to any party King Demos promptly crushed him between the party machines and said, in effect, " I have no time for you." This attitude on the part of the electors is strikingly exemplified in the  treatment  received by distinguished men like  Sir Josiah  Simon of South Australia,  Colonel Cameron  of Tasmania, and others who, many years ago, claiming that they would come into this chamber as free agents and with an independent mind, were crushed between the party machines. That being so, how can these shallow-brained critics blame this Senate for its behaviour. No man dares seek a seat in this chamber unless he belongs to this party or to the other. Made by' the breath of the electors, democracy, this is the only second chamber in existence to-day that springs from the loins of the people. If it is bad, the people who created it are bad. If those who criticize the Senate but ponder over these' few facts they must inevitably come to the conclusion that this is the tolerant chamber of the time, brought into existence by an unshackled expression of opinion of the people. I admit that I hold the view that the Senate has not done its .duty in regard to the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the 'States, but, generally, it has stood up to its work. T shall prove that by relating^ briefly, what members of the Senate have done. 
Think for a moment of the policy of the State of New South Wales in the early days of federation. I have seen the six men returned to this Senate to represent that State, troop across the chamber time after time, in opposition, at the first suggestion that there should be an increased tariff - because at that time the electors of New South Wales gave their allegiance to a policy of freetrade. But later, when that allegiance was transferred to protection, those six freetraders were superseded by other representatives who held a directly opposite political view. New South Wales had simply " tasted blood " and, like the tiger, its appetite became insatiable. Similarly, the representatives of Victoria become of one mind when the interests of their State are at stake. Again, when the sugar industry of Queensland was threatened, the representatives of that State iu this chamber became one solid unit, forgot or submerged  their party differences and were undivided in their desire to safeguard the industry, and give their State a chance to develop. Then, too, when it came to seeking reimbursement for Tasmania for the loss which it had suffered through linking up with federation, its representatives fused their interests and forgot all party differences. My own State of Western Australia is the only sorry example of the lot in this respect. But we are a rare, disinterested, and high-minded people. I have, when a tariff schedule has been brought down, used all the eloquence of which I am capable in support of a moderate duty in respect of certain items, in the interests of my State, yet have seen my colleagues walk across the chamber to vote for the highest possible rate. My colleague,  Senator Needham,  is elected by the same electors as myself, but when we have to speak on the same subject he is of one opinion, and I of another, illustrating, if I may say so, with due modesty and commendable frankness, that the State of Western Australia has set an example which might well be followed by the other States if independence of speech and action be the objective. 
Undoubtedly our critics have failed because they have omitted to take into account the political tone and temper of the present day. A critic or historian, to be worthy  of the name, must take cognizance of all facts and must do so broadmindedly. However, we have heard of these reformers before. The country is full of them. What is needed is a reform that will reform the reformers, if such a thing is possible. 1 do not admit that the Senate has failed in its duty, but should the day come  when  this chamber is abolished, because of the propagation of such fallacious views, I' am confident that on the following day federation also will go. It is somewhat depressing to think that, though this chamber is founded on the people's will, and springs from the loins of a free democracy which is unequalled in the world, many who call themselves democrats  now  slink about with a dagger in their apparel, seeking to plunge it into the heart of the Senate. They do not know the game from shinty. The representatives of each State have faithfully performed their duty, and have protected the vital interests of their individual State when the occasion arose. I should like to see the Senate a House of 36 parties, that is to say, each member having a mind of his own and severed from all party affiliation. But as the world goes we know that is impossibleLet us think less of party interests and more of the interests of this country. Our trouble is that we have too many " isms " and " asms." What are they and what are they worth? We magnify what concerns our own party, and devote the greater part" of our energies to the determination of the best means to adopt to hold our positions. Is it not time that we first asked ourselves how we can best advance the interests of our country? Let us get that firmly rooted in our minds, and root out all other pettifogging things that matter not. Then some good will be done, and this chamber will enjoy the respect of the people of Australia. 
I wish now to touch upon the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. I expressed my opinion of that proposal when we discussed the measure that was introduced last session authorizing" a reference of the question to the people of Australia. I consider that it will he bad for this country, because it must necessarily lead to the undue aggrandizement and the financial opulence of the central power and the simultaneous impoverishment of the States. That will not he to the advantage of the work-a-day citizen; and, after all, it is his interests that we are sent here to conserve. Governments and parliaments are nothing; they come and go; hut that which makes for the welfare of our citizens should he jealously guarded. Power was sought by the Government to make agreements with the States. What was the experience in Western Australia ? We of the Nationalist party are sometimes charged by those who occupy the Opposition benches with being members of a party whose chief characteristic is its financial strength. They say that we have only to press a button, and tens of thousands of pounds will immediately roll in and be made available to support us in the constituencies. Yet, what is the fact? During the last election, and that which preceded it, we did not have in many important centres in Western Australia even a motor car to convey our supporters to the poll. On the other hand, the party that claims to represent the toilers, and that has so much of an uncomplimentary nature to say about capitalists and capitalism, had at its disposal fleets of the most luxurious cars for the conveyance of its supporters to the poll. Members of that party say that we are associated with the wealthy interests. They know, of course, that whether such statements are true or false there is a certain percentage of the people who will believe them. " The eternal charm of error" is on their side; the people swallow that which is erroneous, and ask for more. They say we are not deserving of popular approval, and that we are presumptuous when we claim that we have the right to control the affairs of this country and to guide its destinies by virtue of our mandate from the people. On one occasion ex-Senator Gardiner, who led the Opposition in this chamber, made the statement that 90 per cent, of the people of this country were workers, and that the remaining 10 per cent, represented the idle rich. I am not disposed to dispute that contention. Yet, what happened when that 90 per cent, was asked to decide which party should be entrusted with the government of this country ? Did not those workers say most emphatically "We have heard what  Mr. Bruce  has said ; we have also heard what  Mr. Charlton  and  Mr. Scullin  have said. Although we personally respect  Mr. Charlton  and  Mr. Scullin,  we have no faith in what they say, but, on the contrary, will place our trust in those whom they say we should not trust." An analysis of the position makes it plain that we are here because the workers trust  us and mistrust our accusers. 
I have already mentioned that Nationalist candidates in Western Australia did not have sufficient funds for propaganda purposes or to procure cabs and motor cars to convey their supporters to the poll. We had to talk and walk and make the best of an impecunious situation. Such, however, was not the case with the organization which conducted the campaign in favour of the financial proposals of the Government. I have in my hand a full page advertisement that appeared in one of the daily newspapers in Western Australia on the eve of the poll. It purports to give in pictorial form typical examples of ' the electors of the Commonwealth. I am afraid that the artist's courage failed him, that he became seized with a conscientious - spasm and found that he was not up to the job. The gentleman in the foreground of the picture is probably the best looking of the artist's subjects. He looks as though he feels that he is about to perform a terrible deed - an act of spoliation upon the States. The next figure has the appearance of a jockey, and wears a smart cap. Behind him stands what may justifiably be regarded as an average type of flapper. The next resembles Bill Sykes in appearance. Then there is an individual who looks like a bookmaker; while the next wears a top hat. Presumably he is intended to represent the class that subscribes to the funds of the Labour party. The last figure is that of a lady whose appearance suggests that she has not had a very happy time in either her single or her married life. The point I wish to stress, however, is that, although those, including this Government, who were in favour of the financial agreement had their advertisements and .other propaganda accepted by the newspapers, I and others who were opposed to it were refused the opportunity of placing our views before the people. Plenty of money to let the States down, but none to help the ministerial candidates up! Therefore, I am compelled to have my objections recorded in  Hansard. 
I remind the honorable senator that: 
While yet the lamp holds out to burn, 
The vilest sinner may return. 
The agreement has not yet been passed and there is still a hope, forlorn though it may be, that those who are opposed to it will secure its rejection. There have been times when forlorn hope has been turned into a triumph. As a public man, I wanted the press to publish my opinions. I could not pay for the publication because then, as now and always, I had no money. I wished to secure the publication of the following reasons for the non-acceptance of the financial agreement by the people of Western Australia, but was unable to do so: - 
Because, with the loss to the States of the whole of the customs and excise revenue, as the financial agreement will expressly bring about, the pledged understanding of the founders of federation will be broken. 
Because broken pledges or broken understandings are against our grain and are not in our nature or our blood. 
Because this loyal State has no right to live its lean life under federation any further, which it will undoubtedly do if the financial agreement becomes law. 
Because the older and better established States will continue to enjoy the choice fruits of federation at the expense of the newer and less established ones, under the financial agreement. 
Because the central government managed to live within its one-fourth customs and excise revenue for years, and still give back to the States; whereas it now wants the whole of the customs and excise revenue, still hangs on in the other fields of taxation, and, what is often forgotten, will be relieved of every penny piece of the war expenditure during the currency of the agreement. 
Because the tale about " faring worse " if the financial agreement is turned down is half moonshine and half make-believe; and why? 
Because the "bogey man" of the hour, who will turn the States into a poor Lazarus is the Labour party, and that very party- at the moment is bidding better to save the States than is the National-Country party; and why? 
Because it knows its bread and butter, and its very life's breath depends upon getting the electors on its side, us all political parties try to do; and its bid to save the States now is merely a bid to save itself. 
Because this "bogey man" - viz., the Labour party - wisely considers that to skin the States now would only result in skinning itself. Therefore, there is no body in this ministerial contention that the Labour party will rob the States; it is not even a decent skeleton. 
Because the fear of the electors' wrath that holds the Labour party at bay to-day and makes it the best friend of the States, even against its will, is the same reliable power that will keep that party, or any other party, in order in the future on this vital question. 
Because our people, courageous and industrious as they are, will find the task of reclaiming this big State humanly impossible unless the wherewithal to do it is set down as a right and not as a variable, uncertain grant. 
Since the Prime Minister has said that the financial agreement may be varied, then let the electors assert their sovereignty by insisting upon having that varied agreement before them first, and not leave it to any government or parliament to do the job for them. 
Let safety first be the watchword of the electors now. This can best be done bv votinc "No." 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

My experience during the last election shows what liberty of political conscience there is within the party with which I am associated. If that liberty did not obtain, I would immediately leave it. When, as a member of another party, I found that I could not speak my mind on a subject that I considered vital, and' on which I considered that the party of the day had no right to command my obedience, I left it, because I considered that it was not a party of liberty and not a democratic party. Am I bound to agree with everything that the present Government does? Not at all. Does the Government expect me to cross every " t " and dot every " i " in accordance with its particular views? Not by any means. For long years Parliaments have been fighting for freedom. So far as my party is concerned, and the policy for which it stands, its members are free agents. But, above free speech, we fortunately have a free Parliament, which is a grand asset for any country to possess. So long as we abide by the rules governing parliamentary procedure, and express our views respectfully, we have absolute liberty of speech. Therefore a comparison can be struck between the party that I left and the party to which I now belong. 
Although honorable senators on the Opposition side are usually among the best talkers in the world, they have begun a talk strike. I remind them, however, that at the present time the country requires them to say something. They should show in what respect the Government has done wrong, and try to prove the charges up to the hilt. The occasion has now arisen for them to draw attention to the misdeeds of the Ministry. Should they remain silent the Government will go without a stain on its character, so far as the Opposition is concerned. We hear of the empty north and the empty south, but there is no place more in need of a closer settlement act at the present moment than the Opposition benches in this chamber. There is no congestion and the ventilation is superb. 
A brand new story has lately been told about the effect of Australia's fiscal policy. The "Big Four" have visited this country, and have told us many useful things, which were known to us before, but which, owing to the source from which they emanated, impressed us afresh and reminded us strikingly of the lines on which our industrial destiny was running. We realize, of course, that four Australians, chosen either inside or outside this Parliament, could have given some good advice to the people of the Old Country. It would have been possible for the scholar to have taught the school master. Nevertheless, I welcome what these emissaries from Great Britain have told us, because the opinions they have placed on record will do much good if they but awaken public conscience to the need for arresting the fatal courses we have been pursuing with regard to our protective policy. 
I direct attention to what has lately been discovered by the Constitutional Commission. This body was appointed to inquire whether any alterations were required to the Constitution under which we have worked for 28 years. So far the commission has done good. It wished to find out what had been the effect of the policies of various Governments on the material affairs of the people, and it inquired in particular as to the effect of protection. It detailed Professor Brigden, of Tasmania, and  Mr. Giblin, Deputy  Commonwealth Statistician, to discover whether our policy of protection had been of benefit to the people. I believe that the report on this matter has not yet been placed before Parliament, but the tenor of it is that certain industries that have a home market in Australia for the disposal of. their output have fared very well, but have done so at the expense of those industries which depend upon foreign markets for the disposal of their products and have to be content with what foreigners will give. It was found that this is happening in the several States, and sometimes in one State to the detriment of another or other States. They found that, because of the position of affairs in New South Wales the industries dependent on local markets are just about balanced by the primary industries that are dependent on overseas markets in that State. In Victoria and Queensland, however, and particularly in Queensland, owing to the fact that the sugar industry is protected, the conditions are different. 
I shall always support the protection of the sugar industry, because only by this chief means can we demonstrate to the world that the white man can live and prosper in the tropical areas of the North. He may be doing better than others correspondingly situated, but I will go a long way to give him the benefit of the doubt. It is hard to get some persons to believe that, but I know it because I have lived there. In Victoria the overwhelming bulk of the secondary industries depend on the interstate markets for the sale of their products. Queensland is the only State that enjoys an economic advantage at the expense of the rest of Australia. The commission pointed out that the other three States, South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania, were paying through the nose for the maintenance of our fiscal policy. Of course, the views of members of this Commission, who have no axe to grind, no party to support, and no Government to uphold, must have respect at our hands. We are assured that the threeStates last mentioned are. carrying by far the greatest burden of the protective policy of Australia. They go further and say that the cost of running our secondary industries is about equal to the amount of salaries and wages paid in it. It will, therefore, be seen that we could afford to retire all the persons employed in those industries on their present salaries and import, at world prices, goods in place of those they now manufacture, and yet be no worse off. 
Let us consider the position of the wheat industry, which is the chief industry of at least four of the States, and employs about 250,000 adult persons. What is the commission's finding as to the effect on that industry of the protective policy of the country? It is astounding to find that it represents a tax equal to 14 per cent. In Western Australia the last wheat harvest averaged twelve bushels to the acre. That was a better return than was obtained for several years previously. On that average the cost of protection represents a tax of 8s. per acre. Taking the total wheat production of that State as 30,000,000 bushels, that represents a contribution of over £870,000 by the wheat growers of Western Australia to maintain the fiscal policy of the country. A young man taking up farming in Western Australia could, in a few years, have 500 acres of land available for cultivation, but would have to pay £200 per annum to uphold our policy of protection. Of Australia's gold production about 80 per cent. comes from Western Australia. That means that with a total gold yield of 440,000 ounces, the gold mining industry of Western Australia contributes to the public revenue about £250,000 per annum. That is the industry which we have been told is " languishing ". So the wheat and gold industries of Western Australia contribute annually over £1,100,000 towards the upkeep of protection and that State gets in return no advantage worth speaking about. The position is so serious as to warrant the earnest consideration of all public men. 
The old adage "You can take a horse to water but you cannot make him drink " has its application to-day. We can say to our young men " Go on the land ", but they will not go ; or if they do, they soon relinquish their holdings to take up other pursuits. Wheat production in Australia is practically at a standstill; the area under cultivation is less than it was in 1915. It is true that more recently the position has improved, but only to a limited extent. The area of Japan and all her possessions, supporting a population of 70,000,000 people, is less than that of New South Wales. In Western Australia there is almost unlimited land available for settlement, but it is notbeing applied for as it should be. Similar conditions exist in South Australia, Tasmania, and in the wheatgrowing portions of New South Wales. The time has come for us to call a halt with regard to our protection policy. It is not right that protection should be given to industries to build up fortunes for a few individuals. The late  Mr. Hugh  V. McKay, under our protection policy made a huge fortune within a few years at the expense of people less fortunate than himself. The same is true of the late  Mr. Hoskins  who died leaving an estate worth nearly £5,000,000. 
Honorable senators may remember that time after time  Mr. Hoskins  asked for duties on iron and steel at every stage of production from the time the iron ore left Iron Knob until it was incorporated in farm and other machinery. To-day, from the top of the Commonwealth Bank buildings, Sydney, one can see the huge building which  Mr. Hoskins  erected out of the profits he derived from what he said was an unprofitable industry. The scales are not evenly balanced; they are weighted against the man on the land. There is room in the agricultural districts of Australia to build a race of sturdy Australians, but land is not being used as it should be, because our young men find the cities not only more attractive, but also more profitable. 
Under existing conditions, it is no wonder that the drift to the cities continues. Our secondary industries flourish at the expense of our primary industries. When duties were first imposed in order to encourage Australian industries, a protection of 25 per cent, was considered sufficient. Now, however, it is not uncommon to provide a protection of 40 per cent, or 50 per cent, sometimes, to assist industries which are not worth protecting. It is true that . the imposition of those duties resulted in the export of some boots to New Zealand, some chocolates to the South Seas and some jams to the Malay Peninsula; but what have we to show for our 21 years of protection ? A miserable three or four million pounds worth of protected products against £70,000,000 in the case of Canada. The fiscal policy of Canada is far in advance of that of Australia. 
In our consideration of these problems we must not overlook the human element. In the early days of the Labour party in Australia we painted rosy pictures of the future of the country. If only things had gone according to specifications our hopes might have been realized, but the human element came into play and our realization to-day falls far short of what we anticipated. The State implement works at Fremantle are now in a bad way, or, at least a Labour government is inviting private enterprise to come in and take a hand in running them. When these works were established at Fremantle, the project on paper appeared to be sound, but no sooner had they been established than we heard men asking "Why work so hard and do others out of a job " ? That virus remains there and elsewhere, and for that reason Australia lags behind other countries in the industrial field. Public men who see the trend of events and fail to sound the note of warning are failing in their duty. 
The workers of Australia should realize that it is their duty to give full value for' the money paid to them. If a man wants a pair of boots, he wants value for his money; he wants soles of leather, not of paper. Similarly, if buying a suit of clothes he wants the best material he can get at the price he is willing to pay. Yet so many of our workers are prepared to receive for their labour twice as much as they earn. There is a tendency for employees to regard employers as enemies of society, or at least as being less worthy than the men who work for them, notwithstanding that the latter for every fi he receives in wages may give service worth only 10s. or thereabouts. No country can progress while these false standards remain. The continuance of such a policy will inevitably lead to insolvency. There must be value for value. Upon honorable senators belonging to the Labour party rests a heavy responsibility, because no other persons in the community are so well situated to make these things clear to the workers. If only they would denounce the men who bring distress on the community by checking production and causing industrial unrest, they would alter the whole outlook for this country. Why do they not do it? Because their leadership would be frowned on, and the frown would be more than they could stand. There is no inducement for them to speak, because their position and their livelihood depend on their silence. Regarding our national credit "and the stringency of the money market, in my opinion 
Ave have not over-borrowed although we have an indebtedness . of something like £170 a head - twice what it was in the early nineties when the banks closed. In those days when  Mr. Deakin,  then Premier of Victoria, attempted to float a loan, »word came from London that it would be better to postpone the flotation until a later date because the credit of Victoria had gone and no Australian colony could borrow except at ruinous rates. Yet at that time the indebtedness of the people of Australia was only £74 a head, whereas to-day it is more than double that amount. The wonder is that we can make progress with such a heavy burden of interest ; but the worst feature of the position is the diminishing return on the borrowed capital invested. I am afraid we cannot go much further unless we can show at least a better balance-sheet. A nation has to observe the practice of private business and show a fair return on the money borrowed. No person would lend another £100 if he stood still even if his security was good. It is necessary for the borrower to go forward and show a profit on the money he has borrowed, otherwise the lender is not encouraged to lend. This obligation, which is observed in private business circles, applies equally to the nation. 
One thing perhaps that damages our credit more than anything else is the interminable turmoil we have in this country. Despite the fact that it is against the law of the land to strike, we have workers going on strike time after time. Why they do it I do not know, unless it is that they are encouraged to strike because of a belief that it is right to "knock" capitalism - that it is the capitalists of Australia who are doing the mischief to the country. I have a recollection of working out some figures from the census of wealth taken during the war period. Those figures indicated that if all the incomes in Australia over £3 a week were pooled the general level would not be raised by more than about lis. a week, and that if we pooled all incomes over £6 a week the extra dividend secured would not be more than about 5s. a week. In this latter alternative the strike promoter with a wage of £7 or £8 a week would get a shock! In those circumstances where are we to get the extra income to keep pace with this rainbow painting of what is likely to happen if only Labour can get control of the affairs of the Commonwealth? Labour has been in control of the affairs of Queensland for an uninterrupted period of 12 years. But is Queensland a working man's paradise? It is nonsense to say that it is when able bodied men can be seen trooping to the police court for rations. Yes, that happens in rich and resourceful Queensland to-day. Old Mother Nature seems to have been doped when she endowed the northern States so lavishly in comparison with the other States, yet to-day, after twelve years of Labour control there are empty shops in Queen-street, Brisbane, and grass is growing in places where many years ago thriving industries existed. The Legislative Council was abolished in Queensland so that no one could stop Labour from arriving at its objective, but nevertheless Labour has not produced the goods, for the simple reason that the rainbow pictures that Labour has painted are all moonshine - all damnable nonsense - and the leaders of Labour in their innermost hearts knew all the time that they were. This party of platitudes has kept itself in power in Queensland by resorting to means to which even bookmakers on an unregistered race-course would not stoop. By a manipulation of the electoral districts and by roll stuffing they have retained their control of the legislative machine. Quite recently the State Electoral Registrar discovered on his rolls some 20,000 more electors than were on the Commonwealth rolls. Where were those electors? Presumably most of them were in the cemetery. He also found that 60 " comrades " in Townsville had given as their address a certain boarding house which contained ten rooms and ten beds. I do not know how those 60 " comrades " accommodated themselves on ten beds. But it is a long lane that has no turning, and the turning point is coming in Queensland. To his credit be it said that  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia, has shown sense. He has used his best endeavours to keep a very cautious hand on the finances of the State, and he has suggested a means whereby the people of the State can be properly represented in the State Parliament. He has succeeded in having a commission appointed to subdivide the State on fair and just lines. That commission will consist of a man selected from either side in  the  State Parliament, with a Commonwealth electoral officer as umpire. Thus, again, the western' State has set an example to the rest of Australia. We know what  Mr. Lang  did when he was Premier of New South Wales. We know how the Labour Government of Queensland trebled and quadrupled taxation.  Mr. Bavin,  in New South Wales, and  Mr. Butler,  in South Australia, have had the task of clearing up the mess created by their Labour predecessors. It was an easy matter for Labour in the States to squander the taxpayers' money on the construction of works with the object of making friends. It is not a case of robbing the poor to give to the rich, but that of robbing the willing and giving to the unwilling, or robbing the worker and striver and giving to the person who has "work fright." That is the policy observed in Australia if the people are foolish enough to sanction  it, but it will not be pursued very long; there always conies a time when there must be an accounting season. . If I can manage it we shall soon have an accounting season. We shall have a census taken of what wealth is produced, and then we shall see the source of all the money and how much truth there is in what is said and believed in by a wide circle that the capitalists are ruining Australia. We shall again see what the war census demonstrated - that the capital of Australia is in the possession of the overwhelming mass of the people of the country; all the taradiddles preached by those who spread the poison among 'the electors that in some unknown and unexplained fashion capital is ruining the country will be proved false; and the overwhelming majority of electors will thrust the spreaders of those taradiddles into the chasm of obscurity, whence they should never have emerged. 
I want to push this country forward without detriment to any individual. Notwithstanding what has been said to the contrary, the members of the party to which I belong want the honest working man to rise to the surface. I have declared over and over again that I want the farm labourer of to-day to be the farmer of to-morrow, and I want the artisan of to-day to be the employer of to-morrow. I hope the time will come when the workers will rise above their present conditions; when they will cease to be grumblers and discontented; and when the overwhelming majority of intelligent voters who have been duped in the past and led to believe in false nostrums will learn, that if we want to keep this country in perpetuity we must fulfil certain conditions - that we must get back to the good old belief in honest toil and just reward for that toil. No pastoral, mining or fishing lease can be held unless certain .labour Covenants are observed. Here we are in Australia a small garrison of 6,000,000 holding a continent and saying to all other nations "Keep off the grass." But unless- we fulfil the labour conditions properly applying to this country the time will come when an authority higher than the 6,000,000 people of Australia, higher even than the British Empire itself, will ask of us, " Have you fulfilled the labour covenants in regard to your continental area?" If we have not - and I say that, up to the present, we have not - then will come the time when the weak points in our armour will be shown, and our friends of the past will become very disquieting enemies. When that time comes danger will arise. Unless we make the best use of our heritage by working it and by not allowing discord between one section of the community and the other that hour of danger will come. Let employer and employee work together. If we watch the records of the Labour movement in the United States of America and even in " England, we see that the trend of the industrial movement to-day is cooperation and not antagonism. The keynote most noticeable in those countries is cooperation - the spirit of living together and doing one's best for industry so that both sides may extract the most that industry will provide and so that the community in general may benefit. 
.- I congratulate the Government on the renewed expression of confidence that the people of the Commonwealth have given in favour of its political policy.  Senator Lynch  has expressed his concern at the silence of the. professional critics of the government, but I suggest that it would be rather hard for the present Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Needham)  to speak on this matter. He would be bound, by the force of political expediency, to chant a paean of victory on behalf of the Labour party. But it is very difficult for him to do that as, in effect, he is under sentence of death from the electors, who turned down their thumbs when he appealed to them for a new lease of his political life. So that one really ought not to be disappointed at the tactics of the honorable senators opposite. 
I am very interested to learn that the Government is giving careful attention, to the report of the Economic Mission. The remarks of that body with regard to the administration of the Customs Department were particularly interesting to me in view of some recent experiences I have had with that department. On one occasion a contract was entered into with a British firm for the erection of a large organ in Melbourne. As the regulations under the act appeared to be silent on the matter of organs, inquiry was made at Australia House as to the duty which would have to be paid on" the various parts. The officials there replied that, no doubt, those parts would be treated in a similar manner to piano parts, which are admitted duty free. I think that any but a government department would have conceded that if separate piano parts were so treated, it would be but rational to deal with organ parts similarly, as we have a so-called piano industry established in Australia, and there is a piano in almost every second house in the land, whereas organs are practically rare, being confined chiefly to town halls and cathedrals. The organ parts arrived in Australia and the council concerned was astounded when confronted by a demand for the payment of an exorbitant duty. An appeal was made to the Minister, who justified his decision not to introduce suitable regulations to cover the free admission of organ parts by stating that an individual in Adelaide claimed that, if he were given a chance, he could manufacture such things. He admitted that he had never previously done so, but expressed complete confidence in being able to perform the task. No reference was made to the Tariff Board, which, I understand, was formed to inquire into such cases. 
My next experience concerns the X-ray plant at the Melbourne Public Hospital. As honorable senators are aware, that plant is of such a modern and comprehensive nature that it is used not only for the simple treatment of cases of fractured bones, but also for the diagnosis of obscure diseases. Moving pictures are taken, for example, of the action of the heart, and it is essential that the films used should be of the ultra sensitive type. At present there exists in Australia a firm which manufactures such films, which, . however, are not sufficiently rapid in action for that purpose. The representative of the firm admitted that it would be possible for his business to manufacture films of the necessary rapidity, but that, as its product is used in tropical Queensland as well as in the milder  por-  tions of Australia, it is compelled, owing to the restricted market available, to manufacture one film for all purposes. Unfortunately, the Minister took the view that it was necessary to impose a duty on the imported' film, which possesses the necessary rapidity of action. My contention is that the imported article should, in this instance, be admitted free, as the imposition of a duty penalizes the poorer section of the community, and will probably deprive many needy people of the advantage of having their disease diagnosed by the latest scientific methods. Specialists in charge of the X-ray department at the Melbourne Hospital were not afforded any opportunity to state the case before the Tariff Board, but were merely questioned in a casual manner by an officer from the office of the Collector of Customs. It is interesting to note that there is now a hill before the other House to enlarge the powers of the Tariff Board, and I hope that attention will be given to the instances I have cited. The Australian film industry which I have mentioned is not a struggling one; but, chiefly due to our protective tariff, has become firmly established. I wish that industry all good fortune for its enterprise, but it should not make use of the wealth it has gained to oppress the poorer section of the community. 
I note with great satisfaction that the Government intends to proceed with its policy of making provision for the adequate defence of Australia. It appears to me that our military forces are now, and have been for some time, treated as the Cinderella of our defence service. I direct the attention of the Government to that paragraph in the report of the Inspector-General of the Australian Military Forces, which reads - 
At present the existing peace establishment of the Citizen Forces require 608 officers and 1771 warrant and non-commissioned officers to complete it. Details are given in appendix "A". As units themselves are on a nucleus establishment only, it follows that our deficiencies - in officers and noncommissioned officers required to complete to War Establishment are serious. 
I have on occasion remarked to this Senate that when we were forming that portion of the Australian Imperial Force to which I was attached at Broadmeadows, I was reprimanded to some extent for taking in 'men who had not had previous service. I justified myself in three weeks, because by that time- my critics were unable to pick out those who had not received previous training. That was due to the fact that our compulsory military service at the time gave us a body of trained officers and noncommissioned officers and with that nucleus it was an easy matter to drill the rest into shape. Because of the wastage of officers and non-commissioned officers, who have not been replaced, the position is now serious, and the Government has failed to give the matter proper consideration. It is becoming more and more difficult to induce men to give their services after they have completed their term of compulsory training. Employers object to the men being taken away from their staffs for their period of training. The Commonwealth Bank, in particular, has protested strongly against having large numbers of its employees called away to undergo compulsory training, and the situation will become even, more serious if something is not done. I regret, too, to note a recent innovation of the present Minister for Defence, which ' withdraws a form of encouragement previously extended to officers who had served for a certain period. Upon retirement they were granted a further honorary step in rank, a privilege which, though costing the country nothing, was highly appreciated. These matters may appear to be too slight to have any influence, but I remind honorable senators that the only serious trouble which occurred in the ranks of the Australian Imperial  Force  was when the authorities endeavoured to take away the regimental colour patches of certain battalions which were about to be amalgamated with other units. 
It would appear that the Government will have its hands full with industrial troubles. It is indeed regrettable to find men who occupy important positions as leaders of the industrial movement making statements such as the following, which is attributed to  Mr. Holloway,  secretary of the Melbourne Trades Hall Council : - 
If principles which had been recognized for years by the Arbitration Act were to be swept aside by the Court's orders - and they asserted that they had been by Judge Lukin in the timber workers' award - then the public and the Arbitration Court authorities should be informed that the unions could not any longer have faith in, or owe allegiance to, orders of the. court. 
It is not arbitration at all, and it is a great pity that the  statement was not made before the men went into court. If a private litigant went into court stating that if the verdict were in his favour he would obey it, but if it were against him he would resist it by force, he would be sent to gaol immediately. The people of the Commonwealth expect, and I feel sure that their faith will be justified, that the Government will be firm in insisting that the awards of the courts shall be obeyed. No one by an award of the court is compelled to work, and no employer is compelled to carry on an unprofitable business. Just as no employer should be permitted to prevent another employer from carrying on his business under the conditions prescribed by the court, so no worker or body of workers should be able to say that their fellow workers should not be permitted to work, although they might be perfectly satisfied that the conditions prescribed by the court were fair and just, and necessary for the continuance of an industry. 
I note that a new Minister has taken charge of affairs in Canberra. As a result of a recent inquiry, a further loss of  £20,000  has been disclosed. This should convince the Government of the necessity for making a close examination of the affairs of the Federal Capital Commission. The result of the recent election for the position of third commissioner, when the people returned as their mouthpiece the bitterest opponent of the Commission, should convince the Ministry that drastic changes are necessary in the policy of the Commission. 
The rumour  1  heard was, that if a more bitter opponent could have been found he would have been elected. Drastic action will have to be taken if the people are to be made contented by being given conditions that  I  approximate as nearly as possible to   those of other cities. An investigation will disclose the fact that the rates which the unfortunate people in Canberra are called upon to pay are heavier than those of any other city in the Commonwealth. This Parliament will probably be approached for an additional' living allowance, by public servants who are compelled to live here. That is not the correct way to deal with the matter. The rates which are levied in other cities of a similar size ought to be carefully examined, and the residents of Canberra should be placed upon something like an equality with their citizens. Canberra will not progress so long as those who wish to commence industries here are handicapped in this manner. 
 Although the Governor-General's speech does not contain anything spectacular, and does not make any alluring promises, yet, in the present state of the finances of the Commonwealth, I regard it as an eminently sane document, which should restore the confidence that is so urgently required in Australia at the present time. The existing conditions have not been brought about by scarcity of money. The annual report of one of our greatest banking institutions, which was published the other day, disclosed the fact that during the last financial year its deposits had increased by £3,000,000, and that the amount of money -advanced had declined by £2,000,000. 
It is not. On the contrary, it is a sign that there is a lack of confidence. The programme placed before us by the Government is calculated to establish that confidence. It shows that there is not to be any grasping for the moon; but merely an endeavour to conduct the affairs of the nation in a satisfactory way. 
Like  Senator Sampson,  I had the opportunity to visit Canada recently with the parliamentary delegation that left Australia. I realize fully what a splendid opportunity it was, and congratulate the honorable senator upon the fine account he has given of our tour through that dominion. I have already given to the electors of Queensland, in a series of articles that I wrote, my impressions of. the tour ; therefore, it is neither necessary nor desirable that I should now traverse the ground as fully as  Senator Sampson  has done. I can, however, draw comparisons between the conditions that exist in Australia, and those that we encountered, in relation to certain subjects that will come up for consideration during the present session. We had opportunities to discuss with delegates of other countries many matters of mutual interest, and out of those discussions a great deal of good is likely to accrue to both Australia and the Empire generally. I join with  Senator Sampson  in expressing appreciation of the wonderful kindness that was shown to us throughout the dominion, and also pay a tribute to the organizing ability of those who had the conduct of the tour from the time we left England until we made our departure from Canada. They had the assistance of two of the chiefs of the great railway systems, who, in conjunction with a parliamentary committee, drafted an itinerary which worked without a hitch from the beginning to the end of the tour. 
A matter of special significance that arose out of our visit was the conference held in Vancouver to discuss a question of the extraction of petrol from coal. The stage has now been reached when the Commonwealth Government can he of material assistance. At this conference the Mother Country was represented by  Mr. David  Hall, a miners' representative, who spoke with a good deal of knowledge of his subject. Australia, New Zealand, and one other country also were represented. The delegate from. Great Britain was firmly of the opinion that that country is lagging behind Germany and the United States of America in its scientific research work. He did not question the scientific attainments of the man who was in charge of the research operations in Great Britain, but he believed that that gentleman did not have much faith in the possibility of extracting petrol from coal, and that he was not putting his best foot forward. I explained that Australia was awaiting the result of the efforts that were being made in Great Britain. The Minister for Mines in British Columbia said that that also was the position of Canada. If,.  as the British delegate assumed, the man in charge of the research operations in Britain is not putting his best foot forward, it is our duty to enter a protest and to endeavour to have him replaced by some other person who will handle the matter in the proper way. In Germany the Bergius process has been responsible for the production of 250,000 tons of petrol from coal, and it is claimed that in five years' time that country will be able to produce from coal the whole of its petrol requirements. The possibilities are so vast that the best brains in ourEmpire should be brought to bear upon the problem. If we can place upon a commercial basis the extraction of petrol from coal, we shall solve many of the difficulties that now confront both the Mother Country and Australia in regard to mining operations and. defensive measures. I ask the Minister responsible for the activities of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, to have the investigations pushed forward as rapidly and as far as possible. I believe that in Great Britain the Admiralty, the army and the aviation branch are keenly interested in the subject, and are doing all that they can to further the investigations. 

 Senator Sampson has rightly said that at the present time Canada is passing through a period of remarkable prosperity, and is going ahead by leaps and bounds. I confess, however, that I expected to find it very much further advanced. Although its history goes back over three centuries, and it possesses marvellous natural advantages, its population is only a little over 9,000,000 persons. 
That is so. Further, right at her door -is the greatest population of English-speaking people in the world. At one time, of course, that was a disability, because over a period of years probably 1,000,000 splendid men migrated from the eastern provinces to the United States of America. The pendulum has now swung back in the direction of the dominion, whose wonderful mineral resources and other advantages are attracting American capital, brains and labour. The working-class people will probably remain there and become good Canadian citizens. Naturally, a large sum will return to the United States of America by way of dividends ; but we should not grudge them that. Australia might very well hold out the hand of fellowship to America in a similar manner. The factors which make for prosperity in Canada are, in some respects, similar to those that obtain in Australia. Wheat is, of course, their biggest item of production. I am not a farmer, and cannot speak with authority upon the subject of farming; but we had with us the honorable member for Forrest,  Mr. Prowse,  who is a farmer. He assured me, and also stated publicly in Canada, that in many ways the agricultural methods there employed are inferior to those that are employed in Australia, and therefore Canada does not produce wheat as cheaply as Australia. In the matter of transport, the Canadians beat us completely, because the produce is handled in bulk. They have wonderful silos, and their railway and shipping arrangements are perfect. 
Not to the same extent as in Canada. The cost of transport is greater here because most of the wheat of Canada is handled in bulk. 
No ; much of it is sent to the United States of America in specially constructed barges ; but Montreal is so central that I dare say most of the water-borne produce goes there. The wheat is marketed on a very good basis. The pooling system is well established, being in favour with the great majority of the growers. 
Reference has been made by  Senator Sampson  to the tremendous export trade in Douglas fir, which is known as oregon pine. The Canadians were rather keen about obtaining a preference from Australia on timber. They put up a case to us when we were in Vancouver which, I venture to say, if it had been placed before this Parliament last November when the timber duties were under consideration, would have been accepted. They merely asked for a moderate preference, and when the matter again comes up for consideration, Canada's request will probably be granted. We pointed out to them that already the trade balance was in favour of Canada, and if we granted a preference on timber we should be merely increasing our adverse balance. There was a good deal of sympathy with us on that ground, and I hope that one of the results of our visit will be a reduction of the adverse balance. 
We nailed down the lie responsible for that time and again, and yet when I returned to Australia it was being revived. The story told over there was that Australian butter was being dumped in Canada, and to enable that to be done the industry was subsidized by the Government and a levy was imposed on the butter producers of Australia. We pointed out that no butter subsidy was paid, that our producers had to accept world parity, and that any arrangements made with them were only of internal benefit to them. I understand that a small minority of the dairy farmers, who have considerable influence, have been reviving this subject lately even though they are unable to supply requirements during winter. 
Arising out of the timber industry in Canada, there is the great pulp industry. One manufactory alone produces 600 tons of paper per day and employs 5,000 men. This is the biggest factory of the kind in Canada, and probably in America. Great industries such as that, which are capable of using millions of tons of timber and employ so many men, are a great factor in the prosperity of the country. 
Although a great deal of cutting is going on, and much loss is often occasioned by fires, sufficient attention is not being paid to afforestation. As a matter of fact, those interested in the industry are not troubling about afforestation, because they say. that they have a thousand years of cutting in sight at the present rate of progress. That is not correct, because I have it on good authority that much closer attention should be given to afforestation than it is now receiving. It behoves the Canadians to realize that the tremendous denudation of their forests calls for immediate attention. 

 Senator Sampson referred to mining and to the great Hollinger gold-mine near Timmins. This is the greatest single mine' in the world. At one time, Australia had the privilege of claiming that honour for the Mount Morgan mine. It is said that the Hollinger mine produces gold to the value of £2,250,000 per annum, but I do not think that Mount Morgan ever exceeded an annual output of £1,500,000. The great Canadian mine is a low grade proposition and it is paying. Of course there has been a considerable reduction in the dividends; but the mine pays to-day because the methods of operation are good. The wages paid are probably higher than those ruling in this country, but the mine is an easy one to work compared with Mount Morgan, where the difficulties of treatment were great. 
It can be worked all the year round. The timber and pulp industries are also carried on uninterruptedly throughout the year, but the men engaged on the land can only work for four to five months in each year, and many of the ports have but four or five months of business activity. 
SenatorFoll. - The heavy snow experienced in Canada is not entirely a disadvantage. 
That is so, but farm work is at a standstill for from seven to eight months in the year. Most of the farmers, especially the successful ones, go to California for the winter. 
So far as the production of beef cattle is concerned, I think that Australia compares very favorably with Canada, but in dairying that country is well in advance of us.The Canadians have large numbers of dairy cattle. The methods of milking are vastly ahead of what I have seen in this country. Machinery is largely used and the cattle are well housed on account of the rigidity of the climate. In the matter of sheep growing, however, Canada is very much behind Australia. It has only 3,000,000 sheep in the whole country. Queensland, I regret to say, has lost more than that number in one year. Canadian farmers are now giving increased attention to sheep, and by housing them they could probably have larger flocks. 
We heard a good deal from  Senator Guthrie  about the sheep industry and I listened with great interest to his remarks. If there is one authority on this subject in this chamber it is  Senator Guthrie.  He referred to the many millions of pounds that the industry was worth. I may mention in passing that as I went through Seattle, I was informed that the revenue from timber alone in that city was greater than the value of Australia's wool production. This shows that there are other avenues that can and should be exploited in this country. 
Over £70,000,000. I have always been opposed to  Senator Guthrie's  suggestion that restrictions should be placed on the export of stud sheep. Australia has arrived at a high standard of sheep production, and if our pastoralists are not strong enough to stand up to any position that may arise through the exportation of stud rams they ought to be. If the Mother Country had adopted such a doginthemanger policy as to refuse to sell stud stock for distribution throughout the world, despite the risk of bringing about competition with her own producers, there would not have been anything like the volume of trade that is found throughout the world to-day. I would not like to see any other country rival or even approach Australia in sheep production, and I do not think there is much risk in that direction. Although only a few men are engaged in the breeding of stud sheep, we know what an important industry it is, and I deprecate the placing of any restrictions upon it.  Senator Guthrie  mentioned that South Africa had refused to supply Australia with ostriches at one time, and the result was that we went to Other countries for them. 
Fortunately, we did not go far in that matter. Ostriches were brought to central Queensland and they thrived there, but as a marketing proposition the industry proved a failure. Perhaps it is just as well that South Africa refused to supply them at that particular time. 
Another great factor in the progress of Canada is its tourist traffic. Situated as Canada is alongside the United States of America, with its teeming millions and its many wealthy people, its tourist traffic ranks next in value to its wheat trade. I asked Canadians how they could possibly assess the value of their tourist traffic, and they pointed out that they obtained returns from the principal hotels and tourist resorts. Canada, of course, has great scenic beauty and it attracts visitors from all parts of the world. In addition to that, it makes the most of its opportunities by providing all kinds of attractions for tourists. Heavy charges are imposed at. the principal tourist resorts, but wealthy Americans and others do not seem to object to them. 
I had an opportunity to make inquiries into industrial matters both in Canada and California. Throughout Canada there seemed to be no strikes, and no fear of them. Industrial councils have been established in several of the provinces, but there is no federal arbitration court such as Australia has. It might be well to mention how some agitators entered Canada. In order to garner the wheat crop, 9,000 miners and other were imported from England. The majority of them proved satisfactory. When I alighted from the train at Moose Jaw I was approached by a deputation and asked if I was a member of Parliament I replied that I was a member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth and advised the deputation to approach  Major Kindersley  and  Mr. Cyril  Atkinson, members of the British House of Commons, who were with me. Thm did so, and immediately made a number of complaints. One man said that he had been asked to work for a dollar a day. Another, who evidently had not been accustomed to manual work, showed us his hands and said that he wanted to return to England. We went to the colonization office to test the first man's story that he was expected to work for a dollar a day. The Colonization Officer showed us a bundle of over 600 applications for men who would be paid six dollars a day and provided with food and accommodation. We asked the man who introduced that deputation what he had to say. He replied that he was earning six dollars a day and that he hoped to obtain a farm for himself, otherwise he would return to England with a substantial sum in his possession. "When asked why he had introduced the deputation he said that he had been approached by the others, and had consented to do so. The Colonization Officer said that any trouble which had been caused was due to a communistic element among the men who had arrived from England. He mentioned, particularly, one able-bodied man who had caused a lot of trouble in his district. 
After leaving  Senator Sampson  at Vancouver, I spent nearly three weeks in California, where I came in contact with numbers of employers, farmers and others, with whom I discussed industrial matters. I found that they have councils of employers and unions of employees for various trades and sections of trades, and that, apparently, they were able to work in harmony together. There is no Arbitration Court in California. On all sides we were told that Australia was unionridden, a statement which I am afraid is only too true. It was pleasing to find community of interest between employer and employee. The role of the union secretary in California seems to be not only to secure good pay for the men, hut to encourage the employees to produce as much as possible. Instead of advising the workers to "play the darg," he urges them to do a fair day's work for their pay. Should he find a man loafing on the job he warns him, and thereafter keeps him under observation. If after a number of warnings there is no improvement in the man's output, he advises the employer to dismiss the man, and he is dismissed. In California they seem to have emerged from the industrial chaos which now exists in Australia. While in Canada we did not hear of one strike. In the United States of America we heard of trouble in the textile industry, and occasionally there are disputes in the coal industry there, as appears to be the case in that industry in all countries. 
I now come to the report of the British Economic Mission which, as has been said before, contains nothing that is new; .but old truths clothed in different language and coming from men of such standing bear a new message. I hope that the Government will introduce legislation to give effect to some of the recommendations of the Mission. I agree with that portion of the report dealing with our transport system. That our ports, railways and roads are not what they ought to be was clearly shown in the report of that eminent engineer,  Sir George  Buchanan. Wherever we went - England, Canada or the East - we found better port arrangements than those existing in Australia: the handling of goods was done more effectively and more cheaply than in this country. These things count when goods have to meet the competition of the world. In both Canada and the United States of America we saw the great advantages accruing from a standard railway gauge. Not only do the Canadian Pacific and the Canadian National railways extend into the United States pf America, but there is also an exchange of rolling-stock between the companies in. the two countries, a factor of considerable importance at peak periods, such as the handling of the wheat harvest. I feel that the unification of the railway gauges in this country is beyond our financial resources for many years, but we should keep the ideal before us and work towards securing a standard 4 ft. 8£ in. gauge throughout Australia. Within the next two or three years it is expected that the capital cities of the Commonwealth will be united by a railway of standard gauge. The work of constructing the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway appears to be progressing slowly on the New South Wales section. Only one pier of the Clarence River bridge has so far been erected on the south side of the river. It would appear that the railway will he completed long before the bridge is ready for traffic, whereas the completion of the two works should, as far as possible, be made to synchronize. I hope that pressure will be brought to bear on the New South Wales Government to expedite the work on the Clarence River bridge. In both Canada and California I found good roads, the more satisfactory roads being in California. I found also that in the 
United States of America federal assistance has been given to the States to assist hi road construction. Our Australian roads follow too closely the railway routes, an error which they have avoided in California. Our aim should be to construct roads which will act as feeders to the railways. All the first-class roads in California are constructed of concrete, covered with bitumen. When first constructed they were too narrow, but they are now adding 5 feet to each side, thus making them safer for traffic. On no day when in California did 1 motor less than 120 miles. In one day's trip to see the wonderful redwoods of Santa Cruz we travelled 205 miles in five hours - but because of the quality of the roads I felt no fatigue. If the Constitution will permit it, 1 favour the appointment of a royal commission to investigate transport matters in Australia, covering ports, railways and roads. No doubt some persons would raise objections to the appointment of another royal commission, but it must be admitted that such a body could secure information which would not be obtained otherwise. 
Under the Sessional Orders the time has arrived when I must put the question - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received advice from His Excellency the GovernorGeneral that the Senate's resolution of sympathy in connexion with the illness of His Majesty the King had been duly transmitted to His Majesty, and that the following reply has been received from the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs :  - 
Pursuant to Standing Order ' 28a, I hereby nominate Senators W. L. Duncan, E. Findley, W. Kingsmill and B. Sampson, a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the position with regard to the provision of an aerodrome at Western Junction, Tasmania? 
When will one bc available for the Tasmanian section of the Australian Aero Club? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
.  An area near Launceston has been selected as boing suitable for use as an aerodrome, after essential surface preparation and drainage. Further investigation of alternative possible areas has been necessitated, however, by: - 
the considerable expenditure that would probably be involved in suitably preparing the selected site for use in all weathers; and 
the fact that the owners of the selected site hare raised strong objections to its acquisition by the Government. 
At the earliest possible moment, but no definite date can. as yet be stated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs, upon  notice - 
What is the amount of excise collected on fortifying spirit for wine for each year previous to 30th June, 1928, also since that date? 
What are the amounts of deferred payments of excise, owing to deferred payments being allowed on excise on fortifying spirit used in fortifying wine in bond? 
What is the amount of bounty paid for each year previous to 30th June, 1928, also since that date? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as . follow :  - 
Collections for the undermentioned years were :  - 

<graphic href="120332192902132_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amount of excise due on fortifying spirit used in respect of wine which was under Customs control on 30th June, 1927, was £93,831 ; on 30th June, 1928, £230,472. 
The bounty paid on wine for the undermentioned years was: - 

<graphic href="120332192902132_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

I do not agree with that portion of the report of the British Economic Mission dealing with hanking, in which the introduction of bills to cover credits is suggested. I strongly deprecate any move to revive the old method which was in existence in Australia many years ago. I speak from experience. At one time it waa customary to grant bills covering a period of four months. It then frequently happened that, by the time a customer met one hill he had got considerably further into debt. The mercantile community, realizing that in such circumstances many firms stood the risk of losing large sums of money, introduced a system of short-term settlements - usually for a period of one month. That gave a customer two months' credit. As that system is giving satisfaction, we should not make any attempt to revert to the old pernicious system of long credits. 
I am pleased that Australia has endorsed the Kellogg Pact; hut, like other honorable senators, I am somewhat suspicious of the sincerity of the United States in this matter, seeing that that country is clamouring for the construction of a greater number of cruisers than many of us think she requires. The motive underlying the clamour is to prevent Great Britain, in the event of war, from challenging neutrals as in the past. This matter is of vital importance to the British Empire. I cannot conceive of Britain relinquishing its right to search vessels belonging to neutral nations in time of war. Great Britain may or may not continue to build cruisers, but. the United States of America undoubtedly will do so. In course of time an acute position might arise ; but that time is not yet. Throughout the United States of America there is an undercurrent of antagonism to Great Britain, due largely to the mixed population of that country. The feeling of antagonism is being exploited by many newspapers. Thirty or 40 years ago probably 70 per cent, of the population of the United States of America was of Anglo-Saxon extraction; to-day, it is probably not more than 15 per cent. As a result of my visit to California, I formed the impression that the people there who are of British descent are still for the most part pro-British, but that among the majority of those who are of alien descent there is antagonism to the British Empire. 
I congratulate the Government on having practically completed its five-year defence programme. "With other members of the delegation, I had the privilege of inspecting the cruiser  Canberra  at Portsmonth. The vessel is one of which Australia has. reason to be proud. I was also pleased to receive an invitation to inspect the world's greatest battle cruiser, the  Nelson.  The members of the delegation left that vessel convinced that the British navy is thoroughly up-to-date. We were also shown over the  Victory 
Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar. We thus had an opportunity to compare a warship in use 100 years ago with those  of  to-day. 
I sympathize with the InspectorGeneral of the Military Forces in having again to complain of lack of funds. In this connexion the Government is in a difficult position, for it is unthinkable, in view of the Kellogg Pact and other demonstrations in the direction of peace, that this country should launch out into heavy expenditure for defence purposes. I think that, in the circumstances, the report of the Inspector-General of Military Forces sounds an appreciable note of achievement. I notice that Lieutenant-General  Sir H.  G. Chauvel contemplates converting our mounted infantry to cavalry. That proposed innovation rather surprises me because, while I well know that the weakness of mounted infantry is that it can place only a 75 per cent, effective strength in the firing line, I consider that the difficulty, with such a force as ours, in obtaining the precision that is requisite with cavalry, constitutes a serious drawback. Again, so much mechanization of the army is now being introduced, resulting in a reduced personnel, that I should prefer our Director-General to give more attention to this phase of the matter. 
My district, which is an important one, and includes the central city of Rockhampton, labours under the disadvantage of not having even one rifle range, and I regret that the Minister has again had to inform me that no funds will be available for some time for this purpose. 
The Inspector-General of Military Forces refers to the problem of supplying horses for the service. That is purely an economical matter. Nowadays it does not pay to breed horses for our own use, much less for remount purposes in India and Japan. It has been suggested that the Government should subsidize the industry with a view to encouraging the breeding of suitable horses. I do not consider such a step to be sound, unless a satisfactory tax is imposed upon stallions to induce breeders to begin with the right class of horse. I am afraid that, for some time to come, the breeding of satisfactory remounts in Australia will be unsound economically. 
The phases of the report with which I have dealt are confined to land defence. I consider that the Ministry will be well advised to make the best use of the money available for that purpose, but that it should concentrate its energies particularly upon the encouragement of aviation, civil and military. While in California I was granted and took advantage of an opportunity to see what was being done there in regard to aviation. The Oakland aerodrome is claimed to be one of the finest in the world, and I was particularly impressed with its arrangements for chronicling meteorological conditions. Meteorological reports are received every quarter of an hour, and are at once distributed around the country. Another feature which impressed me was the extensive use of night lighting, to encourage and facilitate night flying. The night lights at the Oakland aerodrome may be seen from any vantage point in the locality. The result is that night flying is extensively indulged in, with comparative safety. Australia is far behind in this matter. Civil aviation has assumed very considerable dimensions in the United States of America. I am not sure whether it is subsidized by the Government, but it has made remarkable progress, and the companies promoting- the services are doing well. There are regular passenger and mail aeroplane services between all the principal cities cif that country. I watched several such planes arriving, each carrying from twelve to fifteen passengers. I am aware that, in Australia, we are handicapped financially, but we are moving in the right direction. I hope that, in the immediate future, every effort will be made to increase our activities in this direction. 
I am disappointed that the report of the Constitutional Royal Commission is not yet before us. There has been considerable delay in presenting it, and I do not know to whom the fault is attributable, but I urge the Government to expedite its presentation. I come from Central Queensland, and many electors there manifest a considerable interest in any proposal to subdivide the existing States; therefore, I am anxious to make the contents of the report in this respect available to my constituents. 
I understand that, for the past few months, the Commission has not been called together. 

 Senator- THOMPSON. - I think that there is. In passing, I should like to mention that a good deal of misapprehension exists in Canada regarding our Constitution. Time and again Canadian speakers claimed that Australia was indebted to Canada for its Constitution. As honorable senators are aware, that is not the case. Our Constitution is based on that of the United States of America, and is entirely different from that of Canada. At one time I thought that we were the gainers by that, but since my visit to Canada I have seriously reconsidered that opinion, because, apart from the disability that Canada has, under the BritishNorth America Act, to pass constitutional alterations through the British Parliament, its Constitution is infinitely more favorable than ours. Each of its provinces has set powers prescribed by the Constitution, the residue being in the hands of the Federal Parliament. It is the reverse with us. The powers of the Federal authority are expressly set out in the Constitution, the residue being held by the States. There have been numerous instances of the disabilities which exist under that system, and many of us long for similar conditions to those enjoyed by Canada. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. Just fancy Western Australia being governed from this centre. 
If any government should be tempted to neglect, even for a moment, its functions of compelling obedience to law - if a democracy, for example, were to allow a portion of the multitude of which it consists to set at defiance some law which it happens to dislike, it would be guilty of a crime which hardly any virtue would redeem, and which century after century might fail to repair. 
A great deal of cotton is being grown in Central Queensland at the present time. According to the report of the British Australian  Cottongrowers'  Association for the year ended the 30th September, 1928, there was a gratifying increase in the quantity produced in Queensland last year, the figures being 12,221,525 lb. compared with 7,059,828 lb. in the previous year. That is a hopeful sign, because it indicates that the knowledge of the farmers is becoming greater, and that the industry is being placed upon a sounder basis. 
The question of migration was brought frequently to the notice of the parliamentary delegation that recently visited Canada. One member of the British delegation vigorously attacked the position taken up in Australia. He said it was criminal of us to have such big empty spaces and not to evince a desire to fill them. Such a statement of our position could not be, and was not, accepted by, us. We replied that Australia was quite prepared to take all the migrants that the Mother Country cared to send, up to the limit of our powers of absorption. At the last meeting which we held I pointed out that on the one hand the Mother Country appeared to have reached the peak of her population capacity, and that on the other hand many of the dominions required a greater population than they had. I expressed the opinion that the best way to overcome the difficulty was for the Mother Country to transfer to the dominions members of her intelligentsia - commercial men with capital; engineers, manufacturers and others who would be likely .to prove successful. I said that such persons would not require us to make any special efforts on their behalf, because they would have the necessary capital to establish themselves. If the matter were handled along these lines, the difficulty which is caused by the population in Great Britain having reached its peak and that of the the dominions being smaller, than is required, would be overcome. 
The observations that I was able to make in California convinced me that the United States of America are able to enforce any tariff they care to impose. The reason is that they have the necessary population and are entirely self-contained. Australia does not occupy such a happy position ; therefore, in my opinion, it should adopt a moderate protective policy. I hope that that will tfe the objective of the Government during the present session. In the past there have been occasions when duties on too high a scale have been imposed. 
While in California I was particularly struck with the irrigation scheme that is in operation in that State. It is probably the best of . its kind in the world. Although there had not been a drop of rain for several months, the whole country was prosperous and progressive; the crops were growing well, and droughts did not hold up the primary industries as, unfortunately, they do in Australia. They have a wonderful system of marketing, which enables the crops to be disposed of at regular intervals, thus ensuring a maximum output and reasonably good prices throughout the year. 
I also had the opportunity to attend a number of moving picture theatres and to note the development that had been caused by the " talkies ". The production of this class of film has been brought almost to a state of perfection. It is difficult to say what the effect upon the industry generally will be. I discussed the matter with a very intelligent American on the journey from Los Angeles to San Francisco. He agreed that the " talkies " had come to stay. I sought his opinion as to the likely effect upon the industry. He replied, " We shall probably have to engage English artists in the future." He realized that the English language as it is spoken in America - the American accent - would not prove acceptable in many of the Englishspeaking dominions. I expressed agreement with him. I saw and heard some of the " talkies," and I should be very sorry if they were reproduced in this country, because they would not have an educative influence upon our young people. I believe that this latest development will restore the legitimate drama to its rightful place. The only factor against that is the cheapness of the entertainment which is provided by the moving -pictures. If the price of admission were about the same, there is no doubt that the legitimate drama would prove the more attractive. 
Until an improvement is brought about, I should not like some of the "talkies" that I saw there to be reproduced here. 
I am pleased indeed that the Government has indicated its desire to hold the Parliamentary sessions at regular periods. I understand that we are to rise before Easter and resume probably some time in July, and that an arrangement something on those lines is to be carried out regularly. This will be of great convenience to honorable senators, because it will assist us in making our plans, and enable us to devote our attention to the work of Parliament in the best interests of the country. 
.- The debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply presents rather unusual features. I am impressed in the first place, by the rather painful elocutionary hunger strike in which hon orable senators opposite are engaged. Hunger strikes in any circumstances must be extremely painful to those participating in them. Our friends on the Labour benches, ever since I have been a member of this Parliament, have been most ready to place before the Senate, and through it the people of Australia, the views of those whom they claim to represent, and they must find this selfimposed silence most distressing. I extend to them my heartfelt sympathy. 
We may; but I hope that honorable senators opposite will not maintain the restraint for too long a period. I should like to know what they think of the Government's proposals, as set out in the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. Certainly the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Needham,  has briefly addressed the Senate; but the silence of honorable senators behind him has robbed the debate of a good deal of interest that would otherwise attach to it. 
I congratulate  Senator Cooper,  who, in his maiden speech in this chamber, seconded the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply.  His  speech was a particularly able one in the circumstances. I know from my own experience that it is rather trying for an honorable senator to address this chamber for the first time, because he feels that he is speaking to not only the members of the Senate, but also to a far greater audience - the people as a whole. From that experience he has emerged with considerable success, and I look forward with interest to his future contributions, because the calm and thoughtful way in 1 which he addressed himself to the motion before the chamber leads one to expect that his remarks will always be both illuminating and interesting, and certainly a credit to the Senate and the State that he represents. 
Passing on to the hurried observations of  Senator Needham,  in which he expressed withering contempt for the statements contained in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, and certain aspects of the matters mentioned in it, I recall that he characterized the Speech as both vague and futile. 
A rather damning indictment. 
There are other matters of which I should like to have seen mention. I should have liked the Government at this early stage in the history of this new Parliament to express its willingness and readiness to give immediate and thorough attention to many problems that are confronting Australia. I realize that the present session is intended to be a short one, and that there will not be time to give full consideration, from a legislative point of view, to many of the problems that demand attention and solution ; but there might have been reference to them in the Speech in greater detail than the Government has seen fit to give. 
It is claimed by  Senator Needham  that national insurance, which was promised by the Prime Minister, has not been consummated. That is so, but the" Government has done a good deal in regard to the matter. At a very early stage after &lt; the assembling of the last Parliament, the whole subject was referred to a royal commission, and this body found it so absorbing, and demanding such careful investigation, that only after lengthy consideration was it able to make a report to Parliament. Evidently, the Government did not consider the report satisfactory. The matter is now to be referred, so we are informed in the Speech, to the Premiers' Conference, which, it is contemplated, will be summoned in the near future. I know that a promise was given by the Nationalist party and the Prime Minister during the election campaign of 1925 that some form of national insurance would be brought forward in this Parliament, and would be carried into effect. I supported the proposal, but I desire to say now that I am not too sure that I did a wise and proper thing in adopting that attitude. I found, particularly during the last election, when the people - and particularly those directly interested in any form of national insurance - had had more time to give serious consideration to the subject than they had had at the preceding election, that they had gone rather cold upon it. I am confident that, so far as New South Wales is concerned, this proposal of the Government did the Ministerial party and its supporters an infinite amount of harm during the last election campaign. When I say that no enthusiasm for national insurance was exhibited by any one I am putting the case very mildly. The friendly societies are at least critical of the whole position, and the insurance companies, those great, powerful and influential organizations whose ramifications extend from one end of Australia to the other, are opposed to  the scheme, affecting as it would the daily life of almost every individual in the Commonwealth. The trade unions are not concerned about the matter, and the ordinary working man you meet in the street who, more than any one else, might be expected to benefit under a system of national insurance is afraid that a contributory scheme as suggested by the Commonwealth Government would not give him something for nothing, but something for which he would have to pay; and unfortunately that is not what our people have been led to expect. Honorable senators opposite are in the very happy position that they can promise the earth without feeling that they are likely to be called upon to "deliver the goods ". Seeing that they are almost devoid of responsibility they can advocate a form of national insurance without contributions from  the employee, but the Government cannot make any such promise. The employees are just about as stone cold on the Government's proposal as any one else. The feeling of the employers in New South Wales is well known to me. 
They point out that if we have a contributory scheme of national insurance, under which each employee is forced to contribute a percentage of his wages each week or each month, very soon the employees will approach the Arbitration Court or some other tribunal responsible for assessing the cost of living, and these contributions will then be added to the cost of living, and in turn added to the weekly wage. 
The Government's national insurance scheme will, therefore, need very earnest and serious consideration, and that consideration will not have to be confined to the forthcoming Premiers' Conference, to which, we are told, the whole matter is to be referred. Of course, the State Premiers, as is the case with most of these schemes, are quite in favour of such a proposal provided some one else carries the burden. We have a parallel in the matter referred to by  Senator Needham.  The honorable senator taxed the Government with not having done anything in the case of child hood endowment. We know that when  Mr. Lang  was Leader of the Labour Government in New South Wales, he was very much in favour of a childhood endowment scheme, but he wanted the Commonwealth to embark upon it. The Acting Leader of the Labour Government in Queensland at the time the proposal was first put before a Premiers' Conference was not anxious that the Commonwealth Parliament should tackle the problem immediately. That is one of the reasons why nothing has been done in the matter,' and it is a complete answer to  Senator Needham's  charge that the Government has failed to carry out a pledge. The only pledge that the Government gave was that there would be an inquiry into the whole position. The matter was referred to a Premiers' conference at which, on the motion of the Acting Leader of the Labour Government in Queensland, it was deferred for further' investigation ami report. Apparently, the representative of the Queensland Government realized that a childhood endowment scheme was not something that could be brought into existence, in a piecemeal way, without proper investigation. He had already seen what had happened in New South Wales under the half-baked scheme introduced by Lang and company, and apparently he realized that  if an additional burden was placed on industry, there was very grave danger of many of our industries being unable to square the ledger, if, indeed, they did not go under altogether. Considerably wiser than  Mr. Lang,  he therefore moved that the whole question be referred to a royal commission for investigation and report, and that is why no childhood endowment scheme has been brought forward by the Commonwealth Government. The Prime Minister has broken no pledge. All that he pledged his Government to do was to give the matter most serious consideration. I have not yet seen the report of the royal commission, but when it is available it will be time enough for us to consider what can be done in the matter of childhood endowment. It may be possible to do something on the lines of a childhood endowment scheme for the whole of Australia, but as far as a national insurance scheme is concerned, I advise the 
Government to walk warily. It will have to show the Parliament clearly that a national insurance scheme is not only feasible but also sound before it can secure the assent of a majority of honorable members to its proposal. If the scheme is likely to cost more than we can afford any attempt to force it through Parliament and on the country will be farcical. 

 Senator Needham has also said that there is no reference in the Speech to Unemployment insurance. I am pleased at the omission. We are already saddled with enough without rushing into any general scheme of unemployment insurance in the absence of proper investigation and report. 
The Development and Migration Commission has given consideration to this matter. It has furnished a very valuable report containing a number of sensible suggestions which, if carried out, would do something to mitigate the evil of unemployment. But the whole question must be tackled; because, as I have already said, if we do not get it down," it will get us down. In this great country of ours where we are prepared to tackle many developmental propositions involving the expenditure of millions of pounds, surely if we tackle the unemployment trouble in a proper way it ought to be possible to evolve some scheme by which, if we cannot entirely remove the evil, we may at least mitigate it. I know that there are' people for whom it is impossible to find employment because they are unemployable or do not want work, but, generally speaking, the man who is out of work wants work and it ought to be possible for us to find employment for him not only for his own sake, but also for the sake of his wife and family and for the good of the country at large. 
There are people who feel that we ought to launch out on a big scheme of migration. They talk about peopling our unsettled and empty spaces.  Senator Thompson,  in his speech, referred to the remarks of a member of the Empire Parliamentary Delegation to Canada about our huge unpeopled areas that need population. But while we have an unemployment problem in Australia no Government would be justified in launching out on a big migration scheme. I do not believe the present Government has any proposition of that character in its mind. We are not ready for it. The British 
Economic Mission went into the matter in a more or less thorough way in the very limited time during which it was in Australia, and its declaration was that under present conditions in Australia there is no room for any very considerable stream of migration. That is true. 
The Governor-General's Speech contains the information that the Government proposes to introduce this session .legislation to deal with six matters, namely, the financial agreement with the States, the establishment of a Commonwealth Bureau of Economic Research, the amendment of the Tariff Act, the regulations made under the Transport Workers' Act, the establishment of a War Pensions Appeal Board, and of a Wine Export Board. The Government has almost developed a mania for the creation of boards and commissions. 
Two other matters are receiving' the consideration of the Government - the granting of financial assistance to certain States and the recommendations of Air Chief Marshal  Sir John  Salmond on air defence. At this stage honorable senators do not know whether legislation will be brought forward during this session to deal with those matters; but in view of the feeling among the people regarding the granting of assistance to Western Australia and Tasmania, the Government will probably not delay in introducing legislation along those lines. 
The Government proposes to refer seven matters to conferences between the Commonwealth and the States. Included among them is the question of sea transport, a matter of serious moment to Australia. The decline of the Australian shipping services is of the utmost importance to this country. It is to be hoped that the conference will not comprise merely those who represent overseas shipping companies and Australian interests directly concerned in oversea trades. The interests of the people as a whole should be safeguarded. 
They should be represented at the conference either by Ministers or other representatives appointed by the Government to watch their interests. The following matters are also to be referred to the next Premiers' Conference: Transport, social legislation, unemployment, national health, the development of our power resources, and national insurance. Those are very important subjects, but unfortunately, will not come to this Parliament for attention this session. I protest against this sort of ultra legislative body being grafted upon the Commonwealth Constitution. I understood that this Parliament was brought into existence by the people of Australia to consider all such important matters. Occasionally, Premiers' Conferences have debated matters which are quite outside the relationship of the State and Federal Parliaments, and which come strictly within the purview of the Commonwealth Parliament alone. 
There should be another object for such conferences, apart from those which I have enumerated, and that is to co-ordinate a policy for the general development of the country. One matter to be referred to the next conference ' is the development of our resources. How can the present degree of our development be measured?-' In the Sydney  Bulletin  last week there appeared some very interesting and illuminating figures on this subject. Unfortunately, they are not as satisfactory as they are illuminating. They deal with our great industries and the principal occupations of our people in and outside of those industries. Our great primary industries - agriculture, pastoral, dairying, and mining - are enumerated, while manufactures, which practically groups the whole of our secondary industries, are also dealt with. The following tabulation will prove interesting to honorable senators : - 

<graphic href="120332192902132_13_2.jpg"></graphic>

Honorable senators will see that while the number of persons engaged in manufactures has increased satisfactorily, the number engaged in our primary industries has decreased alarmingly. Further," they will notice that the number of those who are not engaged in any of the industries enumerated, but who are deemed by some to be living upon such industries, has steadily increased. That is a most deplorable position. Consideration of those figures makes it evident that, in the language so often employed by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  we are not evolving a wellordered plan of development. Our manufacturing industries, it is true, are with a few exceptions progressing by leaps and bounds; but many of our great primary industries are declining.  Senator Lynch  wishes to know the reason for the decline. Some persons claim that it is caused by the rapid growth of our manufacturing industries. From the social point of view a great deal may perhaps be said in support of such an assertion. Man is a social animal, and is becoming more so as time goes on. The advance of science, the progress of invention, the development of the social sense that has followed a general uplift of the conditions of the masses, brought about by higher wages and a shortening of the hours of labour, and the extension and cheapening of pleasure, all tend to make city life particularly attractive. Country life, also, of course, has improved, but not nearly to the same extent. Consequently there has been a rush of population to the cities. 
Britain has had from Australia in the matter of tariff preference. We have given the Mother Country a fair deal, but now the "Big Four" tells us that the time has come for us to call a halt in our protective policy. They suggest that we should not continue in our efforts to build up and foster Australian industries. 
The chief factor operating against country development is the high cost and very often it is the initial cost. 
What is the cause of that cost? 
And more. 
Until we solve this . problem it is idle to talk of any great scheme of immigration. Western Australia and Queensland, as I have said, have certain areas of land available at a reasonable price, but whether it is suitable for the absorption of migrants is another matter. If it is fit for closer settlement it ought to attract those Australians who are looking for land at the present time. Perhaps that fact has led the Economic Mission practically to condemn migration under certain conditions. 
Another matter to which we should devote attention is the serious industrial trouble with which we are confronted. On every hand the walls of the industrial building seem to be crumbling. Various suggestions are being made as to what action should be taken. It is said that owing to the industrial disputes now experienced in Australia the whole arbitration system should be scrapped, and we should go back to the law of tooth and claw. I cannot subscribe to that doctrine. I feel that even though our arbitration system might fail in one, six, or even a dozen disputes, that would not be sufficient reason for its abolition. 
I differ from the suggestion made in certain sections of the press and by certain organizations that because of recent happenings the time has come when arbitration will have to be removed from our statute-book. I want to warn the Labour organizations that if this kind of talk continues, those who really value arbitration, and realize the benefits it gives to the workers, will find themselves in the minority ; arbitration will be removed from the statute-book and the workers will occupy a position they never contemplated when they took the course of action on which they now seem to have embarked. 
I trust that when the Government brings forward the legislation it is now considering, the Senate will receive a little fairer treatment than it has had in the past. Honorable senators get very little consideration. When a bill is brought forward we are expected to deal with it at a few hours' notice and in a few hours. Now that the Government proposes to hold regular sessions, I hope that it will also regulate a little better the business it brings before the Senate so that it will be possible for honorable senators to give more adequate consideration to the legislation presented to us. Wc usually have a great many bills hurled at us at the tail end of a session, when it is impossible to give them anything like the consideration they deserve. I have often felt that this chamber has been belittled and its prestige materially damaged by the practice that has been observed in the past. I look forward with pleasurable anticipation to a great many of the measures the Government proposes to introduce, believing that whatever is done will be entirely in the best interests of the people, of Australia. 
This is the first occasion since my return to the Senate as a representative of the State of Western Australia that I have had the pleasure of participating in a debate  on  a motion for the adoption of an AddressinReply to a speech delivered by Hia  Excellency  the Governor-General at the opening of Parliament, because when I entered the chamber about two and a half years ago, the tenth Parliament had already been opened. Unlike some honorable senators who have preceded me in this discussion. I am not perturbed at the little there is to be found in  His  Excellency's Speech, because I feel that if we deal properly with all the legislation it foreshadows we shall have quite a large volume of work to get through before we rise, and 1 am very much afraid that we shall not complete by Easter that allotted to the present session. The speech delivered by  His  Majesty the King at the opening of the British Parliament on the last occasion was just about a quarter of the length .of that delivered to us the other day by the Governor-General. 
One of the first matters to attract my attention in the Speech was the statemeat that because of the unfavorable seasons the finances of Australia are not quite as good as they ought to be, but that nevertheless the financial position of Australia is sound. It was my privilege quite recently to be in. London, where I met several leading financial men and I also perused some of the financial papers published there. I did not hear any man of standing in, the financial world of London utter one word against the credit of Australia nor did I see in any of the English financial papers a single article or sentence derogatory to Australia. But what the London financial press do is to publish what Australians have to say about their own country. If the  chairman  of a Chamber of Commerce in Hobart, Melbourne or Adelaide takes it upon himself to play the role of a modern Jeremiah and declare that he sees nothing ahead but woe and desolation unless something is done that coincides with his view, his remarks are reported in the London financial press. The editors of these journals rightly claim that a man on the spot should' surely know more about the finances of his own country than is known abroad and that some little notice must be taken of what he says. That is the whole trouble so far as our financial position and Australia's credit in the world's market are concerned. One of the latest reports in the London press is that of a recent speech delivered by the  Chairman  of Directors of the Bank of New South Wales at the annual meeting of its shareholders. That gentleman had a doleful tale to tell and predicted in so many words that unless Australia called a halt and did several things that he thought desirable, it would rapidly go down to destruction. 
Quite so, but while statements which have the effect of depreciating the credit of Australia are reprinted in London, what is said here about confidence in the future of the country may not be published. According to the Stock Exchange records the shares of the Bank of New South Wales, issued at £20, are paid up to £20 making the total capital of the bank £7,500,000. The bank has £6,068,654 in reserves and undivided profits, and its shares are saleable on the stock exchange at £50 10s. I have seen them quoted at £51 15s. sellers, but even at £50 they stand at a premium at 150 per cent. I want to know if the Bank of New South Wales whose profits form the basis of the value of these shares, is part and parcel of the assets of Australia or if it is a separate concern altogether; because if one institution can show this return on its investments in Australia surely this country is not in such a rotten financial position as some would have us believe. To my mind if Australia is suffering financially it is not because of what any one outside is saying about it, but rather because of what Australians themselves are saying concerning it. It is an unfortunate practice of the people of this country to belittle it instead of standing up for it on every possible occasion. You never hear a Canadian running down his own country; yet on many occasions I have heard Australians decry Australia and then marvel at other people believing what they themselves have really declared to be the position. If our credit overseas is affected we have only ourselves to thank for it. 
While I was in Canada as a member of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation I had an opportunity to study the Canadian Constitution. There are in Canada nine provinces which are akin to our States, but are by no means on the same footing. I have no desire to say anything that may be interpreted as an intrusion into the domestic affairs of another dominion, but I wish to compare the position of the Canadian provinces nath that of the Australian States, more particularly because the GovernorGeneral's Speech makes reference to the financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. In spite of what  Senator Duncan  has had to say to the contrary, two States in the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victoria, occupy a predominant position and have had the lion's share of the benefits that have accrued from federation. Likewise the Canadian dominion is dominated by Quebec and Ontario, more particularly by the former. It has been frequently said in Australia that our Federal Constitution is about the worst that the mind of man has ever conceived, but I think it is a little ahead of that of the Dominion of Canada. Quebec is the only province in Canada that has a fixed representation in the Dominion House of Commons. The Constitution provides that the population of Quebec must be divided by 65 in order to ascertain the quota that fixes the representation of the other provinces. The quota has varied from 18,000 to 36,000. For a population of about 9,500,000 people there are 245 members in the House of Commons and 96 senaters. On .the same basis our House of Representatives would contain about 160 or 170 members, and in this chamber there would be over 70. The representation of the other provinces is varied. Ontario, the most densely populated province, had her representation increased at one time from 82 to 96. It has again receded to 82. No province knows before the publication of the census statistics what its representation will be. The Canadian House of Commons has the right to veto any act passed by a provin cial parliament. It will, therefore, be seen that there is less need in the provinces of Canada for houses of second thought or review than there is in the case of the Australian States. Indeed, Quebec is the only province which still retains . a Legislative Council. Nova Scotia  had a second chamber until about three years ago. The differences which arise between the provincial and the dominion parliaments are mainly in connexion with financial matters. The Canadian  Year-Booh  says that under section 118 of the British-North America Act the provincial governments are assured of a certain income from the dominion treasury in the form of subsidies, the total grant from that source during 1927 being 12,516,740 dollars or about £2,600,000, approximately 5/6 per capita. 
The opposition of Western Australia is not so easily stifled. If anything could have destroyed that State the blows she has received under federation would have done so long ago; but the spirit of her people remains unconquered. In addition to the subsidy from the federal treasury the Canadian provinces are supposed to receive any revenue derived from the land, such as mining and timber royalties, but in Alberta and Saskatchewan, which until as recently as 1905 were included in the North- Western Territory of Canada, the control of the land is still with the dominion government. As a set-off against 12,516,740 dollars which the nine provinces receive from the federal treasury, we must place the revenue retained by the dominion government from the land in those two States. Saskatchewan is the most rapidly developing wheat-growing province of the dominion, and its land revenues are considerable. Taking these matters into consideration, we can safely say that the Australian Constitution is far ahead of that of Canada. 
There is no denying that Canada is a great wheatproducing country. Nevertheless, Australian wheat is of better quality. It is simply a matter of arithmetic to arrive at the value of Australia's wheat crop. The wheat yield multiplied by the price per bushel will give the exact value; but it is not so in Canada. The Canadian farmer does not know until the whole of his crop has been garnered and graded how much wheat of various qualities he will obtain. The quality of the grain there depends more on weather conditions than is the case in Australia. There is no doubt as to the richness of the soil in Canada ; it is, so to speak, as rich as sin and as deep as the bottomless pit. When the Parliament House at Winnipeg was being built it was necessary to go down 65 feet to get a satisfactory foundation, and the excavation for the whole of that 65 feet passed through rich black soil. When motoring with the  president  of the Manitoba Wheatgrowers' Association, who was kind enough to drive us out to see some of the farms, I was surprised to learn that for land around Winnipeg - practically suburban blocks - the highest pricep aid did not exceed 80 dollars, or about £16 an acre. Similar land in Australia would cost double that amount. In the Wimmera district, Victoria, as much as £30 an acre has been paid for farming land 
For the whole of Canada last year it was over 20 bushels to the acre. The total crop was over 500,000,000 bushels. 
So far, artificial fertilizers have not been used in Canada, although the land has been cropped continuously since about 1870. The farmers there are, however, considering their use. 
Yes; but not better than the return from the land around Winnipeg. The reason for the lower price of land in Canada is not that the farmers there are unaware of its value, but that wheat cannot be produced in Canada as cheaply as in Australia. Wheat grown around Winnipeg has to travel by rail to Fort William, a journey which took us 13 or 14 hours in an express train. From Fort William it is conveyed by lake steamers 1,500 miles to Montreal, where it is loaded into oceangoing vessels. Canadian wheat has to bear an average handling charge of1s. 3d. per bushel, of which1s. represents freight and 3d. elevator charges, whereas in Australia the average freight paid is only about 4d. per bushel. Moreover, one man in Australia with modern machinery can, without assistance, harvest a fair-sized crop. 
The credit1 for our modern farming machinery is frequently given  to our manufacturers, whereas both the harvester and stripper were invented by men on the land. It is true that the manufacturers have improved on the somewhat primitive machines first made, but they did. not invent them. In Canada they have tried machines known as combinations - corresponding to our harvesters - but owing to the uneven ripening of the grain, they have not proved a success. There is always a proportion of immature grain in a Canadian crop, and this renders the grading of wheat in Canada more necessary than in Australia. I do not wish it to be inferred from my remarks, however, that I am opposed to the grading of wheat. In Canada the wheat has first to be reaped, then placed in stooks, and later carted to the thresher, whereas in Australia the separating of the grain from the husks is carried out in one operation by the harvester. On one Canadian farm we saw a thresher in the field which, being equipped with every labor saving device, necessitated the attention of only two men. There were, however, six other men with six teams of horses carting the wheat in waggons from the  stooks  to the thresher, and in addition two more men with teams and waggons carting the grain from the thresher to the elevator, a distance of about l£ miles. The chief difficulty experienced' by those following out of doors occupations in Canada is the inability to work at their callings for more than seven months in the year, and consequently, they must in that time earn sufficient to carry them through the whole year. 
While practically every farm house and barn in Canada is made of wood, I saw only three in the whole of the portion of the dominion which we visited that were satisfactorily painted. The rest were sadly neglected, and extremely woebegone in appearance. 
Honorable senators questioned  Senator Sampson  with regard to the output of the Hollinger  gold mine, to which the delegation paid a visit. The general manager of that mine supplied us with some information regarding it. The mine began operations in 1912, and since then has treated 15,000,000 tons of ore - roughly 1,000,000 tons a year -for a gross return of 113,000,000 dollars, or at a little over 31s. per ton. He told us that there were 2,900 men employed on the mine, but he did not say whether that was the average number employed. Dividing the number of employees into the total yield, it will be found that the output of each employee is approximately 275 tons per annum. In our own mines at Kalgoorlie the underground men have an output of 442 tons per annum, but, if the complete output for 1926 is divided by the total number of men employed, it is shown that each man turned out 242 tons for the year. It must be remembered that our mines are down to a depth equivalent to that of the Hollinger mine, but that the Canadian figures dealt with operations from the surface downwards. I know a little about mining, as I spent eight years working on the surface of Kalgoorlie mines, and I point out that, whereas very nearly 50 per cent, of the men employed by them work on the surface, comparatively few are on the surface in the Hollinger. mine, the percentage being approximately 75 per cent. underground and 25 per cent, on the surface. I also observed that, although the Hollinger mine has treated 15,000,000 tons of dirt, it has no dump in the ordinary sense of the word, indicating that there is no overburden to remove, and therefore no labour to be employed for that purpose. It also has an unlimited supply of water, practically free of cost. No men are engaged in removing tailings, these being swept downstream by the water supply available. Again, whereas in Kalgoorlie, where our mining industry still survives, it costs somewhere about £42 to £43 per horse power per annum for the generation of power, I am confident that power does not cost one-quarter of that amount in the Canadian mine. Nature has bountifully endowed Canada with water, and electricity generated by water power is one of the cheapest commodities to be had there. Whatever their costs of production may be, the cost of providing power is negligible. I did not go down the Hollinger mine, but on inquiry from those who worked below, I learnt that the lodes were on such an underlay that they lent themselves to very easy working. The ore is broken away and runs down the slopes at small cost, and very little timbering is necessary. All those factors make it possible to work a mine at a very much  lower  cost than is the case in Australia. 
Every mine in Kalgoorlie has an immense roasting plant. All the ore has to be roasted. This necessitates the supply of tremendous quantities of firewood which has to be cut, brought in, stacked, and later carted to the furnaces. Our  cyanidation  and filtration methods, too, are infinitely more extensive and costly than are those of Canada, all of which means the employment of fewer surface men in that country. However, they have their own problems. One man told me quite frankly that if any person who was not a believer in cremation died during winter in the particular township in which we were in, his body would be set aside in a box until it was possible to dig a grave, because the ground is frozen hard during winter. 
However well versed a man may be in the affairs of his own land, if he visits another country and, after a transitory stay, begins to dilate upon the correct method of running it, his opinion is not worth the breath that utters it. The delegation from the Empire Parliamentary Association was a very fine body of men who, with one exception, were reasonably minded and could appreciate one another's difficulties. The exception was a delegate from England, who must have been a true lineal descendant of the men who lost Great Britain the American continent during the reign of George III. He never learnt anything, never could learn anything and never forgot anything and, if he has any sons, I have an infinite compassion for them. He told us quite plainly, though it had absolutely nothing to do with him or with the visit of the delegation to Canada, that Australia had been most solemnly warned by the late Lord Northcliffe, after he had paid a flying visit to Australia, that Australians could not hope to retain  their vast continent in its present unpeopled state. At the same time, he was perfectly satisfied with what he regarded the immense progress made by Canada. He went so far as to say that he could foresee the day when Canada would be the centre of the British Empire, when the Mother Country would be quite content to come under Canada's wing and receive from her a continuance of that far-famed treatment that it has meted out to her in the past! I have, at considerable trouble, tested his allegations. I find that, even taking the Canadian  Year-Booh  as a guide, it is admitted in that publication that for the second decade of this century Canada increased her population at a greater rate than did any other part of the British Dominions - with the exception of Australia. The relative population increase of the two countries from 1911 to 1921 was, Canada 21.95 per cent., and Australia 22.4 per cent. I hesitate to accept the statistics of the Canadian  Year-Book  on the subject of migration, because I find that, while it records all arrivals, it makes no mention of any de-  partures.  One can only infer that all those who go to Canada stay there until they die. 
That is not mentioned in the Canadian  YearBooh,  and, in view .of that omission, I am rather dubious about its statistics. However, I have no other figures available. According to their own figures, from 1921 to 1927 inclusive, the births exceeded .the deaths by 659,288. In the same period, the migrants numbered 811,340, making a total of 1,470,628. Yet the net increase was only 731,000. despite their tremendous efforts to people their country. That is my reply to those one-eyed gentlemen who continually praise Canada and hold up Australia as a nation which is failing in its duty to fill its empty spaces. Since 1911 we have been filling those spaces much more rapidly than Canada. Yet she has at her door the great centres of population and the big markets of the world, while Australia suffers the disadvantage of being geographically at the far end of the world. It is comparatively easy for people of the most moderate means to go from Great Britain to Canada. 
I was not. I have an intense sympathy for that section of the Canadians which is extremely desirous of doing as well as Australia or any other British dominion in regard to a navy and militia; but unfortunately it is in the minority. I believe that Quebec is the stumbling block. It is stated quite candidly that the feeling in Canada is that the Monroe doctrine is just as effective an instrument for the defence of Canada as a navy, an army, and an air force combined. 
Under the immigration laws of the United States of America, only a certain quota of the nationals of other countries is allowed to enter that country each year. I was astonished to find that such a stipulation did not apply to the entrance of Canadians into the United States of America. The only conclusion to which one can come is that Canada is being used as a means of admission to the United States of America by a large  number who otherwise would be turned back. This can readily be imagined when one considers the figures I have already quoted, which show that the net increase in the population of Canada during the period from  1921  to  1927  was considerably less than the number of migrants who entered that country, despite the fact that there was a large excess of births over deaths. 
Canada deserves a word of praise for her liquor laws, which are far in advance of those that have been enacted in Australia. As is the case here, they are administered by the provinces; but there is a certain similarity in them all. Speaking generally, a person is not allowed to breast a bar and have a glass of spirits; he has to go to a Government store and buy a bottle. But before he can do even that, he is required to take out a licence. 
It is dearer than in Australia. The authorities collect customs duty of  10  dollars a gallon on spirits. 
It varies in different provinces, the lowest being  1  dollar. 
The power exists to impose a limitation. The name, address, occupation and amount of earnings of the applicant have to be endorsed on the license. Therefore, if a man who earns a small salary is found to be buying a very large quantity it can be assumed that he is either buying what he cannot afford or purchasing on behalf of some person who is not entitled to it. In such a case it is within the power of the authorities to refuse to sell. Ales and similar beverages can be bought in saloons that are similar to the continental beer gardens. 
He would be a simple individual who could not solve that problem when he had obtained possession of the liquor. 
My stay in Canada was not sufficiently long to enable me to unravel all these points; but I believe that their liquor system is a considerable advance upon ours. I did not see a drunken man in the streets of any city. 
I did not go into some of the places that apparently were visited by  Senator Payne.  All I say is that I did not see a drunken man on the streets. My colleagues upon the delegation, I feel sure, will support me in that statement. 
The honorable senator's vision must have been wobbly, and he imagined that those he saw were afflicted in that way. The Government of Ontario claims to have made out of the liquor control system last year a profit of  $7,000,000,  the whole of which was expended in the construction of good roads. 
I had the pleasure of meeting at Winnipeg, a gentleman who was connected with the Manitoba educational department. When he learned that I was from Western Australia he sought me out to  inform  me that his department had adopted the correspondence system of education that is in force in Western Australia, under which children in sparsely settled districts can obtain the benefits of a sound education. He informed me that very fine results had been achieved. 
According to the literature published by the Canadian authorities,  and  the opinions expressed by "the  man in  the street " over there, everything  in  Canada is done to perfection. Very little notice should be taken of the view. of the man in the street. In the town of Timmins,  Senator Sampson  and I asked a man whom we met in the street what depth the Hollinger mine had reached, and he replied  "10,000  feet". As a matter of fact the deepest point reached was only  3,800  feet. 
Canada  is  fortunate in the possession of a very extensive fishing industry. 
Quite so. But the point I wish to make is that the present apparent prosperity of Canada is to a large extent due to the fact that the people are living on their capital and not on their income. The fishing industry is an example. I had the good fortune to meet a gentleman who represents in the Canadian Parliament, a district in British Columbia. He told me that there are five commercial varieties of salmon; whereas I thought that all canned salmon was merely salmon. He said that the best variety was what is called " Sockeye " and then went on to say " "When first we started canning salmon we would not can anything else but sockeye. We were able to can 2,000,000 cases a year. To-day, although our total pack amounts to over 3.000,000 cases, we are not able to get 200,000 cases of sockeye. We have worked it to death, and the federal government now has to establish hatcheries for the purpose of restocking the rivers with that particular variety of salmon." 
As a rule, the principal concern of the private people is to obtain dividends, and not to spend too much upon hatcheries so long as the federal government will do the work for them. 
They should. 
Some of our own people are fond of telling us- that we are the most wasteful people in the world, and that others manage very much better than we do. Such assertions cannot be substantiated; in many cases other countries do not manage very much better than we do. Unquestionably the forest wealth of Canada is enormous. The paper pulp industry is one of the biggest in the dominion. Persons whom I met informed me that they have unlimited quantities of pulp wood; but a different story is told by the Canadian  Year-Boole,  which says the annual cuts have generally exceeded the new growth, and considerable losses have been caused by fire and other de structive agencies ; but the extent of uncut forest ensures an adequate supply for many years to come. There is an admission that their forests are being decimated at a faster rate than that at which they are being recruited. The report goes on to say that the annual consumption is 2,900,000,000 cubic feet, and that destruction by fire, insects, &amp;c, brings the total depletion of the forest areas up to 5,000,000,000 cubic feet. It is certain that the new growth is not nearly equal to the destruction that is. being caused. It cannot be denied that at the present time the dominion is obtaining a tremendous amount of wealth from the pulp wood industry, which is run principally by companies that have their headquarters in the United States of America. There is not the shadow of a doubt that those companies are living on Canada's timber capital rather than on her timber income. 
A considerable quantity of apples is grown in British Columbia and Nova Scotia. In the former province some attention has been paid to grading for markets. For the benefit of those who represent districts which produce onions, I may mention that in the  Okanagan  valley, in British Columbia, during our visit, a tremendous consignment of onions was being made ready for shipment to New Zealand. If British Columbians can send them across the Pacific to New Zealand, there should be a possibility of Australian growers finding a market for them in that dominion. 
Considerable attention was paid to the grading and packing of apples in British Columbia, but in Nova Scotia the fruit was simply placed in barrels and sent to the London market exactly as it was taken from the trees. I had the good fortune to meet the wife and daughter of the High Commissioner for Canada at an afternoon reception given by the Lieutenant-Governor at Toronto, and they told me that the Canadians greatly admired the way in which Australian apples were graded, packed and marketed. They said that Canadian apples could not compare with them in general appearance. This unsolicited eulogy should be encouraging to our fruit-growers, and should inspire them to do every thing possible to maintain the high standard of our export apples. 
No, but in my opinion their apples were not equal in flavour to the fruit grown in Australia. In the Okanagan Valley on the Pacific side of the Rocky Mountains - a small valley hidden between the Rookies and the Selkirksthe apple-growers have to resort to irrigation. The average rainfall of this district, though so close to the coast and so far north, is only eight inches. A variety of apple known as Red Macintosh grows well there, "and although it has good colour it lacks the fine flavour of Australian apples which are grown under natural conditions. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Will the Government make available as soon as possible the report of the British Economic Mission? 
I should like to know if the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate has been drawn to a statement ascribed to  Sir Joseph  Ward, relating to migration and unemployment in New Zealand, in which it is alleged that representations have been made to the High Commissioner of New Zealand in London that no person in Great Britain seeking employment should be encouraged to go to the Dominion during the winter months ? I should also like to know if similar representations will be made to our High Commissioner in London in order that we may do something towards solving our own unemployment difficulty? 

 Later - 

Following up the reply of the right honorable senator, will the Government consider the advisability of suggesting to people who nominate migrants that it would be better if they absorbed some of our own unemployed, who unfortunately are so numerous at present? 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the statement that appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  of Tuesday, the 12th February, concerning the suggestion of the present Minister for Trade and Customs regarding the formation of combines? 
Are there any Commonwealth acts under which the Commonwealth can prevent combines, &amp;c., from charging exorbitant prices? 
If so, what are they? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
Yes. 2 and 3. I would refer the honorable senator to the Australian Industries Preservation Act 1900-1910. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been called to a statement made in the Melbourne press by the Superintendent of Markets there that the quality of the bananas shipped to that market by Queensland growers is such that they were not suitable even for pigs' food ? 
Will the Minister have this statement investigated by the Tariff Board, with a view to the alteration of the duties so as to allow of reasonable competition in the interests of the consumers ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes - the statement reported was that some of the bananas were of the quality indicated. 
This particular statement is hardly a matter for investigation by the Tariff Board. It is open to any interests or section of the community to make an application for the alteration of a duty, and the matter could then be publicly inquired into by the Tariff Board. 
I have but a few observations to add to the remarks I made yesterday on this motion. We are all aware of the great difficulty Australia has in disposing of its surplus wine products, yet, despite the trade agreement we have with the Dominion of Canada, the Parliamentary Delegation from Australia while in Canada recently did not see any Australian wine in use. The quality of the wine we tasted there did not bear favorable comparison with that of good Australian wines. I think the Commonwealth Government should make strong representations to Canada to see if the people of that dominion cannot take some of our wine. The trade balance between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Dominion of Canada is greatly in favour of the latter country. We buy from Canada about four times as much as it buys from us. If the Government made representations to Canada, which is a consumer but not a producer of wine, and pointed out that our adverse balance of trade could be corrected to some extent by Canada taking Australian wines, some good might result. Such a request would be a reasonable one, seeing that we have heard a good deal about keeping trade within the Empire. 
From what I learned during my visit, particularly as we went through the maritime provinces on the eastern side of Canada, a certain quantity of Australian dried fruit finds its way up there. Our currants meet with favour there. At the Chamber of Commerce at St. John, New Brunswick, we were told that practically the whole of the currants consumed there were Australian grown, but I heard complaints that our raisins and some other dried fruits did not find a ready market there because they crystallized owing, probably, to too large a sugar content. Evidently the Canadians prefer them dried out mellow and soft. I did not see Australian raisins there, but I have the word of the people that that was their complaint. 1 direct the attention of the Government to this matter in order to see if the curing , of raisins could be carried out in accord with the requirements of that market. Itis desirable for us to supply, if possible, what the buyers require. 
Generally speaking, the Canadians seemed much more anxious to sell to us than to buy from us. I do not wish to infer that this attitude is peculiar to their trade relations with us; my impression is that it applies to other parts of the Empire as well. This fact was particularly brought under my notice at Vancouver, where the lumber men pointed out to us that we were buying a small quantity of their timber and a large quantity of timber from the United States of America. They said that Australia purchased annually only about £200,000 worth of their Oregon, while it bought over £2,000,000 worth from the United States of America. Canada certainly has this class of timber to export, and there is no reason why it should not produce it as cheaply as any other country, including the United States of America. We were asked if we could persuade the Government to give preferential treatment to Canadian timbers in order to increase the export trade. When I was speaking at Winnipeg I said that we had no objection to that, provided that preference did not cost us any extra money, but we were not inclined to add to the burdens of our own people merely to assist outside traders who were not very anxious to buy from us. The trade treaty that resulted from the visit of  Mr. Robb,  whom I admired very much, when  he came out to Australia to represent Canada, was not too popular when be returned to that country. All sorts of efforts have been made to evade its provisions. 
I endorse what  Senator Sampson  has said about the advisability of having a trade commissioner in Canada. If we had a representative on the spot - a man of commerce, acquainted with business rather than politics, perhaps - we might bring about a great improvement in trade. Undoubtedly, a good market is available in Canada for goods which are produced in Australia but are not grown in Canada. 
There are one or two other items in the Speech that call for a word in passing. One paragraph states : - 
In framing the financial proposals for the coming year, consideration will be given to the recommendations contained in the report of Air Chief Marshal  Sir John  Salmond on air defence. 
I am at least glad that the Government is taking steps in that direction, because without saying anything detrimental to any other branch of the Defence force, I believe that the Australian Air Force has achieved results that are most creditable to all concerned, considering the means at its disposal and the difficult conditions under which it has had to work. I was in London at the time that  Sir John  Salmond's  report was made public. The London  Times,  in a leading article, set out at great 'length all the faults that  Sir John  Salmond had to find with our air force, its achievements and its administration. In my opinion, considering all the circumstances, its record compares more than favorably with that of any other country, not even excepting Great Britain herself. It may be news to some honorable senators that just about the time when  Sir John  Salmond made his report on the Australian Air Force another report was published in a London newspaper on the British Air Force. It did not appear in the  Times,  or any of the large dailies, but only in one of the Sunday newspapers. It was written by Vice Air Marshal John Vesey, in which he made far more scathing refer-  ence  to the British Air Force than that of  Sir John  Salmond in regard to the Australian force. One of the statements was that 25 per cent, of the new officers who had pilot certificates could not say what a magneto was, and what its function  was in an engine. When one reads the scathing re marks of this highly placed officer regarding the British air force, they somewhat temper the comments contained in the report upon the Australian force by one of those responsible for the training of this arm of Britain's defences. To my mind it gives the impression that we should not take too much notice of what I consider to be the unnecessarily stinging remarks in  Sir John  Salmond's  report, having regard to the difficulties under which our force has had to work. 
I am glad that the Government proposes to introduce legislation to repeal the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. Western Australia is, perhaps, the first State to feel the effect of any trouble on the waterfront. Whatever can be done to improve that State's position in relation to shipping matters ought to be done, for if things continue much longer as they are, there will be no Australian shipping left. 
Reference has been made to the Kellogg pact. Perhaps the -most hopeful sign of the times is not so much that the nations have actually signed the pact as that they have the will to do so. As I understand that we shall have a further opportunity to discuss it, I shall reserve my remarks concerning it until a later date. 
.- I congratulate the mover and the seconder of the Address-in-Reply on the excellent speeches they delivered. The maiden speech of  Senator Cooper  in the Senate contained much that was informative and interesting and gave evidence that he will be a very useful member of this chamber. While some might consider it a subject for rejoicing, I regret that honorable senators opposite have decided not to contribute to the debate on the Address-in-Reply. The electors of New South Wales will, no doubt, be disappointed that  Senator Dooley  has so early responded to the whip and refrained from voicing in this chamber the views of the people he represents. 
During the election campaign  Senator O'Halloran,  no doubt, treated his audiences to some fiery addresses. Those who voted for him in the expectation that in this chamber he would speak in a similar strain, will be disappointed at his voluntary silence. But perhaps the reason for the non-participation in the debate of these honorable senators is that, having had time for reflection, they have concluded that, after all, there was no sound foundation for many of their criticisms of the Government. It is gratifying to me, as a Government supporter, to find that upon reflection they are unable to find fault with the Government. 
I regret that in the political battle a number of men who have served their country well, both in this chamber and in another place, have fallen. Some of them I hope will not long remain in the political wilderness, but will soon again make their appearance here. Whatever our political views we all sincerely regret the defeat of Senators Needham and Graham. Naturally, one is pleased at the success of candidates belonging to one's own party; but those of us who have worked with those honorable senators feel genuine regret that they will not be with us after the end of June next. As Leader of the Opposition in this chamber,  Senator Needham  has been a formidable antagonist of the Government ; but he has always fought fairly and treated his opponents with courtesy. 
I regret that the Governor-General's Speech contains no reference to the development of North Australia. A week or two ago I had the privilege of introducing to the new Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr. Abbott)  a deputation of pastoralists who hold large leases of country in that portion of Australia. That deputation represented practically everyone who has an interest in the territory, and it placed before the Minister for Home Affairs some very sound proposals for the development of the area. In particular, it forcibly stressed the necessity to establish railway communication at least to that fertile tract of country known as the Barkly Tableland. Some years ago,  Mr. President,  we were fortunate enough to be associated in a tour of the Northern Territory, and we were much impressed with the potentialities of that Tableland. Undoubtedly it is worthy of development. Last session there appeared on the notice-paper a motion in my name for the establishment of railway communication from Bourke to Camooweal, and across the Barkly Tableland. Representations have since been made to me to the effect that the financial position of the Commonwealth Government will not permit such a scheme being proceeded with at present. While appreciating the truth of that statement I still consider that the project demands attention. Even if the line as proposed cannot be proceeded with it is surely reasonable to request that communication should bo established between the Barkly Tableland and the termination of the railway system in North-west Queensland. Had such a line of communication existed in recent years it would have obviated much of the distress caused by the drought which has recently ravaged north western Queensland. 
Last week in one of the most lucid and comprehensive speeches that I have heard in this chamber,  Senator Guthrie  demonstrated the value of the wool industry to Australia, and pointed out that this country produces a very large percentage of the world's finer merino wools. Thousands and thousands of square miles of territory eminently suitable for producing such wools are lying idle in the Barkly Tableland. That country possesses an advantage not enjoyed by the western wool countries of Queensland, as it is in the monsoonal area, and practically has a guaranteed rainfall. When  Senator Sir George  Pearce was Minister for Home and Territories he made a trip from Darwin through this country and. on his return stated that, even when the north-west portion of Queensland was in the throes of a drought, the Barkly Tableland area was profusely clad with long, green grass, which gave it the appearance of a wheat field. It is tragic to think that much of this splendid country is now going to waste. , There are cattle on it, but it is too good for cattle, and, despite the financial difficulty, some effort should be made to open it up, by means of a railway, for sheep raising. If the Queensland Government could be persuaded to continue its railway line to the border, it would be necessary to add only a few hundred miles of line in order to connect with this fertile tract of country. 
It would either go through or very near Camooweal. The Queensland Government surveyed a line from Dajarra to Camooweal, where it will finish. That will merely touch the fringe of this splendid country, and to secure any practical return from the construction of the line it would be necessary to extend it the additional few hundred miles across the Barkly Tableland. Although the proposal I am about to make is a contentious one, and would probably be deemed unthinkable by  Senator Needham,  I see no objection to the construction of such a line under the lands grants system. 
I think  Senator Thompson  will admit that the people who then rejected the proposal have since realized the folly of their action. 
I do not think that that presents any great difficulty. The wool from Carandotta station, one of the most prosperous stations in Queensland, now has to be conveyed 60 miles to the nearest railway head. Prior to the recent severe drought that station usually topped the Queensland market for the quality of its wool. The great drawback associated with- that and many other stations in the area is that all commodities have to be conveyed for considerable distance by wagon. The people of Camooweal pay £42 a ton to have their commodities transported by wagon from Cloncurry. Station-owners in the Territory are so heavily penalized that they are unable to provide themselves with the boring plants and fencing wire which are so vitally necessary to the proper development of their holdings. 
I am unable to supply that information offhand. Queensland has what is known as long distance haulage rates, and the railway authorities make a special reduction in the rates, on wool that has to be transported from the far west and north-west of Queensland to Brisbane. The difficulty in regard to freight is not likely to cause a great deal of concern. I also point out that the lessees in the Northern Territory have placed before the Government the alternative proposal that a railway should be constructed from the port of Borroloola to the centre of the Barkly Tableland, a distance of about 200 miles. That should be an effective silencer of  Senator McLachlan's  objection on the score of haulage. I prefer the line connecting with the Queensland system. Before leaving this matter I wish to express pleasure at the fact that the new Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr. Abbott),  and the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Gibson),  propose to visit that portion of Australia during the next recess. Postal facilities are of vital importance to those who reside in that portion of the Commonwealth. 
During the last election campaign a charge that was hurled against Government candidates from every Labour platform was that this Government was largely responsible for the unemployment that exists, because it had not imposed sufficiently high customs duties upon manufactured articles that enter Australia. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Scullin)  when in Queensland, and the Premier of Queensland  (Mr. McCormack),  joined in that denunciation of the Commonwealth Government, despite the fact that there is a total embargo upon the importation of" sugar into Australia. It is the duty of  Mr. Scullin, Senator Needham, Senator Dooley,  and other Labour senators, to specify the articles upon which higher duties should, in their opinion, be imposed. In season and out of season I have voted for higher duties when they have been proposed; but I am now beginning to see a little light in connexion with this matter of continually raising duties. When the last tariff schedule was before us,  speaker  after  speaker  urged that the imposition of an additional duty upon different articles would be the means of building up a big industry and of doing away with unemployment. During the period that I have occupied a seat in the Senate, I have seen duties raised to a tremendous extent; yet unemployment has not been lessened. It has been a somewhat rude awakening for me, because one of my objects in supporting those duties was to increase the avenues of employment. 
The industrial legislation that has been passed by the different State Governments has largely nullified the effect of those increased duties. That, however, is not the point I wish to make. Times out of number we have been told that if we supported higher duties we would get rid of the unfortunate spectre of unemployment, and assist to build up big new industries. 
Unfortunately, there is; and I do not think any one will deny it. But during the last five or six years the leaders of Labour have done more to cause it than the administration or legislation of the Bruce-Page or any other Nationalist Government in Australia. Repeatedly the workers have deliberately thrown themselves out of employment; and when that has occurred their leaders in this Parliament, instead of exhorting them to return to work and to settle their differences according to law, have merely asked of this Government, "What are you going to do to relieve unemployment?" During the course of the debate on the last tariff schedule,  Senator Payne  vigorously opposed a number of duties; yet at the last moment he produced in this chamber a number of colored rabbit skins and informed honorable senators that if they supported him in his application for a higher duty on that commodity, they would help to build up a new industry in Tasmania and provide work for hundreds of persons. What occurred? Honorable senators hearkened to his plea, and agreed to impose the duty he sought. But the firm which was to benefit from it has since closed down. 
On another occasion  Senator Duncan  produced a fibre mat and told honorable senators that if they agreed to a 5 per cent, duty upon that commodity a new industry would be built up. I am not condemning  Senator Duncan  in the slightest degree; on the contrary, I give him every credit, because he has always sought to advance 'the interests of the secondary industries in his State. But what has become of that industry ? It has passed out of existence. We agreed to the duty because we wanted to help  Senator Duncan  to do something for an industry in his State. 
I have not yet reached that stagey but if there are any more of these " bogies " I may have to consider my position very seriously. My desire at all times is to assist all genuine Australian industries, both primary and secondary. Some years ago this Parliament placed a duty, I think, of 35 per cent, ad valorem on certain millinery lines which were being manufactured by- a firm in Australia. The firm, which was flourishing at the time, has since gone out of business. That is a deplorable state of affairs. When the Tariff Board has recommended that certain protection should be given to an industry it should follow up any action taken by Parliament and see that beneficial results accrue to the industry from the protection given to it. Moreover, it should see that what was originally a protective duty does not eventually become merely a revenue duty. 
During the last Parliament, after a heated discussion, we imposed an extra duty of 5s. per 100 feet super, on sawn timber,  but before agreeing to that increase some of us sought a guarantee from the Queensland Government that it would not exploit the additional impost by increasing the royalties it charges. During the recent election campaign, when I visited the far north of Queensland, which produces a tremendous quantity of walnut, maple and silky oak, I found that a few months after the imposition of the increased duty on imported sawn timber the Queensland Government had increased its royalties by 2s. per super, foot on log timber which equals 4s. per super, foot on sawn timber. The State Government has thus practically nullified the increased protection given by this Parliament to the local timber millers. The latter had just begun to regain the lost trade which had gone to the importers of Japanese maple, Borneo cedar and so on, when along came a grasping State Labour Government with an additional royalty charge and deprived them of all the benefits that this Parliament had given to them. We know how the Lang Administration in New South Wales by legislation practically nullified the protection given by this Parliament to certain industries. Unemployment insurance, child endowment, and various other schemes may be very fine in themselves, but they often impose too heavy a burden on industry, and cause unemployment. It becomes a question of the extent to which the Federal Parliament should enter into competition with State Parliaments. We have on the one hand State Parliaments placing heavier burdens on industry, and on the other hand the Federal Parliament imposing increased Customs duties. The net result of the efforts of both is an increase in the cost of living, and a heavy increase in production costs. 
It was my privilege some years ago to move a motion, which was seconded by  Senator Bakhap  and carried unanimously in the Senate, advising the appointment of trade commissioners to push the sale of Australian goods overseas. On that occasion I thought there would be a good opportunity to sell Australian goods in Japan, Java, China, and other Eastern countries. At the present time the producers of Australia are suffering because the price of wheat is lower than it has been for some time past, but that drop in price has enabled people in Eastern countries who were not previously buyers of our wheat to acquire a taste for flour gristed from Australian wheat. I have been advised that there is now a possibility of building up an export trade in wheat to Eastern countries. 
They are buying it at the present price. Of course, the cost of production must be kept down so that we may be able to sell at a price which the people in . these Eastern countries can afford to pay. 
We cannot at present, but if the farmer's costs of production were lower he could afford to sell his wheat for less than he has been getting for it in past years. 
In my earlier remarks I endeavoured to show how it may be done. We should have more efficient means of production. Particularly should we provide better roads and other means of transport. There are a hundred and one ways in which the cost of production may be lowered, despite the pessimistic attitude taken up by  Senator Duncan. 
I have not said that they are. What I have said is that the cost of production may be lowered by making available to the farmers efficient handling and transport facilities. We cannot lose sight of the fact that there is an inclination on the part of the teeming millions in the East to take some of our produce which formerly they could not afford to buy. A few days ago I had a conversation with the American Trade Commissioner at Shanghai, who is paying us a visit, and reference was made to the fact that Australia was not represented in that particular part of the world. Can America sell her wheat cheaper than Australia? Yet America can maintain a trade commissioner in Shanghai. 
Are we never to sell overseas goods manufactured in Australia? 
SenatorFOLL. - If the present system stands in the way it must be replaced by some other. In spite of having a home market of some 120,000,000 people America thinks it worth while to send trade commissioners overseas. It is true that Australia has a trade commissioner in New York and a commercial agency in Paris, but that is the only extent to which we have proceeded on the lines suggested in the motion adopted by the Senate. We have had practical experience of what we are likely to gain by looking for business as a nation. Take, for instance, our dairy produce and dried fruits. By means of organized marketing, such primary products as butter and dried fruit are already commanding better prices overseas than those obtained a few years ago. Australia must look for increased trade with the outside world. The idea promulgated by honorable senators opposite that this must be only a selfcontained country is ridiculous. According to the Labour party, migration should be discouraged, borrowing overseas should cease, and we should not import anything. That party would soon put Australia in such a position that it would cease to be an exporting country as well. The present Government shows that it is big enough to regard Australia from an Empire viewpoint, and is far more capable of controlling the affairs of this country than is the Labour party. 
I am confident that Australia generally is satisfied with the result of the recent Federal election. In spite of a few inspired statements that appear in the press from time to time, the overwhelming majority of the electors voted for the return of the present Government. The composition of this chamber affords a true reflex of popular opinion. If Australia is to prosper it will be necessary to keep Labour in opposition. 
.- It is somewhat difficult to speak on the motion before the Senate, in view of the silence that honorable senators opposite have imposed upon themselves. One honorable senator at least has always been most helpful to me with his inter jections and I shall miss them, but I shall endeavour to proceed with my remarks without assistance from the other side. 
The first matter to which my attention was attracted in the Speech of His Excellency the Governor-General was that referred to in the following paragraph :  - 
My advisers welcomed the opportunity afforded to Australia to become one of the originalsignatories to the Treaty for the Renunciation of War. 
I intend to make good any deficiency in that respect, because the delegation to which the honorable senator refers was a most important one. I am sure honorable senators opposite agree with the desirability of signing the treaty for the renunciation of war. At a conference which I considered to be, if not the most important, at least one of the most important ever held, a motion was carried unanimously, amid great cheering, endorsing the Kellogg Pact. Representativesof practically all the Parliaments of the world were present. The gathering was held last August in Berlin, and I shall never forget the enthusiasm with which the motion was received. After discussion the motion was put to the conference, and carried by the whole assembly rising and cheering, and the resolution was forwarded to Paris before the treaty was signed. The feeling throughout the world in favour of the abolition of war is growing apace. We are apt to regard the League of. Nations as an apparently inefficient body, but we should remember that Rome was not built in a day. Instead of discrediting the efforts of the League, we should realize that already it has done a magnificent work in preventing wars which, although they probably would have been small, might have developed into more serious outbreaks. 
Further on in the Speech, His Excellency referred to the sympathetic interest with which his advisers were watching industrial conditions in Australia. This interest was shown by the  summoning of a conference for the purpose of bringing about peace in industry. I came back to Australia in November, just in time for a week's campaign in connexion with the election, and I was gratified to find that it hadbeen decided to hold this conference. I regretted exceedingly that, while the conference was endeavoring to evolve a means whereby industrial disputes might be prevented from culminating in strife, Australia was plunged into industrial turmoil, which could have been avoided if those who professed to be the leaders of the workers had done their duty. 
This is neither the time nor the place to discuss that award. It was made under a constitutional act, and being an award of the Arbitration Court it should be accepted by both sides loyally until an amendment is secured by proper methods. 
Exactly. Arbitration which was welcomed by Labour as a solution of industrial trouble, is to-day a byword and a reproach. It is strange that compulsory arbitration which has been championed for many years by members of the Labour party should now be treated with so little respect by them. 
I have recently returned from a few months' travel abroad, and my experience has been that of most men who go about the world with their eyes open. If there is anything calculated to reduce a swollen head it is a tour of the world, which affords an opportunity to see the conditions under which other nations are governed and other people live. Although I have had an opportunity of living for a short period among the people of some of the greatest nations, and have seen some of the remarkable sights to be witnessed in the United States of America and Canada, I feel convinced that no land offers such great opportunities to its people as Australia. In no country are the conditions so favorable to the masses of the people. My conviction is that, if every man and woman here did his or her "bit" to the best of their ability, there would be practically no unemployment and very little poverty within a couple of years. If we could bring about that frame of mind among the individual units of the Commonwealth we should soon find this country progressing. It is regrettable that some of the so-called leaders of the people do not urge them to adopt that attitude. 
One cannot help doing so after seeing the conditions obtaining in other parts of the world. It is most regrettable that, whenwe are trying to devise means of obviating industrial turmoil, the present dislocation of industry has been brought about. 
I have read with interest the report of the British Economic Mission. As we shall have a further opportunity of discussing that report, I content myself with now saying that many of the conclusions arrived at by the mission must commend themselves to all thinking persons. The members of the mission, who enjoy a high reputation in the Old Country, came here in no boastful spirit; but with a keen desire to assist Australia and the Empire generally. We should never forget that an injury to one portion of the Empire affects every other portion of it. For that reason anything which tends to injure the manufacturing interests of Great Britain must affect our trade with her. 
While abroad I took a great interest in the development of trade within the Empire. I left Australia as an accredited member of the Australian Scottish delegation, and am glad that it included one member of this Parliament. I say without hesitation that the members of that delegation - the largest party which has left Australia with one object - did a magnificent work for this country. Since my return to Australia I have seen reports that there was great dissension among its members ; but, considering that there were 640 men and women travelling together, the harmony which prevailed was little short of marvellous. Every member of the delegation had an earnest desire to do what he could for Australia, and to increase the feeling of goodwill among the people of the Homeland towards Australians. Wherever I went in the Old Country I found the greatest goodwill towards Australia. The Scottish people are the most hospitable in the world, as honorable senators opposite will find if they visit Scotland. I am not a Scot ; but I possess qualifications which fitted me to be a member of the delegation. While in Perth, Scotland, I was questioned as to my qualifications as a member of the delegation, and, in replying to the magnificent welcome given to us there by the Lord Provost, I stated them. I said that my first qualification was before me in the person of my wife, whose grand-parents came from Scotland, one hailing from Aberdeen and the other from Glasgow. I told them, further, that my father was born in Perth - not the beautiful and historical city in which we then sojourned, but another Perth, situated on the Esk River in Tasmania. My third, and best, qualification, I told them, was that I had made, when a boy, the acquaintance of " The Fair Maid of Perth," immortalized by  Sir Walter  Scott, and looked forward to meeting her at the railway station; but was somewhat staggered to find 300 fair maids of Perth waiting to greet me. 
Australian products are little known in portions of Scotland, because we have no direct representative there to bring them to the notice of the people. We were informed that, if our goods were shipped direct to Scotland, and we had a representative there to protect the interest of Australian producers, and to deal with any complaints, the consumption of Australian goods in Scotland would increase ten-fold within three or four years, provided a continuity of sup- ' plies could be assured. On each of thetwo trains engaged by the delegation was a specially equipped car in which the products of Australia were exhibited. These products were available for inspection by the people of the towns through which we travelled, while various members of the delegation were selected to deliver  lecturettes.  The exhibition cars were visited by many thousands of people - all day long there was a constant stream of people passing through them. Not only did those people hear the  lecturettes,  but they were also given  samples  of Australian products; others they could purchase. Before I left 
Scotland, I received numbers of assurances from commercial gentlemen that they would, in future, send orders for Australian dried fruits and canned fruits, and would purchase our green fruits when available. 
I was pleased to find the high opinion entertained by the- people of the Old Country for Australian apples, although complaint Avas made that, where green timber was used, the cases were too heavy. When it is remembered that the whole of the Australian fruit exported to the Old Country is landed at London, that for Scottish destinations being then forwarded by rail, it is not difficult to see that unduly heavy cases are a drawback. That handicap can be overcome to the extent of probably 50 per cent, by using partially seasoned timber instead of green timber. It was gratifying to know that by the people generally Australian fruit was regarded as superior to fruit from other countries. The delegation received a great deal of assistance from the officials of Australia House. At every town and city we visited they had exhibited in conspicuous places banners urging the people to buy Australian products. Window displays were also organized by them. 
Australia has much to learn in the marketing of her canned fruits. One reason for the success of canned fruits from the United States of America is that goods from that country are more attractively labelled than are similar goods from Australia. No one passing through a business street in- the Homeland could fail to notice the attractive labels of the fruit from the canneries of the United States of America, nor could he be in doubt as to the country of origin, whereas it almost required a magnifying glass to read the word " Australia " on the labels around tins containing Australian fruit. It is not sufficient to find, after careful examination, that the fruit was canned at Shepparton or Ardmona; our labels should not only be more attractive in design, but should indicate clearly that the contents are Australian products. There should be a distinctive mark, such as the rising sun and the word "Australia" on each tin, so that prospective purchasers would know whence it came. 
No. Our packing is not perfect, but there is little to complain about in that connexion. The greatest cause for complaint is that, through unseasoned wood being used, the thin sides of the cases frequently become warped, thus damaging the fruit. While I was in Glasgow some fruit from the Huon district in Tasmania packed in partially seasoned cases opened up in perfect condition. We should take advantage of the undoubted desire of the people of Scotland for Australian products. I found that our currants and sultanas are regarded highly in the Old Country. The preference for Australian dried fruits is based largely on the knowledge that they are prepared under the most hygienic conditions, in which respect they are far superior to fruits imported from Mediterranean countries. 
I found also that there is some inquiry in the Old Country for Tasmanian timbers, especially for decorative purposes. On several occasions I was asked whether Tasmanian myrtle and blackwood, as well as oak, particularly of the figured variety, could be obtained in London. I was pleased to find in London a gentleman who hailed from the northwest coast of Tasmania, and is doing all he can to popularize Australian timber there. A limited trade can be done in Australian timbers, particularly myrtle. I read with interest the following paragraph, which appears in the GovernorGeneral's Speech: - 
My Ministers, in pursuance of the policy of extending air communications, have made arrangements for new services between Adelaide and Perth; Brisbane and Charleville; and Camooweal and Daly Waters. At an early date the service from Perth to Derby will be extended to Wyndham. 
This progressive policy of civil aviation is to be commended. I realize that our population is scanty, and that our position differs radically from that of the thickly populated European countries, but when one has witnessed the remarkable, activity in civil aviation in Europe, one cannot fail to appreciate how essential similar progress is to Australia. I had the privilege of visiting one of the greatest commercial aerodromes in the world, situated just outside of Berlin, and it was a revelation to see the airships coming and going, with an interval of practically only fifteen minutes between each arrival and departure. Each aeroplane contained its complement of passengers, at times as many as 30 or more and arrivals and departures continued steadily throughout the day. 
I wish to record my admiration for the grit exhibited by British manufacturers who, I think, are the pluckiest people in the world. No other country was so badly hit commercially as Great Britain, but its manufacturers have faced their problems like men. When visiting France and Belgium, one notices particularly that the devastated battle areas have been reconstructed, towns rebuilt and factories re-erected. That work was done by the Germans as their first act of reparation. Those factories are equipped with the most up-to-date machinery, and are working at full pressure, with any quantity of cheap labour available. The only people now unemployed in those countries are the unemployable. I learned that in a village a time-honoured custom of putting up for auction the services of a number of youths and girls for a period of three years had recently been observed and comparatively high prices realized. 
I do not, and I ask the honorable senator not to make such an insinuation. In comparison with the conditions that exist in France and Belgium, the British manufacturer is compelled to carry on with partially obsolete machinery, and has to pay higher rates of wages. In the circumstances his efforts to regain the trade lost during the war have been remarkably successful, and are to be commended. 
While in Great Britain I was frequently confronted with criticism of our alleged preferential tariff, which I felt was justified. I was informed, and I realized it to be true, that, in the main, instead of providing a really protective tariff with a preference in favour of Great Britain, we established a tariff that was absolutely prohibitive, and our so called preference was of no use to British manufacturers. 
I shall put an appropriate simile before the honorable senator. Suppose that Australia determined to conduct sports, open to the competitors of the world, but that she agreed to give British athletes preferential treatment. Assume that the world's record for the high jump was 6 ft. If the British athletes were required to jump a height of 6ft. 3in., and foreign competitors 6ft. 9in.; would that constitute preferential treatment to Great Britain ? 
How could it be, when not one of the athletes could get over the minimum height fixed. Precisely the same thing has occurred in some instances in connexion with our alleged preferential tariff. 
We have endeavoured, by the aid of a very high protective tariff, to build up in Australia certain small industries which are not worth a snap of the fingers to the country. Had the money invested in those industries been utilized in other directions to develop and extend Australian industries that are worth while we should now be in a much better position. For just that reason I shall welcome the opportunity, when our fiscal policy is before the Senate for debate, to discuss the subject thoroughly. As an instance of the futile application of a prohibitive tariff, I cite the cottontweeds industry. Australian manufacturers claimed that, granted an effective duty, they could provide our working men with the requisite material at reasonable rates. Those rates eventually proved to be exorbitant, and while the industry added an additional £60,000 a year to our wages sheets, it involved our working men in an extra expenditure of £200,000 a year for their garments. I was monetarily interested in one of the concerns that manufactured the material and, in. common with many other Australians, lost my money when the business became bankrupt, notwithstanding the prohibitive duty. I regret that  Senator Foll  is not at the moment in the chamber, as I wish to congratulate him upon modifying his protectionist theories, and becoming almost a freetrader. The honorable senator referred to my action last year when I was instrumental in obtaining on rabbit skins, a duty of 25 per cent, on the British, and 40 per cent, on the foreign article. I point out that, in its manufactured state, fur is a luxury, and I surely cannot be accused of being a hide-bound protectionist for having an increased duty imposed on a luxury. My endeavour was to turn a curse into a blessing by utilizing our rabbits commercially. 
Not entirely, as others are equally interested in New South Wales. 
I have heard that, before. I endeavor to view everything broadmindedly, and to act in the interests of the community generally. Australia is at present in a serious condition, and one must face the facts. Whether Laborites or Nationalists we should love our country sufficiently to sink all party interests and view matters nationally. 
There is in Australia a considerable volume of opposition to migration, and perhaps rightly so; but I believe that there is one type of migrant that would prove ' advantageous to this country. While in England I found that Canada was receiving from that country a splendid type of migrant in the persons of the Barnado and Dreadnought boys, 92 per cent, of whom prove successful. Honorable senators will shortly have the opportunity to deal with the question of afforestation, which, especially in relation to our softwoods, is of considerable importance to Australia. If we approach the Imperial Government from the right angle we shall probably be able to enlist its aid in the formation of colonies of these boys in districts which are suitable for the inauguration upon a scientific and practical basis of a properly considered scheme of afforestation. Such a  policy would not have the slightest effect upon the Labour market, and on the other hand these boys would be trained to become useful land workers. 
There is no reason why they also should not be similarly engaged. We do not wish to bring to Australia large numbers of migrants who will flood the labour market and make the unemployment problem more acute; but the suggestion that we should invite' to Australia, boys who will become merged into our community and be numbered in the ranks of the best of our population is, I consider, worthy of our earnest consideration. While I was in Scotland I met at Beaufort Castle Lord Lovat, one of the highest authorities on afforestation and land settlement in the Empire. He visited Australia a little while ago, to give advice to the Commonwealth Government. I made an appointment to meet him in Tasmania, but unfortunately he was stricken down with illness and was compelled to return to Great Britain. I hope that a substitute for him will be found, so that this subject may be investigated fully. 
I conclude by expressing the wish that the present will not be a barren session. This is a chamber of review, and if we have not done so previously we should in the future endeavour to sink party feeling and to work unitedly for the welfare of Australia. We are supposed to represent States, and not a particular section of any State. It is, therefore, reasonable to suggest that honorable senators should endeavour to make this a productive, not a barren, session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[4.58]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
On the 2nd November, 1927, I introduced a Forestry Bill which differs in only one clause from that now before honorable senators. That measure was read a third time on the 30th November, and in another place was introduced by the Right Honorable the Prime Minister, and read a first time on the same date. Pressure of other business prevented its further progress, with the result that it lapsed at the end of last Parliament, and has now to be reintroduced. I do not propose to re-capitulate what I said at that time. 
The Government is thoroughly impressed with the necessity of federal action in regard to forestry. Too long has the stigma been attached to the central Government that it stood aloof from the advance of public thought in this direction, and failed to initiate a national forest policy. The findings of the third Empire Forestry Conference, the report of which has been circulated among honorable senators, have only served to endorse the action that the Commonwealth Government had already decided to take. I draw particular attention to pages 24 to 27, which cover the report on Australian forestry. 
The additional clauses which make the only difference between this bill and that introduced in the spring of 1927, are clauses 6 to 12. They provide for the acceptance of gifts, donations, endowments, &amp;c. These have been rendered necessary because of the active support given to the Australian Forestry School by the public, and its acceptance as a seat of forestry learning by the people of standing in the forestry world. This last has been shown by the provision by the Schlich memorial fund - a fund raised to honour the memory of that doyen of British forestry,  Sir William  Schlich, of the Indian forestry service, and of Oxford University - of a gold medal to be awarded to the best student passing out of the Australian Forestry School each year. This, I remind honorable senators, would not have been done if Professor Troup and other members of the Empire Forestry Conference had not been satisfied that the teaching given at the forestry school' was of such a standard that the recipient of the medal would be an ornament to the forestry profession. But what, perhaps, will make a greater impression upon the present Australian generation than this entirely gratuitous compliment to an educational institution which this Government has established, are the quite unsolicited donations and endowments that the school has received from prominent Australian citizens and organizations. The most important of these is an endowment made by  Mr. Russell  Grimwade, of Melbourne, of £5,000, to provide a travelling scholarship every two years to qualified Australian foresters. In the teaching of forestry in this continent we lack examples of forests that have been under sound management for a whole rotation. In France and Germany, examples exist of oak and beech forests that have been scientifically managed for from three to four hundred years. It is to remedy our want and enable the best of our young foresters to acquire the practical knowledge that such forests can give that  Mr. Grimwade  has founded his scholarship. Another valuable endowment is that of £50 a year by the Sydney and Suburban Timber Merchants' Association. This year it is being devoted to the provision of a library for the students of the school. Three other contributions of £50 are expected from the same city when sufficient funds are available to establish a Sydney scholarship in forestry. Another contribution, of £10 annually, has been received as a prize for the best essay on a forestry subject. The new clauses provide for the establishment of a fund to be called a forestry fund, into which all donations of the above nature will be paid. The Inspector-General of Forests is authorized to receive the money or gifts, and is responsible for their payment into the fund. There is to be a board of trustees, who will control the fund. It will consist of the Inspector-General of Forests, the Secretary to the Treasury, and the Secretary to the Department of Home Affairs. The Minister will authorize disbursements from the fund. These endowments and gifts have made it necessary to introduce into the bill the requisite machinery to deal with them. 
Dealing with forestry education, the 
Empire Forestry Conference recommended, among other things - 
That the higher training of Australian forest officers be recognized as a matter for the Canberra School only, and the training of overseers, foremen, and similar grades as a matter for each State. 
That stepsbe taken as soon as possible to bring the staff of the Canberra School up to full strength by the selection of a principal and the appointment of a laboratory assistant. 
That the Australian Universities be approached forthwith with a view to granting a degree in his own university to any man who successfully completes the agreed two years' course in science at his university, together with the forest course at Canberra." 
Important as is the acknowledgment of a distinguished body of foresters of the Empire, I consider that the support of this forestry school by citizens of Australia is an even stronger proof of the value of that institution, the faith they have in it, and their endorsement of the Government's action in establishing it. 
Before closing my remarks I would draw attention to the findings of the committee of the Empire Forestry Conference that dealt with Australian forestry, and particularly to page 27 of its report, where Commonwealth Territories are dealt with - 
General. - The total area of Commonwealth Territories is 706,000 square miles. These comprise within the continent, Northern and 
Central Australia, the Territory of the Seat of Government, and outside the continent, Papua, New Guinea, and Norfolk Island. The resources of all these Territories, except the first-named, have been reported on, and recommendations have been made with the object of constituting forest departments. So far action has been taken only with regard to the  Terriritory  of the Seat of Government, 940 square miles in area. It is understood that action in regard to the other Territories is awaiting a legislative enactment which has already received the assent of the Senate. 
It will be seen that, apart from the Federal Capital Territory, which has developed a sound policy, and in the very short time that the Federal Capital Commission has been in existence has made extensive additions of coniferous plantations within the catchment area of the Cotter river, no territory has embarked on a forest policy. 
In the case of Papua and New Guinea, the question of giving effect to the recommendations made by the forestry expert who has reported on the resources of both of those Territories, is under consideration. It is proposed to train a young Norfolk Islander to take charge of the small but very valuable reserves of Norfolk Island pine that exist in that Territory. The forest exploration of the Northern Territory and of Central Australia has been postponed until the establishment of the forests products laboratory of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. These areas will not yield us timber except of very local importance, for fencing, &amp;c, but the minor forests products, such as sandal, gums, resins, tans, may prove valuable. An exploration of the area without the means of scientifically and industrially examining the products, was a waste of time and money. Now that the Commonwealth forest products laboratory is about to be established this exploration will be carried out, and the research work that must arise from it will be pursued. 
I have taken up the time of the Senate in explaining a measure, the provisions of which are known to the majority, and must necessarily receive the support of all who have the security of future Australian generations at heart, because I wish to emphasize the importance of a subject which, possibly owing to the deferred nature of its benefits, makes less appeal in a young democracy than more obvious if less urgent reforms. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
[5.7]  . - I lay upon the table a copy of the Treaty for the Renunciation of War and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
In doing so I wish to explain why the Senate has not been afforded an earlier opportunity to discuss this treaty. On the 1st June, 1928, the Prime Minister laid on the table of the House of Representatives certain documents relating to the proposed treaty for the renunciation of war and moved "That the paper be printed." At that time the Senate was not sitting; as a matter of fact it did not meet until the 11th June. On the 14th June, 1928, the motion submitted in another place was resolved in the affirmative, and, in pursuance of a suggestion previously made by the Leader of the Opposition, the Prime Minister then submitted the following motion: - 
That the proposal made by the United States of America that the nations of the world solemnly renounce by treaty all recourse to war as an instrument of their national policy is one with which this House has full and complete sympathy. 
That motion was also resolved in the affirmative. The Senate sat all night on the 13th June, and adjourned at 8.13 a.m. on the 14th, whereas the motion I have just quoted was submitted to the House of Representatives at 8.27 on the morning of the 14th. 
Many shortcomings of Parliament may be laid at the door of all night sittings, but honorable senators will see that circumstances did not permit them an earlier opportunity to discuss this subject. I am now moving "That the paper be printed" so that they may speak on the matter if they so desire. 
The Commonwealth Government received an invitation from the Government of the United States to participate in this Treaty, and the Treaty was duly signed on behalf of the Commonwealth by  Senator McLachlan  at Paris, on the 27th August, 1928. 
The terms of the Treaty are exactly the same as those set out in the Note dated the 23rd June, 1928, from the  Charge d'Affaires  of the United States of America in London to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, a copy of which, together with the replies of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, was laid on the table of the Senate on the 19th September, 1928. 
Honorable senators will remember that the first proposal for a treaty for the renunciation of war emanated from the United States in April, 1928. It was favorably received in all quarters, but the Government of France, while favorable to the underlying principle of the proposed treaty, desired certain amendments; they desired to enumerate certain exceptional circumstances in which violation of the Treaty by one party would justify another party in taking measures of self-defence. France also desired to insert provisions to make it clear that the signing of the Treaty would not prevent the signatories from carrying out their obligations as members of the League of Nations. Difficulties were also raised in connexion with the Treaty of Locarno and treaties of neutrality. Eventually these objections were met by an alteration of the preliminary recitals to the Treaty, but the provisions of the Treaty itself were not altered. They are very simple and clear, and in view of their importance, I propose to read them. 
After reciting the nations who are the original signatories, the Treaty proceeds that they - 
Deeply sensible of their solemn duty to promote the welfare of mankind; 
Persuaded that the time has come when a frank renunciation of war as an instrument ut national policy should be made to the end that the peaceful and friendly relations now existing between their peoples may be perpetuated; 
Convinced that all changes in their relations with one another should be sought only by pacific means and be the result of a peaceful and orderly process, and that any signatory Power which shall hereafter seek to promote its national interests by resort to war should be denied the benefits furnished by this Treaty ; 
Hopeful that, encouraged by their example, all the other nations of the world will join in this humane endeavour and by adhering to the present Treaty, as soon as it comes into force, bring their peoples within the scope of its 'beneficent provisions, thus uniting the civilized nations of the world in a common renunciation of war as an instrument of their national policy; 
Have decided to conclude a Treaty and for the purpose have appointed as their respective Plenipotentiaries : - 
Then it sets out the names of the plenipotentiaries and the following articles : - 
Article 1. The High Contracting Parties solemnly declare in the names of their respective peoples. that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies, and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another. 
Article 2. The High Contracting Parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever origin they may be, which may arise among them, shall never .be sought except by pacific means. 
Article 3. The present Treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties named in the preamble in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, and shall take effect as between them as soon as all .their several instruments of ratification shall have been deposited "at Washington. 
There are fifteen signatories to the Treaty, representing the following countries : - Germany, United States, Belgium, France, Great Britain and the British Dominions of Canada, Australia, NewZealand, South Africa, Irish Free State and India, and Italy, Japan, Poland and Czecho-Slovakia. 
It may be urged by some that no practical step towards doing away with war or making war more difficult is taken by the signing of this Treaty. That is not my view. I think that all Avars arise out of public opinion, and that even resolutions arrived at as between one nation and another to settle by pacific means any differences that may arise between them tend to make resort to arms -more difficult by creating a public opinion against war. It may be thought that it is futile to pass resolutions or express opinions about these matters in the Commonwealth Senate, but that has not been my experience. When I was in Washington attending the Limitation of Armaments Conference a resolution adopted by this Senate, on the motion of  Senator Lynch,  was cabled to me with the request that I should present it to  President  Harding. I had the honour of personally presenting the resolution to the  President  of the United States of America, and was much impressed not only by the friendly way in which I was received by him, but by his obvious interest in the fact that a branch of the national legislature of this far-off country was taking so close an interest in what was happening in Washington as to forward a resolution for presentation to him.  President  Harding was at great pains to express to me the satisfaction he felt, and I believe that if there were more exchanges of that nature between nation and nation, it would tend greatly towards the maintenance of peace. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Lynch)  adjourned. 
I lay on the table the report of the Australian Delegation to the Ninth Assembly of the League of Nations, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
As is usual on these occasions, I take the opportunity to refer to some aspects of the work done by the Assembly. The delegation which I led consisted, besides myself, of the High Commissioner  (Sir Granville Ryrie),  and  Sir Harrison  Moore, with  Mr. Clive  Baillieu and  Mrs. Carlisle-McDonnell  as substitute delegates; and I should like to express my thanks to them for the hard work they did, and, the loyal way in which they co-operated in the work of the Delegation. Each of them represented Australia on one of the six committees that deal with the main work of the Assembly.  Sir Harrison  Moore represented us on the First Committee, dealing with legal and constitutional matters;  Sir GranvilleRyrie  was on the Second Committee dealing with technical organizations;  Mr. Clive  Baillieu acted on the Fourth Committee, which dealt with financial questions; and  Mrs. Carlisle  McDonnell was on the Fifth Committee, whose function it was to deal with social and humanitarian questions. I sat on the Third Committee dealing with disarmament, and on the Sixth Committee dealing with political questions. 
The Ninth Assembly sat for just over three weeks, from the 3rd to the 26th September, and was attended by the representatives of 50 States. Amongst these representatives were six Prime Ministers, including the Prime Minister of Canada, and 16 Ministers for Foreign Affairs. In the plenary sessions which occupied the first week and portion of the second, representatives of a great number of these States spoke, and so one gained some idea of the subjects which appeared to them to be of paramount importance. Although these plenary sessions, with the necessity of every speech being translated into French if it were delivered in English, or into English if delivered in French, are apt, at times, to appear a somewhat tedious waste of time, they fill a most important role in providing a forum where once a year the representative of a State can voice his State's feelings on various important subjects. This year we had the advantage of hearing the representatives of France, Germany and Norway express in no uncertain tones their views on the subject of disarmament, whilst other nations brought under notice subjects which appeared to them to be equally important. 
But important as this debate was, far more important was the work of dealing with the times of the agenda of the Assembly in the various committees; because, although the decisions of these committes are afterwards nominally discussed in the plenary assembly, in actual fact the almost universal rule is to accept unanimously any resolution proposed by a committee, and there is seldom any talk upon it except by the spokesman put up by the committee to move its adoption. 
I shall now refer briefly to what appeared to me the most important items dealt with by this year's Assembly. First and foremost was the problem of disarmament. The position now is that the Preparatory Commission deputed by the League to prepare for an international conference on the subject, finds itself faced by almost insuperable difficulties. A draft Convention it has certainly drawn up, but on the most important points the Convention consists of alternative articles expressing very divergent views, and the problem is how these divergencies are to be reconciled. 
As soon as the general debate commenced it was evident that to many nations disarmament was the one subject of paramount importance. We heard various views set out. The Netherlands representative saw reasons for optimism and many agreed with him. The Locarno Treaty has given a certain assurance of security in Western Europe. The Treaty for the Renunciation of War, which will always be associated with the name of its originator, M. Briand, and, shall we say, its chief architect,  Mr. Kellogg,  and which I had the .honour of signing on behalf of Australia in Paris a week before the Assembly commenced, cannot but hasten the day when war will be looked on as a crime. But other speakers, such as Norway's spokesman in the Assembly, voiced the keenest disappointment that so far nothing substantial had been done towards reduction and limitation of armaments. 
When the subject came up for discussion in the Third Committee, the German delegate pressed the view that the Preparatory Commission should meet again without delay, and that the conference itself should be called early this year. The French delegate, whilst expressing just the same keenness that there should be no unnecessary delay, and as to the necessity for some measure of reduction, urged that the Preparatory Commission should be called together to make another attempt to produce an agreed draft, but that until it had achieved some success to call the conference would merely be to invite a failure and to discredit the whole subject. The debate was a long one, and finally a resolution was adopted much in the terms suggested by France, -but so strongly did they hold to their view that the German and Hungarian delegates expressed themselves as unable to vote for it and abstained from voting altogether. 
Thus, to the eager enthusiasts, the work of the Ninth Assembly in this particular sphere may appear to be disappointing, but it has long been held that it is only an increased feeling of security and a removal of the fears nations have of attack by their neighbours that will make reduction and limitation of armaments possible. The more secure nations feel and the more facilities they are afforded for settling the disputes that- arise between them by pacific means, the more inclined they will be to agree  to  the limitation  of  their armed forces. 
In an endeavour to create this sense  of  security by supplying means for the pacific settlement of disputes,  a  Security Committee was set up by the direction  of  the Assembly of  1927.  As the result  of  its labours this year's Assembly had pre'sented to it  a  series of nine model treaties. These were discussed at length in both the First and Third Committees, and  as a  result of those discussions the Assembly of  1928  has approved for submission to the nations of the world, on the one hand, a general act for the settlement of all disputes by pacific means, and on the other hand  a  series of three bilateral treaties to serve as models for those States who prefer the method of treaties with one another rather than, that of becoming signatories to a general multilateral act. These models provide various methods for the settlement of disputes - judicial settlement, arbitration, conciliation - and are so worded that a nation can accept all these various means or some or one of them. Model treaties were also approved providing for mutual assistance and non-aggression. 
The First Committee devoted a great deal of its time to the legal aspects of these model treaties, but it also dealt with the subject of the codification of international law. Three subjects are now practically ready for discussion at an international conference which it is hoped to summon this year or early in  1930.  If it is then found possible to come to some international agreement as to the international law regulating " territorial waters," " nationality," and " the responsibility of States for damage done in their territories to persons or property of foreigners," an important step will have been taken towards providing a body of law for international tribunals to enforce. One of the great difficulties to-day in the way of arbitration or the judicial settlement of disputes is the uncertainty as to the law that the court or the arbitrators will consider binding. 
The Second Committee dealt with the reports of the work done by the various technical organizations of the League, and came to decisions as to their future work. These reports dealing with such  matters as transit and communications, the Health Organization, the Financial Organization, and the Economic Organization of the League, are very often not very spectacular, and yet represent year by year steps taken for the improvement of conditions in the world which must assist in better international relations. The Intelligence Service of the Health Organization with its bureau at Singapore and its organization for giving warning as to the possible spread of epidemics must be of value to Australia. The Health Organization also has agreed to the proposal of the Pacific Health Conference that it should carry out an inquiry into health conditions in the Pacific Islands, and a distinguished French doctor and  Dr. Cilento  of our New Guinea Service are now engaged on this work. 
It is the work of the Economic Organization that excites perhaps most interest in Australia and a certain amount of apprehension. The right view, and the view which I voiced at Geneva, is that this organization has a great work before it in the collection and dissemination of better economic intelligence - that as peoples become more fully informed they will be in a better position to appreciate the results of various economic activities and so less inclined to engage in foolish policies. But the organization should firmly resist any attempt to entangle itself in schemes involving interference with national tariff policies. Nearly all the speakers, both in the Assembly and in the Committee, voiced the view that a great deal of good could be done by information and agreement on such subjects as customs nomenclature, studies regarding certain customs regimes for certain products, the various contractual methods employed by nations, and that it should be laid down as axiomatic that the League must not infringe State sovereignty nor. risk interfering with the legitimate right of countries in process of evolution to safeguard their development. 
The social and humanitarian work again does not excite great interest, although it means increased happiness to tens of thousands of human beings. The Ninth Assembly heard reports of the progress made in such spheres as the protection of women and children, the traffic in opium and dangerous drugs, and the work of the League with regard to refugees, and provided in each case for the work to go on. There was one subject dealt with in the Sixth Committeewhich seemed to me to have an importance which many overlook. Perhapsits title, "Intellectual Co-operation,"' frightens people. I describe it as a processof mental inoculation, because the term, "intellectual co-operation" scarcely conveys to the mind the nature of this work. But the side of this work which impressed me, and which the representativesof every part of the British Empire emphasized in their remarks in the Committee, is that which provides for bringing the aims of the League before thinyoung. The difficulties of the League are increased enormously, I believe, by the fact that it is still working in a world in which war and violence in international relations are still looked on as legitimate. If the generation growing up can be taught to look upon war in the international sphere in the light that crime is regarded in our national life, the work of the League in future for the ideals the covenant stands for will be immensely increased. 
I now come to a subject about which I think there has been a great deal of misapprehension. I refer to the attitude taken up by the British Empire Delegation and which we supported in the Fourth Committee in regard to the budget. The League is in a curious position, and unlike a national parliament, for it has no responsibility for the raising of the money which it spends. Therefore, it seems to me most important that the Fourth Committee, who deal with the subject, should year by year scrutinize the budget with a very jealous eye, and absolutely assure themselves that every increase is justified and that every item is being properly, spent. The total of the budget is certainly not large - it is about £1,100,000 - but this year there were in certain items very considerable increases, and I believe that it was right and proper that the Fourth Committee should take every justifiable step to make certain that these increases were right. In almost every case the result of the discussion was that ample justification was supplied, and in the one or two remaining cases the majority of States' members were satisfied that there was no extravagant increase. I emphasize again that the total budget is about £1,100,000 and I think this is no great price to pay for the work the League is doing; but believing that, I still say that there is need year by year for vigilance to ensure that there is no waste. Nothing would discredit the League more, in these days when so many States' members are having to practise economy, than for an idea to get abroad that the League was spending the funds placed at its disposal in a prodigal manner. For a detailed account of what the Assembly did, I must refer honorable senators to the report that I lay on the table, where they will find under each item full details as to how the Assembly disposed of it. 
I shall conclude with a word as to the impression left in my mind that this meeting year by year of representatives of practically all the nations of the world has a value far greater than the actual resolutions they pass or the proposals they discuss. Men who have perhaps grown up in the belief that the members of certain other nations cannot but be hostile towards their country meet them once a year at Geneva, and realize that they are human like themselves, and on very many grounds have the same ideas, the same hopes, and the same fears. I think most of them go away feeling as I did, that this annual Assembly is a great insurance against future hostilities. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That a select committee be appointed - with power to send for persons, papers, and records, and to move from place to place - to inquire into and report upon the desirability and commercial possibility of sending messages from Australia to England over the beam wireless at a penny a word, such committee to consist of Senators Carroll, Findley, Graham, Herbert Hays, Reid, Guthrie, and the mover. 
It is notmy intention to occupy the time of honorable senators for more than a few minutes in submitting this motion, because shortly before the adjournment of the Senate last year I tabled a motion in identical terms, except that the name of ex-Senator Robinson has been replaced by that of  Senator Guthrie,  who has kindly consented to the inclusion of his name as a member ofthe proposed committee. I spoke at considerable length on the former motion, and as I am now addressing practically the same honorable senators as before, I do not intend to repeat my previous remarks. Prior to submitting the original motion I had brought before the Senate the advisability of having beam wireless messages transmitted from Australia to Great Britain at a cost of a penny a word. When a division was taken it was found that the motion was lost by one vote. I do not ask the Senate to agree now to the principle of penny a word messages between Australia and England; I ask only that a committee be appointed to investigate the matter. 
No; if I was appointed  chairman  of the committee, I should expect to obtain in Canberra, Sydney, and possibly Melbourne, all the evidence necessary to arrive at a decision. It might not even be necessary to visit Melbourne, for apart from officials of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited and officers of the post office, the only persons whose evidencewould be of value would be business men. Those in Melbourne would probably hold the same views on the matter as are held by business men in Sydney. I take it that honorable senators are agreed that if it could be proved that messages at a1d. aword were commercially possible, the system would be worth introducing. 
It is strange that whenevervested interests are at stake, England and Australia are pitted against each other. We have been told that we cannot have penny-a-word wireless messages unless England is agreeable. When the Labour party in the British House of Commons desired to prevent the beam service from being handed over to private enterprise,  Mr. Amery  "said that the colonies, including Australia, were in favour of the service being taken out of the hands of the post office.  His  statement was not correct; but it shows how one country is pitted against the other when vested interests are at stake. The same argument was used during the Boer War. I remember as a member of the New South Wales legislature hearing  Mr. Barton  say there that Australia must stand behind the Motherland in that war, whether her cause was right or wrong. Later in this Parliament I also heard  Mr. Kingston  say that we must send men to the Boer War whether England's action in engaging in it was right or wrong. When  Mr. Campbell  Bannerman, speaking in the British House of Commons, said that the Boer War was an unjust war,  Mr. Balfour  replied : " How can it be unjust ? Look at the virile democracy of the colonies. They have sent troops. They would not have sent one soldier if the war was unjust. " Cheaper messages between Australia and the Homeland would tend to consolidate the Empire. The more closely we can get into touch with our kinsmen overseas the better for the Empire. Should it be proved commercially possible to institute a system of penny a word messages and the British Government still decline to reduce the rates because of the effect a reduction would have on the dividends of the cable companies, we should cease to talk about empire and confine our attention to dividends for capitalists! I have said that penny-a-word messages would be a paying proposition; others have said the opposite. A committee, if appointed, would ascertain who is correct. Should I be proved wrong, that would be the end of it. 
When the honorable senator visited England for the first time and ably represented both the Defence Department and the Post Office, he made out a good case for cheaper communications. 
In his policy speech, to which I listened with pleasure over the wireless,  Dr. Earle  Page referred to the possibility of establishing telephonic communication between Australia and England. He said that by that means migration would be stimulated, because migrants would be able to converse with their friends in the Old Country by means of the telephone. With the charge of probably £5 for a three minutes' conversation, it is not likely that many conversations would take place. But beam wireless messages at Id. a word would, undoubtedly, assist migration; beam wireless would then be the poor man's telephone. 
We are not allowed to obtain any information along those lines. Even in the British House of Commons the position is the same; members are unable to obtain the information they desire. Perhaps the Minister will say whether the report of  Mr. Brown,  the Director of Postal Services, will be laid on the table of the Senate. 
It is amazing that the Government should send a man abroad to attend a conference, and for the Minister to be unaware whether he has submitted a report. If the Government has received a report from  Mr. Brown  honorable senators have a right to know its contents. We hear a great deal about the abolition of secret diplomacy, but there has been as much secret diplomacy about the recent cable and wireless merger as has taken place in connexion with some wars. All this secrecy is due to a desire to protect the dividends of a few persons. 
I desire the rate for wireless messages to be brought down to Id. a word. From time to time  Senator 
Hays has advocated the establishment of a system of wireless telephonic communication with Tasmania. The Governor-General's Speech contains the information that that system is to be inaugurated. I wonder whether, with that system in operation, telegraph messages to Tasmania will still be sent by cable. 
Already messages are sent to Tasmania by cable for a Id. a word. The Government will not be able to charge a higher rate for wireless messages. If it will be possible to communicate by wireless with Tasmania for  a  Id. a word, why not have the same rate for messages to and from England? The cost of the plant, as well as that of running it, would be about the same in each case. I repeat that my object now is not to ask the Senate to agree to the principle of Id. a word messages, but only to the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the matter. The Government and the people are influenced not so much by the reports issued by a committee as by the evidence tendered before it. 
A majority of honorable senators have been good enough to promise to support my proposal. In ordinary circumstances I should not be addressing the Senate, because, as the result of the last general election, I shall cease to be a senator at the end of June next. But I realize that this is not a party matter, and as my time is now limited, I ask that although the Government may desire to adjourn the debate, a vote may be taken on this motion to-day. 
 I second the motion. 
 I move - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - That is so; I have not  accepted the  motion for the adjournment of the  debate. 
I take it that  Senator Needham  was merely making a passing reference to the proposal to adjourn the debate to-day. 
Motion (by  Senator McLachlan)  proposed - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I wish to refer to a matter which is of very considerable importance to some very worthy electors of New South Wales who waited upon me, in conjunction with a member of another place, during the week-end. I refer to the foremen employed at Cockatoo Island Dockyard. In view of the contemplated sale of that dockyard some of those men have received notice of dismissal. They have been in the service of the Commonwealth for periods of fourteen years and upwards, and not one derogatory word has been reported against the excellence of their service. I remind the Government that, when the transport and other strikes were in progress in 1917, these men remained loyal, and but for their loyality it would have been impossible to get our ships away. 
They were practically given to understand that their employment with the Government would be of a permanent nature. They have been employed at the dockyard for very many years, and have reached such an age that it will be almost impossible for them to secure employment elsewhere, extremely competent though they are. We shall not be doing a fair thing by old and valued employees if we turn them adrift without consideration. I remind the Government that when the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Line was disposed of, there was granted to officers of that Line certain financial consideration, though their period of employment with the Commonwealth was not nearly so long as has been the case with these men; and, further, that the Commonwealth Shipping Board administered both concerns. 
They may, or they may not be. Any concern that takes over the dockyard may have trustworthy men available to fill the places of these foremen. I shall give certain particulars . concerning two of the men to illustrate the injustice that is likely to be done. H. Stevens, the foreman sheet ironworker, worked overtime to the extent of 170 hours on H.M.A.S.  Albatross. 
He was not paid one penny for it. That has been the experience of every foreman in connexion with all the big jobs that have been undertaken at Cockatoo during the time that they have been working there. Stevens received a weekly salary of £81s. The weekly wage, including overtime, of the charge hands employed on H.M.A.S.  Albatross,  averaged from £7 16s. 3d. to £1511s. 5d., and that of the sheet-iron workers averaged from £6 16s. to £14, while the figures in connexion with the labourers were from £5 19s. to £9 18s. J. Hill, the foreman electrician, worked overtime on H.M.A.S.  Albatross  a total of 623 hours, for which he did not receive one penny. His weekly salary is £811s. The weekly  wage of the charge hand averaged £11, that of the electricians £10, and that of the labourers £8. I could give a number of instances of a similar nature. 
I have brought this matter forward to show that these men have not received consideration of any kind, notwithstanding the fact that they have rendered magnificent service without counting the cost to themselves. They have displayed a willingness to work whatever hours the management has desired, without seeking additional remuneration; and at a time of industrial crisis, when it was absolutely essential that they should keep going, they stuck to their posts, because they recognized that they were on a different basis from that of the workmen. There is only one other dockyard in this country - Mort's Dock. One of these men, a short while ago, was offered a foreman's position at that dock, at a salary greater than that which he was receiving at Cockatoo. He placed the matter before the management at Cockatoo and was implored not to accept the offer. He was told, "You have been here a long time, and you will continue to be here so long as you wish to remain." Consequently he turned down the offer. Now be is under notice of dismissal and the position at Mort's Dock has been filled. The management at Cockatoo has safeguarded itself, and in the event of the disposal of the dock it will be able to dispense with the services of these men at any time. The Government 'might at least consider whether it would not be a fair thing to give consideration equal to that which was given to the officers of the Australian CommonwealthLine. That would ease the blow considerably, and the cost would not be very great. 
Not many. All the others have been paid overtime for the work they have done. I should like to have the assurance of the Minister that consideration will be given to this matter. 
[6.12] . -When an honorable senator intends to raise, on the motion for the adjournment, a question in relation to which he desires to be furnished with information at the time,itis customary to acquaint the Minister of that intention.  Senator Duncan,  in this case, has not seen fit to do so. The files which concern this matter are very bulky, and I do not carry them in my coat pocket. The honorable senator has made what must be recognized as something in the nature of  ex parte  statements. Possibly an examination of the facts will disclose a side different from that which has been made out by the men. I am not able now to give the other side, if there is one, because the honorable senator has not afforded to me the opportunity to look into the matter. I can merely say that the Government desires to do justice to these men, in common with all its other employees. The honorable senator, however, has made one statement which is not strictly accurate - that the Government compensated all the officers of the Australian' Commonwealth Line. 
Only those were compensated who were not taken over by the company which purchased the ships. 
The Cockatoo Island Dockyard has not been leased to anybody; therefore the cases are not analogous. If it is taken over by an outside firm, either some or all of these men may also be taken oyer, in which case they should not receive compensation. Therefore, the case of these men cannot yet be judged. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I shall make no promise. My Bole reason for drawing attention to an inaccurate statement made by the honorable senator was to show that the case he made out had a weak link. I shall look into the matter, and on some subsequent occasion will let him know what the Government proposes to do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether trainees or the Citizen Forces have to defray the cost of their transport from their homes by trains, trams, &amp;c, to the respective drill halls?. 
In view of the fact that members of the Citizen Forces are training for the defence of Australia, will the Minister see that the cost of such transport is defrayed by the Commonwealth Government? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What does the Government allow per day for the food of each trainee of the Citizen Forces whilst in annual camp? 
I move - 
That the billbe now read a second time. 
Although the measure is of a substantive character it may appear to be merely of a machinery nature. It makes provision for the extension of the Designs Act to the Commonwealth territories, including territories governed under mandate. In order to extend the act to any territory, it will be necessary, under this bill, for the Governor-General to issue a proclamation, and thereupon the act will apply to the territory in the same way as it does to the States at the present time. The measure has been introduced with a view to obtaining uniformity. Instead of allowing the territories to pass their own ordinances and make laws with respect to designs, the hill will accomplish, at one stroke, the much desired uniformity in this matter throughout the Commonwealth and the mandated territory. The provisions are exactly similar to those made with respect to trade marks by the Trade Marks Act of 1922. The Patents Act also contains provision for the extension of the act to Papua and New 
Guinea, but I do not think it is framed in quite such general terms as the present bill or the Trade Marks Act of 1922. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
This motion seeks the permission of the Senate for the printing of a paper, but it signifies a great deal more than that. It asks us to approve of the Treaty for the Renunciation of War which originated with the people of the United States of America, and' which afterwards received the formal signatures of some o£ the world's leading powers. This treaty is a bold step forward. We have had several attempts to bring the leading nations of the world into line, and induce them to say that war is a bad thing, because it involves  the  ruin of our happiness and progress, and our very lives. Although the several steps that have been taken in this direction have been more or less fruitless, the move now made by the United States of America seems to mark a distinct advance when we know that the leading nations have put their signatures to a document which renounces war. As the Leader of the Senate has said, it is merely a moral gesture on the part of those nations. There are no sanctions of a valid or tangible nature, but all that is required is that the signatories give their word of honour that war shall be no more a part of their national policy. So far, so good; but when we have decided that war shall be outlawed - to use a phrase coined by the Americans - we have not finished with the matter. 
I am grateful for the honorable senator's correction. The idea originated with M. Briand. While we may congratulate ourselves on having done so much, the haunting fear is whether we can expect much good to flow from the action taken. We still have to recognize that there are quite a number of people who justifiably look with a very friendly eye on war as a means of accomplishing desirable ends. War has not always been used for bad purposes. It is a means by which chains have been struck from human limbs, tyrants have been chained, property restored to its rightful owner,  and the moral as against the material elements in the relations of mankind made triumphant. It has been the means also of keeping the designing overlords of creation within bounds. When we consider war,  per se,  we are not justified in saying that it has always been used to bring ruin to. mankind. When these memories are recalled by those who still have a lingering love and respect for war, it will not be easy to convince them that the action of the Government of the United States of America, acquiesced in by other nations, will have a permanent effect. The utmost we can expect from the treaty is an awakening of the public conscience of the world to the need for doing away with war and replacing it by some more civilized and approved means for settling the disputes that occur from time to time amongst men. For my part, when I recall what has been done as the result of past wars, and when the unruly side of my character is aroused, I am sometimes inclined to applaud war and those engaged in it. However, now that we have turned our backs on practices b'ad enough in themselves but not so bad as war, and found means of thrusting them aside, we may hope that success may result from the present action. 
There are those who have less worthy motives for perpetuating the sentiment that war is a useful and necessary enterprise. We have the war party that was lately to be found in Europe, and that has most persistent expression in the Chauvinism of Germany. In our own country we have had a party known as Jingoes, who think that we can never appear to the best advantage unless we are at daggers drawn with our fellow men. There are, too, the young men who, full of high spirits, go forward with a martial, step to the accompaniment of trumpets, and feel that it is good to be a soldier and that not to be a soldier is not to be a man. While the " fizz is in the blood, these men are fond of applauding war and things that lead to it. I remind them that it only requires those forces to burn low, the " fizz " to leave the blood, as will inevitably be the case as they grow older, for them to denounce the very thing which, when young, they applauded. When the young men of to-day have passed through the school of experience they will admit that many of the things which they once advocated were wrong. 
When we see the things that are happening to-day, it is difficult to understand why some of them have been tolerated. Listen to what age and bitter experience have had to say on war. Napoleon said, " The sight of a battlefield after the fight is enough to inspire princes with a love of peace and a horror of war." Wellington declared, " Take my word for it, if you had seen but one day of war you would pray to Almighty God that you might never see such a thing again." Doubtless these world-figures thought differently in their youth; but experience is one of the safest guides in human actions. 
Then from another viewpoint, by glancing into the animal kingdom and studying our domestic animals, we find that at the very time when, in our opinion, they should be most peaceful - that is, when their stomachs are full - they are most aggressive. What prompts them to fight in such circumstances I do not know; but it would appear that at such times they enjoy nothing so much as a fight. Biologists tell us that every time we scratch our finger a conflict takes place within us; on the one hand there are forces seeking our destruction, and on the other hand there are forces seeking to preserve and defend us. Should the forces seeking to do us harm prevail, the scratch which at first seemed insignificant becomes serious ; should the hosts which seek to preserve us gain the upper hand, we recover. In the minds of large numbers of young men of all nations is the extraordinary idea that only by engaging in battle can they display themselves to the best advantage. I can only explain that phenomenon by saying that, just as in the bacteriological sphere, there are some forces which seek to destroy and others which seek to pre serve, so in the realm of mind there are some forces which seek to degrade and others which seek to uplift. Civilization is merely the antithesis of barbarism, the acquiring of more knowledge regarding the forces of nature around us and a higher conception of our duty to our fellow men. I confess, however, that when I observe in the so-called civilized world so many things that offend, doubts arise as to whether we have not yet much to learn from what we call barbarism. In the South Sea Islands a man found guilty of adultery is put to death in accordance with native rites, but judging by the records of our divorce courts, although adultery is condemned by our law, it would appear that society scarcely frowns on it. The untutored savage mother follows her child into slavery to manifest her maternal love, while that barren fig tree of polite conversation - the childless mother - refuses motherhood to show her selfish love. I could continue these comparisons between civilization and barbarism to show that in many respects the advantage lies with the latter; but we must take them as a whole if we would properly compare them. If we do that, we must inevitably come to the conclusion that the long, tedious uphill journey from the degrading habits of barbarism has been worth while. For instance, no statesman in any country in the civilized world would to-day advocate slavery as a part of the social life of the nation. Any one who did so, would be condemned and derided by all sections of the community. But it was not always so. We have only to read the  Times History of the World  to find that in the days of the Roman republic, not only was there found no person to denounce slavery, but that everywhere men were prepared to justify it. Slavery was a part of the social system of that day. During the two thousand years which have passed since that time, we have made some progress in that direction at least. Again, piracy and brigandage do not exist to-day, excepting, perhaps, in remote portions of China. 
When we reflect on the battles that have been fought and won in the moral sphere to gain the mastery over hateful and detestable things we have reason to hope that success will attend the action so recently taken by the leading nations of the world. 
I agree with other honorable senators that the proposal for the renunciation of war did not originate in the United States of America. I agree, also, that the great American nation is not the be-all and end-all of human desires, the perfect society, the Timocracy of Plato's dream - far from it. It is true that the United States of America has had the advantage of learning from the errors of older and what many Americans describe as " effete " nations. We in this country put it differently; we acknowledge our indebtedness to the older nations from which we have sprung and have inherited so much that is good. We in Australia, particularly, have a rich heritage, and I, for one, freely acknowledge my indebtedness to those older countries which bequeathed so much to us. We began with a knowledge of the arts and crafts, but, better still, with an indomitable will to surmount unknown and undreamt of barriers. These were our forefathers' legacy to us. 
Many of the evils which existed in times past have been so effectively overcome as to cause us no concern, that they will recur, but war is still with us. It is strange that we have abolished slavery, piracy and brigandage, but have failed, as yet, to abolish war. It required a destructive world conflict to get the nations to consider whether war also should not be done away with. At what cost have the nations at last been brought to their senses! Man has accomplished marvellous things; he has cancelled time, annihilated space, and called to his aid the unseen forces of nature and made them dance to his bidding; there remains scarcely a mountain that he has not climbed, or ocean that he has not fathomed; the poles are no longer places of mystery; but man has not yet learned how to live at peace with his fellows. He can measure and weigh the earth; he can deal with the physical forces around him; but he has not yet learned to say to his fellow man - " Let us live in peace for evermore." Surely it is time that he tried to do so. 
I desire to say a word regarding the steps leading to the signing of the Kellogg Pact for the renunciation of war. The great American nation to which the credit for the pact is given has need for introspection, for it is only by throwing the searchlight upon its weak points that a nation can hope to get rid of them. The United States of America entered the peace movement at the eleventh hour, when the nations of Europe were already engaged in an effort to prevent war. It is strange indeed that the very nation which gave birth to the idea of a League of Nations was the first to repudiate it. The glorious ideal of peace among men was brought into the cockpit of American politics, and there roughly handled while the European nations were left without support. For some years the United States of America held aloof from all movements towards peace, but now at the eleventh hour she is joining the other nations. Perhaps the best thing that we can do is to forget her previous unwillingness to co-operate; I mention these things merely for the good of that nation. What led up to the signing of the Kellogg Pact when nien who faced one another on the battlefield took each other by the hand? Immediately after the Great War much talk was indulged in as to what could best be done to prevent a repetition of such a cataclysm. Nothing concrete was achieved until January, 1919, when a conference, including representatives of Great Britain, France, and the United States of America, was held at Paris. The object of the convention was to secure France, which, during 100 years, had been invaded no fewer than three times, against further aggression. The nations represented at the conference became signatories to a pact, which later met with the same fate as did that evolved by the League of Nations, for America withdrew from it and left France, her former ally and faithful friend, to defend herself as best she could. So the months of uncertainty and apprehension dragged by slowly until 1922, when a conference was convened by the then British Prime Minister,  Mr. Lloyd  George, in an endeavour to bring the nations of Europe into line and to evolve a scheme that would counteract the menace of that spectre which continued to haunt the peace of Europe - war. America held aloof from the conference, which arrived at no satisfactory conclusion. The next effort was made in 1923, under the aegis of the League of Nations, which was then struggling to find its feet and to be recognized by the nations of the world with America still holding aloof. At that conference a treaty of mutual assistance was evolved, based upon Article XIV. of the Covenant of the League of Nations. Its defect was that it confined the effort to obtain universal peace to certain parts only of the world. A resolution was passed to the effect that no nation should make unprovoked attack upon its neighbour, and a further resolution was agreed to urging the nations of the world to disarm. The latter had little effect. When the proposals came up for discussion before the Parliaments of the different countries concerned, the Ramsay MacDonald Government, then in power in Great Britain, refused to ratify them. It demanded in their stead a universal treaty, embracing all the nations of the world - not a system of regional ones as was proposed. So the efforts of 1923 were futile, and the European nations still existed in a welter of suspicion and dread, yearning for some tangible scheme whereby war might be abolished. The year 1924 ushered in the Geneva protocol. Honorable senators discussed it in this chamber, and know its fate. It was a much more ambitious scheme than its forerunners, and sought to bring the reconstructed nations of the world into order. It was discussed by the contributory nations. Great Britain, at the suggestion of  Mr. Austen  Chamberlain, decided not to accept it, contending that a system which embodies a general application of the principle of arbitration was impracticable. I can appreciate the soundness of that opinion. There are certain things in life which no man would allow to be decided by arbitration. For instance, while I obeyed the laws of this country, I would allow no man to arbitrate as to whether I should live or die. A further reason for the rejection of the protocol by Great Britain was that its acceptance would have thrown upon the Empire the insupportable burden of maintaining the peace of 'Eastern Europe. When one remembers the turbulent Balkans one realizes the impossibility of tie task. 
France wanted Great Britain to accept the protocol, but one cannot but feel that it might have involved Britain in intricate and serious international complications. It was also urged that the White Australia policy, so vitally important to this country, would be endangered if the protocol were agreed to. I do not share that apprehension; I believe that its acceptance would not have endangered that part of our proclaimed national policy. So the Geneva protocol came to nothing, and the nations of Europe floundered along as well as they could, in a state of dire expectancy. Then a happy change came over the scene. For some time past Germany bad expressed the opinion that the conditions of the Treaty of Versailles were oppressive, and that she regarded the Geneva protocol as an instrument which would ensure the perpetual occupancy of the Rhine provinces by the Allies. As a result of Germany's persistent agitation, the Dawes plan of reparations was evolved. It was merely a means to convert the reimbursement of the Allies from a monetary transaction to that of one in kind. It was accepted by Germany, but not too readily. In the interval between the outbreak of the Great War and the evolution of the Dawes plan, Germany had been undergoing a remarkable metamorphosis. For ages she had been the traditional ally of Great Britain, and during that association had behaved herself very well. But, as she became opulent, she underwent that subtle change which is so noticeable in human beings who enjoy great success in life. When a man has his pockets and stomach full he is prone to forget the time when he was an impecunious wayfarer, struggling in the world. Owing to various causes, honorable and otherwise, Germany had attained such a degree of opulence that she became unpleasantly aggressive and unscrupulous. The behaviour of men and nations, in such circumstances, is very like that of a pig or a ram or a he-goat which, when its stomach is full enjoys an excess of energy and goes out to fight its fellow pig or ram or goat or or anything else in sight. Germany began to believe that the world was an oyster and that it was her exclusive privilege to open it. But the war  wrought a great change, and Germany from being triumphant and rampant, became humble and supine, and its new Chancellor said that he was quite satisfied to maintain the  status quo,  to let Alsace-Lorraine remain a portion of the French territory, to cede German colonies to the Allies, and to allow the existing frontiers of the other nations signing the Locarno Treaty to remain as they were. That was a remarkable change of front by the nation which has rightly been regarded as the chief aggressor, and the primal causes of the war. 
I am aware that Germans, Austrians and their allies in the Great War strenuously protest that they were not the aggressors, but the bulk of public opinion is against them. Few nations, if any, in history admit their war guilt. It takes a man of great moral courage to admit his sin, and it is the same with nations. When seeking the cause of the war, one has to go back to the Treaty of London, 1831, by which the neutrality of Belgium was guaranteed by England, France, Prussia, Austria, and Russia. la the years that followed, when Germany and France were reminded of their obligation towards Belgium, Germany replied evasively and France equivocally, clearly showing the trend of German opinion. Then on the 4th August, 1914, the German Chancellor, Herr Bethmann-Hollweg, made the very significant statement to the British Ambassador, "Just for a word - 'neutrality,' a word which in war-time had so often been disregarded, just for a scrap of paper - Britain was going to make war." History reveals that, from 1904 to 1909, Germany was evolving a system of strategic railways, which would serve her when the war broke out. It is interesting to read the records of those activities in the London  Statist,  and the published acknowledgment of the plan of attack by the German Chancellor in 1909, when peace was ostensibly but falsely preached. So Germany has had a renascence since August 1914, when she "sprung the mine." 
When, therefore, we are told that Germany did not bring about the recent war these historical records of what took place between 1904 and 1909 remind us of the other version of the story. The German Chancellor intimated that he was prepared to sign a pact guaranteeing the integrity of the signatory nations as well as their frontiers and containing provisions enabling each signatory nation, in the case of foreign aggression, to be dependent on the others. The terms of that pact were discussed in London in 1925, and, at a formal meeting held at Locarno in the same year, it was signed by the representatives of the participating nations. It was a new history begun for a stricken and despairing Europe. We had the spectacle of Germany and her former enemies coming together and signing a treaty, jointly and severally, guaranteeing each other's integrity and freedom from aggression by any outside power. The Locarno Treaty forms the basis of the friendly understanding that at present exists between the nations. Germany subsequently became a member of the League of Nations, and Europe seemed to have turned over a new leaf. 
At any rate, a new phase came over international affairs and Europe seemed to assume something of a civilized appearance. The United States of America came on the scene at this time with a proposal for the universal renunciation of war, but the Kellogg Pact, as it is generally known, under which the nations renounce their desire to resort to war, is not of the same nature as the Locarno Pact. The latter contains sanctions and guarantees, whereas the former is merely a pious declaration on the part of the signatory nations that they renounce war as a part of their national policies. The Kellogg Pact contains reservations which were inserted at the instance of Great Britain and availed of by Italy and France. These reservations were outlined by  Sir Austen  Chamberlain. Britain does not admit the possibility of any other country questioning its right or otherwise to defend its territory against aggression.  Senator Reid,  of the United States of America, speaking on the Kellogg Pact, says that because of these reservations there is no security in it. The reservations may be regarded as a British equivalent of the Monroe doctrine of the United States  of America, that country which gave ita latter-day assistance to Europe and its tardy approval to the Kellogg Pact. Just as the Monroe doctrine lays it down that the United States of America will tolerate no European power stepping into the American continent, enlarging its territory on that continent or signifying its intention, to meddle in American affairs, in like manner, in the Locarno Treaty, Great Britain lays it down that there are certain ureas on the earth in which it will tolerate no interference when they may be subject to a war of aggression. In other words, as  Senator Reid  fears, Great Britain will defend its own territory irrespective of the terms of the Kellogg Pact, just as America proposes to do in its own sphere of authority. 
Nevertheless, we welcome this pact because it forms a very distinct advance on anything that has preceded it in the direction of mustering the better qualities of the nations. It, so to speak, regiments them; it makes the great nations say, with a loud and united voice, that no civilized people should resort to war, and it solemnly binds them to a declaration that, so far as lies within their power, there will be no further war. That is, as I say, a distinct advance; but I wish to remind the people of America of some of their inconsistencies. 
I have already shown that it would have been better if America, had remained at its post and taken a leading part in the past in keeping alive the ceaseless efforts of the people of Europe to find a way out of the terrible impasse in which they found themselves. But America has always held aloof, and, except for the Washington Disarmament Conference, which was merely to substitute the impact of nations on a grand and devouring scale with master engines of destruction for a longer drawn out process of torture with tools of less destructive power, has hitherto refrained from interference in European affairs. It now comes in at the eleventh hour with this treaty, but we welcome it. At the same time, it is just as well to show the weak points in its armour, although one's remarks on this point may not be too complimentary to the American nation. 
Its entry into the war has been variously described by critics as a step that, because of its delay, was not commendable. Some have said that it entered the  war  too late. If we take the words of two of America's mouthpieces, the then ex-President Roosevelt and President Wilson  himself,  as a sufficient explanation of America's entry into the war, we must certainly wonder why that entry was so long delayed. Roosevelt made use of the words - 
The nations want lasting relief from the threat and horror of German world dominion. 
I want to draw a sharp line of distinction between the two sections that comprised the German nation prior to the war. On the one hand there was the overwhelming majority of citizens who were voiceless and helpless, and whose political aspirations were choked and stifled by the rigid rule of a military autocracy; on the other hand, there was the military autocracy itself, whose leading exponents were the members of the German military staff. Just prior to America's entry into the war  President  Wilson said - 
We are fighting for what we believe and wish to be the rights of mankind. 
If the rights of mankind were in jeopardy it is very difficult to understand why the people of the United States of America did not come into the war until the eleventh hour. 
But it has to be remembered that America is not a homogeneous nation; it has not yet had sufficient time to weld together into one unified body of sentiment the various fractious elements it contains. I think there are people of 40 different nationalities in the United States of America. Until a proper dependable public sentiment had been aroused,  President  Wilson could not speak with authority for these various nationalities. Many of his people were fresh from the European area, with their minds full of European ideas, and, perhaps, with deep attachments to their native land. Naturally it was not to be expected that the  President  of a nation so rudely and rawly thrown together could speak with the determination and confidence of the mouthpiece of a European country. I do not blame him for not entering the war until he was satisfied that, instead of having one war on his hands, he might have two, which would have been the case if he had embarked on war without public opinion on his side. The most sustaining comfort the ruler of a country may have in a war of aggression is that he has public opinion behind him. I would not like to stand in the shoes of a ruler wb-'i"1 embarked on a war with public opinion against him. In a modern democracy  President  Wilson would have been foolish, indeed, if he had entered into the recent conflict before he was ready. 
But, before the people of America entered the war, they did very well. As a  "shopkeeping"  nation" they were prepared to manufacture goods and sell them to the belligerents, and they did remarkably well by so doing. I have now come to the point of showing a weakness that manifests itself in the American character as perhaps it does in the character of other peoples when equally closely analysed. The people of the United States of America are a bit too sordid; they are too fond of money; they are influenced too greatly by what they themselves describe as "dollar politics." And when we touch upon that characteristic in a nation we uncover a fruitful source of modern wars. Wars may have been brought about in the past because countries were anxious to extend their power and influence ; but in modern times conflicts have broken out between nations, because, as Josh Billings would put it, each has been trying to take what "isn't  his'n,"  to over-reach its fellows, to get the best of a deal. The predatory instinct in man, the anxiety to get that which is not his, the desire to strike a hard bargain, the feeling best expressed by the words, "Am I my brother's keeper  V  or "' The devil take the hindmost," the practice of making Shylock deals to exact more than one's just or moral due - all these are fruitful causes of war. And that spirit is manifested in America to-day as the figures I shall supply will prove. I have already said that, before the United States of America went into the war, it found the manufacture and sale of goods to the Allied nations a very profitable enterprise. That is clearly shown by the report of the Vice-President of the Federal Export Corporation. He said that- 
Prices which dropped to a low level in 1914 began to soar in 1915, and rose to fabulous heights in 1916 and the early part of 1917. 
In the latter half of 1917 and 1918 business was controlled by the Government at Washington as a war measure, and stable prices much lower than the highest levels of the previous months were put into force. 
In the words of one of their public men, the Americans were getting "fabulous prices" for everything they sold to the Allies. The very debt that is now owing to the United States of America by the European nations represents the extraordinarily high and unwarranted prices brought about solely by the fact that Europe was at war. That debt is the pound of flesh America is demanding. It says that it must be repaid. The fact that the debt was incurred through the efforts of the people of Europe to live up to the ideals preached by the people of America is quite a different matter. According to  Mr. Mark  B, Young, writing in  The Review,  the amount owing to the American nation, to say nothing of the bonds of the Allies held by citizens of the United States of America, is about $9,435,225,329. Without taking into account three years' accrued interest unpaid, this represents at present a principal debt of over £2,000,000,000. This equals the amount of  Mr. J.  M. Keynes' estimate of Germany's maximum capacity to pay. That is to say, the destroyer of the world's peace is to pay no more than is to beexacted from the Allies by their late brother-in-arms - America. Unlike old, impoverished and congested Europe, America is a new and lavishly endowed land. And with her overflowing bounty it ill becomes her to drive a miser's bargain with the remnants of the nations that were in the breach fighting for the "rights of mankind." 
These interesting sidelights show what is happening in America, and the great profits the people of America made out of the war, which President Wilson declared was for the purpose of making the world " safe for democracy " - including the American democracy. 
There is a facet to the American character to which I shall refer. France, as we all know, played a very prominent part in the struggle which led to the thirteen American colonies gaining their liberty. When an embassy from those colonies visited 
France, King Louis was on a tottering throne and did not know what might happen to either himself or the system for which he stood. They were received very cordially, although the King of France was placed by them in a somewhat awkward position. He did not want to fall out with the "King business" which the Emperor of Austria had said "is my business"; yet, when he was appealed to for naval and military assistance he readily responded, and it was the assistance which he rendered that enabled the thirteen American colonies to win their freedom from Great Britain. They, of- course, perpetuated his memory and other French memories in the public squares of their cities, and the friendship which developed between the two countries was that of one whose life has been saved, towards his benefactor. For years the most cordial relations existed between the United States of America and France; they were regarded as brothers in arms, and rightly so. But a time came when this benefactor of America found itself in a position similar to that from which it had rescued the thirteen colonies. In the words of Clemenceau, "there was no money in its cashbox." It approached the United States of America just after the war for the purpose of borrowing £20,000,000. How did the United States of America treat those who had befriended them so substantially? The records show that this £20,000,000 was advertised in the New York financial newspapers, and the best offer they could make to their former faithful friend was to supply the money at an interest rate of 8 per cent., to issue a loan at par and to require the repayment of £110 for every £100 loan. Thus brotherly love and benefaction were turned into a hard commercial transaction, and the French nation was compelled to pay nearly 9 per cent, to the very nation that it had helped to bring into existence. There we have a phase of American life that needs to be laid bare. The better elements in that nation should speak out and say that these moneylenders and mercenary human vultures are not truly representative of the nation, but are only an  excresence  upon it. This sordid money-making development in the American character is confined to com paratively few persons, we hope. If it were typical of the whole nation, I should say " God help that nation, " because it could not hope to continue to levy a burdensome toll upon the rest of mankind and expect mankind to remain a patient beast of burden. During the war period it was able to charge exorbitant prices and dictate terms, because it controlled the gold reserve. I am unable to distinguish between one who holds money and dictates terms that are contrary to reason, and another who seeks territory and foists his will upon an unoffending people. The financial controller is the worse of the two, because he has the means to impose his will arbitrarily upon unoffending people without making war upon them. He is a slick customer, to whom the rest of the world must be subservient. Therefore, I hope and believe that those. who were responsible for this treatment of America's former ally are not typical of the American nation, but are only a disreputable element in it. 
I have said all that I wish to say regarding America and Germany, past and present. What is the outlook? I think that we are faced with a very bright outlook. The sunburst of hope is at last appearing on the horizon, and I believe that this troubled world of ours is in for a better time. If we have reached the stage at which the nations of the earth can come together and impose moral force to the extent of declaring that war shall be no more, a distinct and marked advance has been made, and the message of our Divine Lord, "On earth peace, goodwill toward men," will still have some meaning for mankind. -  [Extension of time granted.]  - We have every reason to face the future with confidence and hope, and to believe that those individuals and nations which in the past have assumed a most arbitrary and aggressive bearing have toned their attitude down, and that the better side of human nature, the moral side, is for the first time triumphant. It is all a struggle between moral and material elements. When the material element is paramount, we have war and aggression, bloodshed and untold suffering. When the moral element is paramount - which is seldom - the reign of justice is established and the weaker  elements can breathe. In the past, the moral side of our nature, in spite of age-long set-backs, has triumphed over the material side and guided our steps along the road to civilization. May we not, therefore, entertain the hope that that moral side will be further developed to the point when "War shall be no more " and " The war drums throb no longer ". We can at least reach that point by stages. It was by slow degrees that we reached the present stage of the reign of reason instead of force. Reason still prevails throughout the world. The moral side of our nature has been attuned to the pitch of recognizing that the weak among us have rights and that the preservation of the weak elements constitutes the main claim of civilization to exist. The strong are always in the right, because they can enforce their will. Aristotle said that it is only " when combatants are equal that justice is established. " We have travelled a long way since his time, and can now say that the weak elements unquestionably can have justice on their side and can be triumphantly vindicated. Using the past as our lamp of experience, may we not face the future with minds full of pleasurable anticipations and hearts full of hope ? It is the earnest hope of all citizens that that peace and concord which exist within nations may embrace the wider sphere of the relations between one nation and another. In the past such a condition has existed to only a limited extent. We want that limitation removed, so that peace and goodwill shall become universal. Holding that view, I welcome with pleasure the Kellogg Pact. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Payne)  adjourned. 
.  - I regret that I cannot congratulate the Minister who represented the Commonwealth at the Ninth Assembly of the League of Nations on the effort that he made yesterday afternoon  to  acquaint honorable senators with what had transpired at that gathering.  His  speech reminded me of the story of the minister who asked one of his parishioners what she thought of his sermon. " In the first place, minister, " replied the old lady, " you read it ; in the second place you read it badly ; and in the third place, it was nae worth reading. " When a Minister returns from an Assembly of the League of Nations, we are entitled to expect from him a far better account of its proceedings than that which was given yesterday afternoon. I am most enthusiastic in my support of the League of Nations, because I honestly believe that it is only by supporting the principle of arbitration for the settlement of international disputes that we shall make any progress. Yesterday afternoon the Minister merely read to us a bald statement, which suffered greatly by comparison with the accounts that were given by previous delegates, and particularly by one who is not now a member of the Senate. There are many points upon which we should like to have some information, and specially interesting to us are those relating to migration and disarmament. How far has the movement for disarmament progressed, and what is being done to-day in regard to it 1 It is the most vital of all the questions that come before the league. At the time of the peace conference in May, 1919, the German delegation made the following observations with respect to Part V of the Covenant: - 
Germany  is  prepared  to  agree  to  the basic idea of the army, navy and air regulations - provided that this  is  a beginning of a general reduction of armaments. 
To this observation the Allied Powers made the following much quoted answer :  - 
The Allied and Associated Powers wish  to  make  it  clear that their requirements in regard  to  German armaments were not made solely with the object of rendering  it  impossible to resume her policy of military aggression. They are also the first step  towards  the reduction and limitation of armaments, which they seek  to  bring about as one of the most fruitful preventives of war, and which it will he one of the first duties of the League of Nations  to  promote. 
I should like to hear exactly how far we have gone on that road. The problem is an extraordinarily difficult one, and may prove the root of future trouble. Dealing with the proneness of a nation to regard as suspect the intention of another country in perfecting its arma-  meats, Lord Grey of  Fallodoon,  in bis intensely interesting book,  Twenty-five Tears,  writes in Vol. 1, pages 91-92 - 
The moral is obvious; it is that great armaments lead inevitably to war. If there are armaments on one side, there must be armaments on other sides. While one nation arms, other nations cannot tempt it to aggression by remaining defenceless. Armaments must have equipment; armies cannot be of use without strategic railways. Each measure taken by one nation is noted, and leads to counter-measures by others. 
The increase of armaments that is intended in each nation to produce consciousness of strength, and a sense of security, does not produce those effects. On the contrary, it produces a consciousness of the strength of other nations and a sense of fear. Fear begets suspicion, and distrust, and evil imaginings of all sorts," till each Government feels it would be criminal and a betrayal of its own country not to take every precaution, while every Government regards every precaution of every other Government as evidence of hostile intent. . . . 
But although all this is true, it is not, in my opinion, the real and Anal account of the origin of the Groat War. The enormous growth of armaments in Europe, the sense of insecurity and fear caused by them - it was these that made war inevitable. This, it seems to me, is the truest reading of history, and the lesson that the present should be  learning  from the past, in the interests of future peace, the warning to be handed on to those who come after us. 
The Allied and Associated Powers made a definite promise in 1919 that they would take up the matter of disarma ment. We must discover a solution of this most difficult and intricate problem if civilisation is to survive. We find in Europe that states bordering on Russia say that it is impossible for them to disarm, so long as the Soviet Government has an extraordinarily large army and great armaments and 20 per cent, of the income of the nations is spent in preparations for war. 
A special committee was appointed by the Assembly of the League of Nations in September, 1925 - I think that the proposal emanated from the French delegation - to consider the subject of disarmament, so that this might be brought about at the earliest possible opportunity. Germany at that time was not a member of the League. The United States of America accepted an invitation to be represented on the committee, but the Soviet Government of Russia declined. Undoubtedly the ultimate goal must be disarmament on such a scale that nations will maintain only adequate forces for upholding law and order within their own boundaries. The Chinese delegate on the committee expressed the opinion that history showed no example of a totally disarmed state starting an  agressive  war, but his speech contained a warning for us. It was true, he said, that a Chinese Emperor over 2,000 years ago carried out total disarmament within his dominions, but unfortunately his dynasty fell, owing not to external aggression, but to internal rebellion. When we speak at large about total disarmament it should be remembered that we cannot carry on modern society in Australia, or in any other country, unless we have force behind the law. 
I am sorry to see the apathetic attitude adopted by members of both branches of this legislature to the League of Nations. I urge them to join the League of Nations Union in their own towns and to work for it. It is only by instilling the main objects and spirit of the League into the minds of the rising generation that progress can be made and future wars obviated. The world is largely controlled by fanatics, dreamers and cranks, and I think that the great hope of civilization lies in the League of Nations. The idea that war can be a source of national profit has been proved to be entirely erroneous. In a war such as the last great contest, the victors have probably suffered more than the vanquished. The view is held by many that war is a school of character - that it helps to mould character - but my experience on active service from 1914 to 1919 convinced me that that also is an illusion. Another illusion is that war permanently cements national comradeship. That is not so. Nothing noble, great or precious has ever come out of war, beyond its own immediate object of preventing one nation from imposing its will on another. War is about as barren, of good results as a plague or a fire. We must continue to preach the futility of war and work in the interests of peace. I know of no better means of producing a friendly spirit among the nations than by working to that end through the League of Nations Union. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator FOLL  adjourned. 
.- - The Government is to be congratulated on having introduced this bill. The establishment of a Forestry Bureau will be in the best interests of Australia, and I therefore heartily support the second reading. 
This bill, which is similar to the Forestry Bureau Bill we discussed in this chamber in 1928, is far removed from the arena of party politics. Members of all parties recognize the necessity for the conservation of our timber resources. In the past we have neglected the great wealth of our forests; indeed, we have done more than neglect it, for we have allowed much valuable timber to be ruthlessly destroyed. We are, however, developing a forest conscience : there is a continually growing number of people in our midst who are interested in afforestation and urge that something be done to preserve our forest wealth. The establishment of a Forestry Bureau is a step in the right direction. In it we should be able to train young Australians in forestry matters, and, thus have available trained men for the forestry departments of the States. In one respect the bill before us differs from the measure we considered previously; it is proposed now to establish a trust fund for the reception and control of any funds donated to afforestation purposes. A gift of £5000 has already been received from one public-spirited citizen. I see no objection to the incorporation in this measure of a council to establish a controlling body to deal with such funds. In one direction the bill could, perhaps, be improved. It should include a provision for the establishment of an advisory or consultative board. In the Inspector-General of Forests,  Dr. Lane  Poole, Australia has an able man; but it would be well if arrangements were made for an exchange of views between the officers of the Bureau and of the forestry departments of the States. 
It may be a matter of administration; but the desirability of holding regular conferences should not be overlooked. Able as are the men in charge of our various governmental activities, no harm could be done by their consulting with others following similar pursuits. There is nothing new in my suggestion, for we know that from time to time conferences of railways commissioners, and irrigation and agricultural experts are held, while conference between the Premiers of the several States and Ministers representing the Commonwealth Government, have become almost an institution. I do not suggest the establishment of a board of control or that additional expenditure be incurred; I merely advocate that conferences be held from time to time to discuss afforestation matters. I feel sure that the establishment of a forestry bureau will be in the best interests of Australia, and I therefore support the second reading. 
[2.24]. - I am pleased that this bill has received the approval of honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  advocated the holding of conferences between the forestry officers of the Commonwealth and the States. Conferences of this nature have been held at irregular intervals in the past; the last of them took place about three years ago. Last year, a conference of Empire foresters was held at Canberra, rendering unnecessary a conference of Australian foresters. With the establishment of the Forestry Bureau, conferences will be held more regularly in the future, and it is confidently expected that great benefits will accrue from them. It is gratifying to know that this measure has such general support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
[2.31].- I move - 
That the Senate do  now  adjourn. 
Question resolved in  the  affirmative. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is a fact that, in September last, the Prime Minister gave a promise to the Australian Rotarians that Parliament would be adjourned in March of this year in order to enable them to hold their annual conference in Canberra? 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is the intention of the Government in the future to ask both Houses to meet on Tuesday, instead of on Wednesday, in each week? 
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
Have the South Australian Disabilities Commission completed their inquiry, and when is their report likely to be available? 
[3.15]. - I move - 
That Determinations Numbers 33 to 36 (inclusive) of 1928 made by the Public Service Arbitrator under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1920-1928 be disapproved. 
It is advisable that I should make a short historical survey of the relationship of the Public Service of the Commonwealth to the question of arbitration. Up till 1911 the Public Service of the Commonwealth did not possess the right of approach to the Arbitration Court. In many of the Public Services of the States to-day such a right does not exist. In 1911, however, the Fisher Labour Government passed an act which gave public servants the right of appeal to the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation -and Arbitration. There was not at that time a public service arbitrator. In 1920 that, act was amended to provide for the appointment of a public service arbitrator, to whom was transferred the power which was then held by the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration to deal with claims instituted by the Public Service. I shall refer to two sections of those acts. First of all, I direct attention to section 15 of the Arbitration (Public Service) Act of 1911. When that act was passed there was a Labour majority in both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament. Section 15 reads - 
Except as provided in this section, this act shall not' empower the court to make any award or order, or give any direction which is not in accord with the laws of the Commonwealth and the regulations made thereunder. 
The court may, where it thinks proper to do so, moke an award, which, in the opinion of the  President  of the court, is not, or may not be, in accord with a law or regulation of the Commonwealth relating to the . salaries, wages, rates of pay or terms or conditions of service or employment of employees; but in that case the  President  shall send to the Prime Minister, and to the Attorney-General, with the certified copy of the award, a statement of the laws or regulations of the Commonwealth with which, in his opinion, it is not, or may not be, in accord. 
Tho Prime Minister shall, within fourteen days after its receipt, if the Parliament is then sitting, or if not then within fourteen days after the next meeting of the Parliament, cause the award, and the statement (if any) of the  President,  to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 
If, before the award is laid before the' Parliament, the Attorney-General advises the Prime Minister that, in his opinion, the award is not in accord with any law or regulation of the Commonwealth referred to in the opinion, the Prime Minister shall cause the opinion to be laid, together with the award, before both Houses of the Parliament. 
If, in the case of an award accompanied by such a statement of the  President,  or opinion of the Attorney-General, as is above referred to, either House of the Parliament, within 30 days after the award with the statement or opinion has been laid before both Houses, passes a resolution disapproving the award the award shall not come into operation. 
Except as provided in the last preceding subsection, but subject to the Constitution, the award shall, from the expiration of those thirty days or such later period as is specified in the award, have full force and effect notwithstanding the provisions of any law or regulation of the Commonwealth. 
I invite honorable senators to ask themselves why that provision was inserted in the law. In the first place, the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration did not then, and does not now, possess the power, without restriction, to make any award that contravenes a law of the Commonwealth. There is a very good reason for that provision. The Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration is the creation of this Parliament. Parliament will not give to an authority which it has created a power greater than that possessed by itself. The position was that the Parliament had always had control of the Commonwealth Public Service, its salaries and its conditions of employment. It was now proposing to give to a court created by itself authority to alter and adjust those salaries and conditions of employment - a power that affected the public revenues and expenditure of the Commonwealth which ought to be within the control of Parliament. It was passing on to a body of its own creation a power which would affect the revenues and expenditure of the Commonwealth over which it is assumed to have control, and, therefore, Parliament said: "Although we give to you, the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, the power to make an award which may clash with or override a law which we have made, we retain to ourselves the right to disallow that award in so far as it transcends or cuts across any law or regulation of the Commonwealth." Parliament did that in order that it should retain within its power the final determination of questions which would affect the revenues and expenditure of the Commonwealth. The obligation was placed upon the court itself to draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government, in the first place, and, through the Government, the attention of Parliament, to the fact that, in a particular award, it had made provisions which were inconsistent with a law or regulation of the Commonwealth. Parliament provided further that such an award, together with the statement, should be laid before both Houses to enable any member, if he thought fit, to move for its disallowance, and should not become operative until it had been before Parliament for- thirty days without such action having been taken. The only alteration made in the act of 1911 is that the limitation, which was placed upon the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, is transferred to the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator. From the time when the Public Service Arbitrator began to function, he has on numerous occasions given certificates to the Government to the effect that determinations made by him are in conflict with certain sections of an act or regulation under an act of Parliament. To one particular section of the Public 
Service Act I think it convenient at this juncture to draw special attention. I refer to section 90, sub-section (3) of which states - 
Payments of money to officers, other than for salaries or prescribed transfer or travelling allowances or expenses, or other prescribed allowances, shall be made only under the authority of the board. 
I direct the attention of the Senate to the fact that that provision was not made by the Public Service Board, but by Parliament itself. It laid down in this act that the Public Service Board should be the only authority to make payments to officers in the way of allowances or expenses. When the Public Service Arbitrator came to deal with this particular case he cut across that provision which Parliament had deliberately made; and he draws attention to that fact in the certificate that he presents. He cites this particular section of the Public Service Act as one of those with which his determination is in conflict. In other words he says to Parliament, " You provided in the Public Service Act that the Public Service Board should be the authority to decide the question of allowances, but in this determination which I have made I have taken the authority to make an allowance which the Public Service Board has not made and I direct your attention to it." 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCEYes, and he directs the attention of Parliament to it. The determination with that information is laid upon the table, and Parliament's attention is invited to it. Now two courses are open to Parliament. It may if it pleases take no action. In that case it will have tacitly agreed to two things - to another authority, the Public Service Arbitrator, being set up to do these things, although it has said in the act that the Public Service Board shall be the authority to do them, and it will have agreed also to these particular determinations. 
I stress this point again, because it is a most important one. The Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration does not have, and never has had the power to override or cut across any law or regula tion made by this Parliament or under the authority of this Parliament. I wish that fact to sink into the minds of my honorable friends opposite, because of the attempt that has been made to contrast the action of the Government in moving to disallow these determinations with the action of certain people outside in disobeying an award of the Arbitration Court. There is that vital difference between these two cases. The next point which I emphasize is that a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator is not an award at all until the procedure that I have mentioned has been observed. His determinations are entirely different from awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Court. Once the latter are given they immediately become operative. It is true that the court may say that an award shall operate from a date in advance of the day on which the award is given, but it is in all senses an operative award. The determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator are of two kinds. There are those that do not cut across any law or regulation of the Commonwealth, and those, like awards of the Arbitration Court, are effective when made. They are as a matter of practice laid on the table of Parliament for the information of the Parliament, but they are at once effective. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No, not in the same way as determinations of the other class. The provision for the disallowance of determinations made under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act relates only to those which contravene some law or regulation of theCommonwealth. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCENo, and the honorable senator will notaccuse me of having begged the question when I conclude my remarks. I am dealing with these two phases of the subject to show that there is a distinct difference between an award of the Conciliation and Arbitration Court, such as that which should be operating in  the timber industry to-day, and a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator which is in suspension until the procedure laid down in the act has been complied with. Parliament must be informed of these determinations. It is then for Parliament either to acquiesce in the determination by taking no action within the time fixed or to exercise the power it has reserved to itself, and disallow the award. There is that vital difference between the two classes of awards or determinations. 
Fifty or sixty, or probably as many as 100. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. The Government does not say that this award should be disallowed merely because it happens to clash with a law or regulation of the Commonwealth. 
I shall come to that presently. I am only saying now that where they so clash they are not awards until Parliament has been' given the opportunity to declare its will - either by its silence or by taking definite action. There is, as I have said, that vital difference between the two kinds of awards. In this case the Public Service Arbitrator has drawn attention to the fact that his award does contravene, a law of the Commonwealth as well as a number of regulations. That brings us to consider how and by whom those regulations were made. I have already directed attention to section 90 of the Public Service Act. The regulations which have been contravened by the Arbitrator's award were drafted in the first place by the Public Service Board, and by that body referred to the Government. Having received Cabinet consideration, they were presented to, and approved by the Governor-General in Council, after which they were laid before both Houses of Parliament. Thereupon, any member of Parliament had the right to move that they be disallowed. Unless Parliament exercises its right to disallow them, such regulations are tacitly accepted by Parliament. In that way do regulations generally receive the imprimatur of Parliament. To attempt to make it appear that for a government to ask Parliament to disallow a determination made by the Public Service Arbitrator, is to offend against the principles of arbitration, is, in my judgment, to exercise a very wide stretch of the imagination. The course of action taken by the Government was deliberately provided for in legislation introduced by a Labour government - the first government to give to the public servants of this country any right to arbitration at all. That Government apparently saw the necessity for some safeguard. This provision must have been inserted in the act for some definite purpose; and evidently the Government of that day foresaw that the time would arise when Parliament would need to exercise its prerogative. 
Another dissimilarity between an award or determination of the Public Service Arbitrator and an award of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration is that in one case Parliament has deliberately provided for the right of appeal while in the other there is no appeal. It is true that on a point of law an appeal can be made to the High Court against an award of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration ; but there cannot be any appeal on the merits of the award. In that respect the court's award is final. An award of the Public Service Arbitrator, however, is not final; Parliament has deliberately made itself the final court of appeal in such cases. 
In order to examine this attempt to draw an analogy between the attitude of the Government in this case and the action of those who are defying an award of the Arbitration Court in connexion with the timber industry, let us assume that there is an appeal from an award of the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, that it is not final. In such circumstances, would honorable senators opposite utter one word of criticism of the members of the Timber Workers' Union if they appealed against the finding of the court? Not only would they justify an appeal in such circumstances, but they would assist the union. In the case before us, the Government is simply exercising the power of appeal which Parliament itself has provided; and because it does so, it is said by some that its action is on all fours with that of those members of Parliament who are advising a section of the workers to break a law of the country. Surely those who speak thus experience difficulty in finding arguments. 
The applicants who appeared before the Public Service Arbitrator were not the employees who would be affected by the granting of these allowances, but their representatives. 
On the benches of the Senate sit representatives of the people of Australia. They, I feel sure, are capable of seeing that justice is done. The Government is appealing to Parliament as it has an undoubted right to do. It considers that these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator should be disallowed, and it now asks Parliament to disallow them. Various reasons for the Government's action could be given. First, the Government considers that it is unwise to have two authorities set up by Parliament to deal with the same matter. The question of allowances is complicated; it is not confined to any one portion of the Commonwealth, but affects the whole of Australia. It, therefore, calls for examination by an organisation which is in a position to make inquiries throughout the Commonwealth. The Public Service Board is in such a position. It has an organization specially framed to give it a full knowledge of the conditions of public servants throughout the Commonwealth. It has inspectors and officers in every State and can gather information as to the cost of living, the climatic conditions, and other matters in any portion of Australia. The Public Service Arbitrator has no such organization at his disposal. It is true that he can call witnesses; but they are generally interested persons who give  ex parte  evidence. The body which Parliament has set up to fix these allowances is much better equipped to deal with them than is the Public Service Arbitrator. For that reason the Government considers that the determination of allowances should be left to the Public Service Board. 
That matter is provided for in the Public Service Act. Every public servant has a right of appeal from a decision of the Public Service Board to another body upon which he is represented. 
Other reasons advanced in support of this motion are that the determinations will cause confusion, and are unfair in their incidence to other public servants. I shall cite facts in support of those contentions. First of all it is "claimed that this is a cost of living allowance. The grounds upon which it has been granted are that certain public servants who were compulsorily transferred from Melbourne to the Federal Capital on the transfer of the central administrations of the various departments, were given a cost of living allowance, and therefore all others who are transferred from any other parts of the Commonwealth to Canberra for any reason should also receive that allowance. Let us examine that position. When it became apparent that the time had arrived to transfer the central administrations of the Parliament and the various departments from Melbourne to Canberra it was obvious that the officers of the departments concerned in the transfer were to be put not only to serious inconvenience, but also to considerable financial loss. The transfers of those departments followed as. an act of policy on the part of the Parliament, and the officers so transferred had either to come to Canberra or leave the service. 
Representations were made to the Government through the various public service associations, and by members of Parliament from both sides, that some special provision should be introduced to compensate those compulsorily transferred. The Government and the Public Service Board examined the problem and were satisfied that the position was as stated, that the men compulsorily  transferred  would be subjected to considerable inconvenience and expense, and that some allowance should be made to them. The Public Service Board suggested an allowance, which was approved by the Government, a regulation providing for it was laid on the table and meeting with no dissent from Parliament, became law. Contrast those compulsory transfers with other transfers of public servants throughout Australia, to Canberra or elsewhere. Assume that the position of postmaster becomes vacant in some town in New South Wales. Every such position has a certain salary and grade attaching to it, and the officer vacating it probably moves up to another position with a higher salary and grade. The vacancy is filled either by some officer already of that grade and salary or, as more generally happens, by an officer of a lower grade and salary, which means for him promotion and an increase of salary. But there are certain places in the Commonwealth where district allowances are granted, because of the existence of three factors - remoteness, climatic conditions - such as  exprienced  in tropical areas - and excessive cost of living. As examples I mention Thursday Island, Broome, Eucla, in the Great Australian Bight, Darwin, and Cobar in New South Wales. In each of those districts one of those three factors exists, and public servants transferred to them receive a special district allowance. But it must be remembered that if an officer is called upon to transfer to such districts, he has the right of appeal. The transfer is not compulsory. A man living in Perth may receive a notification that he is to be transferred to Marble Bar, in the north-west of Western Australia. . He may appeal to the Public Service Board stating that he has a young family about to enter the secondary schools, and that it is proposed to transfer him to a centre where no facilities exist for the proper education of his children. The facts would be considered by .the board, and the vacancy might be filled by another appointee more suitably situated. Again, an officer may receive notice of transfer from the Victorian metropolis to some country town, and may appeal against it. If he advances sufficiently sound reasons against the transfer, the Public Service Board will not press it. Therefore, these officers are not compulsorily transferred. The acceptance of this award would import a new principle into our Public Service administration: the principle that allowances shall be governed by the cost of living. If that were accepted it would mean that if a man were transferred from Sydney to Canberra he would have to be paid an allowance, as the cost of living is greater in Canberra than in Sydney. Likewise, if he were transferred from, say, Dead Dog Valley to Sheoak Flat, and the cost of living was greater at Sheoak Flat, he would be entitled to receive an allowance. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that the Public Service Arbitrator fixes wages solely on the cost of living, and does not also take into consideration the amenities of a place or district? 
Is this not a wage allowance? 

<graphic href="120332192902202_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

In St. Arnaud, which is not more than 200 miles from Melbourne, the cost of living is considerably more than in Melbourne, yet officers there do not receive any cost of living allowance. As a matter of fact, no cost' of living allowance is paid anywhere in Victoria, notwithstanding the disparity that exists in the cost of living, as shown by the index figures I have just given. If the principle enunciated by the Public Service Arbitrator in these determinations were established, how could its application be resisted in any of these cases ? Again, the index number for Canberra is 1159 - lower than that of three of the Victorian towns I have named - yet, according to the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator, any officer transferred from Sydney to Canberra would receive £34 a year as a cost of living allowance, whereas, if he were transferred to St. Arnaud in Victoria, he would receive no allowance, although the cost of living would be greater there than here. 
Do those index figures include house rents? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. A special housing allowance is paid in Canberra. 
There are many towns in New South Wales where the cost of living is higher than it is in Canberra. Whereas the index number for Canberra is 1159, for Blackheath it is 1232, Coonia 1233, Katoomba 1159, Kiama 1145, Nowra 1180, Port Kembla 1166, and for Queanbeyan, just on the border of the Territory, 1169. For Yass, which is close to the territory, if is 1149 and for Sydney 1129. There is no district allowance for the portion of New South Wales that surrounds the Federal Capital Territory, nor are postal officers given a district allowance in any of the towns within easy reach of the Territory. Although the index figure as to the cost of living in Cooma is 1233, compared with 1159 in Canberra, an officer transferred from Sydney to Canberra would under these determinations get £34 more than an officer transferred from Sydney to Cooma. Two postal officials on exactly the same grade and salary have been transferred within the last month or six weeks from district towns in New South Wales, the one to Canberra and the other to Queanbeyan. If the Public Service Arbitrator's determinations stand the officer transferred to Canberra will get £34 a year more than the officer transferred to Queanbeyan, although according to the index figures, the cost of living in Queanbeyan is greater than it is in Canberra. If an allowance is to be paid on the basis of the cost of living one would think that it would be paid to the officer in Queanbeyan and not to the officer in Canberra. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The officer in Canberra, whether he has been compulsorily transferred or not, gets a housing allowance. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They do. In fact these figures were submitted in evidence when the case was before the Public Service Arbitrator and were not disputed. When the Arbitrator made his determinations he stated that the cost of living in Canberra was higher than in Sydney, and, assuming that all officers to whom the claims related were transferred to Canberra from Sydney, he granted an allowance for housing and cost of living. But that assumption of his was erroneous. More than 50 per cent. of the postal staffs, far from being compulsorily transferred from Sydney, come from provincial towns in New South Wales. Special allowances to meet the conditions of officers compulsorily removed from Melbourne to Canberra, if extended to' all employees here, would create anomalies and place officers who receive no allowances in provincial towns of New South Wales and other States in an unfair position. The cost of living in Canberra, bearing in mind the fact that rental does not come into consideration, as all officers in Canberra receive a housing allowance, is not as high as in many towns in New South Wales. Acceptance of the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator would involve an extension of the allowance system to those towns and to other localities throughout the Commonwealth, where, up to the present no allowance has been considered justifiable. There are no district allowance post offices in Victoria, although there are several towns, such as those I have mentioned, where the cost of living, exclusive of rentals, is higher than it is in Canberra. Of 422 post offices in New 
South Wales, there are only 51 whose staffs receive a district allowance. The highest allowance payable is £40 per annum, and this amount applies to seven offices only. Tho allowance' falls as low at £10 in some cases, whereas in Canberra it is £34 in all cases. There are offices in many towns in New South Wales, in which the cost of living, exclusive of rentals, is higher than in Canberra, but in respect of which no district allowance is payable. I refer to such places as Blackheath, Cooma, Nowra, Port Kembla and Queanbeyan. The present postmaster at Canberra was formerly postmaster at Coonamble. Immediately on his transfer to Canberra he received an increase in salary amounting to £54 per annum and, as is usual in such cases, he entered a higher grade. The- cost of living, exclusive of rental, is higher iu Coonamble, where he received a district allowance of £20 per annum, than it is in Canberra. Thus if the Public Arbitrator's determinations stand although this officer was transferred from a town where the cost of living is higher than it is in Canberra, and although he received a promotion involving an increase in salary amounting to £54 per year, he will get an additional £34 per year as compensation for the alleged disadvantage he will suffer through his transfer to Canberra. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It does. I am quite sure there is a great deal of misconception in the minds of the general public in regard to this matter, but I trust that when the real facts of the position are fully grasped, it will be seen that the Government had no other course than to adopt the action it is now taking. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There has been. The Government and the Public Service Board fully recognized that houses provided for public servants in Canberra cost an excessive amount. Owing to the determination to remove the Seat of Government from Melbourne to Canberra within a certain period, there was a rush to get the buildings erected in time, and the work had to be done at a time when labour and material costs were high. 
The occupiers of the houses were not responsible for those excessive costs. They did not build the dwellings. They did not even have a voice in the letting of the contracts for them. In these circumstances, the Government and the Public Service Board made a uniform rental allowance, applicable to all Commonwealth officers in Canberra, whether they were compulsorily transferred or not. The rental position, therefore, does not enter into consideration in assessing the cost of living here. I feel confident that, with these facts before them, the Senate will agree to the motion for the disallowance of these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
As this is simply a machinery measure to fulfil the laudable object of extending to the territories of the Commonwealth, including the mandated territories, the same laws as obtain in other parts of the Commonwealth in relation to designs, I have no objection to offer to the second reading. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I do not intend to discuss this bill at any great length, because when a similar measure was before us towards the end of the last Parliament, I dealt with it in detail. With one or two slight alterations, the bill is the same as that which lapsed last session. It is to these alterations I shall confine my remarks. When the bill of last session was introduced I said that it was not before its time, because the Commonwealth lagged very much behind the States in respect to this class of legislation. I pointed out that every State in the Commonwealth had workmen's compensation laws vastly in advance of the Commonwealth act. I alluded to the fact that, even in the case of conservative Great Britain, legislation had passed the House of Commons to award compensation for injuries received in the industrial battle field whether the result was partial or total incapacity, or unfortunately, death, and that such legislation was much ahead of the law on the statute-book of this youngest member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. Yet we boast that in regard to social legislation we are in advance of the rest of the world! 
When the original bill was before us towards the end of last year the Government saw fit to reject certain amendments that were moved by honorable senators who sit on this side of the chamber. It gives me pleasure to find that the majority of those are included in this measure. We all know perfectly well that one of the first essentials to industrial peace in the Commonwealth is the contentment of the worker. In the election campaign of 1925, the Prime Minister said that one of the main causes of industrial unrest was the everpresent dread which haunted the workers, of the privation and suffering that would be brought upon their dependants in the event of their being stricken down by sickness. That can be easily understood. The worker knows not from day to day when he may be stricken down by injury in the occupation which he follows or incapacitated as a result of disease contracted by him while engaged thus. He is ever anxious as to what will befall those who are dependent upon him during the period of his incapacity, and more especially as to what the consequences are likely to be should the accident or illness end fatally. Therefore, it is imperative that legislation of this description should be so framed as to either remove that dread entirely or, if that is not possible, at least give him some sense of security, so that, should he be stricken down, those who are dependent upon him will not be left penniless. The Government of the Commonwealth should set an example in this regard. The statute-books of the States contain workmen's compensation acts which, in many cases, are in advance of even that which is now proposed by the Commonwealth. The measure that was brought down in 1928, I admit, was markedly in advance of the act passed in 1912. An attempt was then made to get into line with the times. The desire- of honorable senators who sit on this side was that we should be ahead of the times. Although the Government has embodied in this measure certain of our suggestions, I still think that, by comparison with State legislation, we are behind the times. I refer particularly to the question of compensation in the event of death, and, in the case of some of the States, the weekly p'ayments for total or partial incapacity. 
One of the most contentious subjects dealt with during the debate that took place last year was, whether or not the bill should provide for the payment of compensation in respect to occupational diseases. I had the honour to move an amendment in an endeavour to have embodied in that measure a second schedule providing for compensation for certain occupational diseases. It was my wish that we should make provision similar to that which is made in the West Australian act. . But the Minister who had charge of that measure  (Senator McLachlan),  on behalf of the Government, declined to accept any such amendment. I am glad that the Government has now reached a better frame of mind, and realizes that amendments which emanate from this side of the chamber are not wild or rabid, but that, on the contrary, they are reasonable. We believed that our request that provision should be made for occupational diseases was a reasonable one; but the Minister contended that there was no need for the Commonwealth to embark on that larger field. He said : - 
The matter was investigated by officers of the Department of Health, to see if there was any need for provision to be made in the direction he then suggested, and in a most exhaustive report which was furnished, it was stated that - 
Provision in the bill for certain occupational diseases is of little moment, because there arc practically no Commonwealth employees subject to such diseases. The only branch where such disease might occur is the serum laboratory, and the only instance which appears to have arisen is in connexion with some cases of pneumonic influenza during the 1910 epidemic. 
He went on to say - 
I have also discussed the subject with the Minister for Health  (Sir Neville Howse)  who is of the opinion that there is no justification for the inclusion of a schedule such as tlie 
Leader of the Opposition suggests..... 
I ask honorable senators not to load the measure with matter which may be of little or no use. 
Yet despite the report of the officers of the Department of Health, and the statement of the  Minister for Health, the second schedule to this measure makes provision for about 80 per cent, of those occupational diseases for which I then wished to provide. 'One or two others should also be included, and in committee I shall move in that direction. Provision is made for arsenic, phosphorous, lead,, mercury, or other mineral poisoning; poisoning by benzol,  homologues  or their nitro and  amido  derivatives  (dimitrobenzol, anilin  and others) ; poisoning by carbon bisulphide ; and a number of other occupational diseases. We on this side can at least claim that in the period that has elapsed since the measure was previously before the Senate the Government has recognized the necessity which we then stressed of making provision, for occupational diseases. 
It is not customary in a second-reading speech to deal in detail with any measure ; but there is one clause which appeared in the bill of 1928 and also finds a place in this measure, to which I must refer. That is clause 18, which provides for the reduction of compensation where a pension . is payable under the Superannuation Act. I consider that that clause ought not to have been included. I want the Superannuation Act to stand alone in its relation to the Workmen's Compensation Act, just as the War Pensions Act stands alone in relation to the Invalid and Old Age Pensions Act. The income derivable from one should not be used as a set-off against the income derivable from the other. Let me assume that an employee of the Commonwealth is killed during the course of his employment. Under the provisions of this measure his widow would be entitled to a compensation payment of £700. Let me assume further that the capitalized value of the pension the widow would be entitled to receive under the provisions of the Superannuation Act would be £200. This measure cannot have the effect of reducing the amount to which the widow would be entitled under the Superannuation Act. It is, therefore, proposed to reduce the amount of £700 by a sum equal to one-half of the capitalized value of the Superannuation payment. - which, on the figures I have given, would mean a reduction of £100. Thus the widow would receive £600 plus £200 instead of £700 and £200. A similar principle is to be applied to the weekly payments. Paragraph  a  of clause 18 states - 
In the case where the injury causes tlie death of the employee and he leaves a widow, the total amount of compensation that would be payable in accordance with the  First  Schedule to this act, and also the share of that total amount which would be so payable to the widow, shall he reduced by an amount equal to the capitalized value at the date of the death of the employee of one-half of the pension payable to the widow under the said act. 
Similar words are used in paragraph  b,  which deals with the weekly payments in the event of total and permanent incapacity. The widow of this employee has contributed to the superannuation fund, through her husband, and as the result of such contributions she has perhaps denied herself some of the comforts and recreations of life, in the hope that in the event of being left a widow she would be in a position to care properly for herself and children. Now the Government says to her: "No, you will not receive the total amount to which the Workmen's Compensation Act entitles you. We shall deduct 50 per cent, of that, because of the money to which you are entitled under the Superannuation " Act." That is not equitable, and it is a direct tax on thrift. Let us compare the attitude of the Government to this matter with that adopted by it on other occasions to pensions. We have made legislative provision for  pensions for judges of the High Court upon their retirement. The pensions amount to half their salary, and in some cases the payment is as much as £40 u week. If members of the High Court deserve those pensions because they made monetary sacrifices when they relinquished their practice at the bar in order to go on the bench, is it right to tax the widow and children of the unfortunate employee who may lose his life while in the service of the Government? Our compensation law should stand alone, and so also should our Superannuation Act. Shortly after the War Pensions Act was introduced it was customary for persons who had availed themselves of the provisions of the Invalid and Old Age Pensions Act to have set off against the amount of their pensions the money received under the War Pensions Act. As time went on that deduction was recognized to be wrong, and an alteration was made. We are now starting out to improve our workmen's compensation law, and I recognize that this bill represents a great advance from the 1912 measure; but if clause 18 remains it will be a blot upon our legislation. I ask the Minister to think seriously about the abolition of this provision. When the bill reaches the committee stage it will be carefully considered by the Opposition, who, without any desire to embarrass the "Minister, will endeavour to include one or two additional provisions. 
 I did not intend to speak on the second reading of this, bill, but I find it desirable at this stage to refer to certain alterations, which I consider should be made. I refer the Minister to clause 6, and I invite him and the Senate to consider workmen's compensation as we know it in Australia. The growth of our workmen's compensation law, both statutory and judicial, is a most fascinating study, and it will be regrettable if this national Parliament places in this measure something which no other British Parliament would attempt to justify. This clause takes away from the workmen the right of having his grievances inquired into by a judicial tribunal absolutely removed from the control and influence of Parlia ment. It is proposed to vest in the Commissioner, a public servant, appointed by a Minister, the right of deciding not only the nature but the extent of the employee's injuries, and the amount of compensation to which he is entitled. The Minister may tell us that against that decision there is an appeal, the appeal being to a tribunal exercising County Court jurisdiction ; but I invite honorable senators to consider the powers of this Commissioner. Imagine the prospects of upsetting his decision before any appellate tribunal. Sub-clause (3) of clause G states - 
In the determination of matters and questions, the commissioner shall be guided by equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to  technicalities  or legal precedent and shall not be bound by any rules of evidence. 
If it had been the intention of the Government to create a chaotic state of affairs in connexion with our compensation system, it could not have invented a more effective provision than that: In the light of the opinions of authorities such as Willis, and others, I appeal to the Minister to ask himself whether it is fair to place this blot upon our system of workmen's conpensation, in which Australia has led the world. I ask him to hesitate before allowing this clause to become part of the statute law of the country. There are other matters to which I could address myself, but I propose to reserve them for the committee stage of the bill. I suggest that the Minister should agree to the adjournment of the debate in order that the matter which I have raised might be considered. If this clause became law it would make the position of the responsible Minister himself intolerable. Whatever party was in power, the rights of the workman would not be dependent, as they are to-day, on the judicial interpretation of the statutory laws of this country but would depend on the caprice and whim of the particular public servant who might be appointed by the Minister to the office of commissioner. 
 Apparently, after the thorough examination that the bill received during last session, honorable senators are satisfied to allow it to go into committee. I should like to remind the 
Leader of the Opposition that while he may lay the flattering unction to his soul that the efforts of the party opposite are responsible for the proposed amendment in regard to occupational diseases, honorable senators on this side of the chamber assisted in the matter. It will be recollected that  Senator Greene  and another honorable senator on this side pointed out to the Minister, who always welcomes suggestions for the improvement of legislation, particularly when they are backed by common sense, that one department which deals with meat inspection and in which the employees sometimes contract anthrax, had apparently been overlooked. The Leader of the Opposition will recollect that I undertook that while the measure was passing through the other branch of the legislature, a further examination would be made under this heading. I do not wish the Leader of the Opposition to have the idea that this alteration is due entirely to the exertion of himself and his party. The reports that I had before me when introducing the bill pointed to the fact that there was no necessity for the amendment to which reference has been made, and the point mentioned first of all by  Senator Greene  in regard to anthrax, opened up a new line of investigation. I am afraid I shall not be able to yield to the wishes of the Leader of the Opposition for the deletion of clause 18. As to clause 6, I point out to  Senator Daly,  whom I was glad to hear to-day for the first time in this chamber, but from whom we shall no doubt hear a good deal in the future, that this provision has been inserted with a view to assisting in the administration of workmen's compensation. The number of cases that come forward for compensation in the Commonwealth service are remarkably few, and the Government desires to adopt a simple method of procedure. The Secretary to the Treasury is quite independent of ministerial influence. I am glad that the measure has been so well received by the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 
If this clause, which contains a definition of commissioner, is agreed to in its present form, will it preclude an amendment being made later to give effect to the suggestion just made by  Senator Daly  to provide for a different basis of administration from that set out in clause  6? 
.  - In the event of the Senate agreeing to the suggestion of  Senator Daly,  I undertake to move for the recommittal of this clause. 
This clause gives the following definition of " County Court " : -  " County Court " means  a  county court, district court, or local court of any State, or territory being part of the Commonwealth, or any court exercising in any part of the Commonwealth a limited civil jurisdiction and presided over by a judge or a police stipendiary or special magistrate. 
As in Western Australia there is no county court, would any of its courts of limited jurisdiction come within the definition of " County Court ". 
The language of the clause is sufficiently wide to cover all courts. In Western Australia the judges or magistrates of the local courts would have jurisdiction. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
This motion provides honorable senators with an opportunity to express their views regarding the important document which was signed in Paris in August of last year. Every one who has the interests of the world at heart must welcome any action along the lines taken by  Mr. Kellogg  in framing that document. The older a man becomes the more he is convinced  not  only that the settlement  of  disputes  among  the  nations  by  means of war is barbarous, but that the effects of war are so far reaching, even among non-combatant nations, that every effort towards world peace is more than justified. The Minister, in moving his motion, said that there were fifteen signatories to the Treaty, representing the following countries :  - Germany, United States of America, Belgium, France, Great Britain and the British Dominions of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Irish Free State and India, and Italy, Japan, Poland and Czecho- Slovakia. 
While in Europe in August last, I had an opportunity of attending a most important conference at Berlin at which the Kellogg Pact was discussed. It may interest honorable senators to know that at that conference, which was held under the auspices of the InterParliamentary Union, 505 delegates were present. They represented the following 38 countries: The Union of South Africa, Germany, United States of America, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Denmark, Danzig, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Esthonia, Finland, France, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, British India, Dutch Indies, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lativia, Norway, Holland, Peru, Poland, Roumania, Yugoslavia, San Salvador, Sweden, Switzerland, CzechoSlovakia, and Uruguay. For the first time, Australia was represented at the conference of the nations. 
I was there at the request and on the nomination of the British group as the representative of Australia. The representatives of the nations at the conference, although not appointed by any government, were, however, representatives of the people of the countries from which they came. 
No, but that does not detract from the importance of the conference. All the representatives present at the conference recognized that they were in fact, the representatives of the people of the several nations. Later, I shall deal with the formation of the 
Inter-parliamentary Union. I have mentioned the representative nature of the conference to indicate how widespread is the feeling towards world peace. 
The honorable senator heard what I said, and I shall, therefore, not repeat my remarks. I desire to make my contribution to this important debate without heat, and I hope that I shall have the opportunity to do so. I consider it a great honour to have been associated with the representatives of so many nations in discussing matters of such importance to the world. The conference I attended was not the first of the kind. It was the twenty-fifth gathering of the Inter-Parliamentary Union of the world. That gathering unanimously, and amidst great applause, resolved to send the following telegram to Paris - 
The twenty-fifth Inter-Parliamentary Conference, composed of the elected representatives of 38 countries, sends a sincere greeting in the name of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, to the authors of the Pact condemning war - Messrs. Kellogg and Briand - and to the other representatives of States who will to-day solemnly sign that treaty. It expresses the hope that every other State will adhere to the document. Already at its twenty-second conference in Bern in 1924 the Union proclaimed the principle of the outlawry of war. It considers that one of its chief tasks will now he to work in favour of the complete embodiment of that high principle in international relations and in the legislation and policy of every country. (Sgnd. ) Lange, Secy. General. (Sgnd.) Schucking, Presdt. 
The following reply was received from M. Briand, and was read to the conference on Tuesday morning, 28th August - 
I greatly appreciate the message sent by you to-day, to all the signatories of the general pact for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy and I thank you in the name of my colleagues as well as in my own for associating the Inter-Parliamentary Conference with an international demonstration whose strength must be based on the sentiments of all the people if it is to contribute efficaciously to the maintenance of peace. I note with profound satisfaction that the Inter-Parliamentary Union intends in the future to work for the application of all the principles which are at the base of the covenant signed to-day in Paris. 

 Mr. Kellogg's reply reached Berlin too late to be read before the conference, but it was communicated to the InterParliamentary Council at its meeting held on the following day, 29th August. It was as follows :  - 
I have received your very complimentary message and assure you it is deeply appreciated. Please extend my thanks to the International Union and express my sincere hope that all nations will adhere to it. 
Possibly, but I shall not touch upon such a contentious subject. 
Very sincerely so. As I said last week nothing excited my admiration more during my visit to Britain, than the efforts of British manufacturers and workmen, operating under terrific handicaps, to regain the trade lost by Great Britain during the war. My tour made me prouder than ever that I came from such stock. 
I feel sure that  Mr. Kellogg  and his associates have introduced this Peace Pact in. all earnestness, but I was very uneasy when I read the following statements, which were made at San Antonio, Texas, on 11th October last: - 
Peace With Preparedness Theme at American Legion. 
I am sure that honorable senators will forgive me for interposing in this debate as a second string to the Ministerial bow. I had the honour to be the plenipotentiary of the Commonwealth at the signing of the Kellogg Pact, and I deem it a duty, not only to myself but also to my country, to express the opinion I formed of the occasion in the hope that it may lead honorable senators to give some thought to what is taking place in the great world outside. If my words serve no other purpose I shall be amply satisfied. It is a cold motion to which we are asked to speak - " That the paper be printed." It begets none of those emotions which should characterize a debate of this nature. It does nothing more than record, so far as Australia is concerned, the terms of the Kellogg Pact, signed on the 2'7th August last at Paris. But to my mind there is behind it all something that should appeal to us in this period of very rapid evolution through which civilization is passing. We are at last awakening to the responsibilities we owe to posterity. We have never had in the past any concerted effort on the part of the "nations to provide machinery or practical means of trying to avert for ever the tragedy of war as a means of settling international disputes or of overcoming the combatative instinct to which  Senator Lynch  referred. It is manifest that it is the intrusion of the League of Nations into the domain of higher politics, and humanitarian work among the nations, that has rendered possible the drawing up and execution of the Kellogg Pact. 
It was out of the travail of war that the League of Nations sprang. The souls of a million dead cried aloud to us to guard the world in future against such a holocaust as took place between 1914 and 1918. The Kellogg Pact, which is not something to be discussed in the cold terms we are obliged to employ in the motion, " That the paper be printed." has been said to be a gesture. It is more than that; it is a revolution. Throughout the centuries judicial decisions have built up a complete body of law dealing with war. Under existing legislation prize courts are established and all the necessary legal machinery is available should civilized peoples spring at each other's throats in an attempt to destroy each other and annihilate all that is brightest and most courageous among the respective nations engaged in the combat. But surely at this period of our civilization we who boast of our advancement and of our evolution as a human race must realize that we owe something to posterity for whom after all we are only trustees. Our actions to-day and our legislative efforts are only matters of fleeting moment. Civilization is slowly realizing that it owes it to posterity to do something to guard against such an awful period as was experienced from 1914 to 1918. It was, as I say, out of the travail of that period that the League of Nations sprang. The League was intended to accomplish something towards securing the world's peace. I think it has succeeded. At any rate it has succeeded up to date in keeping the peace of the world, and but for the spirit that animates the League itself, suggested as we know it was by the head of the great American race, the Kellogg Pact, this evolution in our international system of jurisprudence, would never have come before the people of the world for consideration. Apart from all the other effective work done by the League of Nations the fact that it has made this great gesture possible - if we are content to call it a gesture in the light of what I have said - is a tribute to the League itself. But behind it all there is something that deserves the closest consideration and study of every public man and politician. If the sentiment of the people of the United States of America is rightly interpreted by some honorable senators who have spoken, this pact is a deception and snare, but in my opinion it was public opinion in the United States of America that brought it into existence. By far the greater number of visitors to the Assembly of the League of Nations, which I attended last year, came from the United States of America. 
I will come to that point if I may. The question for the moment is whether this pact is a gesture by  Mr. Kellogg  aloneor by his government, or a gesture of the American people as a whole. I say that it is the latter, and that the sentiment of the American people as a whole has forced the pact on the public men of their country. 
The attendance of the people of the United States of Amercia at the recent Assembly of the League of Nations, and the interest they exhibited in the proceedings left no doubt in my mind that there was a great body of public opinion in America favorable to the return of the United States of America to the League of Nations as a full member. 
It is satisfactory to every man who would like to see the League brought to full fruition, because, as it was put during the debate on disarmament, the fact that the two great nations of the United States of America andRussia stood out of the League constituted a menace to the peace of the world and rendered it impossible for the people who were agreeable to a reduction of armaments to come to a definite conclusion as to what they should do. 
This pact is not a gesture; it is a revolution which will lead to some very definite move in the United States of America with reference to its future attitude towards the League of Nations. It is not for us in this chamber to criticize the United States of America at this moment, but I have not read of any body of public men or politicans who have been more subtle in connexion with this peace move than the Americans. I take the talk about the increase in the number of cruisers with a grain of salt; because I think things are heading at the present moment rather better than they have been for a considerable time past towards that time when America will be standing side by side with the civilized nations of Europe in an endeavour to substitute something for war. 
If we are not optimists in this matter what hope have we for the future of our civilization? Are the white people to go down by flying at each others throats as they did from 1914 to 1918? I believe that the white races represent the highest and finest civilization the world has ever seen. I believe in the process of evolution. But if we continue on the mad path of racial suicide, who will replace us in the future ? Honorable senators must remember that on the conclusion of the Great War they feared seriously that civilization might not really win out. We know that it was rocking on its foundations. If we are to allow another such . convulsion with the use of all the scientific weapons for the destruction of human life that can be employed, I tremble to think of the future. One should not be pessimistic when peace is concerned. The combative instinct referred to by  Senator Lynch  is one that we ought to be able to control. A man in his fiery youth when, as  Senator Lynch  put it, the "fizz" is in his blood, is a somewhat different human being from the man who has reached maturer  years. The honorable senator drew on his knowledge of medicine to show that nature itself provides for warfare within the human frame. I suggest to the honorable senator that he is not quite correct. It is true that nature always comes to the aid of the human being and rushes organisms to the wound inflicted, but the organisms that injure the human frame come from without and not from within. There is every reason for supposing that in the process of time - it may be a long, lonely path some of the races in the world will have to pursue - this ideal may be reached. We know, of course, that it is an ideal, but it is one that is worth while in the interests of our race. 
I have endeavoured to indicate what is in my mind, as directly as I think it would be wise for me to do. I repeat now that I said at Geneva : What, after all, is disarmament? I remind honorable senators that it is not the power, but the will, to do ill deeds that makes ill deeds done. If the people of America have a right conception of what is their sacred duty to the future, it matters not how many cruisers that nation possesses. Notwithstanding all that has been said to the contrary, Great Britain has been and continues to be the greatest factor in maintaining the peace of the modern world. Considerations relating to her own safety and the welfare of the vast dominions that are associated with her make it impossible for her to step into the ring, as some would wish, and to say, " We shall strip ourselves of this, and do away with that." My forebears in the north of Scotland probably fought like naked savages. It is not a question of disarmament, but of altering the psychology of the peoples of the world so that they will  view  this matter in its true perspective. This pact is a gesture in that direction. The spirit which underlies it is the spirit that has always actuated France's great Foreign Minister, M. Briand, to whose eloquence I had the pleasure of listening at the League of Nations, when in the strongest possible terms he denounced wars of aggression. At Geneva I heard the pact described as the Kellogg-Briand Pact, the pact of Paris, and finally as the Briand-Kellogg Pact. The mind of this man is more subtly attuned to the best means for obtaining some measure of world peace than is that of probably any other human being. He had previously endeavoured to secure the accomplishment of this ideal ; but it was the pressure of American public opinion that brought it to fruition through the person of  Mr. Kellogg.  How was this gesture received at Geneva? Honorable senators may be interested to learn that when the Kellogg Pact was executed a certain section of the European press, which either did not believe in or was definitely hostile to the League of Nations, endeavoured to use it as a weapon against the League, saying how much Kellogg could accomplish with a stroke of the pen and what little work the League had done compared with the amount of talk that was indulged in at its meetings. It appeared to me that the League's conception of its function was so great, and its standing in public esteem so high, that it could afford to welcome the Kellogg Pact, or any other pact of a similar character, adherence to which by the nations of the world could be obtained. At the opening of the Assembly the  President  of the League delivered himself as follows: - 
We greet the new treaty as a triumph for the cause, of peace and for our faith in the future of the League. The treaty is a great and precious help to us in our work, a new encouragement to press forward to success. Proof that the ideas upheld in this Assembly arc everywhere approved is furnished by this unanimous desire to register a solemn declaration, the same desire which, last year, was boldly embodied in the resolution - adopted on the proposal of the Polish delegation - condemning wars of aggression. 
He might have added that it was the same arrangement that M. Briand had outlined three years previously. Then M. Politis, the representative of Greeceone of the most skilled advocates in international jurisprudence it would be possible to find - made the following observations : - 
It filled the most important of the gaps in the Covenant of the League. It filled up the breach in Article 15, paragraph 6,- of the Covenant, and transformed into a positive law the fundamental principle of the Protocol of Geneva of 1024, namely, the prohibition of what had always been called in that Assembly the war of aggression. 
He went on to say - 
For the first time in the history of humanity, States had agreed to renounce war as a resort to force in order to push their claims. They consented to abandon what had hitherto been regarded as the most essential prerogative of sovereignty. This was more than a great innovation in international morality. It was a real revolution, and certain consequences of that revolution deserved to be noted. 
Those are men who speak on behalf of Europe. I have already said that M. Briand is the most alert and, probably, the best-informed man, concerning peace, in Europe. For centuries his nation has lived under the shadow of impending wars. Shortly after the Kellogg Pact was signed, the fact was broadcast throughout France, and it was acclaimed in Paris on the anniversary of the signing of the armistice. It was said that, for the first time for centuries, the people of France now felt free. "We, in Australia, have enjoyed the security that arises from the fact that 12,000 miles of ocean separate us from the centre of hostilities, and we have also had the protection of the greatest navy the world has ever known. "We have not been subject to disturbing influences such as those that are begotten by the fact that your neighbour is sharpening his knife to deal with you, intriguing against you, plotting against you, using diplomatic means to bring about certain conditions for which he contends. That, however, has been the position of France for centuries. She has been the cockpit of Europe. Well might her people, taking the Kellogg Pact at its face value, exclaim, "For the first time for centuries we feel free." M. Briand, the mouthpiece of France, dealt with the Kellogg Pact in a speech which had a vein of sarcasm, but at the same time was characterized by a good deal of sincerity. Referring to one European country, he said - 
It was the country which was ready to make the most impressive theatrical gesture for the disarmament of the rest, and it desired that disarmament should be unreserved, complete and absolute. The signature of that country had been affixed to the Pact of Paris. It had. renounced war. What war? Was it merely war without further explanation, war which had in tlie past bespattered with blood almost every page of the history of the peoples? Was it war which under the impetus of national aspiration caused one country to attack another? That war had been condemned. But there was another kind of war which had not, it appeared, been condemned in the same manner.  The country to which he was alluding regarded that sort of war as a holy war, whereby, believing itself the standard-bearer of the truth for all the peoples, it would be brought to employ its might throughout the world in order to impose that truth upon them. Was that war less heinous than any other? It might be so. But its effects upon those countries which withstood it or attempted to withstand it would be none the less terrible and bloody. 
He concluded a magnificent oration  by  saying- 
It was therefore an urgent duty to associate the peoples in the action of the League, and to bid them be of confidence. 
Whatever may have been the power which moved the Government of the United States of America and  Mr. Kellogg  to bring about the execution of this pact, I am convinced that there is in America a great body of public opinion which is behind the gesture for which the pact stands. 
I hear a pessimistic voice behind me. Pessimism will not enable us to get anywhere. I am a pretty hard-headed Scotchman in matters such as this. I spring from a hot-blooded race that quarrelled and fought for centuries. But can any human being today justify war, and say that it is the right means for the settlement of disputes between civilized peoples? It is unthinkable; it is wrong. However little progress the League of Nations may have made so far, it has stood for a great deal which it is the duty of every public man to support so far as the safety of his nation will permit him to do so. We find men like M. Briand, the  President  of the League of Nations, and others, standing four square in an endeavour to secure a measure of relief for humanity. I ask honorable senators to try to look just a little beneath the surface, to show a little forbearance towards their great white brethren across the Pacific, to remember that this Kellogg Pact emanated from them, even though the spirit which underlies it was breathed at the Assembly of the League of Nations. 
We who desire the peace of the world should take a serious view of our responsibilities to posterity, and should not do anything that might prevent our great American brethren from taking .their proper place in the League of Nations. Carping criticism will not do any good. They have the money, they have the population. If it is their wish to continue to arm, let them arm. But there will be a day of reckoning for any government that acts in defiance of the wishes of the great American people. If I have diagnosed the Kellogg Pact aright, it emanated from the hearts pf the people of America, and it had to be given expression by  Mr. Kellogg  and the party which was in power at the time. 
If I have spoken somewhat heatedly, it is because I stand for the world's peace and wish to do everything I can to help in the consummation of that ideal. The Kellogg Pact came upon us suddenly. I did not know when I left Australia that I should be asked to do anything in connexion with it, but before I reached the Old World I observed that arrangements had been made for its execution in August. It is interesting to us Aus tralians, far removed as we are from the centre of world affairs, to hear the way in which this pact was received by the older, and perhaps more subtle nations. Paris accepted the pact with great solemnity. It regarded the date fixed for its execution as a gala day, and observed the occasion with as much ceremony as possible in order to make it impressive. The people of Paris hailed it as a day of freedom. Those who wish to see the peace of the world secured without those horrors with which some members in both branches of this legislature are acquainted - horrors which caused some of the most courageous to have lumps in their throats, when in the late war they called upon their troops to " hop over " - would have been delighted with the reception that  Dr. Stresemann,  of the German Republic, was given by the people of Paris when he accepted the pact. As he stepped forward to attach his signature to it, cheers resounded to the roof of the classic building, and there was no mistaking the sincerity of the people. This was not surprising considering that they had lived under the shadow of war for so many years. I cannot let the occasion pass without trying to state, in its true perspective as I believe it, the result of the Kellogg Pact. It may be a " scrap of paper"; but it has changed the whole outlook, and part of the fundamental basis, of our international system of jurisprudence. It has assisted the law of nations, and it has shown to the world at last that nations are thinking of the interests of posterity rather than in terms of present aggrandisement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carroll)  adjourned. 
[5.40]. - As we have not a very full business paper, I do not intend to ask the Senate to sit after dinner to-night. I therefore move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to reply to a question raised by  Senator Duncan  regarding the position of some of the staff of the Cockatoo Island Dockyard. I think that he referred particularly to the foreman and various other classes of men. This matter has been brought under the notice of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  whose reply I shall read. It is as follows : - 
Every one would like to see the activities of a yard like Cockatoo going on and expanding, providing ample avenues of employment for the skilled workman, and also for the unskilled worker. Unfortunately, however, a position had arisen where the work available to the yard did not justify the retention of tlie whole of'the staff that had previously been employed there. As with other matters, the Government had to take this question entirely  011  the basis of the actual merits of the case,  nml  make sure that even justice was being handed out to everybody. 
The first point was in regard to the war period, and the idea that from time to time was held of making a permanent staff at Cockatoo. That period was now a long way back, and anything that might have been contemplated then had been completely altered by subsequent happenings, because in 1923 the yard was handed over to the Commonwealth Shipping Board on the distinct basis that any old claims, prior rights, or anything of that sort had to be cleared up as at that date, so that the Cockatoo yard, under the new control, would be in exactly the same position as its competitors, and would not be handicapped in commercial competition by having placed on it any obligations that might have existed under the previous control. The whole basis of operations from 1923 was to be straight out commercial competition. The Government had even gone to the point of requiring the Commonwealth Shipping Board to take into account the income tax the yard would have paid if it had been a private show, so that there would be no longer any justification for the charge that they were engaging in unfair competition. The whole position had changed from 1923, and that was the actual and definite basis upon which the yard had been handed over. 
The other point with regard to the recognition of the extremely valuable work that was done by the yard during the period of the war, and any special compensation to the men who gave that service, was, of course, a matter that should have been dealt with, if dealt with at all, during tlie period immediately succeeding the war, when war gratuities were paid to the soldiers and other matters were dealt with. This brought them up to the period of 1923, and they had to try to see the position as from that date. One thing put forward was that men were to-day being given a month's notice who had rendered from eight to 39 years' service, a great part of which was with the State or Commonwealth, and the suggestion was that these men were being thrown out without receiving any recognition. This whole question had, however, been gone into in 1924, and a basis of compensation had been laid down as to the past, in the endeavour to clear the position up as at 1923 when the yard was taken over by the Shipping Board. The basis was that the permanent men of the dockyard should receive furlough in respect of their service to 31st August, 1923, and the temporary men to 29th June, 1921. The first date was the date when the Commonwealth Shipping Board took over, and the second date was when it had come over to the Prime Minister's Department, into the Shipbuilding Board of Control. The basis on which these payments had been made was that with twenty years' service a nian received six months pay, or if he were over 00 years of age and had at least eight years' service, he received three months pay, ranging up to five months according to the period by which his service exceeded eight years. 
It would be seen, therefore, that in 1923 the long period of service which men had given was recognized, and that was all that was done in the Public Service. After a period of twenty years' service, the permanent public servant was entitled to six months' furlough, but he was not forced to take that furlough. He could continue his service and draw pay for the period of six months after his retirement from the Public Service. In addition to this long-service furlough, there was the ordinary annual leave of three weeks, but that was entirely based on the principle of maintaining the welfare of the individuals in the Public Service. An officer had to take his annual leave or his rights to it lapsed, but the furlough to which reference had been made was based on long service, entitling an officer to six months' leave or the right to draw pay for it after the termination of his service. That had been done in regard to Cockatoo up to 1923, and any further recognition must be on something equivalent to the same basis as the Public Service. These employees would not claim to be more privileged than the permanent Public Service, and the situation visavis their service had been dealt with up to the date mentioned. From that date it was quite definitely laid down that this was to be an absolutely commercial show, run in competition with private enterprise, and that no rights to permanent employment or anything of that character were involved. 
This brought them up to the -present position, which was that the Government, instead of carrying on this activity under a Board created by the Government, proposed to lease the activity to the highest tenderer, but the intention was that the Cockatoo Dockyard should go on exactly as it was at the present moment, with the exception that any private contractor taking over the dockyard -would be in the position that there was no limit to the work that he could undertake, whereas in the High Court judgment of 1926, in the case of the contract by the Shipping Board with the municipal council of Sydney for .the supply and erection of machinery, there were very denned and definite limits as to the work the yard could undertake in the future if conducted by some Government instrumentality. They had to look at it from the point of view that there was to be no cessation of an activity at all; the activity was going on and the only basis of any consideration that the Government might give was that  there  was some long service that had never been recognized and that the Government felt that it desired to recognize that service on the termination of the employment of the individual. 
In the case of an old family concern that was proceeding to sell to some one else, where it was perfectly certain the business was going on, the heads of the concern might say : " These people have been with us for a long time and we are going to give our old servants some compensation," but that was an act of grace and was something that, unhappily, governments could not do. Governments had to go along the line of meting out strict justice, because they were dealing not with their own money, but with the taxpayers' money, and the position in regard to this handing over of Cockatoo was that no activity of Cockatoo was going to cease. If Cockatoo had provided avenues of employment in the past for a certain number of .men, it was to be hoped and trusted that these avenues of employment would continue in the future. Had the position been that the Government was not selling at all but was going on, there was, unhappily, no question that, in existing circumstances, every notice of dismissal that had been given at the present time would have had to go just the same. There would not have been any difference in the position, whether they had been going on or handing over to some one else. 
It was the economic circumstances of the moment that had forced the dismissals, not the fact that the Government was going to lease the dockyard. What he was saying had been illustrated by the case of the Sydney ferries. The ferries in question had been bought out at enormous cost and yet the  chairman  of the company had stated that he had saved £20,000 by doing that, and the point he (the Prime Minister) wished to stress was that economic Circumstances were responsible for the position that had arisen. The trouble had no relation to the fact that in three or four months time the dockyard might be handed 'over to some one else. 
The Government could not with any justice or fairness to all the other servants of the Crown in Australia give special compensation in these particular circumstances merely on the basis that it was handing over control. If there wore some other consideration which could bo put forward, dealing with what he hud said about the furlough period up to 1923, he was prepared to consider that. They might take, for instance, the fact that a public servant, while he received his six months at the end of 20 years, was entitled to a further six months if he went on for 40 years. There might be circumstances of that kind or some other parallel to the treatment that the public servant received after a certain period when his position became redundant. There might be some form of furlough rights, or other tilings to which he was entitled upon which it would be possible to base a. case; but he (the Prime Minister) was unable to take it on the basis merely that this transference was now taking place - some one else running the dockyard instead of the Government running it - and to say that that was a reason why all the staff which ceased to be employed by tlie Commonwealth because of economic circumstances should receive the concession asked for. 
The' other point was that it could well bo said "That is all right; you say that about us, but what about the Australian Commonwealth Line and its people?" The position there was that the Government had adopted a policy (although there was no Public Service sanction for it that he knew of) that where there had been an activity going on which appeared to give to the people concerned permanent employment, and by an act of government policy, the whole position was changed, causing that activity to cease, compensation should be granted to the people concerned. There had been two cases where that had occurred during the time that his Government had been in office. 
The Government had made drastic reductions in the defence activities of the Commonwealth about six years ago and had regarded the officers concerned as having a definite avocation which they were justified in regarding as a permanency. By its policy the Government had completely altered that position and it had seemed only fair and just that compensation should bo paid in these cases. In 1924 an arrangement had been made with the States by which taxation collections were dealt with on a common basis, Commonwealth and States, instead of two authorities carrying out the collections. That had meant a drastic reduction of the taxation staff of the Commonwealth, and the Government had agreed that  tha.t  was another case where compensation was equitable.  
When the Australian Commonwealth Line was sold, that was a cutting off completely of an activity that the Government had created: it had ceased to be an activity altogether so far as Australia was concerned. The head office of the new line was in Britain. There was a great reduction in the employment offering in the line, and, though a limited number of the employees were taken over, the head office was in London and the staff was reduced. The Shipping Board had submitted certain proposals for payment of compensation. These had been gone into by the Government which, finding it to be within the competence of the board to pay the compensation, had come to the conclusion that the circumstances were really parallel to what had been done in the case of the taxation staff and defence force. The Government had accordingly agreed to the payment of compensation, provided the board was satisfied that it was fair and just in the circumstances to do so, the understanding being that the rate of compensation should not exceed that paid in the case of the taxation and defence staffs. 
On examining the position of the Cockatoo employees, the Government was unable to see a parallel to what had happened in any one of the three cases referred to, by reason of the fact that Cockatoo was continuing. Cockatoo was going on. It would be necessary to employ people there in the same way as in the past, and, in these circumstances, the Government, after considering the matter, was unable to see how it could justifiably, and in fairness to all the other employees of the Crown, agree to compensation being paid. If, however, they could put forward any case based on long service and show that it was impossible to employ themat the dockyard and that they had not got the consideration that would have been accorded others similarly placed, he was quite prepared to consider that, but he saw great difficulties in their way in doing this, by reason of the fact that they had got to show that the cessation of employment was permanent and that that was the end of the thing. The redundant public servant went right out and he had no hope of getting back. He was afraid the only hope he could hold out was along those lines. He could not say, " Yes, general compensation to the people who, because of the economic circumstances of the moment, have to go out of the service at Cockatoo dockyard. " 
With regard to the point made that, in the event of compensation being paid, the Government should not take the definite date and definite moment of the handing over and say that only the people who were on the pay roll at that particular hour and minute would be entitled to consideration, he quite acceded to that. The Government would have to examine the whole of the circumstances and determine what was just and fair and who should be included in the compensation if people had gone off months before the handing over, but that would be only if they were prepared to consider general compensation at all. There would be full consideration of anything that might be submitted along the lines  he had indicated. 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the statement of the Prime Minister, which the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has just read. While it appears to be fair and reasonable, certain aspects of it are decidedly arguable. At this stage it is impossible for me to debate the matter, but I assure the Minister that at the earliest possible moment I shall obtain the views of those on whose behalf I acted upon the statement just read, and, provided they have a case, I shall be happy to pursue the matter further. Had the Prime Minister's statement been made public some months ago when representations were first made on behalf of these men to the Government, a great deal of the trouble that has arisen would have been obviated. Last week the Minister practically charged me with discourtesy for having brought this matter forward without notice. I have in my possession a letter signed by the Honorary Minister  (Mr. Marr),  on behalf of the Prime Minister, informing me that the matter was receiving consideration. The letter is dated April, 1928. Since then I have not received any further communication from the Prime Minister's Department as to the result of the consideration given to the matter. If a charge of discourtesy lies against any one, surely it lies against the Prime Minister's Department. Had I been communicated with earlier, it might not have been necessary for me to bring this case before the Senate. 'The action I took seemed to me to be the only way to get any satisfaction. I thank the right honorable gentleman for the statement he has read, and shall have pleasure in submitting it to the employees of Cockatoo Island dockyard principally concerned. 
.- Some months ago I moved a motion in favour of the abolition of the leasehold system of land tenure in the Federal Capital Territory and the substitution of a system of freehold. Among those who on that occasion dissented from my views was  Senator Cox,  who cited Johannesburg in South Africa as an example of a city in which the leasehold system of land tenure had proved a great success. At that time I was unable to challenge the honorable senator's statement, but later I communicated with the Town  Clerk  of Johannesburg and asked him to supply me, if possible, with a text book dealing with land tenures in Johannesburg and the Transvaal generally. I have just received the following reply :  - 
It is true that the leasehold system operates in London to a certain extent, but great disadvantages have accrued from it. During the concluding years of a lease, for example, buildings which otherwise would have been replaced by more modern structures, arc frequently allowed to remain. But London, the greatest city in the world, cannot be compared with Canberra. Here we must attract capital if we are to progress. 
Development in Canberra is at a standstill. A different system of land tenure is essential to the progress of the Federal Capital. I draw attention to the fact that the leases at Johannesburg contained very much better terms than those at Canberra. The lowest rental for land at Civic Centre, measuring about 20 feet by 108 feet, is £20 per annum, whereas in Johannesburg the rental was  only £6 per annum for a block 40 feet by 125 feet. Yet the development of that city was retarded because of the leasehold system. 
A miners' right does not extend for 99 years, but is renewable annually. The Minister will admit that usually only a poor class of building is erected on land held under a miner's right. That, in my opinion, throws an additional light upon the subject. The difficulty in obtaining finance for any costly building constitutes a great drawback to the leasehold system. In the Johannesburg case a re-appraisement of the land occurred and the values were  fixed for the remaining period of the leases, but after twenty years had elapsed the leaseholders became so exasperated that the authorities reverted to the system of freehold. 
I assume, from the intimation of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, that we shall not resume after dinner to-night. I have an important motion upon the business paper and would like the Senate to express an opinion upon it. In the circumstances, I am loth to see time wasted which could profitably be turned to account. The motion is on the business paper with a definite purpose. The industries mentioned therein have not yet been inquired into and, so far as this Government is concerned, might as well be situated in the heart of Africa. It is time that their condition wasinvestigated, and I suggest that this evening presents an opportune occasion for the Senate to discuss my motion. I do not wish it to be one of the "slaughtered innocents" at the end of the session. Too often this Senate begins a session with a lean business paper and concludes with a paper so full that many matters do not receive consideration. I urge the Government to distribute the business of the session more evenly, and I should like the right honorable the leader of the Senate to make a declaration as to when I may obtain an expression of opinion on my motion. 
[6.8] - So far as I am personally concerned I am perfectly willing that the Senate should resume after dinner. I point out, however, that to-morrow night is reserved for the transaction of private members' business and, as there is only one motion before that of which  Senator Lynch  has given notice, we should then have an opportunity to discuss his proposal. In the circumstances I do not think that it is necessary to ask honorable senators to come back to-night. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate  adjourned  at  6.9  p.m. 
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council,  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact that the Government has provided £300,000 towards the cost of assisting migrants to come to Australia during the current financial year? 
In view of the large number of unemployed in Australia at the present time will the Government discontinue this expenditure, and apply the sum now being used for migration activities to works of a developmental character, in order to relieve the position! 
£300,000 is provided on the Estimates, but it is anticipated that less than £200,000 will be used owing to the considerable decline in assisted migration to -Australia during the current financial year. The expenditure mentioned by the honorable senator is consequential upon mi agreement with the British Government on the one hand, and an arrangement of long standing between Commonwealth and States on the other hand, and it is part of the obligation associated with the expenditure in Australia of some millions of loan money under the £84,000,000 agreement. Assisted passages are  granted  only at the instance of individual State Governments. 
Assisted passages are at present being given to migrants requisitioned for or nominated through the Governments of thu States. Requisitioned migrants aru confined to farm workers, boy farm learners, and domestics. In the case of nominated migrants, a considerable proportion of them are wives and children of persons already resident in Australia, nominators undertaking the responsibility for the welfare of their nominees. Loan money at a low rate of interest is already available to the State Governments for sound developmental work under the £ 34,000,000 agreement. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Germany levies a duty of 2s. 9d. per case on Australian apples, whilst  apples  from New Zealand and the United States of America ure admitted into that country at a duty of ls. 3d. per case? 
If this is so, will the Government at once approach the German authorities with a view to having this differentiation removed? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
Yes. 
Tariff relations between the Commonwealth and Germany arc receiving careful consideration. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
What was the dato of the appointment of the royal commission to inquire into the question of child endowment? 
What has been, the cost of the commission to date? 
When is it expected that the report will be presented to the Government? 
28th September. 1927 
£15,386.  
The members of the commission are at present engaged oil the work of revising the report, which may, therefore, be expected shortly. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
What was the date of the appointment of the royal commission to inquire into the Constitution ? 
What has been the cost of the commission to date? 
When is it expected that the report will be presented to the Government? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions Eire as follow : - 
18th August, 1927. 
£15,937. 
No information has been received by the Government as to the probable date of receipt of the report of the royal commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Transport,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the construction of thu Red Hill and Port Augusta railway? 
If so, will the Minister inform the Senate as to when construction work will be started? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
The whole matter is governed by the amount of loan moneys available. Further consideration will be given to it when the estimates for the next financial year are being framed. 
See 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Was an application received from a Western Australian firm by the Tariff Board for a bounty on the production of oil of peppermint in that State? 
Did the Tariff Board recommend that a bounty be paid for the production of oil of peppermint? 
If so, why did not the Government give effect to that recommendation? 
The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow : - ). Yes. 
Yes - the report of the Tariff Board was laid upon the table of the House on 2nd December, 1027. 
It is not the custom to state matters of Government policy in reply to questions. 
I listened very attentively yesterday to the speech of the Eight Honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  when he endeavoured to give reasons why determinations Nos. 33 to 36 of the Public Service Arbitrator should be disallowed. The Minister commenced by saying that he would give an historical survey of these determinations, but I think he should also have given us a survey of another situation which developed as the outcome of the notice of this motion, and which caused' the Government and its supporters some anxiety and heart burnings. He did not tell the Senate that the motion we are now discussing was nearly flic means of bringing about the defeat of the Government, of which he" is such an eminent member, that a number of caucus meetings were held to determine exactly what action should be taken, or that some members of his party were hurriedly summoned to the party room to be disciplined for their absence from Parliament when this matter was the subject of discussion in another place. The whips were cracked and certain honorable members who were absent a week or two ago were summoned to attend. Travelling from the south with other members of the 
Federal Parliament I was surprised, if not amazed, to see one honorable member who sometimes condescends to -attend this Parliament journeying to Canberra. I was asked who the gentleman was, and some one said, "That is "Willy Watt, the inventor." I exclaimed " inventor of what?" and was informed that he was the inventor of excuses for not attending school. The right honorable member appeared in another place yesterday and this motion is now before us. It was suggested that it should have been submitted in another place instead of in this branch of the legislature; but the Government has succeeded in keeping the battle ground in this chamber. 
In moving the motion the Minister said that Parliament could not give to a body which it had created powers which were greater than those possessed by Parliament itself. The right honorable gentleman endeavoured to convince us that Parliament had never delegated its power to any other authority but I remind the Minister that in connexion, with industrial matters generally, it has delegated its authority and power to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court, from the decisions of which there is no appeal to this Parliament. On  a  question of law an appeal from a decision of the Arbitration Court can be made to the High Court of Australia, but an award of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court cannot be brought before Parliament for its disallowance as is being done in this instance. When the Commonwealth Arbitration (Public Service) Bill was before us in 1911, we were informed that the principal reason for its introduction was to render it unnecessary for the time of the legislature to be occupied in discussing the wages and conditions of employment of its servants. On that occasion I believe Parliament was practically unanimous in its support of that contention. In 1920 the original measure of 1911 was amended, and a Public Service Arbitrator, in the person of  Mr. Atlee  Hunt, was appointed. Since his appointment the Arbitrator has made many awards in connexion with the Public Service of the Commonwealth; but only two of them 
Lave been subjected to review by Parliament, his child endowment award, and r lie award before us to-day. Why has the Government on each occasion chosen the Senate rather than the House of Representatives to review the Arbitrator's award? It is true that the act provides that a motion carried in either House of Parliament disapproving of an award nullifies it, but it is significant that on neither occasion when the Government lias seen fit to challenge an award has it chosen another place as the battle ground. That its majority there is not so overwhelming as it is in this  chamber  is the reason for the Government's decision to bring the matter forward in the Senate. I- should be the last to suggest chat honorable senators sitting behind the Government are complacent, subservient or servile; but I submit that a question of this kind is a proper subject for discussion in the other branch of the national parliament. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate, when referring yesterday to a postmaster who was transferred to Canberra from Coonamble, said that he is in a better position here than he was before his transfer. I shall show that that is not so. As postmaster at Coonamble his salary was £462 per  annum,  in addition to which he received a district allowance - not an allowance to meet the high cost of living - of £20, and a further £15 for acting as Common.monwealth Electoral Registrar. His  total  emoluments at Coonamble therefore amounted to £497 per annum., but because the Government provided him with quarters a deduction of £40 per annum was made from his salary, leaving his net remuneration £457 per annum. To use the right honorable gentleman's words, this officer "was promoted to Canberra." In his new position he received a salary of £516 per annum and an allowance of £24 per annum in lieu of rent.  His  rent and taxes at Canberra, however, amount to £127 Ss. per annum, so that his present net salary is £412 12s. per annum, or £44 8s. per annum less than he received at Coonamble. When, a further allowance payable to him is received he will still he in receipt of £23 3s. 3d. per annum less than he received before his "promotion." Honorable senators will see that the present position of that postmaster is not quite so rosy as the right honorable gentleman would have us believe. 
When introducing a bill for the appointment of a public service arbitrator in 1920  Senator Pearce  said - 
The Government thinks that as the conditions and nature of employment in the public service are different from private employment it is essential to establish a special tribunal for all matters in dispute. 
Yesterday the right honorable gentleman referred to the powers Parliament had reserved to itself in these matters. It is true that Parliament has reserved to itself the right to review awards made by the arbitrator. The reason for doing so was given by the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  when he explained that in some instances awards of the court - he referred to the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration - meant huge increases in wages. The right honorable gentleman had in mind an award given by the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins whereby increases in wages to seamen involved an annual increase of  £100,000. lt  is clear from the speech 
Of  Mr. Hughes  and other utterances made at that time that the Parliament's right to review awards was intended to be availed of only when huge sums of money were involved. That is not so in the case of the award which we are now considering, for the amount at stake is only about £.1,000. 
Now we are hearing a reason for the Government's action. There is a principle at stake and I shall deal with it later. The Government was represented when this matter was before the Public Service Arbitrator and its representative failed to make good its claim. Now the Government seeks to ignore the decision of the Public Service Arbitrator, and fires its second shot. Let us consider what happens in similar proceedings conducted before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court. There representatives of the employer and employees submit their case to the court and, when a decision is given hy it, the only appeal that can be made is on the question of jurisdiction, and it must be submitted to the High Court of Australia; but periodically, both parties to disputes apply to the Commonwealth  Concilliation  and' Arbitration Court for interpretations and variations of awards. As the Government is dissatisfied with the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator in this instance it should have adopted the. more courageous course of instructing its representative to apply to that official for a variation of the award. Had that action been taken the representatives of the public service organization concerned would have had an opportunity to attend and give evidence in rebuttal of the claims submitted by the Government representative, and the matter would have resolved itself into a fair trial of strength. Instead, the Government seeks to constitute this Parliament a court of appeal before which the employees cannot be directly represented. 
I claim that, on the grounds of common justice, the representatives of the various organizations concerned should have been empowered to appear at the bar of the chamber to give evidence before this singularly constituted court of ap&gt;peal. The Government is making a cowardly attack on a vital principle of arbitration. It is, in cold blood, doing something which it condemns when done by anybody else. Not only is it evading the terms of an award made by a tribunal created by this Parliament, but it is seeking to defy and nullify the award in a manner that is not at all complimentary to the Public Service Arbitrator. 
I shall deal with two aspects of the matter, the legal and the moral, taking first the legal aspect. When it became necessary to transfer the central administrations to the Federal Capital it was realized that the officers involved in the transfer would suffer inconvenience and monetary loss, and a regulation was passed by the Public Service Board granting concessions to those who were compulsorily transferred here. The board drew a line of demarcation between an officer compulsorily transferred to Canberra and one who came here voluntarily. I may very aptly describe the two categories as those of conscripts and volunteers. As was stated by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate yesterday, the conscripted officer was compelled either to .come to Canberra or to resign from the service. If he were married and rented a house he was granted an allowance of £39 a year plus 20 per cent, of the annual rental paid by him. If the volunteer officer were married and rented a house he received only 20 per cent, of the annual rental paid by him - and some of those officers have not yet received even, that concession. Besides having to pay high rentals, officers transferred to Canberra also have to pay taxes, whether uley rent or buy a house. That was clearly instanced in the case of a postmaster who was transferred from Coonamble to Canberra. So that these men suffer a double disability. I understand, further, that the Federal Capital Commissioner has issued an edict that unless officers pay their rates and taxes they will be subject to a fine. I think that honorable senators will' agree with me that the position is an anomalous and unjust one, and that it is but fair that uniform treatment should be meted out to all transferred to Canberra,' whether conscripts or volunteers. 
But that does not get away from the important principle that is involved in the matter before us. The officers concerned submitted their case to a special tribunal, at which neither the Government nor its representative made any objection to the award. 
I am credibly informed that when the Public Service Arbitrator gave his decision neither the officer representing the Government nor the Public Service Board raised any objection. 
But the jurisdiction was not contested. 
That official, despite the arguments presented by the representative of the Government, granted the claimants an allowance of £34 a year, plus 17 per cent. of the annual rental paid, as against an allowance of £39, and 20 per cent. of the rent, for which they asked. That is what we are asked to disallow. 
Let me now deal with the moral aspect of the situation. Recently we have heard, a good deal about the action of an industrial organization outside in declining to obey an award of the court. We have been told by Ministers of the Grown that the clear duty of the men concerned is to obey the award of the Arbitration Court. Why does not this Government practise what it preaches? 
They have been told that they must obey the award of the Arbitration Court. Since  Senator Ogden  has seen fit to interject, I propose before I resume my seat, to quote briefly from a speech made by the honorable senator not so long ago during the debate on the Government's proposal that the Senate should disallow the child endowment award. I intend, to ask him if he holds the same opinion to-day. 
In his policy speech the Prime Minister said - 
The Government, during the last three years has consistently stood for the maintenance of the authority of the Arbitration Court and has insisted that its award should be obeyed. 
The right honorable gentleman, speaking on the subject again on the 12th of this month, said - 
If one side refused to accept the conditions laid down by the Arbitration. Court, the system would come into such public contempt that its obliteration would -become necessary. He thought it would be tragic if they had to give up the arbitration system. 
The Government's action in moving to disallow these determinations by the Public Service Arbitrator is conclusive evidence that instead of doing something to preserve arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes it is prepared to go a long way to . destroy the system. The Leader of the Senate in a speech a few days ago on the same subject said that the present violations of the arbitration awards were bringing the Arbitration Court into contempt, and would cause such a revulsion of public feeling that there would be a demand for its repeal. I wonder if behind these statements of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Senate there is a desire on the part of the Government for the repeal of the arbitration system? At least one employers' organization has already declared its opposition to the continuance of this method for the settlement of industrial disputes. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - We on this side stand for the system of arbitration. 
We stand for arbitration and we deplore the action of the Government in this matter. We say that it is not calculated to encourage support in industrial quarters for the continuance of the system. 
Let me now refer honorable senators to an extract from the speech of theRight Honorable W. M. Hughes when the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill was under discussion in another place. On that occasion  Mr. Hughes  said - 
When  Mr. Justice  Higgins made an award in the Broken Hill case he prescribed a Tate of wage which was considered, by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company, I think, to be such as could not be paid, having regard to the price which their ore was then fetching, and the company, therefore, declined to work the mine, and did not work it for some time. Clearly any employer has that option. If he carries on his enterprise, he must pay the rates fixed by the court, but he need not carry it on. 

 Mr. Hughes laid it down that it was open to an employer to close down his works and thus decline to obey the award of the court. 
SenatorNEEDHAM.-  Senator Kingsmill  knows very well that the Government cannot cease its activities. It is not justified in objecting to this particular award, because, after all, only about £1,000 is at stake. The logical deduction from the remarks of  Mr. Hughes  is that if an employer, being dissatisfied with an award, has the option of closing his works -  Senator Kingsmill,  by way of interjection just now, said that many works were closed down - clearly it is the right of every employee to refuse to work if, in his opinion, the rate of wage fixed by an award is not enough for him a,nd hia dependents to live upon in reasonable comfort. But, as we all know, if an employee dares to disobey an award because the wage fixed may not be sufficient or because the hours of work are too long, he is at once described as a breaker of the law. Apparently an employer may do what an employee is not permitted to do, either in the Public Service or outside. 
I turn now to the remarks made by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham),  who is largely responsible for the present perverted Arbitration Act, as amended recently. This law, as amended, is, I submit, the real cause of our present industrial troubles, because it takes control of industrial organizations out of the hands of trade unionists and places it in the hands of the court.  Mr. Latham  said - 
Apart altogether from the provisions of the law, it is obvious that any party which appeals to the jurisdiction of the court by filing a plaint or which submits to the jurisdiction of the court by appearing as the respondent to a plaint is in honour bound to carry out the award made by the court..... 
I am sure you admit that it is impossible to expect that awards of the court can always satisfy both sides. It is equally impossible and unreasonable to expect that all awards will conform to principles laid down by one side which upholds them. Arbitration is possible only upon the basis that both sides observe the awards of the court in all particulars. 
I have shown that the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Senate, and  Mr. Latham  are agreed that all parties that come before the court, either as claimants or respondents, are in honour bound to obey the award or determination made by it. The Government, through its representative, was a party to the plaint on behalf of the postal workers and other public servants concerned, and I repeat that, if it was not satisfied with the determinations it had its remedy. It could have appealed to the Public Service Arbitrator to re-open the case. 
The course indicated by the Leader of the Senate is an appeal from Caesar unto Caesar. 
There is nothing in the act that would have prevented the Government from having the case reopened. The Public Service Arbitrator could have been asked to vary his award on the ground that it was against a Commonwealth law and regulation and was wrong. The members of the organization affected would then have had an opportunity to bring forward evidence to rebut the statements made. In a very airy fashion  Senator Pearce  said yesterday, " We are the representatives of the people." That is true, but when technical evidence is required, we should have experts here to advise us, just as the Minister always has experts available to advise him. At any rate it is wrong for this Parliament to be created a court of industrial appeal where the men affected are not given an opportunity to rebut any statements made against them. 
We agreed to this system of arbitration, but, as I said in my earlier remarks, Parliament was not desirous of becoming an industrial tribunal. 
That is quitetrue, but what I think was in the minds of members of Parliament at the timewas that before taking action in Parliament other means should be employed tocontest the determinations of the PublicService Arbitrator. I ask SenatorGreene now, if it would not be better to submit to the arbitrator an application for a variation of his determinations,.  thus enabling expert evidence to be given rather than bring the matter forward here and not give the men affected an opportunity to speak. It was in 1927 that a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator was first challenged in this Parliament and among the Ministers today is  Senator Ogden  who, at that time, as a private member, strongly denounced the Government's proposal. During the debate on the motion submitted by the Government for the disallowance of the Public Service Arbitrator's award relating to child endowment,  Senator Ogden  said that he was much concerned about the reintroduction of political influence in the public service, and he made an appeal to his present leader whom he was then opposing. He then said ,that he would not be a member of any party, that the Senate was not a party chamber, and' that he would not join in any caucus or party meeting ; but he has since managed to get into the Nationalist party, and not only attends the Nationalist party caucus but is also a member of the Nationalist Ministry. In 1927 he said - 
What attitude would the Minister take up if another member of this chamber submitted a motion to disallow an award of the Public Service Arbitrator because the amount fixed was in his opinion insufficient? Obviously he would at once charge the mover of the motion with an attempt to break down the principle of arbitration. Is not the attitude of the Government to-day contrary to its action a few months ago, when it asked the people to endorse the principle of an all-powerful and dominant arbitration .court which should be above Parliament? [ quote the following from page 455, volume 115 of  Hansard - 
There is no difference between the motion submitted by the Government for disapproval of the determination of the Arbitrator in regard to child endowment and the motion we are now considering for the disapproval of the determinations of the Arbitrator relating to the allowance to be paid to certain Commonwealth officers in Canberra. The same prin ciple is at stake in both. In the words of  Senator Ogden,  this Parliament is asked to become a wage-fixing tribunal. In 1927 the honorable senator voted against the Government. 
The honorable senator dare not vote against the Government to-day. He has two choices. He can vote for the motion and remain in the Ministry, or vote against it and retire from the Cabinet. But as he has just got into the " tart shop " he would not care to leave the sweets so soon. Further on in the debate of 3927 he repeated that Parliament was asked to become a wage-fixing tribunal. He said - 
To-day the Government is, in effect, asking Parliament to fix wages. The Ministry should be consistent. 
I wonder if the honorable senator will be consistent on this occasion. If he is, it will be something new for him. He went on to say - 
By this motion the Government, so it appears to mo at all events, is attempting to repudiate an award of an authority constituted by this Parliament. I object to that. I do not wish to see the vicious principle of political influence re-introduced into the Public Service, I have always deprecated it. and I hope that we shall have no further evidence of it in this chamber. 
I am waiting to see how he will act upon this occasion. I leave the matter to his conscience. When the late  Senator Givens  interjected - 
Parliament reserves the right to disapprove any determination of the court.' 

 Senator Ogden said ; 
That, I think, is a very wrong principle. 
Scarcely eighteen months have elapsed since the honorable senator so strongly expressed the view that to ask Parliament to exercise its right to disapprove of a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator was a vicious and wrong principle. But circumstances alter cases. The honorable senator is now bound by something higher than a mere party caucus. I presume he is bound by the oath he has taken as a member of the Executive Council. Of course, he may abide by his former principles and resign from the Ministry. I would be the last man in the world to suggest that such a catastrophe should occur to Australia. 
I have referred to the legal and moral aspect of this question and to the principle at stake. The Government has put up a very poor defence of its attitude on this question. I have heard the right honorable the Leader of the Senate on other occasions put up a far better case than he put up yesterday for the disapproval of these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. His speech reminded me very much of Shakespeare's words - 
The lady doth protest too much,methinks. 
We have had the spectacle of the Government hoisting the white flag of truce, pending, not the decision of a trades hall or outside combination, but the assembling of a school at which the schoolmaster in the person of the Prime Minister would castigate certain absentees from their parliamentary duties. The school having duly assembled, this motion has now been moved. The Government did not have the moral courage to bring it forward in another branch of the legislature, where it would have met with a different fate from that which it is anticipated it will meet here. Honorable senators of the Opposition will vote against the motion, because the Government has other opportunities to contest the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator on legal and moral grounds, while giving the men affected a chance to defend their position. I sincerely hope that honorable senators will see the great injustice that is proposed to be done to the members of certain organizations. 
I regret that in the opinion of  Senator Needham  a poor defence has been put up by the Government for the action it has taken, but as a matter of fact, the remarks to which the honorable senator has just given voice, do not call for a better defence. I cannot yet make out whether the honorable senator is objecting to the motion on legal or moral grounds. If on legal grounds, I do not think he has, so to speak, a leg to stand on ; if on moral grounds, the reasons he has endeavoured to bring to his aid do not seem to provide him with any better pretext for the action he has taken. He is slightly in error in attributing the presence of this motion on our notice paper to certain happenings in another place. As a matter of fact notice of this motion was on the notice paper of the Senate before any action was taken in. another place. Indeed, the action taken in another place was due to the presence of the notice of this motion on the Senate business paper. The reason for bringing it forward in the Senate is fairly obvious. This chamber is not as fully occupied in wasting time as is another place, and the fact that it is only necessary to secure the assent of one branch of the legislature to a motion for the disallowance of a determination by the Public Service Arbitrator is an admirable and acceptable explanation for the submission of the motion in the Senate. Honorable senators may recall the fact that it was the predecessors of the present champions of the Labour party who introduced the Arbitration (Public Service) Act: It was a Labour Government which expressly provided in this way that Parliament should have the right to disallow any award or determination made by the Public Service Arbitrator which was in contravention of any Commonwealth law or regulation. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  was then a member of this Parliament. 
Then why did not the honorable senator protest at the time? He should have been able to forsee that his party would not always be in power, and that "these oppressors of the poor," as he terms us, might come into office and, from his point of view, misuse this power. Apparently, the Leader of the Opposition was silent. If he was not his protest appears to have had no effect. The Eight Honorable Member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  who introduced the legislation under which these determinations were made, gave cogent reasons for the provision to which the Leader of the Opposition now so strongly objects. It was thought at the time that it would be possible for private employers to go out of business when an award was made against them and many instances of that kind are occurring and will occur if the present trend of affairs continues. What would happen if Parliament had not this opportunity to disallow  such determinations? Let me remind the Leader of the Opposition of what happened in South Australia a little while ago. When an award was given in connexion with the railway service, the Premier of that State said - "Well, we have to go on; the railways have to be run. Our circumstances are such that only a certain amount can be spent upon the railways and if it will not go as far under the higher rates, the only course open to us is to reduce the efficiency of the railway service." 
Yes, I read it in the newspapers. 
Yes ; it was forced out. It could not get value for the money it was expending, and it had to sell its ships. When the Labour Governnent was in office it very wisely recognized that some determinations in relation to the public service might be unsuitable and it therefore provided that they should be regarded only as provisional awards until Parliament had had mi opportunity to affirm or deny them. The opportunity is now being taken and I have no doubt what the result will be. The word "repudiation" has been used in this debate. This is not an act of repudiation on the part of the Government. It is merely a refusal to accept a determination as an award of the Arbitrator until Parliament has approved of it. Such determinations are purely provisional and if Parliament decides to disallow them they become null and void. A most peculiar position has been revealed, at all events to me, by the present situation. If these determinations were allowed to go through without being subject to the approval of Parliament, we should have, in the Public Service Arbitrator - a gentleman for whom, I may say, I have every respect, and whom I have known for many years - not only an arbitrator, but a legislator. He would have in his hands the power to legislate. He might amend existing legislation if his determinations in cer tain cases were  allowed  to become operative without first receiving the approval of Parliament. 
Exactly ; but it is a  very  important jurisdiction. He may make determinations contrary to an existing Commonwealth law or regulation, but these must be laid before  Parliament.  If they had not to come before Parliament for approval he would be, not only an arbitrator, but a legislator. If the Parliament did not retain thy power to disallow such determinations, the position would be most unsatisfactory. When this gentleman, who has done his work creditably and well, concludes his term of service - which I think will be within the next few months, as he was only reappointed last September for another year - I trust that some other expedient will be adopted to overcome difficulties of this sort which may arise. 
This reveals the unnecessary multiplicity of bodies controlling the Public Service. If public servants are aggrieved by any decision of the Public Service Board, they have the right of appeal to an appeal board. That, surely, is sufficient to meet a case of this kind. I prefer it to the somewhat cumbersome machinery that is- now employed, and which has been objected to by honorable senators opposite, who, I suppose, feel that they are in duty bound to oppose any action taken by the Government. In my opinion, this action of the Government is in the best interests of the State. If it were not taken the financial result would be much more serious than the Leader of the Opposition suggests. We have not heard how serious it would be; but it is easy to believe, from the anomalies mentioned by the Minister, that it would involve many scores of thousands of pounds. In order to remove these anomalies, it would be  necessary to  provide for increases to some public servants and to make reductions in the case of others. That would lead to endless trouble and great expense, and in the end would possibly be ineffective. For these reasons I believe the Government is following the  only course open to it in the interest of the State and the finances of the Commonwealth. I intend to support the motion for the disallowance of the determinations. 
 I do not feel disposed to record a silent vote on this question. It is important, not so much because of the number of persons who will be affected if the Senate decides to disallow these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator, but because of the principle involved in the action which the Leader of the Government invites us to take. Up to the present there have been two speeches from the Ministerial side and in both it has been urged with much emphasis that the party to which I have the honour to belong was responsible, when in office, for the introduction of the legislation in which Parliament retains the power to disallow determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. That is quite true. Possibly the action of the Government of the day was necessary and in certain circumstances, probably, even the use of this right of appeal could be sustained. What we have to consider, however, is not the fact that Parliament has been created an appellate tribunal in certain matters, but rather the merits of the case upon which an appeal to this tribunal is made. That is a point upon which the Leader of the Government in the Senate has not satisfied me and one with which  Senator Kingsmill  has not endeavoured to deal.  Senator Chapman,  by interjection, supported  Senator Kingsmill  when he urged that although the amount involved in this instance might not be £1,000 per annum, we had to bear in mind that if the determinations which we are now asked to disallow became operative, other awards might be given which would involve the Commonwealth in a considerably greater expenditure. I ask honorable senators who subscribe to that view what becomes of the principle of arbitration. Either we believe or do not believe in the principle. If we believe in it, then it is obviously our duty to accept the awards of the Arbitrator subject to the right of appeal which is available in certain circumstances. The Government would have done better had it submitted this motion in another branch of the legislature. The House of Representatives is rightly styled the people's House and is more representative of the democratic opinion of the Commonwealth than is this chamber. 
Because itrepresents as nearly as is consistent with the requirement as to the minimum representation to be granted to certain States, an equal distribution of the voting strength of the Commonwealth. This chamber, on the other hand, is a States House. The intention of the framers of the Constitution was that it should bc the custodian of the rights of the States, and for that reason equal representation was given to each State irrespective of the distribution of population. 
The second reason why this motion, should have been submitted in another place is that the members of that branch of the legislature were before their constituents in November last, and that, however the decision of the people at the recent election was arrived at, we must take it that they represent public opinion as then expressed. It is true that this chamber also represents the will of the people as recently expressed, but not to the same extent. However, the Government has decided that this proposal shall be dealt with in this chamber, and it is for us to discuss it on its merits. What are its merits? In explaining why, in his opinion, the Senate should disallow these determinations, the Leader of the Government attempted to show that there is a material difference between, a man compulsorily transferred to Canberra because of the removal of the Seat of 'Government and a man transferred here by the head of his department after having failed to exercise his conditional option to refuse the transfer. 1 have had some experience, as a member of the House of Assembly in South Australia, of the methods and procedure governing the relations of public servants to their departments. While the public servant may have some option, either to accept or reject a transfer, there are circumstances associated with most transfers which are tantamount to compulsion. I believe that in that section of the Commonwealth Public Service affected by the determinations  we are now asked to disallow, similar conditions exist.  Senator Kingsmill  referred to the action of the Premier of South Australia, who, in order to conform to an award of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, sacrificed the efficiency of the railway service of that. State. When a policy of retrenchment is being put into operation, the man who has protested against transfers, appealed against the decisions of his superior officers, and shown that he has a backbone and intends to stand up for his rights, is dismissed before his fellow worker who has accepted the decisions of his superiors without cavil. 
I can give many instances from my personal knowledge of men, particularly in the South Australian railway service, who have had either to break up their homes and transfer, in some instances hundreds of miles, or run the risk of being dismissed from the service. I have in mind a railway employee at Murray Bridge, who, because the railway department had vacant houses at the  adjoining  town of Tailem Bend, was asked to transfer to the latter town, notwithstanding that some years previously, when a scheme of railway re-organization was proposed, a definite promise was given to him and other railway employees similarly situated, that they would be allowed to continue to occupy their homes although members of the Tailem Bend division. When he. refused to transfer to Tailem Bend, he was instructed to proceed to Peterborough, another railway centre about 230 miles from his home town. Refusing to accept that transfer, he was dismissed from the service. 
That happened to an employee of the South Australian Railways Department. I mention it to show that employees have little or no option when asked by the heads of their departments to accept transfers to other. places. In some branches of the postal service considerable retrenchmenthas taken place during the last two years. 
Some of the men who have been transferred to Canberra were not prepared to offer a vigorous protest for fear of the effect it might have on their future service. The Government has admitted its obligation to make some allowance to those 'public Servants who were compulsorily transferred to Canberra. It has provided by regulation for a. cost of living allowance, which has be,en explained this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  and also certain rental concessions. I have received a communication from the secretary of one of the organizations whose members are affected by these regulations, in which he sets out the position of one man who will be affected by the decision of the Senate in the matter now before us. The letter proves conclusively that employees other than those compulsorily transferred will be at a disadvantage if the Senate disapproves of the determinations. The man to whom reference is made in the letter was transferred to Canberra in 1927. Before his transfer he made inquiries as to the cost of living, rentals of houses, and other matters at Canberra, and was informed of the rentals then charged, and also that, there was a possibility of the cost of living allowance being extended to employees other than those compulsorily transferred. On arrival at the Federal Capital in June, 3927, he boarded at the Printers' Quarters, as for domestic reasons he did not desire to acquire a house until towards the end of the year. Later, in reply to inquiries, he was informed that the rental of a four-roomed weatherboard cottage was then 22s. 6d. per week, for a five-roomed weatherboard cottage it was 24s. 6d. per week, and for a four-roomed brick residence, 25s. 6d. per week. In October, 1927, he asked that a four-roomed weatherboard cottage be made available to him in November. The Federal Capital Commission replied that a cottage of that description could be obtained at a rental of 35s. per week, in addition to rates, the amount of which he would be notified later. When he asked the reason for the rental charges being so much higher than had been quoted to him in the previous June, and which certain other officers of his department were then paying, he was informed that all public servants then being transferred to Canberra were receiving a living allowance and that the Federal Capital Commission was increasing ail rental charges. He pointed out to the Commission- that he received no such allowance, and should, therefore, be provided with n house at a reduced rental, but was told that that was a matter between himself and his department. The Commission also informed him that the rentals would be increased in the near future. This, I believe, has been done.  Senator Pearce  said yesterday that the question of rents ought not to be considered, in connexion with this motion. The secretary of one of the organizations concerned has informed me that although it is generally understood that all public servants covered by this regulation occupying commission houses in Canberra are to receive a 20 per cent, rental allowance, no such allowance has yet been made in the case of these employees, and that although two applications have been made to the Public Service Board in the matter, no decision has yet been reached. If it is intended that this allowance should be granted, why has nothing been done? Is the delay due to the desire of the Public Service Board to still further reduce the living conditions of these public servants? Are we to understand that if these determinations are not disallowed by the Senate, the Public Service Board might pass a new regulation depriving certain employees of the rent concession they have been led to believe they will receive? The Leader of the Government yesterday sought to prove that the cost of living at Canberra was approximately the same, and in some respects lower than it is in many other towns where servants of the Commonwealth have to work under similar conditions. I take it that that point was not overlooked when the matter was before the Arbitrator. That was the tribunal where it should have been brought forward. If, however, the Senate is to sit as a Court of Appeal in connexion with this award we should have before us the case of the employees as well as that of the employers'. I wonder whether the figures quoted by the right honorable the Leader of the 
Senate were those upon which the Public Service Arbitrator came to his decision, because a very significant statement is contained in the explanation of that official as to the reasons which caused him to grant the claim. He states - 
In the course of the hearing certain figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician were put in evidence. In my consideration of the matter I found that I needed further information from the Statistician, which was obtained. On the 4th September, I re-opened the case in Melbourne to give the parties an opportunity of commenting on this additional information if they so desired, but they did not consider it necessary to address me fur- ther 
The Public Service Arbitrator, after the case had been practically concluded, found that certain additional figures were required. He obtained those figures and, after due consideration, made his award. We are to infer from his statement that he was influenced by those figures. I contend that, as its representatives were asked to attend to contest the figures, if they so desired, before the award was made, it was the duty of the Government to do that rather than to bring the matter into this chamber, where only one side of the case can be put. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate referred to the difficulty which, he said, would arise in other districts if the award were accepted ; hut, in my opinion, as cases arise, they should be considered on their merits, if necessary, by the Public Service Arbitrator. If it is apparent to that official, after all the facta have been considered, that, because. of the existence of exceptional district conditions, sections of the Public Service are entitled to special consideration, they should receive such consideration or, in the alternative, we should revert to the payment of a flat rate, and discontinue district allowances entirely. Either the principle of allowances is right, or it is wrong, and I suggest that the Government considers the principle so far wrong that it is prepared to abolish the payment of all district allowances and similar concessions. On inquiry, one finds that there are many towns, even in New South Wales, where district allowances are paid to public servants. The various towns are divided into grades. The first of these grades embraces nineteen towns, in which married public servants receive a district allowance of £20, and single public servants an allowance of £10. Grade two covers twenty-four towns, where the respective payments are £30 and £15, while in grade three, in which there are seven towns, the payments are £40 to a married, and £20 to a single public servant. All that the. Public Service Arbitrator now seeks to do is to give to a small section of the same Public Service a district allowance to put them substantially on an equality with other public servants who have been compulsorily transferred to Canberra. 
There is another matter to consider, and it has a very important bearing on the case. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate referred to the cost of living index numbers of various towns, and sought to prove that the men affected by these determinations would not be unduly prejudiced, if the allowances were not paid, when compared with public servants in other parts of Australia. I find that there is in existence in the Federal Capital Territory a special basic wage of £5 per week, which was gazetted on the Sth January of this year. That basic wage is approximately 16s. higher than that which obtains generally, and was obviously granted to cover the higher cost of living in this city. Yet the public servants affected by the determinations under discussion have their wages fixed upon the general Australian basic wage, which is not that which exists in Canberra, but one arrived at after a consideration of the weighted averages of the six capital cities of the Commonwealth and excluding Canberra. If the Senate accepts the advice of the Government, and disallows these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator, men. who have given years of loyal anc! competent service in their departments will be compelled to accept a lower scale of remuneration than is given to temporary employees who are doing odd jobs about Canberra. 
I am aware that, as a new member of the Senate, my interpretation of local conditions may not be correct, and I am open to correction, but I believe that another anomaly exists and needs ratification. Under regulation 976, a single man who is living in one of the Federal Capital Commission hostels is given a concession of 25 per cent of his board and lodging, provided that his allowance does not exceed £39 per annum, and I understand that allowance is paid a single man whether compulsorily or voluntarily transferred to Canberra. If these determinations are disallowed, that concession to single men will still continue, to the obvious disadvantage of married men affected by the determinations. Such an anomaly should be rectified. Obviously, married men are more entitled to special consideration than are single men, particularly in a city such as Canberra, where the cost of living is very high. 
I accept the statement of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate ; but I have already indicated that although married men have been led to believe that they will receive the rental concession, it has not yet been paid to them, whereas single men are enjoying this concession, and  will continue to do so whether the determinations are disallowed or not. An inquiry would no doubt, reveal the fact that the single man is on a much better basis than the married man living in Canberra, even though the latter receives a rental concession. 
There are many other reasons why we should not disallow these determinations. Besides the 'arguments that I have advanced upon the merits of the case, there remains the vital question, are we to stand by the principle- of arbitration 1 The Leader of the Senate, when introducing an amendment of the Arbitration Public Service Act in 1920 said - 
The Government thinks that as the conditions and nature of employment in the Public Service are different from private employment it is essential to establish a special tribunal for all matters in dispute. 
I contend that this chamber, having heard only one side of the case, should not disallow these determinations, but should adopt the view expressed by  Senator Pearce  in 1920, that arbitration provides the only fair means of settling the conditions of employment and allowances. 
There are many angles from which this subject may he viewed. I desire honorable senators to regard it from the legal standpoint, and to determine whether what the Government is asking us to do is consistent with what we know to be a glorious heritage, the British law. Section 22 of the Arbitration Public Service Act, which was referred to by  Senator Sir George  Pearce yesterday, confers upon the Arbitrator two distinct jurisdictions: first, the power to make determinations which do not conflict with or contravene any Commonwealth law or regulation, and, secondly, the power to make others which do so conflict, subject to the condition that his determinations shall be laid before the Parliament. As I listened to the speeches of honorable senators supporting the Government I arrived at the conclusion that in their view the Public Service Arbitrator had no right to make a determination if it conflicted with any law or regulation of the Commonwealth. I remind them first of all that the act specifically confers upon him jurisdiction to make determinations on matters which do 1]ot conflict with any Commonwealth law or regulation. Parliament is not called upon to deal with determinations which do not conflict with a Commonwealth law or regulation; but where they do so conflict, they must be laid before both Houses, and either House may by resolution disallow them. The procedure is set out in the act. 
I invite honorable senators to consider carefully the course to be followed on this occasion, and to lay down principles to govern our future action. The allowance or disallowance of this class of determination must be based upon some clearly defined principle. A perusal of the act makes it obvious that Parliament intended that this authority should be exercised with discretion. It should not be exercised arbitrarily at the instigation of a Government that suggests that if a determination that conflicted with any regulation or law of the Commonwealth were allowed it would be possible for Commonwealth employees in some distant portion of New South Wales to claim the same allowance that would be paid to them if they were compulsorily transferred to the Federal Capital Territory. We should not disallow the determinations on the ground suggested by one honorable senator: that nobody has compelled the postal workers concerned to come to Canberra. I suggest that public servants are in much the same position as members of Parliament. Nobody has compelled us to come here, but I 'have often heard members of Parliament refer to Canberra in language far less parliamentary than profane, and I presume that we would not raise very serious objection if some other and more accessible capital city were suddenly to develop the idea that it would like to acquire us. The same line of reasoning may be applied to public servants who, in the course of their duties, are transferred to Canberra. The question of voluntary or compulsory transfer should not be a matter for consideration. The issue which we have to decide now is, should determinations made by an admittedly constitutional authority be disallowed, and, if so, upon what ground? It is necessary that we should agree upon the principle so that our action on this occasion may be a guide to the Public Service Arbitrator in future. The decision of the Senate upon this motion will be far-reaching in its effect. Accordingly this chamber should act with considered discretion. It should not use its authority arbitrarily. We should not lend ourselves to the suggestion that the Government was " tossing " public servants with a double-headed penny. The tribunal in question was constituted by Parliament for a definite purpose, and its determinations should be disallowed only in exceptional circumstances. It is definitely laid down in the act that in proper circumstances Parliament may disallow certain determinations. This duty is imposed upon honorable senators. In this matter we stand as the guardians of the interests of the people. We represent the community, and we should take action where such action is necessary in the public interest to disallow determinations of the Arbitrator. But what test is it possible to apply to the motion now before the Senate? The Leader of the Senate, in the course of his speech yesterday, pointed out that another tribunal, the Public Service 
Board, has an indisputable right to fis allowances to be paid to public servants, and that in addition there is another authority, the Public Service Arbitrator, whose right to prescribe allowances to public servants is conditional. Should we not ask ourselves which is the more competent tribunal to fix the allowances in question, and what advice has been given by these respective tribunals ? The Leader of the Senate has told us that the claim of the postal workers was fully considered by the Public Service Arbitrator. Since the Senate is now being asked to disallow his determinations we are entitled to know on what grounds. After having gone to the trouble and expense of hearing the claims, the Public Service Arbitrator must be in a position to give certain advice. The Senate at the moment is not in a position to say whether or not the Arbitrator's determinations are either anomalous or unjust, and therefore whether or not they should be approved. It is not sufficient for the Leader of the Senate to say that because the determinations conflict with some law or regulation of the Commonwealth, they should be disallowed, because the act specifically provides that the arbitrator may make such determinations and that Parliament shall have the right to allow or disallow them. 
I am glad that honorable senators supporting the Government agree with me up to this point. I say without hesitation that, if the circumstances warrant it, then whatever may be the consequences, Parliament should not hesitate to disallow a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator. I admit that in the absence of any guiding principles, it is extremely difficult for the Senate, in the exercise of its quasi judicial functions, to say whether these determinations should be disallowed. I appeal therefore to the Leader of the Senate to allow the debate on this motion to be adjourned, and to place on the cable the whole of the evidence given before the Public Service Arbitrator so that honorable senators may be so informed as to be able to properly decide the issue. Even though the motion before us is submitted by the Government, I am always hopeful that in a democratic country like Australia we can be sure of a fair deal to all the parties concerned in a matter like this. My desire is to do the right thing by the public servants and the people of this country. I do not wish to shirk my responsibilities. But the Arbitration Public Service Act imposes upon  me,  in common with honorable senators generally, the duty of exercising a discretion, and before it is possible for me to arrive at a conclusion satisfactory to myself, I should have an opportunity to study the whole of the material evidence given before the Public Service Arbitrator. We should not come to a decision until we are satisfied that the public servants concerned, and the community generally, have had a fair deal. Let it be said of the Senate that when dealing with this matter it gave to the parties a fair deal. When the Leader of the Senate was speaking yesterday, I asked if, during the hearing of the plaint, the Government had objected to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator, and the right honorable gentleman replied in the negative. I should like to remind him again that the tribunal in question has conditional jurisdiction only in respect of matters that conflict with any Commonwealth law or regulation, and I venture to say that, if the Government had objected to the plaint being heard by the Public Service Arbitrator, and had suggested that the Public Service Board was the proper tribunal to fix the allowances,  Mr. Atlee  Hunt would not have proceeded with the hearing. Had that been done, the Government's position would have been considerably strengthened and the Senate would have been in a better position to decide the issue. I trust that the Leader of the Senate will accept the suggestion which I have made, and allow honorable senators an opportunity to read the evidence. It will then be for us to say whether we should take this very serious step of disallowing the determination. 

 Senator DOOLEY (New South Wales)  [5.4 1  . - I cannot allow the motion to pass without protesting against it on behalf  of the postal workers concerned. As one who has been associated with the Australian "Workers' Union for 30 years I claim that my organization has played an important part in building up the system of arbitration for the settlement of disputes. It appeal's to me, if I may judge from the speeches made by honorable senators supporting the Government in the debate on the Address-in-Reply, that their one concern is to destroy our system of arbitration and to lower the standard of living. I can come to no other conclusion. Almost without exception honorable senators behind the Government declared that increased hours of labour and lower wages would mean the salvation of this country. I believe, therefore, that this is an attempt on the part of the Government to break down the conditions obtaining in the Public Service. I also see in the Government's .action on this occasion a determination on its part to give an indication to arbitration judges not to increase wages, no matter what the merits of the case put up to them might be. The Government should be ideal employers, and it is an injustice to its employees to ask Parliament to upset an award under which they may benefit. In his policy speech the Prime Minister said that, in the opinion of his Government, the only hope for Australia and the British Empire was increased effort. He probably meant the speeding up of the workers. In my opinion the only hope for Australia is not to increase the hours of labour, but to give greater encouragement to the working class. Higher wages and reduced hours of labour are more likely to solve our problems than an increase in the hours of labour or a reduction in the rates of wages. From practical experience in the control of various works, I realize that better results are obtained from the employees by giving them encouragement and an incentive to work, than by oppressing them. Overhead charges may be reduced by giving the men something more than a living wage. I could say more on' this question, but I realize that no matter what arguments may be used, the majority of honorable senators are determined to upset these determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. 
Two facts have emerged from the discussion to-day. One is that any Government that happens to be in power in the Commonwealth is the victim of the sins of its predecessors. It is quite improper that an arbitrator should be empowered by statute to go outside the laws of the country. If the Public Service Arbitrator had given an award within the four corners of the Public Service Act the motion now under consideration would not have been moved. But, while a Labour Government was in office, Parliament evidently passed an act which permits the Public Service Arbitrator to go beyond the scope of the Public Service Act and then come along and tell Parliament that he has done so. I consider it the bounden. duty of the present Government to repeal the Arbitration (Public Service) Act as speedily as possible. Surely it is sufficient to have a Public Service Board, on which the employees of the Commonwealth are entitled to representation. Instead of having one individual fixing wages with a mind that is perhaps biassed, the Public Service Board should record its findings after hearing all the facts. But at present it is apparently open to a section of the employees dissatisfied with the finding of the board to appeal to the Public Service Arbitrator, and the latter has power to go beyond what is laid down in the Public Service Act, unless Parliament prevents him from doing so. In other words the Public Service Arbitrator is allowed to usurp the prerogative of the Parliament. 
The next point that has emerged from the discussion is a minor one, but nevertheless it appeals strongly to me. Thu Commonwealth has calmly permitted itself for years to be made the dumping ground for excess and expensive officers from all the States. I think that it is our duty to see that this practice is discontinued. 
It is useless for honorable senators opposite to argue that this Parliament should not be asked to disapprove of the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator, because it was while Labour was in power that it was decided that these matters must be dealt with by 
Parliament itself. We have no option in the matter, and should be failing in our duty if we did not deal with this motion. 
 It seems to me that the principle of arbitration is at stake. The Government is, apparently, ready to preach arbitration to people outside, but if a decision of the Public Service Arbitrator does not suit it it is quite ready to disobey the award. I agree with  Senator Daly  that the evidence on which the Public Service Arbitrator's findings are based should be laid on the table of the Senate so that honorable senators may be able to ascertain whether the Government is treating officers as they should be treated. According to the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator certain officers in Canberra are to receive  £34,  plus an amount equal to  17  per cent. of the rental paid by married employees. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  compared the cost of living in Canberra with the cost of living in certain towns of New South Wales and Victoria. In my opinion, if a public servant, who is transferred from Sydney to Goulburn is entitled to receive an allowance of  £10  a year, a man who is transferred to Canberra should receive an extra  £120  per annum. It was wrong for the Minister to say that these officers have not been compelled to come to Canberra. They knew perfectly well that they had either to come to Canberra to obtain a livelihood or stay where they were and be unemployed, so they were economically compelled to come to Canberra. In those circumstances their treatment here should be different from what it was, say, in Melbourne. I cannot see why the Minister should try to avoid the issue by instituting comparisons between Canberra and other places. The Government declares that honorable senators of the Opposition should endeavour to persuade the timber workers, the waterside workers and others who have come before the Arbitration Court to obey the awards given by the court whether they agree with them or not, and we say that they should do so; yet the Government will not obey a decision given by the Public Service Arbitrator. Its inconsistency is glaring. I presume that the men affected by the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator placed their grievances before him, and he was satisfied that their claim was just. If these determinations are set aside, there will be discontent among many people in Canberra. At any rate, if there is not there ought to be. I should not blame the officers concerned if they " kicked over the traces. " While the Government has given, an allowance which averages about  £50  per annum to the men it has asked to work and live all the year round in Canberra, it has said in effect to the Governor-General, "Look here, old chap ; the ordinary working man in Canberra is compelled to stay here all the year round whether he likes it or not, and he gets  £50;  but you, being the Governor-General, will be here only three months in the year and there is  £2,000  extra a year for you. " Who was the arbitrator in that case? 
SenatorHOARE. - The GovernorGeneral did not have to go before the Arbitration Court and say what the stockings worn by his lady cost. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! The honorable senator is not in order in discussing the Governor-General. 
Well, I shall leave him out of the question, but I consider that he should have gone before the Arbitration Court. 
ThePRESIDENT. - Order ! 
SenatorHOARE. - Is there any reason why the Minister should decline to lay upon the table of the Senate the evidence submitted to the Public Service Arbitrator by the postal employees? As it is impossible for honorable senators to record an intelligent vote in the absence of such evidence, I hope that the Government will postpone further consideration of the motion until we have been supplied with full particulars of the claim submitted to the Public Service Arbitrator. 
.- It is rather amusing to hear honorable senators opposite endeavouring to make a mountain out of a mole hill. 
It is not of the importance which the Leader of the Opposition imagines. Honorable senators opposite profess to believe in the principle of arbitration; but many of their supporters outside are at present definitely refusing to respect awards of the Arbitration Court. If the timber workers were not so prominently before the public, possibly very little would have been said concerning the motion. The Public Service Arbitrator has submitted his determinations to Parliament for consideration. 
The determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator do not become effective until they have been before Parliament for the period prescribed in the act, during which time a motion for their disallowance may be moved. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber show more regard for the principle of arbitration than do honorable senators opposite, and many whom they represent. In this chamber Labour representatives advocate arbitration, but in the Botanic Park in Adelaide, the Domain in Sydney, or at the Trades Halls in various States' capitals, many of their party denounce the principle. In this instance they are making a great deal of noise because it is proposed that a few public servants shall not receive certain benefits which the Public Service Arbitrator has provided for in the determinations under consideration. 
That is not so. The Government is merely giving effect to a law which has been on the statute-book for some time. It is time to take a definite stand in the matter of granting special allowances to public servants resident in the Federal Capital, as the granting of such allowances indiscriminately to meet the high cost of living and certain other disadvantages which are mentioned from time to time is detrimental to the progress of Canberra. The public servants compulsorily transferred with their departments from Melbourne have rightly been granted special allowances because they had to dispose of their houses; but the postal employees involved in this instance are not compelled to come to Canberra. They can remain where they are if they desire; but those who wish to transfer know the conditions obtaining here. As the Public Service Arbitrator in these determinations granted to postal employees coming to this territory concessions which are not enjoyed by other public servants, but which would have to be extended to them if the awards became operative, this motion has been submitted. Members of Parliament who are compelled to live in Canberra while Parliament is sitting have not asked for, and do not receive, any allowance to meet the extra cost of living. Parliament has to protect the interests of the whole of the taxpayers of Australia. 
Yes, but there are others who must not be overlooked. 
It would not be of much use to honorable senators. It would not affect the position if the evidence were tabled; but I have no objection to that proposal. If these concessions are to be given to certain public servants, others will be justly entitled to similar consideration. It is time that the Senate took a stand on behalf of the taxpayers of Australia. In no other capital city of Australia do public servants receive any cost of living allowance ; why should they receive an allowance here? We have reached the stage where concessions of this nature should end. Public servants scattered throughout the Commonwealth object to a special allowance being granted to their fellow workers who live at Canberra. If the Senate fails to agree to the motion more harm than good, will be done, because of the sense of injustice which will be engendered in the minds of other public servants. Men who are not prepared to transfer to Canberra without receiving special concessions should stay where they are. Honorable senators opposite will, no doubt, tell the electors that we on this side are opposed to arbitration; but I am prepared to accept the consequences of supporting the Government in the action it has taken in this matter. 
.- It is pleasant sometimes to be able to say, " I told you so." When, some years ago, a bill to appoint a Public Service Arbitrator was before the Senate, I was one of four who voted against it. I did so because I believed that decisions of the arbitrator might nullify those of the Public Service Board. When, instead of one Public Service commissioner, a board of three commissioners was appointed, it was expected that any decisions made by that body would be more acceptable to the public servants than the decision of one man would be; but, scarcely had the board been appointed, than a bill was introduced to provide for a Public Service arbitrator to undo its work. I desire to quote from my speech as reported in  Hansard  on the 29th July, 1920- 
Yesterday we dealt with a bill which provides for the appointment of a board of management for our Public Service. To-day, we are asked to sanction the appointment of an arbitrator, who will have power to overrule anything which may be done by that board. I wish to see both the Government and their employees represented upon the board. 
When the bill reached the committee stage I said - 
As the discussion progresses, and after listening attentively to the reply of the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  to the second-reading debate, I am more than ever convinced that the bill will lead to endless confusion in the Public Service. Consequently, I intend to vote against the clause. Its defeat will practically mean the rejection of the bill. We have on the one hand a board of management to be appointed by the Government to control the Public Service in a businesslike manner, and yet practically the whole power to control the Service is to be taken out of their hands and placed in the hands of the arbitrator. This simply means that it will be impossible for the board to do satisfactory work for the country. 
With the extensive powers we have given to the Public Service Board, on the one hand, arid to the Public Service Arbitrator, on the other, the Commonwealth is in an impossible position in its control of the Public Service. I support the motion for the disallowance of these regulations, and express the hope that, in the near future, steps will be taken to place the control of the Public Service on a more satisfactory basis. 
Many features of the proposal before us are both interesting and amusing. I ask those who are opposed to the motion what attitude they would adopt if an award of the Public Service Arbitrator placed public servants transferred to Canberra at a disadvantage compared with other servants of the Commonwealth doing similar work elsewhere, and the Government introduced a motion to put them on an equal footing with their fellows. It is clear. that the opposition to the motion is due to a desire that awards shall have only one effect, rather than to a determination that justice shall be done, whatever the consequences. A law or regulation to command respect must be just; there should be no "oneway traffic" about it. Honorable senators opposite who are so keen to save public servants from a threatened imposition should be equally alert to protect the interests of the taxpayers. A law which protects only one section of the community, or works iri only one direction, is unjust, and deserving of contempt. I am aware that the legislation providing for the appointment of a Public Service Arbitrator was introduced by a Labour Government and that its enactment was accompanied by the applause of the Labour supporters of that day. The measure was introduced as an experiment in the hope that at last public servants would be treated justly. Legislation which was right in 1911 and 1920 should be right to-day. I am forced to the conclusion that in the minds of honorable senators opposite a law which does not work always in the one direction should not be supported. We should not play with a proposal of this kind according to the temper of the hour or passing circumstances. In this case the passing circumstances are that some public servants have been, or are to be, transferred to Canberra. In dealing with matters of this kind we should not fail to recognize the difficulty of establishing a system whereby absolute justice can be meted out to one section of the community without there being some anomaly connected with  it. The only thing that we mortals with our limitations can do is to adopt the course which will give rise to the least number of anomalies. In the view of the Government these awards of the Public Service Arbitrator create an anomaly. What would happen if the motion were defeated? As surely as the sun will rise to-morrow, other public servants throughout the Commonwealth would then regard themselves as suffering from unjust treatment. The removal of one anomaly would merely mean the creation of further anomalies, and our last position would be worse than the first. Honorable senators who now set out to see that justice is done to a handful of public servants at Canberra are starting rather late in the day. They have only to search, the records to find that there are many places in the Commonwealth where the cost of living is higher than it is in Canberra, yet no attempt has been made by them to remove the injustice under which public servants in those places labour. 
The Arbitrator's awards did not remove anomalies that already existed. It is the duty of Parliament to remove manifest anomalies. According to the Commonwealth Statistician the index number for Canberra is 1159. For Blackheath, that salubrious place in the mountains, the cost of living is much higher, for I find that its index number is 1239. Honorable senators opposite would treat public servants in Canberra better than those at Blackheath are treated. Is that not unjust to the men at Blackheath? Why do. those opposed to the motion not champion the cause of the men at Blackheath? Honorable senators opposite have condemned the Arbitration Court. One has to bo very careful in these matters, and must not act precipitately. The facts of the case must be examined from every point of view, and the right perspective obtained. Certain civil servants were compulsorily transferred to Canberra and it is only just that they should be compensated for any inconvenience and monetary loss sustained by them. But a time must come when these things must stop. We must have a reckoning day, otherwise those who are situated in fardistant places and who have much less chance to catch the eye of authority or to enjoy themselves, will suffer an even greater injustice than they do at the moment. And those individuals number thousands as compared with the few hundreds at Canberra that are now concerned. It is essential in these matters that we should possess a full vision. We must, so to speak,' view matters from the top of Mount Everest, not from the base, where one sees only a bald and monotonous plain. Let us ascend its full 29,002 feet and from that height view the circumstances broadmindedly. It is generally conceded that the nearer one gets to the throne the greater is one's chance of advancement. Those in Canberra are a privileged class, when compared with those far removed, and if they are conceded still greater privileges an injustice will be done to many. And how absurd it is to talk of doing injustice to the civil servants of this country. At least four or five barriers must be passed before the ordinary citizen of the community can reach their level of preferment. For instance, they are provided with a Public Service Board, from whose decision there, is an appeal. They have a special Arbitration Court, from which they can also appeal, and there is this Parliament, representative of the people, in which may be ventilated any acts of injustice to civil servants. Behind this Parliament again stands the body of democracy, which will see that fair play is measured out to its servants. Compare the private employee with the civil servant and the disadvantages of the former become strikingly apparent. It is ridiculous to say that our civil servants are being trodden underfoot or used unjustly. It is about time that our eyes were opened and that we realized whence we are drifting. Are not the interests of the taxpayer concerned? I venture to suggest that he has at least an incidental interest. The taxpayer has to keep his nose down to his job all the time. Fair play is bonny play, " and we must endeavour to hold the scales of justice evenly, dispensing justice to the  man  who pays as well as to the man who receives. Is it not the duty of Parliament to safeguard the interests of the taxpayer? Who, if not Parliament, should have the right to pronounce upon the wisdom of spending the taxpayer's money in certain directions? And if we have that right should we not exercise it? No one seeks to take away the rights of these men. All that is intended is to weigh out evenhanded justice to all, and not to create further anomalies. We can never remove all anomalies, but we can and must follow the sane and middle course of equity which leads to the creation of the least number of anomalies. 
[5.58].  -  My reply shall be brief. Honorable senators of the Opposition have endeavoured to make a mountain out of a mole hill.  Senator O'Halloran  expressed the view that certain public servants were badly treated, and he detailed a long history of alleged injustice. On examination, I find that the transfer of the persons referred to by him occurred in 1917, before the compulsory transfer to Canberra eventuated. A number of officers were then sent to the Federal Capital to make the preliminary arrangements. Obviously their position is not affected by these determinations. The honorable senator also referred to the high rentals which obtain .in Canberra. That problem has been dealt with, and officers who rent houses, whether they are compulsorily transferred or not, receive a special housing allowance equivalent to. 20 per cent, of the rents paid by them. There, again, no grievance exists. Further, officers who board at the different hostels, whether compulsorily transferred or not, receive a special reduction of 25 per cent, of their board and lodgings, with a maximum allowance of £39 per annum.  Senator .  O'Halloran harbours the impression that some officers do not receive any housing allowance, but if that is so, it is their own fault, as I am informed by the Public Service Board that all those who have applied have received it. Senators Needham and Daly appear to think that, when these determinations were made by the Arbitrator, the Government should have objected to his jurisdiction. There could be no successful objection to his jurisdiction, since it is conferred upon him by statute. But provision is also made in the act for objection to be taken in Parliament when the Public Service Arbitrator submits it with his certificate that it is contrary to a Commonwealth law or regulation.  Senator Needham  cited the case of a postal official who was transferred from Coonamble to Canberra. The Commonwealth Statistician has intimated that the cost of living index figure for Coonamble is 1214, and that of Canberra is 1159. There the advantage is with Canberra. This postmaster received £462 per annum when at Coonamble, and he receives £516 at Canberra. As he had also received a district allowance of £20 when at Coonamble, his total salary there was £482, or £34 less than he now receives. In addition he comes to a much better climate and now enjoys better conditions. At Coonamble he was provided with official quarters attached to the post office, for which he paid a rental of £42 per annum on the usual basis of 10 per cent, of his minimum salary. At Canberra no quarters are provided, but the officer receives the customary rental allowance, and is also entitled to a special allowance of £24 per annum, which is granted to all postmasters not provided with official quarters. That case was cited by  Senator Needham  as his best example of unjust treatment to a public servant. Actually this person, instead of suffering an injustive, benefited considerably by his transfer to Canberra. 

 Senator Dooley claimed that the issue raised by the Government is an attack on the principle of arbitration. The honorable senator has, no doubt, heard honorable senators on this side criticizing the policy of arbitration, because of the non-observance of awards, but he has never heard them advocate that an award of the Arbitration Court should be disobeyed, as was recently done by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr. Theodore),  if the press report of his speech in the Sydney Town Hall is to be believed. The dissemination of such advice is the quickest and most effective way to destroy the principle of arbitration. 
I also refer honorable senators opposite to page 17 of the  Pan-Pacific Worker  of the 2nd April, 1928,wherein is reported the following declaration by ex-Senator, and 
Boon  again to be Senator,Rae, one of their colleagues. He said - 
It is impossible to estimate the moral harm which has been done to the Australian working class by its hasty and ill-considered acceptance of arbitration as the solution of labour's problems. 
What a remarkable statement to come from a colleague of honorable senators  who  claim that the Government now seeks to destroy the principle of arbitration! I shall not delay honorable senators any longer, but will commend the motion to their sense of equity. 
[6.9] .  - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
The purpose of this bill is to enable the representative of the Northern Territory in another place to take his seat at once. Under section 214 of the act it is impossible for him to do so until the writ had been returned, and some weeks must elapse before the mail from North Australia is delivered. The bill which has just been received from the House of Representatives provides that the returning officer may certify the result of the election by telegram. As there is nothing contentious in the measure it is thought desirable to ask the Senate to agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders and pass it through all stages without delay. If any honorable senator objects I shall not, of course, proceed with the motion. 
As a rule I do not approve of the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders of the Senate, particularly in the early stages of the session; but in view of the statement of the right honorable 'the Leader of the Senate, and in view also of the urgency of the bill, I shall not object to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill presented by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow and read a first time. 
Secondreading. 
[6.12].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The necessity for the measure has been explained by the Leader of the Senate. The member representing the Northern Territory has been elected but is unable to take his seat until the writ has been returned to the Chief Electoral Officer by mail, which will not arrive until well into next month. The bill provides that if the writ for an election can not be returned within seven days of the date of the declaration of a poll, it may be returned by telegram. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

.- I move - 
That a full inquiry be made into the position of the wheat-growing, fruit-growing^ dairying, and other allied primary industries in the Commonwealth in respect to - 
The amount of capital employed in these industries, 
The reward obtained on the capital invested, 
The hours of labour worked in these industries, 
The rate of pay per hour or per day now being paid, 
The social conditions of the people engaged as compared with other sections of the community, 
What room there is, if any, for the expansion of these industries under present conditions. 
When I first drafted this motion and included other industries than wheatgrowing, dairying and fruit-growing, I felt that it was rather ambitious. I have since come to the conclusion that to spread the scope of the inquiry over allied industries would be too big a task, and might possibly cumber an otherwise worthy proposition. The object of my motion is to try to find out how the particular industries referred to in it stand to-day. The Constitution lays it down that it is the duty of the Government to secure, if it can, the peace, order and good government of the country. Peace, I think, at all times can be relied upon, although there may be occasions when there is a certain amount of doubt about it. Good order, of course, follows the preservation of peace, and good government, as I understand it, is an attempt to hold the scales evenly between every section of society, between all sections of society combined and the Government, and between individuals in the different sections. 
Feeling as I do, that the wheat-growing, dairying and fruit-growing industries are labouring under certain disabilities as the result of public policy, I urge that an inquiry should be set on foot to ascertain the nature and cause of those disabilities and the remedies that should be applied. Since federation it has been the practice to inquire into quite a number of Australian industries. Very few have escaped the vigilant eye of the Central Government in its honest attempt to find out how they are conducted, and how they are affected by public policy. In the case of the secondary industries, the federation was not long established before an inquiry was set on foot which lasted for two years. Subsequently another commission inquired into the same set of industries, but not satisfied with these two inquiries, long, exhaustive and painstaking as they were, the Commonwealth Government has set up a permanent board, whose allotted task it is to inquire into their position. There is nointermission in the watchfulness of this tribunal. If it finds that an industry is suffering as a result of public policy, or that economic or local industrial conditions are arresting its progress, the board is charged with the responsibility, of reporting that fact to the Government. Nothing of the sort is done in the case of the three industries I have mentioned in my motion. It is true that some years ago an effort was made to find a better means of disposing of our surplus fruit. But I think I am safe in saying that the Central Government has caused no inquiry to be made in regard to the wheat-growing and dairying industries. It is time therefore for the Government to step in, if for no other reason than to show that it is quite impartial in its desire to see what is happening in the case of sister industries. 
I do not want honorable senators to back me up in my request unless I give them something in the nature of chapter and verse. I do not want them to swallow this morsel blindly without knowing what kind of morsel it is, or without knowing what good is to be gained by setting up an inquiry of the kind I suggest. Nor have I any desire to ask the Government to embark on an inquiry unless I can advance some solid reason for it. But before I proceed to do this let me remind honorable senators of the way in which the Commonwealth  Year-Book  is framed. I find that in it the secondary industries of Australia get a very liberal share of attention. Pages and pages are devoted to a description of the several things that obtain in those industries. There is a fund of information about the value of the land upon which factories are erected, about the cost of the plant and the raw material employed, and about its value when turned into manufactured goods. It gives the number of males, females and children employed, as well as a whole host of similar information. Commonwealth research has been very close indeed in regard to what is happening in the case of secondary industries, but there is no corresponding information in respect of wheatgrowing, or other country industries. There are 400,000 people engaged in our secondary industries, whereas wheat-growing employs 250,000, and dairying 130,000 and* fruit-growing employs an even greater number. Broadly speaking, the three industries mentioned in my motion provide a kind of livelihood for half a million people, yet the  Year-Book  does not give, in regard to them, the detailed information it supplies in regard to secondary industries. Coming now to my main contention, I propose to make a slight incursion into the relative position of the two classes of industry, and the respective progress made by them since federation. I propose to speak of the number of people employed in the two classes of industry, and of the future prospects of both. The Commonwealth  YearBook,  although it has not all the detailed information I should like to find in it, shows that within the last twenty years primary production has doubled, whereas in a lesser period the value of the output of secondary industries has quadrupled. Surely that is ample justification for setting up an inquiry. It shows that there must be something wrong in the economic or industrial sphere, or that there must be some inherent defect in our rural life. Wheat-growing should be of vital concern to a new country. There is no reason why we should be lagging behind Canada, which produces 500,000,000 bushels compared with our 150,000,000. We know that wheatgrowing is an industry that is capable of rapid expansion if encouragement can be given to people who are willing to turn their backs on the cities and make the interior productive for the benefit of all. But our people seem to find it more profitable and perhaps more interesting to remain in cen tres of population, and the net result is that our countryside remain practically dormant whilst our secondary industries are progressing very rapidly. In the face of these facts, which cannot be set aside, can it be said that we have a wellbalanced public policy in Australia? 
Two years ago a New South Wales Labour Government convened a conference of producers and consumers. It met at Bathurst and went into the intricate task of trying to discover some means of bridging the gap between the price received by the producers and the price paid by the consumers. The conference had at its command all the State departmental resources. It had the services of university men. The chairmen of the different organizations associated with primary production were in attendance, as also were representative citizens of Sydney, and the big towns of New South Wales. Committees were appointed to attend to various sections of primary production. There was hardly a branch of primary production in New South Wales that did not have its special committee of experts, composed of producers and consumers. And when I mention that consumers were sitting with producers on these committees it will be quite clear that the conference called by the Labour Government went about its work in a very thorough way. What were the conclusions reached by this impartial body in regard to the production of wheat? The information given by practical men disclosed that at that time it cost 5s. 6d. a bushel to deliver wheat at railway sidings in New South Wales, whilst the price quoted yesterday on railway sidings was 4s. 1½d. a bushel. With the cost of production as high as it is today it is clear that the Australian wheatgrowing industry is in anything but a flourishing condition. I regret that I have not been able to obtain 'more recent data concerning the cost of production. The last authoritative information on this subject was supplied by a royal commission appointed by the New South Wales Government some 15 years ago. As it would be futile to quote to-day the findings of that commission, I have given those supplied by the committee which met at Bathurst, and which exhaustively reported on the wheatgrowing industry .of that State.  Mr. O'Loughlin,  who was Minister of Lands at the time, stated that owing to the absence of information he regretted his inability to deal with the cost of production. Honorable senators will see that on that occasion, as on others in the immediate past, sufficient data was not available to effectively determine the cost of production, and wo are not now able to obtain an authoritative statement. The most reliable information we have been able to obtain is that supplied by experienced men who acted in co-operation with consumers' representatives at Bathurst. But it is quite clear from the meagre particulars at our disposal that a searching inquiry should be made into the wheat-growing industry in order to ascertain by what means it can be protected and developed. 
In briefly referring to the dairying industry I wish to quote from the Tariff Board's report on butter and cheese, presented to Parliament in November, 1927. On page four of that report John Rankin, the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Council, who was then actively engaged in the dairying industry in the Colac district of Victoria, is reported to have said that the capital required in an average dairying enterprise was about £5,220, that the working expenses were £669 per annum, and the receipts £708 15s., thus leaving only £39 15s., to cover the cost of the dairyman's own labour, interest on capital, and provide sufficient for the maintenance of himself, his wife and family. Robert Crowe, the export superintendent of the Victorian Department of Agriculture, said that in 1920 dairymen were receiving 2s. 2d. per lb. for their butter, whilst last season the average price was about ls. 5£d. a lb. This witness further said - 
A lot of people think we have had cows. Of course, we have many bad cows, but they are not aa bad as the disparity in yield (with Denmark) would indicate. 
He also said that on a dairy farm the cost of which was £3,615, the expenses were £373 10s., and the returns £489 7s. 6d., thus leaving a balance of only £115 37s. 6d. 

 Mr. MacInnes,  the dairy expert in the Department of Agriculture in New South "Wales, stated in evidence that - 
Not only is .the farmer broken in purse, but lie is now being broken in spirit, which is far worse. Costs at present are computed at ls. Od. per lb. or over, while London values only showed a net return of lid., plus 3d., bounty under the Paterson scheme. 
An authoritative statement shows that butter which cost ls. 9d. per lb. to .produce, returned, including the 3d. a lb. under the Paterson scheme, only ls. 2d. a lb. to the producer. I could go on quoting other similar instances, but they are available to honorable senators who care to peruse the report for themselves. The same witness quoted another example where only £219 remained after working a proposition which was capitalized to the extent of £10,000. I am sure that even from the meagre information I have supplied, honorable senators will realize that the dairying industry should be fully investigated. 
I have not any information concerning the fruit-growing industry other than the reports of the progress of the industry in Victoria, where the chief canning business is carried on. That the industry is in a bad way is shown by the fact that at Shepparton, where there are the best canneries in the British Empire, the price paid for apricots last season was £5 a ton, and that after paying award rates the cost of picking alone was £4 10s. a ton, leaving the grower only 10s. a ton to meet the cost of other labour and interest on his capital, quite apart from putting anything aside for a rainy day. I have been informed by those engaged in the industry that it is in anything but a flourishing condition. On the contrary, there are very few apart from those owning old established properties who are able to carry on profitably. The difficulties of new settlers operating under present conditions are at times almost insurmountable. It would appear that the wheat-growing, dairying and fruit-producing industries are almost at a standstill. According to the Commonwealth  Year-Booh,  a larger area was under wheat in 1915-16 than last year, but that was due to the fact that in 1915-16, those who were not on active service endeavoured to produce the food for those who were, by considerably increasing the area under cultivation. During the war years, a million odd additional acres were put under crop; but that acreage has not since been maintained. 
A special effort was made by the  Fede fill  Government to encourage vinegrowing, by granting a bounty of 4s. per gallon on "wine produced for export, but that bounty has since been reduced to ls. 9d. a gallon. The area under vines is less to-day than it was four years ago. 
When the Government passed the bill in which provision was made for the payment of a bounty, it was intended only to benefit the growers. 
-.- If that is correct there must have been manipulation somewhere. 
It is difficult to estimate the area of land available here for the growing of grapes - an industry that should be attractive to settlers in a young country such as Australia. It is the duty of the Government to ascertain why the industry is not progressing. 
Reverting to the dairying industry, I may state that in 1922 the number of dairy cows in Australia was 2,419,809, whereas in 1925 it had decreased to 2,382,002. From the figures I have given concerning the cost of the production of butter, and the prices realized, it is easy to imagine that very few would be foolish enough to enter upon the production of this essential article of diet under such unprofitable conditions. Why should people be forced, owing to the peculiar position of this industry, not only to work at a loss, but also to rear ignorant and stunted children in order that consumers may have cheap milk and butter? It is about time the right horse was saddled, and an effort made to ascertain why an industry which employs 140,000 adults is not on a better .basis. The reason why the countryside is not attracting young men and young women to-day is that it holds out to them no prospect comparable with that offered by the big cities. If there was any hope of reward they would be prepared to suffer the hardships inseparable from life on the land. I deplore the drift to the cities. Adelaide holds more than half the population of South Australia; Sydney is daily getting nearer to the same position so far as New South Wales is concerned, while things are not very different in Melbourne and Perth. There is something wrong with the public economy of this country, and we should see to it before the situation grows worse; Recently I obtained a price-list from a leading business house in Perth, and compared it with the prices ruling in the years preceding the war. In any country district of Australia a windmill is a necessary equipment of a farm. A windmill 8 feet in diameter with a 30-f t. tower could be obtained for £19 in prewar years; to-day it costs £47. In spite of the heavy duties imposed on imported windmills many of American manufacture may be seen throughout the country. The current price is 120 per cent, greater than it was fifteen years ago. Cylinder pumps 3 inches in diameter which before the war cost 35s. now cost 80s. An axe, although a small implement, is necessary on every farm. Before the war a Kelly axe could be obtained for 4s. 6d. ; to-day it costs Ils. Shovels, which in 1913 cost 4s. 6d., now cost 9s. 6d. each, an increase of over 100 per cent. For bags which could be bought before the war for 4s. 6d., 10s. 6d. is now asked. It required £75 to purchase a 5-f t. harvester before the war ; to-day £130 is required to purchase a similar machine. The price of a 6-ft. binder has risen from £32 to £75 during the same period and so on through the long list of farmers' wants. For some years previous to the outbreak of war, wheat averaged about 3s. Id. per bushel; to-day it is about 4s. Id. per bushel, an increase of 32 per cent. Honorable senators will, therefore, see that the increase in the price of wheat does not compensate the farmer for the higher cost of almost everything he uses on his farm. The margin between the cost of production and the price he receives for his wheat in the world's market is continually diminishing. Even now he pays his way only by reason of the unduly strenuous efforts of himself and the members of his household. These things cannot continue; an immediate and searching inquiry should be made. No intelligent citizen desires that one section of the community shall prosper by reason of the national fiscal policy, and other causes while another, and worthier, section suffers. The function of government is to hold the balance fairly between all sections of the community. On the football field should one player commit a breach of the rules to the detriment of another, the injured player is given a compensating advantage. A similar principle should apply in the administration of the affairs of the country; a government should see that there is no foul play in the field of industry, that no section of the community benefits at the expense of another section. 
Some time ago the Government appointed a royal commission to inquire into the desirability of amending the Constitution. The commission called to its aid two eminent men in the persons of Professor Brigden, of the University of Tasmania, and the  Deputy  Commonwealth Statistician,  Mr. Giblin.  After a diligent and patient inquiry, they found that the wheat industry was taxed to the extent of 14 per cent, of the value of its output to maintain the protective policy of the country. The contribution to the country's fiscal policy by the wheat-growers this year will amount to about £4,000,000, which is altogether an unfair proportion for them to bear. 
Notwithstanding the advantages of proximity to the world's markets, cheap power and machinery, and long experience, one of the most pressing problems of the United States of America is that of the farming industry. During the recent Presidential campaign,  Mr. Hoover  said that, if necessary, he would call a special meeting of Congress to deal with America's most urgent of public problems - farm relief. The members of a farming community should not he called upon to occupy positions similar to those of beasts of burden ; they should be given a chance to breathe, to live and to prosper. In Washington, there is a Bureau of Agriculture, subsidized by Congress to the extent of about £300,000 annually, which collects data to enable the position of any industry in the country to be ascertained. In Australia very little assistance of that kind is given ; consequently we are hopelessly in the clark as to the real value of our industries. I should support any proposal which would enable us to ascertain where w&amp; stand in connexion with our industries - how much capital is invested in them, what dividends they pay, the hours and conditions of labour, and the wages paid. At present we know no more about what is happening at our very door than we know of conditions in, say, central Europe, nor have we any means of acquainting ourselves with these matters. The bureau at Washington, United States of America, obtains its data first-hand from the farmers. The information collected from over 16,000 farmers shows that over the five-year period ended 1926 the returns from the farms did not pay the interest charged by the mortgagees, that the farmers did not make as much as they paid for ordinary hired labour on their farms. I do not use that information as conclusive evidence of the position in Australia, but it indicates a tendency to make the primary industries contribute an undue share of the expenses of government. I leave this matter in the hands of the Senate in the hope that it will realize that the time has come for a searching inquiry. To allow things to continue as they are is not fair to the industries themselves, to the Commonwealth as a whole, or to ourselves as legislators. We have no right to allow such a lopsided state of affairs to continue. There are persons in the community who believe that the function of a government is to conduct all sorts of enterprises; they advocate such things as State trawlers and fish shops. Others believe that a government should hold itself aloof from all industrial entanglements and let the people engaged in industry remain unhampered by any form of government control whatsoever. I confess that, in my young and callow days, I was strongly in favour of some form of government control; but, after having witnessed the awful results which have followed government interference in industry, I have altered my views. In "those old days I and those who thought with me drafted fine schemes, which promised well; but, when they were initiated and human nature was given an opportunity to prove itself, they were soon left high and dry, and involved the taxpayers of this country in no end of expense. I have in mind as an example the scheme sponsored by  Mr. Thomas  Bath, Minister for Lands in Western Australia, which was to return a profit of 20 per cent, and make available to the man on the land cheaper farming implements. Unfortunately, because of the dissension introduced by the human element, a spirit of anarchy and ill-will soon became prevalent amongst previously well-intentioned men, and the works quickly fell into a deplorable condition. Instead of making a profit the scheme involved the country in a heavy loss, and now the Government of Western Australia proposes to hand it over to private enterprise. The Labour Government of Queensland had a similar experience when it dabbled in socialistic enterprises. However, I realize that I am digressing slightly from the motion. I merely mentioned these enterprises in support of my view of government interference in industry. It has been wisely said, "Let the cobbler stick to his last," and I suggest that the Government, on this occasion, should stick to its last. I urge, first, that these industries should be inquired into without further delay; secondly, that, as an integral portion of our industrial and economic life, they deserve generous treatment; thirdly, that it is incumbent upon this Government to see that every section of the community, employer and employee alike, gets a fair and square deal, and that the Government should not be subservient to any section of the community. With that, I leave the matter, with every confidence, in the hands of the Senate. 
[8.50]. - I am sure that we have all listened attentively to the very informative and interesting speech which has just been delivered by  Senator Lynch.  I have not taken the usual course of moving the adjournment of the debate, because I propose to set out at once the views of the Government in regard to the honorable senator's motion.  Senator Lynch  is not quite correct in saying that there has been no inquiry into the wheat industry, although he is correct if he means that there has not been a complete inquiry into it. I remind the honorable senator that the Tariff Board made a partial inquiry into one phase of the wheat industry in 1925, when it dealt with the prices of agricultural implements. That inquiry covered a considerable amount of ground as to the position of the industry, and resulted in the presentation of a / very interesting report. Subsequent inquiries made regarding several of our primary industries have revealed that, as  Senator Lynch  has said, the material necessary to a complete investigation is not available. If the motion of the honorable senator were carried now, those who were chosen to make the inquiry would have the tremendous task of collecting all the necessary information for itself as the work of the Bureau of Census and Statistics has not been extended over a sufficiently wide field to enable the collection of the data so essential to a full investigation. Some little time ago the Development and Migration Commission was asked to report upon the problem of unemployment, but found that the data available was insufficient to enable it to make an adequate inquiry into the subject. A similar difficulty has been apparent whenever the Tariff Board has inquired into our primary industries. These experiences have caused the Government to arrive at the conclusion that, if it is to tackle the problem in a scientific and businesslike fashion, the first thing to do is to extend the activities of the Bureau of Census and Statistics. The necessary data cannot be gathered by a royal commission or by a select committee of this Parliament. It must be done by a technical bureau week by week, month by month, and year by year. 
It obtained only limited particulars. These are contained in its report, which I invite honorable senators to peruse. It called and examined a number of witnesses, and extracted all available information from the Commonwealth  Year-Booh;  but, as  Senator Lynch  explained, the information contained in that work is restricted in nature. The Government realizes that the analysis of data is something that has to be done scientifically, and intends, in the immediate future, to extend the scope of the Bureau of Census and Statistics and to inaugurate a bureau of economic research. Some little time ago the Government invited certain highly qualified gentlemen to examine our tariff problems and to give their views thereon. When those gentlemen began their task they thought they would be able in a few weeks to give some idea of what was the economic effect of our tariff." But they had not proceeded far before they realized that the data available was entirely inadequate.  Senator Lynch  referred to the Agricultural Bureau of the United States of America. The Statistical Bureaux of that country not only collate facts and figures relating to every phase of industry, but carry the matter still further and make available to the student of economics the conclusions to be drawn from the data available. If one examines, as I did when I was younger and more energetic, the records of those bureaux, which are to be found in our library, one sees that in respect of the boot industry, for instance, there are not only statistics as to the number of pairs of boots produced in the United States of America and the number of men employed in the industry, but also an analysis showing the cost of each pair of boots produced. To determine whether our costs of production are excessive or otherwise, one needs more than a collection of facts or figures; he needs an analysis of those statistics. 
It was some four or five months before they were able to arrive at any conclusion. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Not with the data available. That impressed upon the Government the necessity to inaugurate a scientific machine capable of collecting such information, and it determined to extend the activities of the Bureau of Census and Statistics and to institute a bureau of economic research. 
Not adequately. The question "What is the  conomic  effect of our tariff upon Australia?" may appear simple enough, but if an honorable member strips his mind of any predilections that he may have towards freetrade or protection and proceeds to deal with the question on a scientific basis he will find that he cannot get very far. I suggest to  Senator Lynch  that as the bill to inaugurate a bureau of economic research will come before us this session, he will then have an opportunity to debate it and to hear the views of the Government on the subject. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is a bill to establish a bureau of economic " research. The other proposal is to extend the scope of the Bureau of Census and Statistics so that data may be gathered over a wider area, and existing gaps in our collections may be filled. I am not in a position to explain fully the scope of the proposed Bureau of 
Economic Research. It would be out of place for me to attempt to do so on this motion, and besides the bill will come before us at an early date. I suggest, therefore, that  Senator Lynch  should not press the motion to a division to-night. The debate should be postponed until he has had an opportunity to examine the Government's proposals. At present we have not the machinery to conduct the inquiry suggested. Under our existing tariff legislation, the duty of the Tariff Board is to inquire into the effect of the tariff on primary and secondary industries. It is true, as the honorable senator has stated, that, up to the present, the Tariff Board has devoted nearly the whole of its time to a consideration of the effect of the tariff on our secondary industries, but there is no reason why it should give so much of its time to that phase of our industrial life in future. There is no reason why the board and the Bureau of Economic Research, which should be specially adapted for inquiries of this character, should not investigate the position of our primary as well as our secondary industries. I have made this explanation so that  Senator Lynch  may see the wisdom of postponing the discussion on his motion. If it is carried tonight, I shall have to inform the Senate that we have not at our disposal the machinery necessary to make an effective inquiry into the matters mentioned by him. 
I cannot say when the inquiry will begin, but the Government will bring down a bill for the creation of the Bureau of Economic Research, and we hope that it will be passed before the Easter adjournment. The Government will then appoint a director and other officials, and take whatever steps may be deemed necessary to extend the Bureau of Census and Statistics, which will commence at once on the collection of the data to fill the gap to which  Senator Lynch  has referred in the Commonwealth  Year-Booh. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
In view of the information given to the Senate by  Senator Thomas  when submitting this motion, I do not propose to detain honorable senators unduly to-night. I should, however, like those honorable senators who have determined to vote for the appointment of a select committee, to have a full sense of the responsibility of their undertaking to investigate what every one will agree is most desirable, namely, the possibility of cheapening wireless communication between Australia and the Mother Land. Some honorable senators may think that it is a simple matter to ascertain the earnings of the beam system, and the amount of capital expenditure involved in maintaining it, and to make a recommendation to the Government. I remind them that the ramifications of wireless communication and the development of this new science are very far-reaching in their incidence and of considerable importance imperially. Honorable senators will probably recall that a special committee was appointed in Great Britain last year to inquire into and report upon the situation that had arisen as a result of the competition of the beam wireless with the cable services. That committee was charged with the responsibility of making recommendations to the various Governments concerned to guide them in their future policies. Broadly speaking,  the idea in mind was that we should nave selfcontained Empire communications. The committee, which was representative of Great Britain and the various dominions and protectorates, took evidence for many months. It was confronted with the problem that the expansion of beam wireless meant the extinction, so far as earning power was concerned, of the cable communications within the Empire. That honorable senators may more clearly understand the position, I propose to quote briefly from the remarks of  Sir John  Gilmour, the Secretary of State for Scotland, who was  chairman  of the committee. I think it was accepted as axiomatic, that cable communication for the purpose of Empire defence, must be maintained, so the problem, as honorable senators will note, is a very involved one. It is essential for the safety of the Empire that cable communications should be maintained at their present standard of efficiency. 
I do firstly, and I propose to quote acknowledged authorities in support of this view. In the first place, I cite the opinion of the right honorable the Secretary of State for Scotland, and in the second place, I refer honorable senators to reports presented to the Government from high officials in the Commonwealth Defence Department. It is agreed that to maintain cable communications side by side with beam wireless, there must be an adjustment between the two services. After a careful investigation of the position, the committee appointed by the British Government last year, made certain recommendations with regard to mergers, and when dealing with the report in the House of Commons in August last, the  chairman  of the committee, the Bight  Hon. Sir John  Gilmour, said - 
. There is this fundamental  fact,  which cannot be forgotten,  that  whatever  the  success of the beam and  of  the wireless may be, it has  not  attained either that measure of continuity of service or secrecy which is essential  to  the Empire as a whole. 
Speaking in the same debate, MajorGeneral SirRobert Hutchison, a man of long military experience, said - 
From the point of view of national and Empire safety, it is absolutely essential that we should preserve our cable communications as well as wireless, because it is obvious to anyone that no matter how efficient and how varied our wireless codes may be, they can be picked up and ultimately solved. The human ingenuity that produces a code can solve a code. Therefore, it is of the greatest importance that the cable should he preserved. Had the light gone on between the beam wireless and the cable, undoubtedly the cable in time, having used up its resources, would have gone under, and we should have been left with the broken instrument of the cable as opposed to the increasing efficiency of the beam wireless'. I think the Government are very wise to approach this subject at once before violent battles have been fought between the two systems, in order to preserve the cable, which is absolutely necessary from the point of view of secrecy, for commercial purposes, and also for the purposes of defence. 
Though it is possible to operate the beam system for probably a fraction of the cost of the cables, it is absolutely essential that the latter services should be maintained in the interests of the defence of the Empire. Consequently delicate adjustments had to be made to make this desirable state of affairs possible. I understand that an agreement has been arrived at with the other dominions and protectorates of the Empire, but up to the present it has not been accepted by Australia, and I am advised that Amalgamated Wireless is now negotiating with the merger company with a view to an arrangement that will protect both the Australian and Imperial interests. 
That may be necessary in view of the fact that Australia is so largely interested in the affairs of the Pacific Cable Company, so whatever may be the arrangement it will not be made without regard to the interests of the people of Australia. While provision is to be made for a dividend of 6 per cent. on the capital brought into the merger company, I am advised that 50 per cent. of the surplus will be devoted to reducing the cost of communications and the balance applied to the advancement of the ever improving science of wireless. I do not propose to repeat what I said during the debate on this subject last year. On thatoccasion I pointed out that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited received as its share of the spoil1d. per word, but it must be borne in mind that provision had to be made for the receiving station at the other end. I have no doubt that  Senator Thomas  will very properly say that this is a matter for investigation by the proposed select committee, if it is appointed. Honorable senators should not forget that so far as Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited is concerned, the cost of wireless communication with Great Britain is very low indeed, and also that we must pay some regard to international radio arrangements. Consequently we are not free to embark upon any scheme for the aggrandizement of the position of Australia at the expense of international relationships. 
There are one or two other points which it might be advisable for me to mention. I consider that the arrangement come to by the merger companies was most reasonable, but, while these delicate negotiations are proceeding, it would be, I think, detrimental to the interests of this country and of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, in which the Commonwealth holds more than half the shares, if a select committee were appointed to range over the whole field of wireless. If, with the enthusiasm displayed by  Senator Thomas,  it proceeded to sift everything to the bottom, as select committees are apt to do, I am afraid it would interfere with the endeavours of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited to make the best bargain it can for the people of Australia. An inquiry at the present juncture would not be good business; nor would it be in the interests of Australia or of the great science of wireless, which is" only yet in its infancy. The Government realizes that the honorable senator has the support of a majority in this chamber, but feels that the Senate should be placed in possession of all the facts before it agrees to this motion. It feels that the wireless service of Australia should not be penalized by a reduction of rates while no corresponding reduction is made by the merger companies overseas. The whole problem, it will be seen, is a delicate and complicated one, and its solution will need time. Investigations by a select committee at this stage would embarrass an arm of the Commonwealth service which Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited is. I should like honorable senators to understand . thoroughly that the appointment of a select committe will not carry with it the implied undertaking on the part of the Government that it will be converted into a royal commission. It will be time enough to have an inquiry when the merger is completed and all the necessary adjustments have been made between the different countries concerned. 
It will never be too late, because all charges made by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited are subject to the approval of the Postmaster-General of the Commonwealth. 
Some time ago  Senator Thomas  spoke to me on this subject, and, as one who believes in the acquisition of knowledge, either by individuals or by legislative bodies such as the Senate,  I  said that I should be very glad to support him in obtaining the appointment of a select committee. I see no reason to-day for retreating from the attitude I then took up. The honorable senators who are named as members of the proposed select committee may he expected to approach their task without that precipitancy feared by the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  and with that amount of discretion which the various veiled allusions made by him seem to indicate are necessary. I do not know why all this mystery exists. I think they will have sufficient delicacy of feeling and sufficient discretion to recognize thin ice when they see it, and that they may even be expected not to bring a blush to the cheeks of the Honorary Minister. I refuse to think that there is anything shameful, indelicate or improper in the negotiations now proceeding, but honorable senators who will comprise the committee will be just as ready to recognize the wisdom or otherwise of interfering with them as any other honorable senator. I could understand the Government bitterly opposing the motion originally submitted by  Senator Thomas  that penny-a-word wireless messages should be instituted, but the honorable senator's present proposal that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the reasons which existed for the noncompliance with his former request is quite a different matter. I have not been able to gather from the speech of the Honorary Minister any adequate reason to deter me from voting for a motion which asks for an inquiry and not for the institution of penny-a-word wireless messages. Any knowledge that can be imparted to the Senate by an honorable senator or by a number of honorable senators constituting a select committee must be to its advantage. Knowledge is power, and in the acquisition of that power through the knowledge which it is hoped to gain the committee will use just as much discretion as the Honorary Minister would display. There is another consideration which weighs with me. It is, perhaps, purely sentimental, but many of our actions are guided by sentiment. This motion has been moved by an honorable senator who, having held the position of PostmasterGeneral for a considerable time, may be deemed capable of being able to form some idea of the fitness or unfitness of the request he is now making; and it is moved at a time when to our regret he is about to retire - I hope only temporarily - from the service of the Senate. Under those conditions I, for one, acting irresponsibly and guided solely by my own feelings, would have to think very deeply before I refused the request of the honorable senator that I should vote for an inquiry. It must be remembered that the motion is simply for an inquiry. I sec no reason why I should not abide by the promise I gave the honorable senator that I would support his motion for the appointment of a select committee. 
 After the speech delivered by  Senator Kingsmill  it is unnecessary for me to take up any further time in urging honorable senators to carry my motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I thank honorable senators for the vote they have just given, and I move - 
That the committee report to the Senate on the 27thJune next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate' adjourned at  9.27 p.m. 
[11.2]. -  (By leave.)  - In view of the slow progress being made with legislation in another place, and in view also of the fact that that chamber  is  not commencing its Tuesdays sittings until the week after next, it is obvious that there will be little business for the Senate to transact next week. Accordingly I propose, later in the day, to move that the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until Wednesday week. This will render desirable a re-arrangement of the business of the Senate. The Government proposes to postpone other business on the notice-paper until the Workers Compensation Bill has been dealt with, so that it may be sent to another place. I hope that this bill will be disposed of to-day. 
Is it not possible to initiate in this chamber some of the legislation outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech? Is it not a fact also that the adjournment of the Senate over next week is due, not to the slow progress that is being made in another place, but to the failure of the Government to initiate bills in the Senate? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE That is entirely a matter of opinion. The fact is that bills have been introduced in another place and have reached a certain stage. 
In view of the rather excessive freedom of speech enjoyed in another place, and the strict observance of a pact of silence by Opposition senators in this chamber, does not the Minister representing the educational activities of the Government consider it desirable to get into touch with the Minister for Public Instruction in New South  Wales  to  see if it is  not possible  for a  deaf and dumb alphabet to be included in the Senate curriculum, so as to overcome any similar difficulties in the future? 
The honorable senator is not in order in asking- a ridiculous question. 
Order! I have ruled that the honorable gentleman is out of order.  His  suggestion that the Leader of the Senate should consider the advisableness of introducing a deaf and dumb alphabet for the Senate is frivolous. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it correct that Germany has levied a duty of approximately 4s. per quarter on Australian barley? 
Is it correct that this duty was levied In retaliation for duties levied by Australia on German goods. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
The duty levied by Germany on Australian barley is approximately 14s. per quarter. Barley, the produce of countries receiving most favored nation treatment in Germany, pays a duty of approximately 10s. per quarter. 
No. The higher rate applied to any country to which Germany had not agreed to grant most favored nation treatment. 
asked the Minister representingthe Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What was the total cost of constructing the golflinks in Canberra? 
What is the total cost to date of the upkeep of these links? 
What revenue has been derived from these links? 
What is the present membership of the golf clubs? 
What was the total cost of the constructionof the tennis courts in Canberra? 
What is the total revenue derived from these courts? 
What was the total cost of the construction of the bowling greens in Canberra? 
What is the total revenue derived from these greens? 
I understood that the Minister in charge of the measure intended to make a statement on this clause. I am not fully conversant with the procedure of the Senate but I was under the impression that in consequence of certain representations which. I had made in. my second-reading speech the Minister indicated that he would consider suggestions for the amendment of this clause. I can only reiterate what I said in the debate on the second reading. This clause proposes to confer upon the Commissioner powers and functions which represent a vital departure from the principles underlying workmens' compensation as we know it as part of British jurisprudence. The Commissioner will have authority to determine the rights of workmen on all questions of compensation. I am surprised that the Government should persist with this provision especially as the Minister in charge happens to be a lawyer. If passed in its present form, . the clause will take away a right which, is enjoyed in every other British country - the right of a claimant under this law to have his claim dealt with by a court of law. The Secretary for the time being of a particular Minister will, under this clause, be called upon tq settle claims. 
Of course there is; but I invite the honorable senator to study the measure. An appellate court has jurisdiction to review the decision of the original tribunal. To do this it must consider the power conferred by the legislature before it can determine whether there has been a misapplication of principles inherent in the law that confers the jurisdiction. This clause will give the Commissioner the right to decide questions of law which have agitated the minds of the highest tribunals in the British judicial system. It provides that in determining such matters and questions the Commissioner shall be guided by equity, good conscience, and the substantial merits of the case; but he is not bound to regard legal precedents. As a matter of fact, he is ordered not to do so. Furthermore, he is not to be bound by the rules of evidence. Let us consider carefully the powers proposed to be conferred upon him and also the method of proof which has to satisfy him. Sub-clause 4 (a) states that the powers of the Commissioner shall extend to determining the question whether an injury received by an employee entitles him to compensation under the act. One of the minor facts to be determined before the ultimate fact is found to be proven is the question whether the workman is an employee. In the parliamentary library there are numerous text books containing the opinions of the highest legal authorities one way or the other on this subject. The Commissioner under this bill may disregard all the dicta laid down by the courts from the House of Lords down to the Supreme Courts of the States. He is authorized to set up a new definition of the term " workman." Before a workman is entitled to compensation the Commissioner must determine whether, in actual fact, he is a workman. This raises a highly contentious and technical issue - whether the man in question is a wage-earner, a pieceworker, or .a contrac'tor. The Commissioner has to. decide this matter not upon the foundation principles of workmen's compensation as laid down in our courts but according to equity and good conscience and the substantial merits of the case. 
No doubt; but in a realm the foundation of which is law and order, equity and good conscience are based upon legal principles. There cannot, for example be equity and good conscience based upon caprice. It is suggested that we should allow a legal system to be developed in Australia under which matters which formerly were decided according to law, will be decided according to equity and good conscience. No principles are laid down for our guidance as to good conscience or equity. It is an important departure not to use in this measure words the meaning of which has been determined by judicial tribunals. If the principle of workmen's compensation were applied to Commonwealth employees and their rights determined according to legal principles, the Government, the workmen, and the community would be on a safer basis. They would know that decisions would not depend upon what one man might consider to be good conscience and equity. During the short period I have been a member of this chamber I have heard some complaints concerning the principle of arbitration, and of decisions given which were supposed to be based upon equity and good conscience. Once we give the lead in this form of workmen's compensation, State Governments may introduce a similar system, and employers, employees, and the community will never know where it is likely to end. Since workmen's compensation legislation has been in operation it has been a comparative easy matter to fit a case to a particular principle. It has been an easy matter for lawyers;. but difficult for laymen. It-may be said, of course, that my object in directing attention to the difficulties associated with the administration of this provision is to provide work for the legal fraternity. That is not the case. The introduction of a system such as is provided in this clause will lead to litigation which should and could be avoided.  Senator Duncan  asked by interjection whether there was not the right of appeal. If one of the parties goes- to an appellate tribunal under this provision, where will it end? The existence and degree of incapacity for work by reason of the injury is also a complex question. What is the present procedure? An employee calls medical evidence, as also does the employer ; but this provision will enable the ministerial head to dispense with the necessity of either side calling medical evidence. It will permit a medical practitioner to come before the ministerial head and give hearsay evidence which the employee has no opportunity of testing. The law of evidence was embodied in our British legal system particularly to enable persons entitled to statutory rights to be afforded the best methods of enforcing those rights. Unless there is a strong reason why the laws of evidence should be dispensed with this Parliament should hesitate before doing so. There is also the question of the existence and extent of dependency. In my fifteen years' experience in South Australia  in  connexion  Avith  workmen's compensation cases I have contested  a  number of cases before the court on questions of dependency, and those of partial dependency are the most difficult to determine. In such cases the services of a trained judicial mind are essential in order that justice may  be  done. There are two classes of dependency - total and partial. In the former the task of determining the extent of the dependency is comparatively easy. The Commissioner could decide such  a  question because the statute itself sets out the law, but in cases of partial dependency the position becomes complicated. A workman may die leaving, say, three sons, all of whom are apprentices in different stages of apprenticeship, and the extent of whose dependency has to  be  determined. Such a matter should not  be  left to the decision of a departmental secretary. A matter which agitates the mind of his department and occupies a good deal of the time of federal legislators is the work which they have to perform in dealing with applications for pensions under the ministerial system; but it is now proposed to introduce a still more cumbersome and unsatisfactory system in connexion with workmen's compensation. Partial dependants will have to depend upon the  tender  mercies of the Secretary to the Treasury for the time being. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I have listened with pleasure to the honorable senator's . comments concerning this class of legislation, with which he is so familiar. It is true that questions of great complexity  and  difficulty arise in relation to claims between employer and employee  under  workmen's compensation legislation, but I  see no reason for him to doubt the efficacy or the wisdom of what is proposed in this clause. We have precedent for it. I understand that in New South Wales up to 1926 cases under the Workmen's Compensation Act were left to judicial determination. In the Commonwealth act of 1912, however, the responsibility Was placed upon an arbitrator who need not necessarily be a legally trained man. 
-- He would be in this case. The object of inserting the words "equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case" is to extend the jurisdiction of the Commissioner and thus give greater benefits to the employee than he has previously enjoyed. We do not desire employees making claims under this law to be bound by technical rules which could operate to their detriment. That was the principle embodied in the. South Australian Local Courts  Act  of 1886, which is no longer operative. Such provisions were originally inserted, but have been amended by the legislature from time to time. 
No, I shall deal with that later. In New South Wales, where they have a very up-to-date Workmen's Compensation Act, which covers all employees - 
Yes, in 1926. 
Of course not. Section 36 of that act provides that- 
The Commission shall have exclusive  juris-diction  to examine into, hear and determine all matters and questions arising under this act, and the action or decision of the Commissioner shall be final. 
I believe it consists of three members. The decision of the Commission is final. Section 37 of the New South Wales act absolutely eliminates the right of appeal by either side. The decision of the Commission is to be final, it is not to be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or called into question by any court of jurisdiction or any act  whatever  There is also a provision against writs of prohibition, challenging the validity of its' decisions, which are fortified and supported in every way. The only exception is that the Commission is empowered, on its own motion, to state a case. 
I am not certain. The intention of this provision is to give to the Commissioner the fullest possible powers to do justice to Commonwealth employees. The right to appeal contained in clause 21, with which I shall deal more fully later, is all that is necessary in determining the finer points which may arise. One object we desire to attain in this clause is to give the Commissioner power to refer certain questions to a medical referee. In clause 20 it is provided that the Commissioner may order an examination by medical referees, and that he may act upon their certificate. The practice, which has been somewhat faulty, has been 'amended ; but, under the 1912 act, only one case has been referred to an arbitrator for decision. The act of 1912 embodies the principle which I understand  Senator Daly  is attacking. It is included in New South Wales Legislation, which covers all employees. This is a further endeavour to settle these questions without resort to litigation. If, however, questions such as that of dependency arise and are decided wrongly, there is ample power of review on appeal. If an injustice is done the injured person will have an opportunity to rectify matters according to the principles of British justice. I submit that there is no reason why, in an attempt to obtain simplicity of administratioin,  existing principles of legislation should not be altered. It is not the first time that legislation providing for workmen's compensation has been altered ; it has been altered in New South Wales and also in connexion with pensions, because of the great number of perplexing problems which have arisen. In the past there has been little or no  difficulty in ascertaining dependency, and I ask the committee to accept the clause as drafted. 
 I am disappointed at the attitude adopted by the Minister. It is not fair for him to quote legislation passed by a State without explaining the nature of its provisions. The New South Wales legislation providing for the appointment of a commission is as different from this clause as it is different from the South Australian law. The Commission in New South Wales was appointed by the Go'vernment, which has the power to alter its personnel. Under this clause that power does not exist; the only person who may act as arbitrator is the Secretary to the Treasury. The Minister did not tell us that. I challenge the Minister to give one instance from any portion of the British Empire, in which the  chairman  of any court or commission constituted under any workmen's compensation legislation has been other than a man with legal training, possessing a knowledge of legal principles. I further challenge him to give one instance of an act passed by any parliament in the British Commonwealth of Nations in which the rules of evidence have been dispensed with as in this clause. The Minister said that he would refer to that matter in the course of his address, but he did not do so. He merely said that a workman was sufficiently safeguarded in the court of appeal. Let honorable senators consider a position which might arise. Let us suppose that the Secretary to the Treasury, acting as arbitrator, hears a man's case at, Canberra. A doctor is called as witness and in the course of his evidence  he  says "I was in conversation with  Dr. H.  S. Newland in South Australia and he told me that many years ago he treated this man for rupture." Under this clause that evidence would be admissible and accepted by the arbitrator. Let us further suppose that the workman lodged an appeal against the arbitrator's decision. As in the original jurisdiction the rules of evidence did not apply, the question of the admissibility of evidence could not be raised on appeal. In that respect the appellate tribunal would be - in the same position as the original tribunal. The Minister cannot defend the clause against the attack I am making, namely, that the principles underlying it are an absolute abrogation of the principles of British jurisprudence which have been built up after many years of study by judges and legislators. 
I ask the Ministerwhether it is not a well established principle of law that when the question of believing or disbelieving a witness in the original tribunal arises, the appellate tribunal will give no decision whatever. The cogency of evidence is a matter of minor importance in the appellate tribunal. I could produce from volumes in the Parliamentary Library judgments of the High Court of Australia which would convince even a layman that an appellate tribunal is not concerned with the truthfulness of witnesses. If in the hearing of the case by the arbitrator evidence was admitted which, according to the rules of evidence, would be inadmissible, that evidence would carry the same weight in the appellate court as it did in the original jurisdiction. Supposing that in the case I have instanced I was acting for the appellant, does the Minister suggest that I could exclude the hearsay evidence of the witness who referred to Doctor Newland? Is the National Parliament of the Commonwealth prepared to empower the arbitrator to hear and determine cases upon that class of evidence? I should like the Minister to advise the committee as to how far the principles of British jurisprudence are being abrogated by the inclusion of the words "shall not be bound by any rules of evidence". The Minister attempted to gloss over that point when it was raised by saying that since the foundation of the Commonwealth only one case had arisen. I should not care, nor do I think that this committee would care if there had not been one case. Our concern should be whether we are legislating in the best interests of the community, always remembering that Australia forms a part of the British Commonwealth of Nations. It is not for us to deal lightly with principles that have been established by legislators in the "Mother of Parliaments," and in other portions of the British Commonwealth of Nations. We should seek to establish a consistent code of law and not to make Australia the only soldier out of step. 
 It is gratifying that on this side of the chamber we have at last an honorable senator with legal training.  Senator Daly has  presented a strong case for an alteration of sub-clause 3 of clause 6. Having listened to the battle between our two legal friends - tike Honorary Minister and  Senator Daly  - it appears to me that consideration of this clause might well be postponed, or that it be amended by leaving out all the words after the word " case " in subclause 3. There are occasions when the more we seek to define certain matters the more we limit them. My suggestion would  overcome the  objections raised by  Senator Daly,  and leave the Commissioner untrammelled. 
I shall assist to have that done, for it would remove the limitations imposed on the Commissioner and give to an injured workman that full right of appeal which is one of the foundation principles of British law. I suggest either that the consideration of the clause be postponed 'or that sub-clause 3 be deleted. 
I shall explain how this provision appeals to me as a layman. I listened with very great interest to the dissertation by  Senator Daly  and no doubt, from a legal point of view, his premises were sound. But we should consider how the provision will affect the Commonwealth public servant. I am aware that honorable senators opposite profess to be the protagonists of the public servant, but it appears to me that the attitude which they have adopted would, if given effect to, do irreparable injury to the individual. Sub-clause 3 of clause 6 has been drafted in order that each case may be determined upon its merits, apart altogether from legal technicalities. An endeavour has been made to give the layman an opportunity to obtain justice without the intervention of lawyers. 
Exactly. I am confident that honorable senators concede that the provision is a move in the right direction. Many honorable senators have received a communication from the secretary of an employees' organization in Sydney directing attention to what that organization considered the necessity for certain amendments in the bill, but no suggestion was made that clause 6 should be altered. That indicates that the employees, after giving the matter their fullest consideration, have come to the conclusion that the clause meets with their desires. I compliment the framers of the measure upon having endeavoured to eliminate the intricacies of the law as it applies to Commonwealth employees' compensation, and I shall support the Government in passing the clause as it stands. 
, - I  regret that honorable senators should attribute to me or to any other member of the legal fraternity a desire to pass measures in such a form that their interpretation will necessitate the employment of lawyers. I suggest, in all seriousness, that if the desire is to increase litigation, clause 6 should be passed in its present form. Mention has been made about the heavy cost to applicants for compensation. It may be of interest to honorable senators to know that the costs of arbitration under a Workmen's Compensation Act are negligible. The costs of proving a dependency claim are taxed by the court, and usually average about seven guineas. Not one penny in excess of the amount fixed may be demanded of the applicant. . But I am not concerned about lawyers' costs. This Parliament is beyond such trifles, and is dealing with big issues. Honorable senators are here charged with the responsible duty of passing legislation in the best interests of the nation, and I urge them to view this problem broadly and nationally. My desire is to make friends, not enemies in this chamber. I do not wish to say anything that will hurt the feelings of anybody, but I feel that a vital principle is involved, and that the passing of this clause as it stands will abrogate a most important principle which has taken years to build up. That is why I appeal to honorable senators to  strike Out sub-clause 3 of clause 6. If it is decided that the Secretary to the Treasury should arbitrate in these matters, I cannot cavil against the decision of honorable senators, but I do ask that the arbitrator, he having been appointed, should be bound by principles of law and not allowed to decide cases according to caprice. If my suggestion is followed and an injustice is done either to the Commonwealth or to one of its workers, then either or both may enjoy the full benefits of the appellant section of the act. If sub-clause 3 is struck out the spirit of the measure still will be retained, but there will be placed upon the arbitrator the responsibility to decide the issue according to law and not according to caprice. The system that already obtains in the different States is quite  satisfactory 
Evidently the honorable senator has not applied himself to the line of reasoning that I am attempting to explain. Of course each State has a different system, but there is no difference when it comes to the constitution of the tribunal which is to decide the merits of the claim. 
When  Senator Carroll  makes loose allegations he should be prepared to prove them. I say, deliberately, that there is not one tribunal in Australia at the present time which is not presided over by a man with legal training. The Honorary Minister stated that the application of the sub-clause will not make very much difference, as only one case has gone to arbitration in a period of 17 years. Much the same position exists in South Australia. I suppose that not one per cent, of workers' compensation cases go to arbitration. But it is not necessary to pass clause 3 to give to the Secretary to the Treasury or to any of his deputies the right to hold a prior examination in order to see whether a settlement can be arrived at. He can, as is done by the insurance companies, meet and discuss the matter with the claimant. Fully 90 per cent, of the cases which pass through  my hands are settled in my office,  and never reach the court.  Senator McLachlan.  - May I make a suggestion. Supposing that there is something in the contention of the honorable senator, and that I conceded that the appellant  might be bound by a looseness in evidence; would it not be better for the honorable senator to direct his attention to extending the functions of the court of appeal ? 
I am obliged for the suggestion of the Honorary Minister. I have given the clause a great deal of consideration and, anticipating something such as the Minister has suggested, I endeavoured to draft a sub-clause which would overcome the difficulty. But I think the honorable senator will admit that the task is impossible without the assistance of a draftsman. I believe that it would be unwise to allow sub-clause 3 ms it stands to be placed upon the statutebook. It would be a distinct departure from the British system of justice and, if good reasons cannot be advanced for such a departure, the matter should follow the usual forms of Parliamentary procedure, and be deferred for further consideration. 
I am afraid that I failed, when speaking to the clause previously, to answer one point raised by  Senator Daly.  An effort has been made in introducing sub-clause 3 to simplify the procedure so that the Commissioner may settle claims without resorting to further proceedings. The source of sub-clause 3 is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which contains the very language that is used in sub-clause 3. The desire of the Government is to eliminate anything that would cloud an issue, and probably lead to an appeal. The activities of the Commissioner will extend from Cape York to Cape Leeuwin, and if a rigid method of proof is provided for the task of claimants will be made difficult. Discretion is being vested in the Commissioner; if it were exercised on wrong principles a wrong would probably be done. 
He is bound by legal principles, by the statute; but he is not bound by the rules of evidence. 
-That is so. This, provision has been inserted in the bill with the object of giving the Commissioner the widest possible powers, so that where he deems the evidence sufficient he may be able to decide in favour of the claimant without having to resort to strictly legal proof. Without this provision there might be obstacles in the way of submitting proof of what is required by the act. If my friend feels that a court of appeal would not have sufficient jurisdiction to enable it to rehear the whole of a case, I am quite willing to amend the bill so that it may have full power to do so. The Government has no desire to prevent any employee from obtaining what he is entitled to get under the law. The object of sub-clause 3 of clause 6 is to give the employee that to which he is entitled under the law and anything further to which in the opinion of the commissioner he is in equity entitled. The same gesture is made in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The desire is to enable the Commissioner to get at the facts easily. If an employee at, say, Cook, on the east-west railway, is killed in a railway accident, and the widow is unable to find her marriage certificate, the Commissioner can under this provision act on a communication received from her simply stating that it was her husband who had been killed. If he were bound strictly to adhere to the law he could not accept the written statement of the widow that she was the wife of the Commonwealth employee killed in the accident. He would require a  declaration  made before a justice of the peace. I fully appreciate the big principle for which  Senator Daly  stands, but as a matter of fact the legal practitioner who aims at securing strict proof in all cases would be shocked at some of the provisions in our arbitration, compensation, and pension acts. I understand that the provision in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act which has been included in the bill now before the committee was originally copied, except in re gard to this provision relating to the rules of evidence, from a very wise attempt made by a legal gentleman in South Australia to incorporate something on these lines in the South Australian law. The Commonwealth has endeavoured to widen the gate as regards legal procedure, thus enabling the Commissioner if he has no doubt in his mind, to accept the written statement of a widow, although it may not be given on oath. Rigid administration and adherence to legal procedure would multiply the duties of the Commissioner and greatly increase the difficulties of the claimants. The object of the clause is to reduce to a minimum the technicalities which surround the person who submits a claim for compensation. 
.- When I heard  Senator Daly  I was inclined to think he was right in pointing to the necessity, for retaining the procedure laid down in British jurisprudence. But from the explanation given by the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  it seems to me that  Senator Daly  wants to resort to technicalities and .legal precedents which, in my opinion, we ought not to place in the way of a claimant. When  Mr. Justice  Higgins was  President  of the Arbitration Court he said in effect that before the workers could get justice they had to pass through a Serbonian bog of legal technicalities. If he did not use the word "technicalities" he spoke of something that had pretty well the same significance. At any rate, his words met with approval from one end of the Commonwealth to the other. The people generally were anxious to apply the axe and cut away all technicalities that served to prevent the workers from getting speedy justice from the Arbitration Court.  Senator Daly  wants to perpetuate the technicalities condemned by  Mr. Justice  Higgins, whereas the Government is anxious to arm the Commissioner with power to deal with individual cases on the lines of equity and good conscience, and without the need to resort to legal technicalities and precedents. It is clear to the ordinary layman that the course suggested by the Government is the right one to adopt in the interests of the claimants, because it lays the axe at the root of that mass of technicalities and legal precedents which are such a fruitful source of argument and involve litigants in heavy costs. If my choice lies between resort to legal technicalities and precedents and the adoption of the principles df equity and good conscience, in other words, between complexity and simplicity, I shall vote for the clause as it stands, because it aims at simplicity. 
 Senator Daly  seems to have lost sight of one important difference between Commonwealth and State compensation legislation. The  (ormer  applies to a very limited number of persons scattered over a vast area, whereas the latter applies to large numbers of persons within limited areas. The New South Wales Workmen's Compensation Act of  1926,  which is generally recognized as a good measure, although it has some shortcomings, provides for the appointment of a commission, consisting of a  chairman,  who is a judge and is appointed for life, and two laymen, each appointed for seven years. This commission, can visit different centres in New South Wales and deal on the spot with claims for compensation, and it has practically the same right to hear a case as is proposed to be given by the clause now before the committee. Section  37,  subsection  1,  of the New South Wales act is as follows : - 
No award, order or proceeding of the Commission shall be vitiated by reason of any informality or want of form, or be liable to he challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed, or called in question by any court of judicature on any account whatsoever. 
That is so, but the commission may of its own volition state a case for the Supreme Court if it wishes to have a queston of law interpreted. Its decisions are final.  Senator Daly  has raised the question of dependants. The provision in the bill before us is almost identical with the definition of "dependant" in the New South Wales Act which so far as I know has always worked satisfactorily. In view of the large number of persons to be dealt with in New South Wales it is necessary to have a permanent tribunal with a judge as  chairman  at a fixed salary, but where the number of cases to be dealt with is limited, as in the case of the Commonwealth service, there is surely no need to set up a permanent department with a permanent judge to deal with claims for compensation. If an employee of the Commonwealth is killed or permanently incapacitated at Broome, in Western Australia, who would advocate that a commissioner should proceed, to Broome at tremendous expense and deal with the claim of the injured man or of his dependants, if he has been killed?" This provision has been inserted in the bill in order to meet such cases. Evidencesecured by affidavit or declaration by the,police, or the stipendiary magistrate at Broome, can be forwarded to Canberra, and the Commissioner here can deal with it without putting the Commonwealth to tremendous expense or causing unnecessary delay. When the Commissioner has made his determination the dependants at Broome, if they are dissatisfied with it, may have the evidence sent to Broome and the police magistrate there, or possibly a County Court Judge could consider it on the spot and come to a" decision. What is wrong with this procedure ? Under it the rightof appeal is wider than in New South Wales. If there was a claim from say, Cairns, in Queensland, no one would expect a permanent officer of the Commonwealth to travel from Canberra to that town to deal with it. The claim could be brought before a local magistrate and decided at once. This procedure is both equitable and expeditious. It is not considered desirable that the Commissioner should conform strictly to legal procedure and observe all the usual legal technicalities. I agree with the Minister in charge of the bill that if  Senator Daly  looks at this clause through unclouded glasses he will see that it contains very liberal provisions, intended to operate in th"» interests of an injured workman, or his dependants in the event of death resulting from injuries while in the employ of the Commonwealth. The fact that the provisions in this clause are a departure from strictly legal technicalities is, I think, an advantage. The position in the Commonwealth is entirely different from that in the States. The compensation Commissioners in the States are much mora readily accessible. I do not see the danger mentioned by  Senator Daly,  and I feel sure that the committee will be quite safe in passing the clause as it stands. The interests of workmen likely to come under its provisions are fully protected. 
.  - The provision in sub-clause 3 in effect was adopted with great success by the Mount Morgan Mining Company in Queensland many years ago under the Employers' Liability Act of Queensland. That company appointed an officer, whose duty it was to deal sympathetically with every case on its merits. This appears to be the guiding principle in sub-clause 3, which reads :  - 
In the determination of matters and questions the Commissioner shall be guided by equity, good conscience and the" substantial merits of the case without regard to technicalities or legal precedent and shall not be bound by any rules of evidence. 
The instruction to the responsible officer of the Mount Morgan Mining Company was that in determining claims, he was to be guided by equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case. The directorate properly decided that he should not consider technicalities or legal precedents, or any rules of evidence. If I had been entrusted with the drafting of sub-clause 3, probably I should have omitted all reference to legal technicalities and rules of evidence. If these words were now deleted, possibly the clause would then meet the objections raised by  Senator Daly.  I am not a lawyer so I am not in a position to state whether the omission of the words would interfere in any way with the working of the sub-clause; but it would appear to me to be a common sense thing to do. The instructions to the Mount Morgan Company's officer worked most satisfactorily. Upon one occasion an amusing and at the same time a most complimentary statement concerning the scheme was made by one of the men, who said - " The best of the Mount Morgan Mining Company's compensation scheme is that if you happen to get killed to-morrow you don't have to wait for your money." That somewhat paradoxical statement was, I think, a tribute to the simplicity and efficiency of the system. Since it worked so well in Queensland, my suggestion as a layman is that in order to meet any possible objec tions to sub-clause 3 we should leave out the words "without regard to technicalities or legal precedents, and shall not be bound by any rules of evidence ". The clause would then give the Commissioner the greatest latitude to deal sympathetically with any claim for compensation that might come before him. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 to 9 agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Compensation to employees affected by or dying from certain industrial diseases). 
 This clause provides for the payment of compensation to an employee suffering from any of the diseases mentioned in the first column of the second schedule. When we are considering that schedule I propose to move an amendment to include certain occupational diseases. I should like to know, whether, if we pass clause 10 as it stands, I shall be in order in submitting amendments to the second schedule. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator will be in order in moving his amendments when the schedule in question is before the committee. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Medical benefits). 
, -  This clause states that the amount payable by way of compensation for medical or other attention shall not exceed £100. In certain circumstances the actual expenditure for medical, surgical, or hospital attention may exceed the sum stated. I should like to know if the maximum provided for in this clause is equal to a similar provision in State legislation, and if not, whether it is possible to increase the amount by, say, £25 or £50. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13 - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, an employee shall not, in respect of one accident, except where the injury results in total and permanent incapacity, be entitled to receive as compensation under this act an amount exceeding seven hundred pounds in addition to such expenses as are awarded to him under section 11 of this act. 
.- I move- 
That after the word "hundred", line G, the words " and fifty " be inserted. 
My intention is to bring Commonwealth legislation into line with the most advanced State legislation. In Western Australia the maximum amount payable where injury results in total and permanent incapacity is £750. I mentioned this matter in my second-reading speech, and I do not desire now to reiterate what I then said. The number of claims is not likely to be very large, so the amount at stake will not be considerable. As the maximum in some of the States is £750, the Commonwealth Government should also make the maximum under this bill £750. The request I have made is moderate, and I trust it will receive the support of the majority of the committee. 
 As this subject was debated at some length when a similar measure was before this chamber last year, I do not intend to repeat the arguments which I then adduced against the honorable senator's proposal, and which I think convinced honorable senators that we were acting generously in fixing the maximum amount at £700. In referring to the Western Australian law, the Leader of the Opposition has in mind the maximum liability provided for under the legislation of that State, namely £750; but the weekly payments in respect to total or partial incapacity are limited, whereas in this bill there is no limit to such payments. The present position is that the maximum amount payable is £700 and the minimum £400, and the weekly payments in respect to permanent total incapacity are unlimited. In New South Wales the minimum payment in the case of death is £400 and the maximum £800, and weekly payments in respect to incapacity are unlimited. In Victoria the maximum in the event of death is £680, the minimum £200, and payments in the event of permanent total incapacity are unlimited. In Queensland the maximum payment in case of death is £600, and the minimum £300, and in the event of permanent total incapacity the maximum is as it is in Western Australia, £750. In South Australia the maximum payment in the event of death is £600, the minimum £400, and the total liability of an employer in the event of permanent total incapacity is £700. In Tasmania the rates arc on a much lower scale. As no provision is made in the bill for any limitation of the weekly payments in cases of total and permanent incapacity, the Government considers that the clause is sufficiently generous. 
 This clause provides that in the event of a successful claim being made by a person in receipt of benefits under the Superannuation Act, the amount of compensation payable shall be reduced by 50 per cent. of the capitalized value of the pension. I pointed out in my second-reading speech that the benefits provided under the Superannuation Act should not be taken into consideration in assessing claims under a Workmen's Compensation Act. The system proposed in this instance was originally in operation in connexion with war pensions and invalid and oldage pensions and a considerable time elapsed before an alteration was effected. It was pointed out from time to time that men who offered their lives during the great war and who on returning to Australia eventually became entitled to a war pension should not be deprived of any rights under the Invalid and Oldage Pensions Act. Instead of improving the existing legislation we are strangling it by including this particularly pernicious clause, which provides that certain persons who have made sacrifices in order to obtain benefits under the Superannuation Act shall not be entitled to the full amounts available under the Workmen's Compensation Act. It is unjust and inequitable and I ask the Minister whether similar legislation is in operation in any of the States. The bill now before the committee is an improvement upon the measure we discussed last year, but I trust that honorable senators will not tax the thrifty by refusing to allow them money to which they should be entitled under this measure. If a workman loses his life his widow, under this measure, is entitled to £700. If, however, under the Superannuation Act she was entitled also to receive £200, the amount payable under this bill would, as the result of this clause, be reduced from £700 to £600. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

I ask honorable senators to examine this clause very carefully to see whether in voting for it they will not be doing something wrong. If the Minister is not prepared to postpone the consideration of the clause, we on this side shall vote against it. 
 The Leader of the Opposition would leave me without means of escape. Eirst he says that we cannot find a parallel to this legislation, and then he adds that, if we can, such legislation is worthless. That gets us back to the principle underlying the reduction of the superannuation benefit. Broadly speaking, that benefit is provided by a contribution of one-half by the employee and the other half by the Government, but in point of fact, that is not so, for the contribution by the 
Government is slightly more than onehalf. In this measure no attempt is made to interfere with that portion of the benefit which is the outcome of the contribution by the employee to the superannuation fund. If honorable senators will examine clause 17 they will find that it provides that an employee shall not have it both ways. Notwithstanding the honorable senator's denunciation of any legislation containing similar provisions to this clause, I refer him to the Queensland law, which provides that employees who accept benefits under the Superannuation Act are deprived of compensation under the Workmen's Compensation Act of that State. Section 47 of the New South Wales Act of 1926 provides that if a worker elects to make his claim tinder that act he shall, in the event of total permanent disablement, be entitled only to a refund of the amount of any contribution he has made. In that State he gets only what he has paid in, whereas this bill proposes to give him the superannuation benefit in respect of the amount he has paid in. That is an entirely different matter ; it is, indeed, much more generous treatment than a workman receives under the legislation of either New South Wales or Queensland. I, therefore, cannot agree to eliminate the words " one half." 
.-The Minister said that clause 17 provides that an employee cannot have it both ways. He endeavoured to establish a co-relation between the two clauses, whereas they are as wide apart as the poles. Legislation dealing with workmen's compensationshould be entirely separate from that providing for superannuation. The Minister would have the committeebelieve that I have alleged that benefits under the Superannuation Act will not be given to Vidows or relatives of deceased workmen. 1 have done nothing of the sort, for I know that they must receive all to which they are entitled under the Superannuation Act. The clause before us provides that if the relatives of an employee receive a certain sum under the Superannuation Act, they will obtain a correspondingly smaller sum under this legislation. 
Not to the dependants of the employee,who have to choose between £600 and £800. The weekly payments to them will be reduced by 50per cent. The clause as it stands is unjust, and should be rejected by the committee. 
I support the Leader of the Opposition in his desire to amend this clause by the deletion of the words "one-half" in the case of dependants of employees who are covered by the Superannuation Act. With him I maintain that the two statutes should be kept entirely separate. The Superannuation Act, whichentitles certain employees to benefits on a contributory basis, necessitates certain sacrifices by the employees while they are contributing to the fund. If we pass this clauseas drafted those employees and their dependants will be penalized because of the existence of the Superannuation Fund. 
That is admitted,; but they are on adifferentbasis from thatofemployeeswho, becauseof the circumstances  totheir  employment, do not contribute totheSuperannuation Fund. The two statutes should stand alone. Legislationproviding forcompensation to workmen who are injured in the course oftheir employment, or their dependants, should they lose their lives in the course of their employment, has been placed on the statute-bookto give some measure of protection to employees, and should not be affected by other legislation under whichsuperannuation funds are established. 
Question - Thattheclause stand as printed - put.Thecommitteedivided. 
Ayes . .  . .  . . 21 
Noes . .  . .  . .6 
Majority . .  . . 15 

<graphic href="120332192902224_12_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192902224_12_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192902224_12_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 19 and 20 agreed to. 
Clause 21- 
Any person affected by any determination or action of the Commissioner under this Act may, within thirty days of the date of the determination or the taking of the action or within such extended time as the Court upon application in that behalf allows, appeal to a County Court against the determination or action and the Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal. 
.- I move- 
That the following words be added to the clause :  - " and such appeal may be in the nature of a re-hearing ". 
The Minister in charge of the bill made a reference to certain South Australian legislation, which he commended, andas words similartothose which I seek to have inserted appear in that legislation, I urge honorable senators to accept my amendment. 
SenatorMcLACHLAN (South Austra lian-Honorary Minister)[2.35]. - The amendment of tihe honorable senator gives point tothe contention raisedbyhimthis morning,that difficulties might occur in the reyiew ofacase before theappellatetribunal. I am of theopinion that it meets the position,because it connotes thattheappellatetribunal will have cognizance ofall the principles which governthe (Commissioner and willalso be enabledtocheck the proceedingswith aproper regard to theevidence submitted. That tribunal, if it is not satisfiedwith or desires to jettison any oftheevidence, may seek new evidence and re-hear the case, so enabling complete justiceto be done both to the Commonwealth and to its employees. I accepttheamendment. 
Amendment agreedto. 
Clause, asamended,agreedto. 
Clauses. 22 to 24 agreed to. 
Eirst schedule - 
-I move- 
That the word "exceed", first occurring, paragraph (1.), sub-paragraph (b),  be  left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof  the  words " be less than ". 
My object is to try to ensure that not loss than £3 a week shall be paid to an employee during his period of incapacity. 
It  is difficult enough for any married worker to keep himself and his family on the full basicwage and should calamity befall him in the form of an accident or ill health, it is quite possible that the allowance granted him by the Commissioner may be less that £3, which would make his position intolerable. Whether the claimant is single or married, £3 is little enough for him to live on during his period of incapacity. This committee should pass the necessary legislation  to  ensure that the amount paid shall not be less than £3 a week. That should be stated explicitly in the measure, and should not be left to the caprice of the Commissioner. The terms of my amendment were discussed at length on a previous occasion, and I believe that I then had the support of a number of honorable senators opposite. I certainly think that I then had the support of  Senator Ogden,  and, despite the company he is at present keeping, I harbour the hope that he is not past redemption and will support me now. If I were differently situated, I should move that the worker, during his period of incapacity, whether partial or total, should receive the full amount of the stated wage. But I realize that the numbers are against me, and so have put forward a very moderate request. I submit my amendment for the approval of the committee, and hope that it will be adopted. 
.  - When a similar measure was last before honorable senators, some discussion took place on this proposal. I direct attention to the fact that no limit is fixed to the period during which this weekly sum shall be paid, but the amount to be paid weekly is limited to £3. Provision is also made that the injured person must not receive a sum exceeding two-thirds of his weekly pay during the time of his incapacity. If  Senator Needham's  amendment were accepted, and an injured person was in receipt of £700 or £800 a year, he would receive £9 or £10 a week as compensation, which would inflict an intolerable burden upon the community. I find, on examining the distribution of salaries amongst public servants, that there are only 4,336, all of whom are in the third division, who are in receipt of £250 or under per annum. The honorable senator's amendment would not apply to a very large number of officers, but it would impose a very serious burden on the Consolidated Revenue in the event of a number of accidents occurring among higher-paid officials, who would receive two-thirds of their salaries. 
The amendment simply provides that the amount may not be less than £3. It may be any sum in excess of £3. Provision is made for cadets in paragraph 1, sub-paragraph b, which reads as follows: - 
Provided that as respects the weekly payments during total incapacity of an employee who is under 21 years of age at the date of the injury, and whoso weekly pay is less than 80s., 100 per centum shallbe substituted for two-thirds of his weekly pay, but the weekly payment shall in no case exceed £1. 
The diseases mentioned in the amendment are provided for in the Western Australian legislation, but not in that of Victoria or South Australia. The Government has no. desire to omit any occupational disease which Commonwealth employees are likely to contract. The discussion we had last year having afforded an opportunity to see what was likely to arise among Commonwealth employees, the Health Department was asked to review the whole matter carefully. Its report is that there is no need for the inclusion of the diseases covered by the amendment. In these circumstances, I ask the committee not to agree to the amendment. 
I move - 
That the third schedule be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following schedule: - 

<graphic href="120332192902224_15_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192902224_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

The schedule which I have submitted gives a more generous scale of payments for certain injuries. Honorable senators will note that the injuries mentioned in the first six lines of my amendment are not provided for in the schedule to the bill. I think they should be. I contend also that in this class of legislationthe Commonwealth should be at least in line with the most advanced legislation in any of the States. My amendment is a copy of the schedule to the Workmen's Compensation Act of Western Australia,and Ihope it will be agreed to.  (Senator McLACHLAN (South Australia - Honorary Minister)  [3.12]. - Theamendment submitted by  Senator Needham  is, I think,substantially the same as one movedby himon a former occasion. 
In essence and in fact. 
Although the Minister has not given any reasons for submitting this motion, I presume it is to enable the Government to send the bill to another place as early as possible. 
I am in the most unusual position of agreeing to the suspension of the standing and sessional orders twice within 24 hours, and I am doing so in this instance because I am anxious that this necessary legislation shall be placed upon the statute-book as soon as possible. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - There being an absolute majority of the whole Senate present, and no voice being raised in the negative, I declare the motion carried. 
Report adopted. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator McLachlan)  read a third time. 
We were informed by the Minister  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  this  morning that owing to the delay in receiving business from another place the Senate would adjourn over next week, and I thought that in submitting this motion he would have given us some indication of the legislation to be considered when we re-assemble. The business on the notice-paper at present consists of two motions, one relating to the Treaty for the Renunciation of War, and another to the Report of the Ninth Assembly of the League of Nations. I should like to know if it is intended to initiate legislation in this chamber? 
[3.27].  -  If the members of the Opposition in another place will facilitate business, honorable senators will on resuming be able to discuss the Transport Workers Bill, the Financial Agreement Bill, Wine Export Bill, War Pensions Appeal Board Bill, Bureau of Economic Research Bill, and the Amending Tariff Board Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 There appears to be no desire on the part of the Government to improve the method of presenting business to Parliament. It is' proposed that the Senate shall adjourn over next week, and on re-assembling we shall have only two weeks in which to discuss the important measures which the Leader of the Government has said will be coming forward for our consideration. It is the duty of the Government to recognize the importance of this branch of the legislature. I do not single out this administration in particular, and suggest that it is taking advantage of the docility of  itS  supporters, because other governments have offended in the same way. It frequently happens, however, that important business has to be disposed of by the Senate so rapidly that honorable senators cannot do justice to it, to the country, or to themselves. 
The motion was agreed to before I had an opportunity to object to it. I express the opinion now that such actions cannot but discredit this chamber  in  the eyes of the people. Some generalship should be shown by the Government so that this chamber may retain the respect of the electors. Instead of the Senate being a deliberative chamber it is becoming more and more a machine for registering the will of another place. Legislation initiated in another chamber is, as it were, thrown at us in the dying hours of a session, and we are forced to deal  Avith  it hurriedly. Honorable senators should be more jealous of their rights. Why should not more legislation be initiated in this chamber? Is there any constitutional necessity for a measure such as a bill for the establishment of an economic bureau to be initiated in another place? 
By sitting  all  night. It is not fair that the Senate should be asked to deal with legislation in this manner. The Government has found the Senate very useful on occasions. Only this week this chamber  Avas  chosen by it as the battleground for the discussion of a  somewhat  knotty question. 
Government  that treats this chamber with contempt. 
I have interested myself in this question on previous occasions. At one time I wrote a letter to the Melbourne press about the place the Senate occupies in. the public life of Australia, but it Avas not published. Later, when I read the letter in the Senate, some honorable senators sneered. I shall continue to advocate the rights of the Senate on all suitable occasions to the utmost of my power. The Government will not make the Senate merely a chamber of convenience with my consent. If we allow the Senate to fall lower and lower in public esteem we shall have only ourselves to blame. The Senate is a better index to public opinion in this country than is another place. In 1914 when there was a clash between parties, and it was not known how public opinion would reveal itself, the Senate proved itself to be a better judge than did the House of Representatives, for when an appeal was made to the electors they endorsed the attitude adopted by this chamber. We should not consent to the Senate being a mere registering machine, with the right, perhaps, to dot an " i " or cross a " t," in bills passed by another place; we should maintain its prestige and allow no Government to toss it hither and thither for its own purposes. I shall at all times protest against any attempt to lower the status of the Senate, which springs from the people, and is truly representative of them. 
[3.36]. - After the Senate resumes we shall still have three weeks' before Easter for the transaction of business. 
Even after the three weeks to which I have referred there should be ample timo for all honorable senators to get home before Easter. It is not correct to say that no hills are initiated in this chamber. We have just dealt with an important bill, the discussion on which was shortened because a similar measure had been discussed in ' this chamber last session but lapsed on the dissolution of Parliament. I predict that when that bill reaches another place the discussion on it will be three times as lon as it was here. That the time occupied in dealing with it in the Senate was comparatively short does not detract from its importance. I refer to the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill. The Senate has also dealt this session with the Forestry Bill, the Designs Bill, and a resolution disallowing a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator. In addition, there have been fairly long discussions on the League of Nations and the Kellogg Pact for the renunciation of war. It is not so much that this chamber does not get its fair share of Government business as that in another place much time is occupied with discussions on matters not connected with the legislative business before the country. Dur ing the present session very little timo has been occupied by members there . in dealing with the Government's legislative programme, because of motions for the adjournment of the House and other things which no Government could foresee. It was assumed that by the time the Senate had dealt with legislation to be introduced in this chamber, the Transport Workers Bill would have been dealt with in another place, in which case there would have been no necessity for an adjournment of the Senate. The Government is not responsible for the interruptions to its programme. I assure honorable senators that I am just as jealous as they are to maintain the right of the Senate to a full share of legislative privileges and responsibilities, and shall continue to uphold its claims in that respect, but I repeat that no Government could foresee all the interruptions of its programme which might take place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.9]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional . Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
My object in moving this motion is to enable me to move the second reading of the bill to-day, and if any honorable senator then desires to have the debate adjourned, I shall offer no objection. If this course is not taken, all we can do today is to have the first reading, which is formal, and make the second reading an order of the day for to-morrow. 
As this is a measurewith which everyone is familiar, there seems to be no necessity for the formal stages to be taken in that way. I have therefore moved the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders to enable the first and second readings to be moved to-day and then, if desired, to adjourn until tomorrow, the debate on the second reading. 
 This is the third occasion during the past four weeks that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has moved the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders to enable certain bills to be passed through their remaining stages without delay. On two previous occasions the members of the Opposition supported a similar motion because of the urgency of the measures then before the Senate; but we intend to call a halt when the right honorable gentleman asks the Senate to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders to allow the Transport Workers Bill to be passed through the Senate without delay. 
SenatorNEEDHAM.- Yes, with a reservation to the effect that if necessary he will move only the second reading to-day. Despite that reservation, honorable senators on this side of the chamber will not, in a docile way, agree to the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders. Urgency is the only justification for such a motion. The right honorable gentleman has not indicated why this measure should be rushed through the Senate. The principal act was conceived in a moment of hysteria, when men engaged on the waterfront ceased work in consequence of an award of the Arbitration Court. The Government, in a panicky way, passed certain legislation to cope with that particular industrial upheaval, and subsequent action taken was under regulations framed under that act. On this motion I am not permitted to debate the principles of the bill, but I should like to know what necessity there is for it. At present there is no industrial dispute on the waterfront. 
The honorable senator has frequently made a similar inquiry. He was the "Paddygoearly " during an industrial dispute on the Fremantle wharf when he offered to " scab " against his mates. He has made that confession in the Senate. Is it essential that the Leader of the Senate should move the second reading of this bill to-day, to-morrow; next week, or even the week after? 
SenatorNEEDHAM.  -  Yes. Parliament was summoned on the 6th February, 1929, and since then, the Senate has already been idle one week. This measure, upon which the Minister places so much importance, has been before another place for several days and we are now asked to rush it through. 
SenatorNEEDHAM.- What work has the Government done since Parliament opened ? 
Except that I spoke for about five minutes, honorable senators on this side, in their desire to assist the Government to carry out its legislative programme, declined to discuss the Address-in-Reply. In so doing we gave the Government an opportunity to keep faith with the electors who were told by them during the election campaign that they had an important legislative programme to submit. 
I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the motion before the Chair. 
Government? During the three years - 1925 to 1928, Parliament was in session for about 200 days. 
The honorable senator is again disregarding my ruling. 
.- There is no necessity for the suspension of the Standing Orders at this stage. I go further and say that there is no necessity for the introduction of this bill. It is said that the Cabinet is composed of two circles - an inner and an outer circle, and that the inner circle arranged a time-table which it submitted to the outer circle of Cabinet and Government supporters generally. It is rumoured that there is to be no departure from that time-table. That legislation. should be enacted according to a time-table is foreign to Australian sentiment. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator is discussing a matter that is foreign to the motion before the Senate. He must confine his remarks to reasons why the Standing Orders should or should not be suspended. 
With -all due deference to you, sir, I was endeavouring to point out- 
Australians will not stand for legislation by time-table. Is that remark in order,  Mr. President? 
Then it is not in order to have a time-table. According to newspaper reports, the Government has arranged that this session shall end on a certain day. 
I object to the suspension of the Standing Orders on the ground that a time-table has been fixed for the transaction of business. If that time-table had not* been arranged there would have been no necessity for the motion now before us. The object of the motion is to force us to work at express speed for a few days in order that Parliament may adjourn on the 22nd March. It was rumoured earlier that the date was to be the 12th March, but because of the public outcry against that proposal it was abandoned. The purpose of this bill is to validate certain regulations. I realize that I should not be in order at this stage in discussing the merits of the bill - that is, if it had any merits. In my opinion it has no merits; it is foreign to Australian sentiment, and, consequently, the motion before the Senate is not justified. I hope that all fair-minded members of the Senate, even if they are not opposed to the present motion, will approach the consideration of the bill with an open mind. Why are some honorable senators on the other side so desirous of assisting the Government to give this bill a speedy passage through this chamber? 
Anything that I can do while I am a member of the Senate to prevent the passage of this bill will be done by me, and I feel certain that other honorable senators on this side are equally determined to resist it. A short time ago the Government expressed a desire for peace in industry. 
For the first time in twenty years we have peace on the waterfront. 
It is to take the place of more drastic measures. 
This is a most important motion. The Standing Orders are designed for a specific purpose, and only in exceptional  circumstances should the Leader of the Government ask for their suspension. When extraordinary circumstances arise the Senate, in its wisdom, accedes to the wish of the Government, as it has done on many occasions, in order that the progress of measures of an urgent nature may be expedited. Is there anything urgent about this measure? I contend that there is not, and that there is no justification for the motion. I warn the Government that, although it has at present a strong majority, it is establishing a very dangerous precedent by seeking, so frequently, the suspension of the Standing Orders. I do not at all times object to their suspension, but there are occasions when I feel that I am justified in doing all that I possibly can to warn the Government to reconsider its position. I know that the Leader of the Government is a man of determination, but I also know that he is not immovable. I believe that when he gives serious consideration to the appeals of those who were at one time more closely associated with him than they are to-day, and when he allows his mind to take him back to the years agone, when he lived in quite a different atmosphere, he will not persist with this motion. The business of the Senate would be more expeditiously carried out if the views of the Opposition were considered more seriously by honorable senators who support the Government. Surely these senators are not always going to be mere blind followers of that Government! Have they no independence ? I believe that they have. I see sitting in front of me Senators Thomas and Reid. who have had a long experience of parliamentary life. I ask them is it not true that motions for the suspension of Standing Orders are agreed to only in exceptional circumstances, either in this or another place ? I know what their attitude would be if they were sitting on this side of the chamber. 
 And what would be the attitude of the honorable senator if he were sitting on the Government benches? 
I shall not occupy much more time in speaking to the motion. I have endeavoured, to the best of my ability, and without hurting the feelings of any honorable senator, to enter my protest as vigorously as possible against the carrying of the motion. The longer we delay it, the better for all concerned. I hope that honorable senators supporting the Government will not remain silent. I am sure they are not anxious to pass hasty legislation, but that is what the carrying of this motion will mean. In the ordinary course we should have a message reporting the receipt of the bill from another place, followed by a motion for the first reading, and the second reading of the bill would be an order of the day for to-morrow. The Minister now proposes, if the motion be carried, to proceed at once with the second reading, but he has given an undertaking that if any objection is offered, he will not take it further to-day. Why not adopt the usual procedure and allow the bill to be introduced, take the second reading tomorrow, and the third reading at some future date ? 
I propose to be as brief as possible. As I understand it, a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders is usually moved before the close of a session or part of a session, in order to facilitate Government business. It is frequently resorted to and I suggest that those honorable senators who object to it now, should advance good and sufficient reasons. Up to the present I have not heard any sound reason why the motion should not be carried. The intention of the Government clearly is to distribute the business of the Senate as  evenly as possible over the remaining part of this session.What is wrong with that?  Senator Findley,  I am sure, would not wish the business of the Senate to be compressed into the last week. He does not desire the notice-paper to be so congested that it will be impossible to give proper consideration to the various measures that may come before the Senate. We are all anxious to have the work distributed evenly, to provide for each day its fair share or ration of legislative proposals that the Senate will be called upon to consider. 
Prior to the last adjournment, I made my protest against the policy of the Government in not initiating more legislative proposals in this chamber. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that this bill, as well as others, might have been initiated in this chamber. But my object now is to suggest that honorable senators should make the best of the present situation. If we do not pass this motion, the result will be that next week and in the following week, unless the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues wish us to remain here until after Easter, the business-paper for the Senate will be seriously congested. We can avoid that by passing the motion. 
I shall not. delay the Senate, but I wish briefly to reply to the Leader of the Opposition. In the course of his remarks on this motion the honorable gentleman threw a jibe at me for some observations of mine on a former occasion in the discussion on a measure dealing with trouble on the waterfront. He reminded me that I said something to the effect that industrial peace broke out occasionally in the maritime carrying trade. I may add that I coined that phrase - a thing which the Leader of the Senate, I suggest, could never do. 
There was then no Commonwealth law to deal adequately with industrial disturbances, and in the debate on the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to deal with a measure like this I said that when I found a body of workmen tearing the Higgins' award to " Smithereens, " and trampling the principle of arbitration in the dust, I, as a loyal labourite, objected to that action. 
The Leader of the Opposition, employing the classic language of certain militant industrialists, has seen fit to apply the ugly word " scab " to my action on an occasion mentioned by him. All I care to say now is that when I stood my trial the people of Western Australia gave a verdict in my favour. That is more than the Leader of the Opposition can say about his position as the result of the last election. The people then ordered him to stand aside. I realize that the purpose of the motion submitted by the Leader of the Senate is to economize the time of this chamber and to provide work for honorable senators. I, therefore, support it. 
[3.54] . - In moving - 
That the bill be now read a second time, 
I remind honorable senators that all that it does in effect is to embody in an act that which has already been prescribed by regulations made under the Transport Workers Act 1928. These having been laid on the table of both Houses, and not having been disallowed, are existing law, and the bill adds nothing to them. It merely embraces in an act what Parliament has already authorized to be done by regulations. In these circumstances, it is unnecessary for me to give a detailed explanation of the provisions of the measure. That explanation was given on a former occasion. 
The second point I make is that this bill fulfils a definite promise made by the Government and those who supported it at the last election, and has, therefore, the endorsement of a majority of the electors. 
A definite promise was made that the regulations issued under the Transport Workers Act would be incorporated in a bill and brought before Parliament. The bill provides for the registration of transport workers, the cancellation of registration, and, where good cause can be shown, the restoration of registration. I shall not deal with the clauses in detail. They do not differ in any essential from the regulations with which honorable senators and the general public are already well acquainted. Of the licences issued up to the 14th February last, seven had been cancelled for pillaging of cargo and thirteen for assaults on licensed workers. These assaults were not by one man upon another, but were, generally speaking, by mobs against individuals, the police managing to secure one or. two of the assailants. In some cases the persons assaulted were so seriously injured as to be in danger of losing their lives. 
Until quite recently, Australia had about the worst reputation of any country in the world in regard to the pillaging of cargo. 
Honorable senators who read the report of a royal commission which investigated the subject of pillaging of cargo will find in it ample justification for my statement. For instance, the commission reported that in Victoria in 1920, pillaging was so extensive that the claims upon the shippers amounted to 2s. 4d. a ton on the total tonnage imported. What would be thought of this Parliament if it imposed a tax of 2s. 4d. a ton on all goods imported? Yet that is what was being unlawfully imposed by a section of workers on all goods imported. The reports show that only a section of the men who work on the wharfs, a small minority, has been taking this toll of the community. Under this bill pillaging is an offence for which, on conviction, the licence of the offending worker may be cancelled. 
 Certain criticism has been offered to one provision of the bill which directs that a licence may be cancelled if a registered person has refused or failed to comply with any lawful order or direction given in relation to his employment; and a good deal of false sympathy has been expressed for workers who may be deprived of their licences for such a reason. It is claimed that the penalty is unduly severe. I invite those who hold that view to read the judgment of Judge Beeby in the arbitration case of the  Commonwealth Steamship Owners' Association and others, and the Waterside Workers Federation.  I shall read a few sentences from that judgment, because I notice that many people speak of this legislation as if it were now being introduced for the first time with malice aforethought for the purpose of disturbing an existing set of peaceful industrial conditions. I remind honorable senators of the circumstances in which the Transport Workers Act was passed. There had "been a revolt against an arbitration award ; the waterside workers were holding up the industries of this country and thus causing loss of employment to thousands of people who had no connexion whatever with the dispute. A small body of men was practically holding this community by the throat when this licensing system was first brought into operation. 
It was not brought into force in ports where the workers obeyed the award of the Arbitration Court. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.When the licensing system was first brought in there was no thought of a general election. In the course of his judgment in the case to which I have referred, Judge Beeby said - 1 waa reluctantly forced to the conclusion that the federation and some of its vigilance and other officers, more than the workmen themselves, have been responsible for most of the unrest of recent times on the water-front, and that much disorder has been formented  for purposes other than the remedying of legitimate grievances. 
He went on to describe the disturbances to which he referred and continued - 
These stoppages of work have usually arisen from demands by groups of men, backed up by a branch executive, or by the Federal Committee of Management itself, for restrictive conditions not authorised by the court; from attempts to enforce local rules or regulations in conflict with the award, from refusal to accept the decisions of boards of reference on disputed points; from efforts to secure payments of excessive rates for special work without submission to boards of reference; from demands for increases in the numbers of hands employed without reference to boards; from enforcing  the "fair division of work" policy by demanding the employment of more me than were fairly necessary; from effort to destroy the mobility of labour employed and from the adoption by the committee of management and branch executives of a new policy aiming at securing control without responsibility of waterside operations in the Commonwealth. 
Further on he showed how  Mr. Justice  Higgins had previously attempted to deal with the same set of circumstances and restrain that kind of conduct. He then proceeded - 
Unfortunately, employers, for reasons which it is not necessary to traverse, although always protesting, acquired the habit of gradually yielding to the conditions imposed by the federation. 
We know very well what happened. The employers yielded, but the community paid. Industries had to bear the cost. The cost of production in Australia was increased. Judge Beeby went on to say - 
Now, however, the employers have submitted a mass of uncontradicted evidence to  prove  that the federation has paid no heed to the warnings of the court. Branches have been, and still are, permitted to make their own domestic rules, and, furthermore, the committee of management of thu federated branches, the governing body of the organization, has itself directed the enforcement of conditions contrary to the award. One only of these need be mentioned. The award provided that the times and places of engagement of labour existing on certain dates should continue until varied by agreement or by findings of boards of reference. The committee of management, in defiance of this provision, directed all branches to adopt one pickup only, although a second afternoon pick-up prevailed in nearly every port. There is no escape from the conclusion that the federation has adopted a policy of definite defiance of this court. It has always stated its willingness to accept awards, but with the unexpressed reservation that, so far as the community would permit, the collective power of the organization would be used to extort conditions which the court had refused or had not been asked to consider. It is now necessary to consider the motives behind this policy. Employers in every port admit that 80 per cent, of the workmen are capable men who follow the occupation regularly as their means of livelihood, and who, if left alone, will work peacefully under awards. The workmen, however, attempt to justify breaches of the award by stating that they run the risk of union fines unless they obey local rules and the directions of their branches. 
It is the 20 per cent, who object to the legislation now proposed. It will not in any way affect the remaining 80 per cent. 
I venture to say that they will. Judge Beeby further stated, as reported at page 10 of his judgment - 
On the plea that a better distribution of work amongst members of the federation is necessary, the accepted policy of the federation is to " spin out the job," and so to destroy the mobility of labour engaged that many more mon will be employed than are necessary. 
On page 12 we find this statement - 
Definite allegations were made during the proceedings that, notwithstanding provisions for extra labour and other advantages conferred by past awards, members of the federation in some ports have systematically reduced output, and that gangs of men, although numerically increased, load and discharge less tonnage per hour than in pre-arbitration days. 
The learned judge went on to say - 
Consideration of these variations in conditions made me refuse to accept as conclusive a return submitted by employers which purported to show that, since 1912, the average rate of handling oversea general cargo, with four men in each hold, had fallen from 17.87 tons to, with six mcn in hold, 13.04 tons. The figures were, however, sufficiently startling to call for inquiry, and I accordingly asked  Mr. Sutcliffe,  of the Commonwealth Statistician's Office, to furnish me with a report as to the main ports.  Mr.  Sutcliffe's  reports, without the appendices, were as follow: - 
The need for investigation, as appears from the terms of reference, arose from allegations made during the hearing of a case before the court, that the rate per hour of discharging cargoes had decreased by 20 per cent, in the year 1925, compared with the rate in 1912. This allegation was supported by a statement put in as an exhibit, a copy of which is given in the appendix. My first step, therefore, was to check the accuracy or otherwise of that statement. It purports to bo a record of cargo discharged from 21 vessels in 1912 and from a similar number in 1925 by the Victorian Stevedoring Company. The company placed the whole of the documents from which the return was compiled at my disposal. It was found that some errors had been made, and these were corrected, and the corrected statement is also given in the appendix. So far as the comparison for the two years is concerned, however, the results are not appreciably affected. The weighted average tons per hour per gang are - 

<graphic href="120332192903064_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

Reading from  Mr.  Sutcliffe's  report, he continued - 
As a further test of the accuracy of the statement, I have had taken* from the available records, and have personally checked a return showing for the same seven vessels the rate of discharge per hour in 1912 and 1925 to 1927, That is, I have taken each of the seven vessels and compared its rate of discharge in 1912 with the rate of discharge in 1925-26 or 27, as the case may be. This return shows that the average rate of discharge in 1912 was ICI tons per gang hour, and in 1925-27, 13.2 tons per gang per hour. This return shows a similar percentage decrease to that shown by the original exhibit. A further return prepared shows that for eleven vessels discharged by the Victorian Stevedoring Company this year, the average rate of discharge was 12.71 tons per gang per hour. 
On page 15 of the report of the judgment are given the figures for interstate shipping showing that in Melbourne in 1914-15 the rate of discharge was 15.4 tons per gang per hour, as against 14.5 in 1925-26. In Sydney in 1914-15 the rate of discharge was 18.2 tons per gang per hour, whilst in 1925-26 it was 16.9. 
I now come to a very important quotation, which relates to the methods by which the lawful orders of an employer have been interfered with - the very evil at which proposed new section .12 is aimed. On page 34 of the judgment, Judge Beeby, in referring to vigilance officers, says - 
The right of officers of the federation to visit wharfs and ships whilst work is in progress, for the purpose of seeing that awards and agreements are carried out, has been conceded by employers. But, on the hearing of these disputes, strong complaint was made that this privilege has been abused. There is no need to review the .evidence, much of which was, as to facts, uncontradicted. I need only say that it was clearly proved that, in the ports of Melbourne and Fremantle, and to a lesser degree in some other ports, officers of the federation have been guilty of most unjustifiable and arrogant interferences with management, and have frequently been responsible for stoppages of work, which would not have occurred but for their interference.  . . . Some officials in Melbourne and Fremantle acted with the express purpose of assuming control of operations. I cannot disregard the evidence on this issue. It has become necessary to more clearly define the rights of vigilance officers and to provide for penalties if such rights are abused. No vigilance officer has the right to interfere with management, to direct men to stop work, or to issue orders to men as to how they shall do their work. The award prescribes the conditions of labour. If a federation official thinks the award is being misinterpreted, he can bring the matter before the court or a board of reference. If he thinks the award is being broken, his duty is to make complaint, in a proper manner, to the foreman, and then to proceed in court under the penalty provisions. If he thinks insufficient labour is being provided, he can make complaint to a foreman, and thereafter, if necessary, to the board of reference. 
What does this mean? It means that while in all other industries the employee, in following his occupation, obeys the lawful orders of his employer - that is the condition on which he receives his wages- 
Yes. Before this law became operative - before the revolt which directed public attention to this abuse - there was a third set of individuals, not appointed by the community, having no interest in the goods to be handled, paying no wages and receiving no salary from the employer, but who, nevertheless, were over-riding the orders of employers by directing the waterside workers amongst other things where cargo was to be stowed or dumped. It was stated in evidence that a ship-owner, whose duty it was to deliver goods as to which he was a common carrier, would order them to be dumped from the sling to a particular place on the wharf from which they could be expeditiously and efficiently placed on lorries or other vehicles that were to load them. But a vigilance officer would come along and take upon himself the right to say that the goods should not be dumped there, but in some other place, his object being to necessitate the employment of another gang to move the goods to a point from which they could be conveniently removed from the wharf by lorries or other vehicles. What does that mean? Not that the additional cost would be imposed upon the ship-owner, but that a toll would be taken from the community to cover the cost of the extra handling of the goods. The people have had to pay for these exactions. It is said that in the bad old days in China, what was known as a "li kin" customs duty was imposed. At the ports or entrances to the great waterways that run into central China the 
Government collected customs duties on goods entering those great waterways, but higher up the river a local brigand would impose a further duty so that generally speaking by the time the goods reached their destination at the top of the river - each local brigand having taken his toll - the cost to the consignee had doubled. We have had this system around the Australian coast - a system of tolls or " li kin " unlawfully imposed by certain persons. That is shown in this judgment of the Arbitration Court and findings based on uncontradicted evidence. It is this abuse of power - this unlawful levying of a toll on the community - that is aimed at in paragraph (a) of proposed new section 12, which provides for a penalty in the case of those who refuse to comply with a lawful order of an employer. 
Who is making all the noise and raising all the objections to this legislation? It is not the men who wish to follow their lawful occupation on the wharves, but those " brigands " who have been imposing " li kin ". They find their occupation gone. They find their power taken from them. They find that the community has taken to itself the power to prevent vigilance officers from unlawfully interfering with the handling of goods as they have been doing. It is these individuals who have been moving motions of protest, calling indignation meetings and "raising the roof" of the trades halls in the various state capitals in protest against this measure. 
A determined attempt has been made to make it appear that there is something revolutionary, something foreign to British ideals of justice in this registration system. We do not claim that it is original. It has been in existence in Great Britain for years. It was adopted in Liverpool in 1912, in London and Bristol in 1919, and in Hull in 1925. In those ports it was not imposed by the Government, although the local governing authorities had power to provide for it, but as the result of an arrangement between union representatives and the employers. In other words the unions recognized the advantage of some such system. 
It is based on inquiries made through the High Commissioner's Office as to the conditions existing in the principal ports of Great Britain. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Board of Trade and a joint committee of the Dockworkers Union and the employers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I have the papers here, and the honorable senator can read them. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. I have given the findings of Judge Beeby regarding the falling off of efficiency in the handling of cargo throughout Australia, and also his comments as to the causes of that falling off. After the waterside workers had revolted against the award of the Arbitration Court and deliberately thrown up their employment by refusing to work, an appeal was made to the citizens of Australia to come to the rescue of the Commonwealth and carry on the necessary transport services. Large numbers of Australian citizens responded to that appeal and commenced to work. But what treatment was meted out to them ? Although they came along to work in accordance with a law of the country - to work under an award of the court, they were treated as criminals, assaulted, boycotted, and, in some cases, bombed. The use of the bomb was previously unknown in Australia. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. I say only that men who came to the assistance of their country in a time of need were bombed. 
SenatorSir GEORGE PEARCE.If the Leader of the Opposition chooses to fit the cap, he may; I have madeno attempt to do so. The point is that men who offered their services as volunteer labourers were bombed in their homes. It  is  significant that the houses in South Melbourne which were bombed were occupied by men who worked as volunteer labourers during the strike on the waterfront. No one but a fool would think otherwise than that their homes were bombed because they did so work. Yet, their only offence was that, in accordance with a law of the country, they offered their services to keep the community from starving. I do not know who threw the bombs; if I did I should assist in having them convicted just as other men who bombed the Greek Club were convicted recently. 
The following return showing the work performed by these volunteer labourers in comparison with that done before the strike by the members of the Waterside Workers Union, is illuminating: - 

<graphic href="120332192903064_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures need no comment; they tell their own story, and give the reason why, before the strike, industry in Australia was not progressing. Australia cannot afford that kind of thing; in that way lies the road to ruin. If that is to be the policy of trade unionism in Australia, then trade unionism will soon bring about not only its own downfall, but also the downfall of this country. 
There is no novelty in the licensing system as applied to waterside labour. There is no novelty in its application in Australia to other forms of labour. It has been applied for many years to electricians, plumbers, motor-drivers, hawkers and even baggage carriers on the wharfs have had to obtain licences. And yet itis said now that there is something degrading in this system. Those who make that statement did not protest whenthese other classes of workmen were required to take out licences, and no one considers that they are degraded or injured in any way because in the interests of the community they have to secure a licence to pursue their several occupations. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I should like to know if the report of the South Australian Disabilities Commission will be available before the Senate considers the Financial Agreement Validation Bill which is now before another place? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  who was responsible for the preparation of the paper in relation to the Transport Workers Bill which he laid on the table of the Senate yesterday? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Labour branch of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Does payment of any pension under the Wai- Pensions Act militate against the operation of any section of the Invalid and Oldage Pensions Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated cost of removal from Melbourne, and re-erection at Canberra, of the wooden building now being placed near Civic Centre? 
For what purpose will the building, when re-erected, be used? 
. ?13,000. 
The building will be used as offices for the staff of the Works and Railways Department, including the Lands and Surveys Branch of that department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister or the Government given consideration to the request of the Tasmanian Apple Evaporators' Association for a bounty on evaporated apples exported, and, if so, with what result? 
If not, will consideration be given to the request at once, so that if a bounty is granted it will bo available for this season's export? 
The answers are - 
The matter has been considered, but no finality has yet been reached. 2.It will not be practicable to take any action with regardto this season's exports. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a delegation representing British shipping interests has arrived in Australia ? 
Has a conference been arranged between the PrimeMinister and this delegation to consider the question of increasing Australian freights ? 
Is it proposed that representatives ofthe primary producers and other interests concerned shall be present at this conference? 
If not, will these interests be consulted before any agreement is arrived at? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.;The answers are ; 
Yes. 
A conference is being arranged between the members of the delegation and representatives of the interests in Australia concerned in overseas trade, for the purpose of discussing the whole position in regard to overseas shipping, including the question of freights and the steps necessary to ensure the provision of the most economical and efficient service. 
Yes. 
See answer to No. 3. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is he aware whether approximately6,000 applications were received in New South Wales for advances under the Commonwealth Housing Scheme during the first month it was in operation ? 
Does the Queensland State Government still refuse to operate this scheme on behalf of the Federal Government? 
If so, will the Government make other arrangements, so that the people of Queensland may receive the same benefit under the scheme as the people of the other States? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Information in regard to these matters is being obtained and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Has he noticed a statement in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 5th inst. to the effect that  Mr. Teasdale,  M.P., at Perth, said that there would soon be an exodus of most of the pearling boats from Broome to Darwin, in consequence, amongst other things, ofthe absence of Federal restrictions there? 
Whether, if the statement is correct, its meaning is that there are no Federal restrictions on the pearling industry at Darwin, although in the case of Broome there are Federal restrictions that discourage the industry there? 
Yes. 
As regards the introduction and employment of indentured coloured labourers in the pearling industry, the same conditions and restrictions under the Commonwealth Immigration Law apply at Darwin as at Broome and Thursday Island. The conditions as regards licences, &amp;c., under which persons and vessels may engage in the pearl-fishing industry in Australia are governed by the State Fisheries laws at Broome and Thursday Island, and in North Australia by the Fisheries Ordinance 1911-1924, and regulations issued thereunder. 
I listened with a great deal of interest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  when moving the second reading of this bill. During his speech the right honorable gentleman attempted to place upon the members of the Waterside Workers Federation, and to some extent upon the members of the Opposition the responsibility for pillaging which he said had decreased considerably since the Transport Workers Act had been in operation. The inference to be drawn from his statement was that the members of the Waterside Workers Federation were dishonest, and that because honorable members on this side of the chamber opposed that act, they were also involved. All I have to say in that regard is that the right honorable gentleman would not dare to make that statement outside the chamber. 
The inference to be drawn from the right honorable gentleman's remarks was that as a result of the Transport Workers Act pillaging had decreased. He also referred to the bombing outrages which have occurred, and endeavoured to associate the members of the Labour party and the members of the Waterside Workers Federation with those dastardly acts which resulted in injury to human life. 
Immediately these outrages occurred the leaders of labour denounced them. 
The right honorable gentleman inferred in his speech that the members of the Labour party were associated with those dastardly outrages. 
I have read it and I say that the inference is there. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order! The Leader of the Senate has denied having made the statement attributed to him by the honorable senator, and I ask  Senator Needham  to accept that denial in accordance with the established practice now. 
I am not saying that the right honorable gentleman made the statement in those definite terms, but I contend that the inference to be drawn from his remarks was that the Labour party approved of what had been done. However, since the Leader of the Senate denies having used those words, I accept his assurance. In the course of his speech he quoted from an award given by Judge Beeby which, we contend, was responsible for a great deal of the trouble on the waterfront last year. Honorable senators will recall that Judge Beeby made provision for two pick-ups instead of one, although the employers had not asked for the second pick-up. It was this provision in the award that led to the trouble on the waterfront. The Leader of the Senate referred also to the provision in this bill for the cancellation of licences, and instanced, in support of his argument, a number of assaults individually and in company, that had been made on volunteer workers last year. Clearly the inference to be drawn from his remarks was that the Waterside Workers Union and the members of that organization were responsible for these acts of lawlessness. The right honorable gentleman went on to argue that in view of all that had happened, it was only right that mcn engaged on the waterfront should be obliged to take out licences. 
The act passed towards the end of last session authorized the Government to make regulations to deal with the troubleon the waterfront, and it is proposed now to give those regulations the force of statute law by including them in this bill. I have no doubt that other honorable senators remember the time when the Leader of the Senate subscribed to the view that membership of a union should be the only qualification required of a man seeking work in Australia. He then had no thought of licences for workers. I remind him also that the question of preference to unionists was responsible for the only double dissolution that has taken place in the history of this Parliament, and that whilst he was a member of the Labour party he was always a staunch supporter of that principle. The right honorable gentleman had a good deal to say in regard to the Preference Prohibition Bill, when that measure was before this chamber in 1913. It is hardly necessary for me to remind honorable senators that that was before the Minister was in his present company. He was not then a member of a Government, which, during the last four or five years, has introduced so many legislative measures of a most provocative, repellant and repulsive nature. When speaking to the Preference Prohibition Bill on the 11th December, 1913,  Senator Sir George  Pearce said - 
Looking back over the history of civilization we find, in respect of property, at one time the rule of force was in existence. We find that the man who was strongest could take the property of another by the use of the club. Might was right. 

 Senator McColl ; "That they should take who have the power." 
Yes. "And they should keep who can." 
The position to-day is as was portrayed by  Senator Sir George  Pearce in 1913. The workers of Australia, threatened as they are by legislation such as that which is now before us, desire not so much to bring about an improvement in their conditions as to hold fast the privileges which they possess. In other words they believe that they should keep that which they now have. The right honorable gentleman went on to say - 
I have said that an arbitration law is impossible without unions. There must be someone who can be brought before the court. 
Then in a reply to an interjection by  Senator Mullan  to the effect that members of trade unions had been boycotted and denied opportunity to secure employment,  Senator Pearce  said - 
I have myself been the recipient of that treatment. Before the Arbitration Act came into force in Western Australia I was victimized and refused employment, not because I was an inefficient workman, since I was always able to get more than the average wage which other workmen in the same employment were receiving, not because of anything against my character, but simply because I, as a trade unionist, had voted publicly the feelings of those who worked in the trade with which I was associated. 
The more I study the speech delivered on that occasion by the Leader of the Senate, the more I am convinced that he was an avowed exponent of political principles  entirely  different from those he holds to-day. Preference to unionists was then his slogan. Abolition of unions and trade unionism is his slogan to-day, by virtue of the fact that he is supporting the measure which we are now discussing. Let me quote further from the speech delivered- by the right honorable gentleman in 1913 - 
We have a law against burglary but burglaries are still committed. There is not a law in our statute-book that is not broken by somebody, and let me say that very many of the breaches of the Arbitration Act have been brought about by the conservatives represented by our honorable friends opposite - 
The conservative forces represented by honorable senators who were opposed to the right honorable gentleman in 1913, are the forces which are supporting theGovernment of which he is a member to-day - who have designedly .introduced provisions into the act to make it unworkable. I have shown the way in which employers may prevent arbitration although Parliament has said that there shall be arbitration. 
I shall make one more quotation from the speech made by  Senator Sir George  Pearce on the occasion to which I refer - 
When employment is offering, we have on the one hand the man who has sacrificed his time and his money to build up a union which will enable our arbitration machinery to work satisfactorily, and which will prevent strikes and industrial disputes by availing itself of the legislation which Parliament has enacted for that purpose. On the other hand, we have the non-unionist, of equal ability as a workman, but one who has done nothing to provide machinery to make our arbitration legislation work satisfactorily. In all justice, which of these two should be granted a prefer.ence by the Commonwealth? Surely it is the man who, recognizing the law that the Commonwealth has enacted, spends his time, his money, and his energy, to provide the machinery which will enable that law to work rather than the individual who, by the fact that he is a non-unionist, would make the law absolutely useless and unworkable. 
I was then stating the result of the action of non-unionists. In the present case it is the unionists who are breaking the law. 
In his speech yesterday, the right honorable gentleman quoted certain results of volunteer labour, and alleged that, on the waterfront, the volunteer had done more work than the union member. As a contrast, I shall read a statement made by  Sir Arthur  Duckham, the  chairman  of the "Big Four," the British Economic Delegation, which recently visited Australia. It reads - 
Employers all over Australia have told me the Australian workman is the best in the world. 
Compare that with another statement made by  Senator Pearce  yesterday, wherein he endeavoured to lead the people- of Australia to believe that the Australian workman, and particularly a member of the waterside workers' organization, was the worst in the world. The Leader of the Senate inferred that members of that organization were parties to the dastardly bombing outrages that have occurred in Melbourne. Let me compare that with a statement made by the Victorian Commissioner of Police," General Blarney, who, appealing to the men on the waterfront and the public generally to assist the police in detecting the bombers, said - 
Waterside workers are just as eager to get rid of criminals in their ranks, as anybody else. "When speaking on the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, I declared that there was no need at all for this bill, and I repeat that statement. The bill should be withdrawn. There exists to-day a desire for peace in industry, and the Labour party and industrial organizations of Australia have shown their bona fides by meeting the employers in conference. The management committee of the peace conference is still functioning.  Senator McLachlan  (Honorary Minister) said recently in this chamber - 
I believe that the Kellogg Pact is the outcome of a deep-seated feeling among the people of America for the furtherance of the cause of peace. 
I echo the sentiment. And just as there is a deep-seated feeling among the people of America to further the coming of world peace and to prevent another world war, and its shambles, so there exists in Australia to-day a deep-seated desire to inaugurate and preserve industrial peace. But legislation of this nature will destroy rather than stimulate that feeling. Why should the Government sabotage our peace machinery by throwing into it this spanner, the Transport Workers Bill? No specific dispute exists on the waterfront and, that being so, why should we perpetuate the folly of last year? By doing so we may destroy the desire for industrial peace. Are honorable senators opposite sincere in their desire to bring about and maintain industrial peace ? If they are I urge them to purge the statute-book of legislation of this nature. It is not necessary. The measure deals entirely with transport workers and the men engaged on our waterfront. The original act was introduced in a moment of hysteria by the Government of to-day, and it might be worth while directing our memories back to that occasion. It is true that there was at the time an upheaval on the waterfront and that the political and industrial leaders of labour were doing their utmost to bring about its settlement. It is also true that that dispute was about to be settled, as a result of the deliberations of the political and industrial leaders of labour. Then this piece of legislation was thrown upon the table of another place, and all chance of ending the dispute immediately vanished. At that time a general election was imminent. The Government introduced that legislation, not to promote peace on the waterfront, but as political propaganda, in order to ensure its return to the Treasury bench. Now, safely entrenched there, it has introduced this legislation. 
That the Government is still in office suggests that the people of Australia favoured that legislation. 
After his return from his last visit to England, the Prime Minister advocated the settlement of disputes amicably. Speaking at a dinner given to him by the Victorian Employers Federation, on his return, he said - 
There is only one way in which these problems can be dealt with and that is by resort to a spirit of co-operation and goodwill that must fill the gap which political action is unable to bridge. 
This political action will not bridge the gap. On the contrary, provocative and repulsive legislation of this kind will widen it. The Prime Minister, who stated definitely that political action cannot bring about a settlement of industrial disputes, not only fathers this measure but also previously introduced an amendment to the Crimes Act to create a new list of offences for workers. 
The amending arbitration legislation introduced by his Government is anything but conciliatory. Its effects on the Timber Workers Union is clear evidence of the Government's purpose in introducing it. 
The Government claims that at the last election it was given a mandate to pass this bill. Let me show what sort of a mandate it was given. At the 1925 general elections 1,262,912 votes were cast for Labour candidates and 1,542,090 for anti-Labour candidates, the antiLabour majority being 279,178. At the general elections held last year, while the anti-Labour vote decreased to 1,449,169, the Labour votes increased to 1,422,418. The anti-Labour majority dropped to 27,039. If that drop continues over the next elections, it will mean good-bye to the present Government. The people of Australia gave a quarter of a million votes more to Labour candidates in 1928 than they gave to them in 1925. If my friends think that they have a mandate for this legislation because they secured a majority of 27,039 votes, I wish them luck. 

 Sir Hugo Hirst, a member of the British Economic Commission, is reported to have said - 
Australia's difficulties are in a great measure due to a lack of understanding, coupled with a failure to keep pace with the times. ... I actually found some employers who talked of starving labour into submission. 
That is a striking statement. I move - 
That all the words after "That"  be  left out with a view  to  insert in lieu thereof  the  following words - " further consideration of this bill be postponed until such time as  the  committee appointed by  the  Peace in Industry Confer ence has made representation to the Government with respect to the penal provisions of industrial legislation passed by this Parliament." 
Peace Efforts in Industry - to be Continued. 

 Court System and Laws Denounced. 


 Mr. James MacDougall,  President  of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, and leader of the employers' delegation at the Peace Conference, stated last night that arrangements are to be made immediately for the continuation of meetings of representative employers and employed, with a view to seeking substitutes for the awards of Industrial Courts and furthering the peaceful development of Australian industries. 

 Important Principle Agreed to. "It was accepted as a principle by both sides at the meetings in Sydney," said  Mr. MacDougall,  "that industrial legislation is the most important matter for both employers and employed at the present juncture. Both sides agreed that, as a matter of principle, the introduction of penal clauses into industrial legislation was not generally conducive to peace." 
The resolution agreed to by the full conference sitting in Sydney recently was that the penal provisions of the industrial legislation of the Commonwealth were not generally conducive to peace. 
 Does the honorable senator agree with that? 
I say that the penal provisions of the industrial legislation introduced by the present Government are not conducive to the preservation of industrial peace and I ask the Senate not to proceed with further legislation of this nature until the Peace in Industry Conference presents its report to its creators, the Government of this country. 
It may be allowed to remain in abeyance. In any case, if the honorable senator does not think my amendment goes far enough he or  Senator Greene  can move so to amend it as to include the principle act also. It is time to call a halt. Instead of passing provocative legislation, let the Peace in Industry Conference function in the knowledge that not only the people of Australia but also the Government which glibly preaches the doctrine of peace in industry, but departs from its pledges immediately after an election, is desirous of bringing about industrial peace. Honorable senators of the Opposition cannot agree to the bill. It is tyrannical and opposed to the best interests of Australia. It is an attack on the workers of Australia, and will defeat all attempts to preserve industrial peace. For these and other reasons which I could adduce it is my intention, if my amendment is defeated, to vote against the second reading. 
.- This bill is' unlike any that has been introduced into this or any other Parliament in Australia since the establishment of responsible government. It is alien to Australia, and is bitterly resented by the working classes of this country. Time and again the Opposition have emphasized the fact that the present Government has declared war on organized labour, and is determined, with the help of its supporters, to weaken unionism, industrially and financially, as long as it remains in possession of the Treasury bench. One would gather from statements made by responsible members of the Government that industrial unrest and industrial disputes are confined to the Commonwealth. That is not so. As a matter of fact, they are world-wide, yet in no other parliament, so far as I am able to ascertain, has legislation similar to that now before us been submitted. To the Australian workmen, unionism is a sacred principle. Without unionism there would be no Arbitration Court. It is because we have organized labour and organizations of employers that official representatives of Labour from time to time file plaints in the Arbitration Court, and the court makes awards that are binding upon the unions. No one can deny that the licensing provisions of this measure absolutely disregard the Arbitration Court and its awards, and to that extent it is a direct attack upon trades unionism. 
Interesting speeches on this bill have been made in another place. I share the views expressed there by the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  who is better qualified than any other member of the Nationalist party to speak on such a measure as this, for the reason that he was for years closely associated with trade unionism. For many years he played a prominent part in the settlement of disputes on the waterfront in Australia; for years be advised the Australian workers, particularly those employed on the waterfront to join trade unions, to strengthen their organizations and to win by these means the rewards to which they are entitled. When speaking on this measure in another place, the right honorable gentleman said - 
Unionism and this licensing system cannot be co-existent, because they are mutually destructive. Where unionism is this licensing system cannot be, and where the licensing system obtains unionism is doomed. 
That is clear and definite. 
It is amusing to hear the childlike arguments advanced by the Minister in an attempt to strengthen his weak case for the licensing of waterside workers. He seeks to draw an analogy between the licences for which this bill provides and those issued to doctors, plumbers, electricians and others. Licences are issued to plumbers and electricians in order to safeguard the community. 
Licences are issued to doctors to safeguard the interests and health of the community, and that form of licensing or registration, unlike that for which this bill provides, is not partial in its application. Licences are issued to those engaged in particular professions and callings as a guarantee to the community that licensed persons are competent and efficient, but in the case of the waterside workers, they are issued to men whether they are efficient or  incompetent; whether they are physically fit or unfit. There are working on the waterfront of Australia to-day men who are licensed, there are others who are not. I did not think that in my day and generation a Federal Government would introduce legislation under which it would be compulsory for any human being to take out a licence in order to have the right to work. A licence having been  isued  to a worker, he is to obey lawful commands. Commands by whom? Not a judge of the Arbitration Court, or an award made by a judge, but the lawful commands of his employers. 
A command may be lawful, just as some commands on shipboard, of which we have heard, are lawful, yet most unreasonable. But if the employee does not do exactly what the employer desires his licence may be cancelled. 
A licence may be cancelled if a command of an employer - not of the Arbitration Court - is not obeyed. 
Who is to determine whether it is a lawful command? 
In that respect the licensing officer will have greater power than that of a judge of any court in Australia. Why should we clothe a. licensing officer with such power? Why should we give such a person authority toorder men to do certain things that may not be provided for in an award of the Arbitration Court ? If a man is unable to do what he is commanded to do he is forthwith to lose his licence and to be deprived of his means of livelihood for a lengthy period. To deprive a man of his livelihood for twelve months or for a longer period is not only wrong, it is inhuman.' Then again preference is to be given to those who take out licences and priority of employment is to be given to so-called volunteers who are not members of the Waterside Workers' Federation. 
An incentive is given to non-unionists to take out licences, and an increase in the number of licences issued means that the strength of the waterside workers' organization will be reduced. 
Yesterday the Minister, in attempting to justify the issuing of licences said - "Until quite recently Australia had the worst reputation of any country in theworld in regard to the pillaging of cargo." Where is the proof of that statement ? It is a libel on Australia and Australia a workmen. The right honorable gentleman referred to a royal commission appointed a few years ago which inquired into the pillaging on wharfs. I have perused the report of that commission and have failed to find in it any words in support of the Minister's statement. It is true that there has been pillaging, but it is also true that there has been much pillaging of cargoes before the ships have arrived in Australia. That is shown in the report furnished by the commission. According to the evidence taken by the commission in Melbourne, there has been pillaging of overseas cargoes -to a serious extent, and to a considerably lesser extent of interstate cargoes. The report states - 

<graphic href="120332192903075_8_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192903075_8_1.jpg"></graphic>

The commission was asked to inquire - 
Whether Pillaging takes place - 
Prior to shipment in the country of export. 
It reported - 
Conclusive evidence has been furnished as to the stealing of cargo taking place prior to shipment in the country of export, by the arrival of cases in a sound and apparently untampered-with condition and by the discovery of rubbish in the place of goods in the cases when opened, also by the substitution of cases similar in appearance also containing only rubbish. The following are a few instances out of many similar cases where it is improbable that pillage took place elsewhere than prior to shipment, namely : - 
In February, 1920, three cases invoiced as containing wood drills,  em  s.s.  City of Madras,  from New York, were found to contain sash weights and bags. 
In June or July, 1920, three cases invoiced as containing Cleveland twist drills,  exs.s. City of Madras,  from New York, were found to contain scrap iron, straw, and a New York newspaper dated between the date the goods left the warehouse and the date of shipment. The consignees stated that the cases were not the original cases, as the wood and binding differed from the cases used by the exporter, and that the ones received must have been substituted and the marks imitated. It was also stated that the cases must have been weighed, as weights were marked thereon which tallied with the weights shown in the invoices. 
About October, 1920, a case invoiced as containing motor accessories,  exs.s. Caroline,  from England, was found to be filled with paper. 
On the 1st December, 1920, a case invoicedas containing 100 dozen pairs of ladies' hose,  exs.s. City of Edinburgh,  from New York, was found to contain only rubbish, empty boxes, old clothes, and sacks branded " New York." The case appeared to be light in weight. 
On the 2nd December, 1920, a case invoiced as containing hosiery,  exs.s.  Port  Stephens,  from New York, was found to be filled with stable manure and old clothes. 
In December last, three cases invoiced as containing silk gloves,exs.s.  Somerset,  from New York, were found to contain leather clippings, bricks, wood, old American railroad weighbills, and old American magazines and newspapers. 
Also, in December last, one case invoiced as containing cotton voile,  exs.s. City of Edinburgh,  from New York, was found to contain straw packing and stones. 
Other evidence of cargoes having been tampered with before they left the country of origin appears in this report. I do not propose to weary the Senate by quoting further from it. As for the charge that there has been pillaging on ships between Australian ports, the evidence is indisputable that much of it occurs before the vessels reaches Australia. On page 24 of the report the commission stated - 
There is no doubt that a vast amount of thieving of cargo takes place under the various paragraphs..... 
The evidence shows that a large amount of what may be termed scientific thieving of cargo takes place prior to shipment in the country of export, especially in America, where probably gangs of thieves carry on the work as a remunerative business proposition..... 
That does not confirm the statement made by the Minister. On the contrary, it disproves it. 
The report states that thieving takes place in most countries, and that there is extensive pillaging on board vessels before they arrive at Australian ports. It is true that the report mentions evidence of pillaging at Australian ports, but does any one believe that the licensing of men seeking employment on our waterfront will prevent that in future? The Minister has admitted that, since the issue of licences there have been seven cases of pillaging and a number of assaults. He states that those responsible for these acts of lawlessness represent a minority associated with organized Labour, and that80 per cent. of the members of our waterside workers' organizations welcome this class of legislation. I wish the Leader of the Senate would go down to the waterfront at any of our principal capital cities and say to this 80 per cent. of our waterside workers: - "I am glad to know that you see eye to eye with me and the Government in this matter. I am glad that you are as anxious as we are to have the licensing system introduced at the different ports of Australia, embodied in an Act of Parliament, which provides that you may hold your licence to work during good behaviour." I should like to hear the right honorable gentleman speak to the waterside workers in that fashion. I know what kind of a reception he would get. 
I know also what were the views of the right honorable gentleman many years ago, when he lived in a political atmosphere entirely different from that in which he finds himself in to-day. In those days he, like myself, was a unionist. I still am, whereas he to-day is not a believer in the principle of unionism. I still believe in the cardinal principle of democracy - majority rule. It is impossible to govern organizations by any other rule. I have been associated with trade unionism for a great number of years, and have played my part in industrial disputes, some of which it has been my good fortune to assist to settle. There have been times when I could not see eye to eye with my fellow trade unionists, but as a true unionist myself, and a firm believer in majority rule, I always gave unswerving loyalty to that principle and at all times was prepared to cast in my lot with the majority. What would be the position of the Leader of the Senate if he were associated with the waterside workers to-day? If one may judge by his speech when moving the second reading of this bill, he would have to say to his fellow unionists, "I am with you up to a certain point. I shall go with you for a certain distance but no further. I intend to forsake my lifelong principles and become a volunteer worker, so that I may go out of the union and fight against you." That would be his position to-day if he acted up to the views he expressed in his second-reading speech. He would be a believer in the principle of trade unionism up to only a certain point. But may I remind honorable senators that the whole-hearted support of its principles is necessary for the success of any organization. 
I understand that even members of the Nationalist party have serious differences at times in the party room, and that occasionally a good deal of bitterness is engendered in the family circle. I understand also that one or two members of the party sometimes take an independent stand because they conscientiously believe that the course mapped out by the majority is not the right one, and, in their view, will lead the party to disaster. But as loyal party supporters in the end they are prepared to sink their individuality, to set aside their personal convictions, and work with the majority. Occasionally there is a breakaway; sometimes I believe there are "wigs on the green," and there are some in the party who would like to ostracize those who break away. We know, however, that in the end they realize that is is better to work as a united party than to be disunited. And so it is with trade unionism. Many years ago the conditions of men engaged on the waterfront were damnable. By means of organized effort some improvement has been secured and the men have determined to hold fast to whatever privileges they have enjoyed in more recent years. Whatever may be the views of honorable senators opposite concerning the dispute on the waterfront no one will for a moment believe that the waterside workers took such . a definite stand against the Beeby award out of sheer cussedness. They know only too well the suffering that is their lot whenever industrial troubles occur, that it goes without saying that they did not enter blindly into this fight. They were prepared to take their chance. They and their families are now suffering greatly, but the wives are just as determined as the men. 
I do not question for a moment the attitude of the wives of the waterside workers. I know how strongly they hold to the principles of trade unionism, and many of the victories gained by organized Labour have been won as the result of the loyalty and stout-hearted support of their womenfolk. 
And they are prepared to do so. 
While these men and their womenfolk are enduring privation, the Government comes along with this measure and literally says to the men who have brightened the work on the waterfront by their sterling service and self-sacrificing efforts : " You took a wrong course by disobeying the award of the court and you have been very badly beaten. We will show you no mercy. We have the big stick and will wield it unmercifully on you and all those who profess friendship towards unionism. Although you have undergone privation and suffering, and although you may he highly efficient and model citizens of Australia, you shall no longer have preference on the waterfront. Preference shall be given to those who do not belong to an organization, although they may be absolutely unfit for their task." Because it suits, for the moment, the convenience of the employers, these licences are being issued to volunteer workers and every encouragement is given to these men - who are really strike-breakers - in order to weaken organized labour and multiply the privations and sufferings of the unionists engaged in waterside work. 
The Labour party is not anxious to bring about industrial strife. It seeks to establish industrial peace. Strikes are a last resort, and men are at times goaded into them. The trouble which precipitated the Government into introducing this bill could have been settled very easily. But the Government was not anxious to have peace in industry. At a time when conciliatory action was essential it introduced legislation the only effect of which was to inflame and embitter the workers. At the time of its introduction the shipowners and employees, under the aegis of the then Victorian Premier  (Mr. Hogan)  were negotiating to bring about a settlement, and a settlement would have been arrived at in a few days. 
It was tentatively settled in Victoria when this Government came along with this tyrannical and antediluvian legislation, and immediately all prospect of an amicable settlement disappeared. 
I admit that the Government temporarily has a majority in this Senate, but figuratively speaking, it may be in a minority on the morrow. We know that the whirligig of time brings its revenges. Time marks many changes in human activity politically, industrially, commercially and financially. A change has taken place in the industrial outlook. The world has awakened. The workers are realizing that they are not obtaining that reward to which they are justly entitled. There is no gainsaying the fact that those who perform the world's heaviest tasks are the least rewarded. True, their hours have been shortened. But by whom? Not by the party opposite, which has placed every obstacle in the pathway of industrial progess in Australia. In days gone by that party regarded unionism as anathema. Its followers then said, and some of them are saying it to-day, although they dare not voice their condemnation so vigorously, that labour should be governed by the law of supply and demand; that it should be treated as a commodity; that if there is an excess labour market those seeking work should accept what the employer offers. Such individuals seek to weaken, and, if possible, to force unionism into a moribund condition. 
This bill seeks to inflict punishment of the worstkind upon unionists. Already fines have been inflicted upon men who have done their utmost to prevent the spread of industrial trouble. If the measure is placed upon the statute-book it will afford a very bad advertisement for Australia, which is supposed to be ahead of most other countries in the world in the matter of legislation. Certainly it will be in the backwash of nations if the Government passes this bill'. The Leader of the Senate said yesterday, that licensing systems of a similar nature prevailed in other parts of the world. That is a gross exaggeration. There is a mighty difference between an act of Parliament and a mutual agreement entered into between employer and employee. This licensing will be compulsory. I suppose that  Senator Ogden  was in a measure responsible for the document that was placed on the table of the Senate yesterday, and used by the Leader of the Senate to advantage the Government and strengthen the right honorable senator's advocacy of certain provisions in the bill. That document indicated that in certain ports of Great Britain, and with the aid of the Board of Trade, agreements had been entered into between employers and employees. But they were mutual agreements between organized employers and organized workers. Can any honorable senator opposite, particularly one who has had experience of industrialism, by any wild stretch of imagination, seriously contend that there is any analogy between that procedure and the licensing proposed in this bill? This is a Government measure, antagonistic to the workers. Let the Government withdraw the bill and propose a form of mutual agreement similar to that referred to by the Leader of the Senate, and it will be moving in the right direction. 
Does the Go- vernment fulfil all of its promises? 
What about its schemes for insurance, child endowment, provision for unemployment, its twenty million housing scheme and sundry other matters? They are all unredeemed promises and, in consequence, the stock of the Government is below par. 
The Leader of the Opposition has submitted an amendment which I hope will be carried. The only doubt that some honorable senators apparently have is that even if they support the amendment, and it is adopted by the Senate, the regulations under the principal act will still be in force. Let us have one thing at a time. If we can postpone the consideration of the bill much may be achieved. Time works wonders, and although this party is temporarily numerically small, it might do much, with the assistance of some honorable senators opposite, to accomplish its main object, which is to bring about industrial peace. 
During the last election campaign the Government and their candidates declared that if they were elected they would convene a conference between employers and employees. That conference has been held, and its proceedings have been published. Those proceedings indicate that it was the opinion of the conference that the passing of tyrannical legislation is not conducive to peace and harmony between employers and employees of the Commonwealth. 
The report stated - 
The conference was unanimous in the opinion that penal laws did not conduce to industrial peace. 
Legislation of a penal nature has been introduced by the present Government. 
We are dealing now particularly with those laws which affect the workers of Australia. The conference was convened in the hope that it might assist to promote peace in industry. It was desired that a better relationship should exist between employers and employees. After many sittings, the conference unanimously expressed the opinion that penal laws were not conducive to industrial peace. This bill is of a penal nature. Indeed, it penalizes the workers as they have never previously been penalized. 
It protects the non-unionist, the incompetent and the inefficient. Every other licensing system has as its object the promotion of efficiency and competency, and moreover, is of general application. All plumbers, electricians, and doctors, not only a few of them, are licensed, but under this legislation workers in some ports are to be licensed, while elsewhere men engaged in similar occupations are not to be licensed. 
We are told by the Government and its supporters that the licensing system will safeguard shippers against pillagers and evil-doers so that in effect we are told by them that where there is to be no licensing there is no pillaging or evil-doing. It would be as reasonable to say that in certain suburbs plumbers ought to be licensed because in those suburbs some plumbers have been guilty of pillaging, whereas in other suburbs, where there has been no pillaging, there is no necessity to license plumbers. I suggest that even in financial and banking circles pillaging sometimes takes place. I am reminded that the Treasurer once advised a government of which he was not then a member to "drop the loot." Does any honorable senator suggest that because in some financial institutions, men have at times been guilty of embezzlement, all the employees in those institutions should he licensed? In the big emporiums of Australia as well as in various services thousands of men and women are employed, and at times some of them are guilty of pillaging. Do honorable senators suggest that before  any person can obtain employment in those establishments or services he should take out a licence? 
In most Government departments, financial institutions and big emporiums the majority of the employees are unionists. 
I rose to enter my protest against the bill and to give my whole-hearted support to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I hope that his amendment will be given serious consideration by all honorable senators. If it is agreed to it will do a great deal to show the workers that Parliament is not unmindful of current events. All sections of the community desire peace in industry. Australia is passing through a period of depression. The workers know to their cost what suffering these periods of depression, as well as strikes, and industrial disputes involve. At best the income of the workers is small. It is true that their working hours are less and their salaries and wages higher than they were some years ago, but it is doubtful whether the purchasing power of their earnings is greater than it was then. The struggle of the workers is severe enough without the Government adding to it by wielding unmercifully the big stick which its majority has placed in its hands. Should the Government take advantage of its power to injure the workers its action will not be forgotten by them. At the next general election a new government will be returned, and one of its first acts will be to repeal the tyrannical and provocative legislation introduced by the present administration - legislation which has embittered and inflamed the workers throughout Australia. 
I do not propose to follow the tortuous arguments of the Leader of the Opposition in his attempt to attribute to the Leader of the Government in this chamber statements for which he was not responsible. Neither I, nor any other member  of the  Government, at any time suggested that members of the Opposition have been guilty of pillaging, although, perhaps, it has been suggested that in the administration of the affairs of the country they are prepared to " pillage " the taxpayers. The Leader of the Government pointed out yesterday that under this system for the licensing of waterside workers, seven persons had had their licences forfeited because of convictions for pillaging, and the licences of thirteen others had been cancelled because they had assaulted their fellow licensees. 
This measure is not going to be defeated by threats such as have been uttered by the astute and experienced honorable senator who has just resumed his seat. I desire to assure  Senator Findley  that threats will not cause the Government to depart from a course which it is convinced is in the best interests of Australia. The honorable senator suggested that in the future the Labour party will again be in office in the Commonwealth, and that legislation of this kind would only lead to reprisals when that time came. No legislation has been introduced by the present Government as a reprisal for anything that has taken place, excepting disobedience of the law. We are too near the events of last year to lose sight of the benefits which the Transport Workers Act has already conferred on Australia. For many years the people of Tasmania have been in a state of turmoil during every Christinas season because of the uncertainty that existed regarding shipping services to and from the mainland; but the legislation of last session ensured peace on the entire waterfront during the last Christmas vacation. The waterside workers recognize that things could not continue as they were. They realize that they cannot have arbitration and at the same time continue to disobey the awards of the court. It has been suggested that this measure has no relation to arbitration awards, but I direct attention to proposed new section 12 which contemplates compliance with awards of the Arbitration Court. A licence may be cancelled because a worker has refused to comply with an award of the Court. The Government stands for obedience to the awards of the courts - an obedience which the waterside workers haverefused  to show. Having sought an award from the Court, and failing to get what they wanted, they decided that they would neither work themselves nor allow others to pursue their lawful avocations on the waterfront. This measure has been condemned because it does not apply necessarily to every port in Australia. That it does not so apply indicates the desire of the Government to deal with a vexed question in a reasonable manner. Where there is no need for its application the Transport Workers Act and the regulations thereunder will not be applied, but where a need exists, as it did in one or two places recently to the detriment of many in the community, the regulations have been made to apply, and with beneficial results. 
It is absurd for honorable senators to say that this is tyrannical legislation, that it is scandalous and that it will put chains of slavery on the workers. It is all "tosh" to say that it is an insult to the men who work on the waterfront. Honorable senators have their tongues in their cheeks when they say that control and discipline are unnecessary. What exception is taken when the Australian Workers Union or the Waterside WorkersFederation insists that before a man can shear sheep or work on a wharf he must be in possession of a union membership ticket. The men readily submit to this tyrannical control by their organizations and all that this bill does is to ask certain workers to submit themselves to the control of the Crown, the highest authority in the land, so that the whole community may he protected. No man. can work on the waterfront without a ticket granted by his union. All that the Government says in this hill is that in ports where men have refused to obey an award of the Arbitration Court no one can be employed as a transport worker unless he has first taken out a licence which is liable to cancellation under certain conditions to which I do not think any one can take objection. 
The suggestion has been made that the honorable the Leader of the Senate  Senator Pearce)  was unduly severe on the waterside workers when he was speaking about the pillaging of cargo. During  Senator Findley's  speech I had an opportunity to peruse the report of the Royal Commission on the Pillaging of Ships' 
Cargoes, which was presented to Parliament on the 12th July, 1921. Certain questions had been submitted to the royal commission and the report contains its replies. I quote from the report the following questions submitted to it together with its answer - 
Whether persons convicted of offences involving dishonesty are employed on the wharfs; and, if so, under what authority, by whom, and to what extent. 
There is ample evidence that such persons are employed on the wharfs. Indirectly, they are employed under the authority of the unions to which they belong. At the Port of Melbourne there is no preference to unionists. Still, if nonunion labourers were engaged while there were union labourers available, there would at once be trouble. If there is plenty of union labour available, there is no necessity to engage a labourer known to have been convicted of dishonesty, but if there is a shortage of union labour, those known to have been convicted of dishonesty must be engaged. 
Carters have to be licensed by the customs authorities for carting goods under the control of the customs, and all carters have to be licensed by the Town Hall authorities, and coopers have to be licensed by the Harbour Trust, so there is a proper check so far as they are concerned. 
As to what extent convicted persons are employed it is difficult to ascertain. One witness stated - "I should say that waterside workers are from 20 to 30 per cent. criminals." 
This statement cannot be accepted as definite, it is too general; and the witness was not cross-examined as to his statement. 
Another witness stated that persons convicted of offences involving dishonesty have to be, and are, employed on the wharfs. 
Those who are familiar with work on the waterfront know the levies that are imposed on the workers by certain classes of individuals. I am sure the workers themselves will welcome this legislation which is an honest attempt to clean up what should have been cleaned up a considerable time ago. Another illuminating paragraph in the report of the Commission is as follows - 
Whether there is evidence that concerted action is taken to assist convicted offenders by pooling pecuniary penalties. 
There is some evidence that concerted action is taken to assist offenders by pooling pecuniary penalties by raising the amount of penalty from fellow-workers and local tradespeople by - 
Tarpaulin musters; 
Payment of fine by fellow-workers; 
Collections from local tradespeople; 
A lemonade bottle being used as a collecting receptacle. 
Here is another paragraph from the general summary of the Commission - 
Whether pillaging is carried on to any serious extent in regard to - 
Yes, in both instances. The value of cargo pillaged chargeable to the seven ports previously dealt with for the year ended 31st December last, including 75 per cent. of short landings and 10 per cent. as the difference between claims paid and claims made in round figures, amounted to - 

<graphic href="120332192903075_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Any lingering doubt there may be as to the necessity for better control on the waterfront than is now exercised by the Waterside Workers Federation must be removed by a perusal of this report. I blame this Parliament for not having taken earlier steps to remove this admitted evil on the waterfront. 
Honorable senators opposite seem to think that Ministers rejoice in having to introduce legislation of this character, and they talk as if they were the only people who are anxious to have industrial peace in this country. I can assure them that there are others just as earnest in their desire for it, because industrial turmoil can do more harm to Australia than anything else. But how did honorable senators meet the gesture made by the Prime Minister last year when he attempted to convene an industrial peace conference? They made a sort of political football of his suggestion. They made no attempt to treat it as a non-party question, as a matter of such vital importance to Australia's future should have been treated. They dragged it into the political field and endeavoured to prevent the Prime Minister from convening the conference. The Prime Minister had no other interest to serve than that of Australia's future welfare, and his suggestion could readily have been accepted if honorable senators opposite had ranged themselves behind him; but it was met by attack and criticism, which, of course, is the stockintrade of the political life of honorable senators opposite. It is their object to keep trouble going. They talk of the disabilities and hardships of the workers, but they do not avail them selves of the opportunity afforded to bring the workers and the employers together. I was delighted to hear  Senator Needham  read the statement of  Mr. McDougall  as to the attitude adopted by the recent peace conference held in Sydney. We have at last secured from the honorable senator and those whom he leads an expression of opinion that they think that the penal provisions of the Arbitration Act should be abolished. Now we know where they stand. For months past the Attorney-General has been endeavouring to secure replies from the leaders of organized labour in Australia as to whether or not they favour the repeal of the whole of the penal provisions of the Arbitration Act. 
No ; they remain silent on the question, and the first inkling of a reply we have obtained is the statement by  Senator Needham  that penal provisions in industrial legislation are preventing peace in industry. The peace conference referred to by the honorable senator adjourned  sine die  because the representatives of the Melbourne and Sydney Trades and Labour Councils had withdrawn from the proceedings. It is not the employers who are anxious to turn a deaf ear to the interests of the country. 
A committee is certainly functioning after a fashion, but the adjournment  sine die  is sufficient to tell us of the difficulties that were encountered at the conference. What hope could there be for this conference when these two great industrial bodies were not taking part in it? What good purpose can be served by waiting as suggested by the Leader ofthe Opposition for something which may possibly happen? Notwithstanding the thunder of the Leader of the Opposition concerning what he terms our desire to wage war aginst organized labour, the truth is that we are only giving statutory effect to the regulations framed under the Transport Workers Act and which, by laying on the table of the House, have had the tacit approval of Parliament. It is idle to suggest that this measure will in any sense have a disturbing effect upon industry. All the Government desires is to make an earnest attempt to terminate industrial strife in Australia. The Government has to discipline members of the community who will not discipline themselves, and to see that the laws of the country and the awards of the Arbitration Court are respected. The power which the Government possesses under the Transport Workers Act, and the regulations framed under it, has not been used in a tyrannical or merciless fashion as some suggest, but only in a way that will enable industry to be carried on successfully for the benefit of the whole community. It is the desire of the Government that essential services shall not be interrupted, that industry shall be carried on peacefully and that law and order shall be preserved. If the Government allowed one section of organized labour to disregard the awards of t]'e Arbitration Court, industrial chaos would very soon result. Perhaps the Government should have acted earlier than it did in this matter, but definite steps were taken last year - not in a spirit of antagonism nor ill-will as suggested by the Leader of the Opposition - to protect the interests of al] sections of the community. 
Unfortunately many reasonable working men have been- sadly misled and preyed upon by certain Labour leaders. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have as much respect for working men as they have for others, and it is the  vapourings  of speakers in the Domum in Sydney, on the Yarra Bank in Melbourne, or the Botanic Park in Adelaide, that inflame the minds of many of these men. Why should it be said that it is the desire of the Government to destroy trades unionism or to do anything detrimental to the interests of the working man? !N"o attempt has been made by us to interfere with an award of the Arbitration Court. The waterside workers are working under an award of the court. 
The honorable senator knows as well as any one in this chamber that on that occasion the 
Government acted, in accordance with the law. It is mere cant and hypocrisy to say that those who are supporting this legislation in the interests of the whole community are tyrannical monsters. Honorable members opposite have spoken of the necessity for co-operation, and  Senator Findley,  I think, said this bill was provocative, repulsive, reactionary and tyrannical. Is it provocative? At present the men are working under the conditions to which exception is taken by honorable senators opposite. In giving statutory effect to the regulations the Government is only carrying out its promise to the people. The Government's action in this connexion is no more tyrannical than are some of the actions of the labour organizations of which  Senator Barnes  is such a prominent member. Should the trade union leaders or the Government have power to control industry in this country? If the awards of the court had been observed there would have been no necessity to introduce legsilation such as this, and although we have virtually been charged with attempting to destroy unionism, our only desire is to assist in securing industrial peace.  Senator Findley  referred to the power that is placed in the hands of licensing officers, but the power possessed by those officers will not be any' greater than that at the disposal of vigilance officers who virtually control the unionists. The amendment of the Leader of the Opposition, to which I have addressed my remarks more particularly, is worthless inasmuch as it is asking the Senate to suspend what is now the law, until the Peace-in-Industry Conference, which, as the Leader of the Senate said, is at present in a state of suspended animation, has concluded its deliberations. From the opinions expressed by members of the commercial community, and by a large number of the workers, this measure should be acceptable to the Senate as it provides a means of securing industrial peace, which is so essential to the progress and prosperity of the Commonwealth. 
Since I have been a member of the Senate representatives of the Government have on every possible occasion said that they are earnest and sincere in the desire to make the lot of the worker better than it is to-day. But what steps have been taken by the Government to secure industrial peace in the community? I invite honorable senators to study what the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  said and consider whether the word " honour " which he used bears the definition of the equivalent word in the Greek or the English definition. Shakespeare epitomized the English definition in these words : " To thine own self be true." To paraphrase that, he who uses the word in the English sense means that what he says he believes in his own heart to be true. One of the worst phases of our industrial history is the extent to which industrial disputes have increased since the Bruce-Page Government has been in office. 'The official statistics establish beyond all doubt that industrial unrest has been more pronounced in Australia since the Bruce-Page Government has been in power than it has ever been before. The records also show that during the same period more panicky legislation has been introduced to bring about industrial peace than during the regime of any other Government. 
I have no desire to traverse the ground covered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and  Senator Findley,  but bearing in mind what I have said concerning the word "honour," I invite honorable senators to study this measure from the viewpoint of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan).  We have been told that there is no distinction between the licences issued to waterside workers and those possessed by railway porters or plumbers, who have also to be licensed. By interjection, I said that honorable senators opposite should carry their analogy even further and suggest that there is no distinction between the licences mentioned in this bill and marriage licences. The Leader of the Government in the Senate said that legislation of this character is not new, and that in Great Britain the employers and employees, after consultation, decided in favour of the licensing system. Tn other words, the inspiration which led to the drafting of this legislation was received from Great Britain; but no one realizes more than the members of the Government that statutes have been passed by this Parliament which are foreign to the principles of British jurisprudence. I asked the Leader of the Government if he would lay upon the table of the Senate the document from which he quoted yesterday. He did so, and I find that it is a " roneo " which has evidently been distributed amongst a certain section of members. It is dated 13th February, 1929, and the first page gives a summary of what it is alleged to contain. If honorable senators opposite, who, I suppose, have been supplied with a copy, read only the first page they will come to the conclusion which the Minister doubtless desires. I invite them, during the dinner hour, to study it and ascertain for themselves really what is the position with regard to wharf labourers in the Mother Country. In the first place, they are not required to take out licences. The Leader of the Senate may argue that they have to be registered. 
He may say that of men who have to be registered at a labour bureau. 
That is so. Wharf labourers in London must register at a labour bureau and be issued with a card which is some guarantee that they will pay their contributions to the unemployment insurance fund. 
It is true that they cannot get a job until they are registered. In this respect they are in the same position as men who seek work on the northsouth line - they must apply to a labour exchange. But where is the analogy between registration of wharf labourers in London and this system of licensing .which the Government has included in the bill? The Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  has suggested that the Senate is being asked to pass a law which really is already on the statute-book. To me it seems that the Government is endeavouring to force Parliament to accept a responsibility which properly belongs to the Administration itself, and that it is endeavouring to compel its supporters in this chamber to stand behind it in passing the measure. I regret that the Standing Orders of the Senate will not permit me to say what I think of such tactics. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate omitted to tell honorable senators that one of the provisions included in the document from England was introduced as a war measure for the specific purpose of determining how many men could be released from military duty. 
If an industry requires 500 permanent hands and, say, 300 casual labourers, it is obvious that if the latter number is increased to 500, some steps should be taken to prevent the labour reservoir from overflowing and thus cause hardship to the men permanently employed in the industry. That system operates to-day on our waterfront. Waterside workers, by internal control of their organization, have limited the number of men offering for the available work and the Government, by means of this bill, is attempting to open wide the flood-gates so as to increase the supply in the reservoir of casual labour. 
No one regrets that more than I do, because I am a strong supporter of the principle of arbitration. 
I agree that they cannot have it both ways, but I am mystified as to the intentions of the Government. 
Can the honorable senator point to any provision in the bill that is going to get over that trouble? 
It is, I think, generally conceded that there has been less trouble in industry under Labour rule than under anti-Labour rule in Australia. 
I suggest that honorable senators should study the statistics on this point. The figures show that less time has been lost in industry and that there has been less unemployment and industrial unrest in Australia under Labour rule than under anti-Labour Governments. In my own State the restraining influence of a State Labour Government was responsible for a considerable improvement in the industrial situation. There was a marked change when the present State Liberal Government came into power. Honorable senators should study the bill carefully to see whether, under it, the Government proposes to give the workers a fair deal. It cannot be denied that it will create an industrial dictatorship. It gives to the permanent head of the department, subject to the direction of the Minister, authority to appoint a dictatorial staff known as licensing officers. Parliament will not be consulted. This industrial dictator will not be answerable to Parliament or to Cabinet for any appointments he may make. 
Some Parliaments do make appointments, but it is not the practice of British Parliaments to create dictatorships. This is what I am now protesting against. The appointment of an industrial dictator will relieve the Government of all responsibility. The dictatorial staff appointed will have in its hands the issuing of licences to all men engaged on the waterfront. Not only will this industrial dictator have authority to appoint licensing officers, but he may also fix a group of ports for which licences to work will be required. It has already been decided that Sydney shall be exempt and Port Adelaide shall be a licensing port. I regret that  Senator McLachlan,  the Honorary Minister, is not in the chamber, because I should like to direct his attention to this anomaly. There has been less industrial unrest at Port Adelaide than at Sydney during the last ten years and yet Sydney has been declared an exempt port, and men working at Port Adelaide are forced to take out licences. Port Pirie, in South Australia, is also exempt. There has been no pillaging of cargo there and comparatively little industrial unrest. At Port Adelaide, if a man wishes to secure employment on the waterfront, he must apply to the licensing officer for a licence, and the licensing officer may refuse to issue one without giving reasons for his refusal. 
From clause 7 of the bill, which says - 
Where an application is made under the last preceding section to a licensing officer he may issue to the applicant a licence..... 
Does "may" mean "shall"; that the officer is compelled to issue licences to men who have pillaged cargo, acted as " brigands " and caused industrial unrest ? As I read the  clause  it does not and he is not compelled to issue the licence. 
I have heard much from the right honorable gentleman and those behind him to the effect that this should be a House composed of men of principle. It does not concern me whether there has been a refusal to issue a licence or not. My concern is that every British principle of justice should be maintained by this Senate. But the principle of this bill is foreign to British justice. It gives a power to be found only in the laws of one nation - that little province of Australia known as Italy. There is no provision in laws of the British Empire which gives a dictator an unfettered discretion to say whether a man should or should not have a licence to work. Mention was made about marine store dealers being licensed. It must be remembered that those people have the right to go to a British court and ask for a writ of mandamus to compel the issue of such a licence if it has been refused. Here no such provision is made, and the men will he absolutely dependent upon the caprice of members of a dictatorial staff. That is entirely foreign to British justice. I ask honorable senators to examine proposed new section 12 and see the type of British justice that will be meted out to Australian workers. One of these dictators may cancel a licence issued to a waterside worker in any case as to which he is satisfied that the worker has done certain things. No provision is made for a trial to discover whether the man concerned has been guilty, of doing those things. Mention has been made about licences to pillagers being cancelled. Even the man who throws a bomb is entitled under British law to a trial by jury. 
The provision relates to whether he has refused or failed to comply with any lawful order or direction given in relation to his employment. 
I was dealing with both aspects of the case, and intended to deal with pillaging later. A man, without receiving a fair British trial, can be declared to be guilty of a breach of the Commonwealth law by a member of a dictatorial staff and his licence may bo cancelled. 
An appeal shall be by summons calling upon the licensing officer to show cause why the cancellation of the licence should not be set aside. 
The onus is on the waterside worker. When his licence is cancelled and he appeals, instead of entering the court with the presumption of innocence, he has thrown upon him the onus of proof. 
The onus of proof is not upon the licensing officer. There is a summons for him to show cause why the cancellation of the licence should not be set aside. That raises a certain onus of proof, which is on the worker, who has to satisfy the court that he is not guilty. 
I am not trying to get away with anything. I keep before me that passage from Shakespeare, " To thine own self be true. " If  Senator McLachlan  were here he would agree with my contention that the waterside worker instead of going into that court with a presumption of his innocence attaching to him, goes into it with a presumption of guilt attaching to him, and has to satisfy the court as to his innocence. 
The right honorable gentleman is incorrect. If he were conversant with matrimonial causes he would know that, in a maintenance case, a son may be called upon to show cause why he should not contribute to the support of his father. The onus is upon the father to prove that the son has the means to pay, and the son is called to show cause why he should not pay. Once the son is summoned to show cause the onus is on the father to show facts which will place the son in the position that he has to answer the charge. Here a licensing  officer  may cancel a man's licence and that man has to go before this so-called appellant tribunal and satisfy the court that he is innocent of the charge upon which his licence was cancelled. 
Perhaps that is the best description that can be applied to the procedure. It has been claimed by the Government that this system of licensing is not at all one-sided, and a reference was made to a system of licensing in operation in the United Kingdom. I ask the Leader of the Senate whether, under that or this scheme an employer has to be licensed? An employer on the waterfront may commit a breach of the Commonwealth award, as he does every day, and he is still allowed to continue in his job as stevedore. Yet it is claimed that this law is not one-sided ! If the Government has the interests of the workers at heart let it, by licensing the employer, guarantee to them that they will have a decent employer. The Government will not attempt to license the employer, because it knows that it would not then be able to find sufficient support for the measure. Again, there is no language test. 
I will explain why I call attention to the defect. The Leader of the Senate said that the licence is a guarantee of a man's efficiency. Does he seriously contend that a man who can neither speak nor understand English can work efficiently under an Australian supervisor? The reason why the Government does not insist upon a language test is that it wishes to protect men who have lived only for a short time in this country and do not spend their money in it. It does that rather than protect the interests of the Australian worker. 
Again, why should this Government, while efforts are being made to promote peace in industry, fan the flame of industrial revolt? Let it leave matters where they are, and get down to the real causes of the prevailing unrest. I have heard honorable senators opposite preach homilies to representatives on this side of the chamber about loyalty to our arbitration system. Some of the most disloyal statements that have ever been uttered against that system have emanated from chambers of manufactures and commerce. 
I am discussing those who are responsible for disobedience of awards, who obey awards only when it suits them, and close their factories when the awards are unfavorable to them. Bankers restrict credit, and everybody goes  on  strike at one stage or another. The 20 )er cent, of employers are just as much responsible for the trouble to which the Leader of the Senate referred yesterday as are the 20 per cent, of the workers. We must endeavour to bring about permanent peace, and not to pass panicky legislation of this nature. We must consider whether it is possible to eradicate the extreme element from both sides. That will never be done while the Government indulges in this form of legislation. 
The matter is big enough to warrant the Government appointing another royal commission of experts to go into it. The subject of the industrial peace of this community has not yat been scientifically investigated. The Government has appointed many other royal commissions on less important matters. Let it deal similarly with this problem. 
It could investigate the whole subject from a non-political stand-point. The peace conference has not been given a fair run. Honorable senators opposite must realize that it took a long time to bring the parties together, and that difficult problems were involved upon which both sides had to exercise considerable diplomacy. Every man who participated in the peace conference must admit that, in its initial stages, there was every possibility of its breaking down. I have spoken to a number of the members of the conference, including the  chairman, Sir Wallace  Bruce, and not one of them thinks otherwise than that the conference will resume in the near future and succeed in the task it has attempted in the interests of Australia. 
.- I do not desire to remain silent during the debate on a bill of such importance. During the recent election campaign the licensing of waterside workers was mentioned at many of my meetings, and at Townsville I was asked definitely whether I favored the system. I gave an emphatic answer in the affirmative. I do not propose now to discuss the details of the bill, for they were explained clearly by the right honorable the Leader of the 'Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  yesterday.  Senator Findley  and other honorable senators opposite spoke of the hardships suffered by waterside workers and their families when the breadwinner is out of employment, but no member of the Opposition pleaded the cause of that section of the community which is, perhaps, the most vitally affected by disputes on the waterfront. I refer to the primary producers, who, for the most part, suffer in silence. Many of them have invested all their capital in the development of their holdings, and are entirely dependent for a livelihood upon the returns they receive for their produce. Trouble on the waterfront may result in their labours for many months being in vain, for when produce is allowed to rot on the wharfs, as was the case at Bowen during one tomato season, it brings them no return. Very little is said about the suffering of these people, yet they are workers who are as much entitled to protection as are other workers in the community. Indeed, they work harder and longer than do most of the workers in the industrial unions, and they have to accept for their produce, not what an Arbitration Court awards, but what they can get for it in the world's markets. Honorable senators opposite have emphasized the hardship caused to a waterside worker and his family if his licence is cancelled for some breach of the law, but what about the man who has done nothing wrong, t.nd yet has to suffer, because his produce will not be loaded by these men? It is true that the unemployed waterside worker receives no pay during the period of the cancellation of his licence, for during that time he does no work ; but the primary producer whose produce is left to rot receives no income, notwithstanding that he has laboured hard and long to earn it. Fortunately for the primary producers of Queensland, there was a willing response to the call for volunteer labourers during the trouble on the waterfront, and the men who thus came to the rescue of the country did good work in keeping the wheels of industry going. 
I saw some volunteer labourers working at Bundaberg, where I learned that their daily output was double that of the members of the Waterside Workers Union. The whole of our produce might be held up on the  waterfront at the caprice of a few individuals, and the community caused inconvenience and suffering without our hearing from honorable senators opposite about the effect of the hold-up on any section other than the waterside workers. As a primary producer myself, I know that primary producers generally desire peace in industry. It is true that in the shearing industry there have been disputes in the past, but during recent years there has been very little dislocation of primary industries through disputes between employers and employees in that industry. The credit for that satisfactory state of affairs is not due entirely to the employees. Honorable senators should remember that the primary producer risks a great deal more than does the person he employs. Before he can employ others he must do a lot of spade work and incur considerable risk. 
Unfortunately, the primary producers cannot prevent droughts. If they could, there would be little genuine unemployment in this country. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

The majority of the producers whose interests are affected by trouble on the waterfront are small men who, probably through adverse climatic conditions, have not been able to earn even the basic wage which other workers can earn without any risk of capital and without hard work. I have recently paid a visit to the irrigation areas near Renmark. The dried fruits industry has been brought to a high state of perfection by the application of science; nevertheless, the vine-growers and dried-fruit growers are severely handicapped, and attribute the responsibility for this, not only to the low prices obtainable overseas for their produce, but also to the series of irritating strikes that have occurred during the last five years, and have materially affected the continually rising costs of production. The system of licensing waterside workers has been in operation about six months, and during that period there has been continuity of work on the waterfront. The strong stand taken by the Government, during this six months has at last given an opportunity to the primary producers and manufacturers alike to get a reasonable return for their produce or the output of their factories by keeping transport moving, and a continuation of this policy of licensing will afford protection to free labourers and unionists alike in carrying on their lawful occupations. 
The provisions of this bill are not  new to the  Senate. A measure em bodying the power to make regulations that are now to become statute law, was passed last session, and it ' is rather strange that it did not excite half the warmth that has been displayed in regard to this bill. The closer this legislation is examined by its critics the uglier it becomes to them; it does not improve on acquaintance. The supporters of the Government would gladly avoid creating so much discussion. They would gladly refrain from occasions like this that present so many opportunities for the imputating of motives. It is not pleasant to incur the censure of a responsible opposition, and that of its supporters in the country; but the Government had no option in the matter. The position was forced upon it. It has to do its duty. If a government is to govern, it must see that the people's interests, of which it is the custodian, are conserved, and that all citizens have a chance to follow their daily avocations without hindrance, or without any "by your leave." That is the duty of the Government as I conceive it, and it is the right of every citizen to pursue his calling without fear of any person or section in the community so long as he respects the laws of the country. 
I am glad that  Mr. President  is allowing some latitude in the discussion of this bill, because it deals with a problem of the greatest importance - that of bringing closer together the two elements in the industrial field. It is a problem that lies at the very root of the happiness, progress, and prosperity of this country. For some years these two . elements have been  coming into far too frequent collision for the peace and prosperity of Australia. They have been wrongly described as having diverse interests. If they stood together in reasonable amity, each serving its own interest, but at the same time jealous of the interests of the community as a whole - if they could be brought closer together - it would be to the everlasting benefit and prosperity of Australia; we should not have° the industrial machine brought to a stand-still so often with consequential misery, suffering, hardship, and loss. It it our task on the present occasion to safeguard the interests of those people who suffer injury and loss because a section of the community has brought the whole industrial machine to a stand-still. Innocent people cannot be permitted to suffer injury in their business undertakings. Produce, which  Senator Cooper  has rightly said is the daily bread of the producer and which is grown by his sweat and toil, cannot be allowed to stand still on the way to market, or rot in front of the grower, as has often been the experience in Tasmania, Western Australia, and elsewhere. Actions which bring the whole industrial machine to a dead stop must cease, or the responsibility for them must be saddled on the right people. The " scrap of paper, " otherwise a licence, is merely a warrant that citizens of this country may engage in work without challenge. I cannot conceive of any party, which claims to be the advocate and sponsors of modern democracy - of freedom of action - interfering with men who hold licences. 
Are they not? Then the reports we see in the newspapers must be false. We cannot handle this subject much longer with lavender gloves. I remind honorable senators that it was a " scrap of paper " that provoked a mighty conflict in Europe. As a matter of fact, it was a "scrap of paper " that stood across the pathway of the Prussian junkers and militarists and prevented them from accomplishing their designs in Belgium. Similarly, a " scrap of paper " in the shape of a transport worker's licence stands across the pathway of the labour militants of Australia and prevents them from accomplishing their designs. I pay them a compliment in calling them Labour militants, because if there is any suspicion of a lack of militancy on their part their days are numbered. Latter-day Labour in Australia requires its leaders to be everlastingly at war with their fellows. I am also paying them a compliment when I compare them with the Prussian militarists, because both parties have sinned similarly and want to be put right. The Australian " scrap of paper " is a warrant or sort of  magna charta  to a citizen that he may pursue his lawful calling without interference or intimidation. I do not regard the licences issued under this law from the same viewpoint as the members of the Labour party. The issue of licences is a means to ensure a continuance of industrial operations in this country. It is a device for getting on with the job. Industries are essential to any country. If their Operations are retarded here we cannot hope to prosper or to hold this country indefinitely, and, in effect, say to others, " Keep off the grass;" Our neighbours are looking upon us from a distance, and if we are to retain Australia for our own use the main essential is to populate, develop it and work it. If we are to do that we should not allow a small and irresponsible section in this country to stop the wheels of industry. We are here to do the best  Ave  can for our country and justice to all. The time  Will  come when  Ave  shall vanish from the scene, but  whilst  we are here it is our bounden duty to bear witness to the truth, avail ourselves of a power which the electors have placed in our hands, and see that justice is done to every citizen. But above all, we should, as becomes a progressive and enlightened community, keep our industries going. 
The) question of compulsory arbitration arises in connexion  Avith  this measure. As one who stood by the cradle  when  arbitration was in its  swaddling  clothes, I may perhaps be pardoned for sounding a personal note, by saying that twenty-four years ago, I was put to the test of proving my belief in arbitration. 
The one thing that has not come up to my expectations is that a part - an inferior part - of human nature has sadly failed. When arbitration was first conceived and brought into operation, it was heralded as the brightest gleam that had ever come to advanced thinkers. It was then thought that it would overcome the barbaric system of strikes which had prevailed and had caused so much trouble between employer and employee for ages. On the occasion to which I have referred, and when my convictions were put to the test, about 1,000 men were involved in a strike, which arose in consequence of the presiding judge of the Arbitration Court of Western Australia giving what was well-known at the time to be a wrong interpretation of the act he was administering. In the exercise of his powers, he fixed a minimum wage for the least competent workmen, thus allowing unscrupulous employers to work up from that low standard. It was obvious that the wrong, interpretation placed upon the act would lead to a good deal of strife, hardship, mischief, and misunderstanding. When the trouble in which 1,000 men were involved, occurred, I was the State member for the district, and I went among my  constitutents  and asked them - it was not an easy matter - to accept and loyally abide by the award of the court. I was as strongly in favour of arbitration as I am now, and I went amongst the men upon whose votes I had to depend for my political existence and urged them to return to work, notwithstanding that they were being pressed down to the minimum wage provided for by the judge as a result of his admittedly wrong interpretation of the law. I took my political life in my hands as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  knows, with the result that the men went back and the employers, as the outcome of my representations, took a more reasonable view of the situation and satisfied these workers to the full. I was not saved from the javelins or poisoned shafts of my enemies then in the Labour movement, I was assailed by &amp; gentleman who is not now in the ranks of Labour - an unfortunate man devoid of a generous impulse - who was so ungenerous as to describe me as a traitor to the Labour movement; but I went amongst the men aud urged them to return to work, and to their honour they went back. That occurred 24 years ago, and I am still a loyal supporter of arbitration. These gentlemen of the Opposition who glibly say that they favour arbitration have never been put to that test, or at least not to the extent that I have, and those honorable senators who represent Western Australia know that what I say is true. They are living witnesses of the accuracy of my assertion. 
It is easy for honorable senators of the Labour party to say that they believe in arbitration, but if they do, why do they not tell the men on strike to return to work in accordance with a principle which they, above all others in the community, should support? The reason is obvious. Other employers took advantage of the incorrect interpretation of the act to which I have referred, which resulted in no end of trouble in Western Australia, and enabled unscrupulous employers to crush their employees down to such a level that they went on strike. Eventually the employers were brought to their knees, as the Leader of the Opposition knows, and were compelled to pay a fair wage. There may have been some doubt as to the part I actually played on that occasion, but I. think it will now be clear up to that point. That is the time when it is said that I was a " scab." 
When the engineers went out on strike, as I' said a few days ago, and when under the Standing Orders I was not permitted to discuss the matter further, they were asking for higher wages than was stipulated in the award. On that occasion I volunteered my services and in similar circumstances would do it again. Men who professed to be unionists then were " scabbing " on their word of honour and on their manhood. I volunteered my services, and am not ashamed of it. I would not " scab " on arbitration, as the Leader of the Opposition is at present doing. 
Order! I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill. 
It is provided that in certain circumstances a secret ballot shall be held. Why should it be necessary to make the taking of a secret ballot compulsory? Echo answers, why? In my opinion it is because the bosses of trade unionism in Australia fear that a secret ballot means the sounding of their death-knell. I know what happens when a strike is declared. There are gentlemen here representing the Labour movement who, by the way, lived on a fat salary whilst I, when acting as the secretary of a union, was paid only 5s. a week and was always a good target for managerial spleen. Sometimes I got the sack. As a representative of a union, I did not hold the "cushy" jobs that some of these men are holding to-day. I have been a trade unionist for 38 years, and I am a member of a trade union to-day. I doubt very much whether some who profess to be such staunch trade unionists are actual members of a trade unionists' organization. From my earliest association with trade unionism I have always insisted on the principal of a secret ballot. What is the  modus operandi  to-day? The members attend, the scene is staged, and the leaders of the latter-day Labour movement, when it comes to decision on a vital issue, say that they will take a vote. In effect they say " ' dinky-di ' trade unionists pass to the right and the ' scabs ' to the left." Men must be very bold in these days to join the scabs. That is the system by which decisions are reached and many men compelled to act against their consciences. The men will not listen to reason. I have sacrificed more than the whole lot of the present Opposition have done in an endeavour to place the workers in a better position. When an appeal is made to the electors in Western Australia, I am returned triumphantly, and the people of Western Australia will return me if I have to be carried here. I challenge honorable senators opposite to state the actual conditions under which a ballot is taken in connexion with a strike. 
The bill provides for the appointment of licensing officers whose duty it will be to issue licences to persons seeking employment on the waterfront.  Senator Needham  and his supporters in this chamber do not wish this scrap of paper to be issued to trade unionists. Of course they do not. But the people of Australia expressed their views in no uncertain terms at the last election, and the Government now proposes to continue with its policy so that the people of this country may get a fair deal. The bill is called the Transport Workers Bill. I emphasize the word " workers " and remind honorable senators of what the Leader of the Senate said concerning the amount of work done by a section of unionists on the waterfront who wish to continue a monopoly in this class of work. The right honorable gentleman told us that gangs of unionists in certain cases had been unloading ships at the rate of from ten tons to fifteen tons per hour, and that gangs of volunteer workers, when they had a chance to show what they could do, brought the output up to 24 or 25 tons per hour. It is obvious, of course, that the trade unionists mentioned were not " delivering the goods." As a matter of fact they had been holding up the commerce of Australia, and piling up charges outrageously. 
Under our arbitration system they have been receiving fair rates of pay consistent with the economic position of the Commonwealth; but in the main they have not been doing a fair day's work. Consequently they have been obtaining their money under false pretences. No one can pretend that an output of from 10 tons to 12 tons per hour by a gang of experienced wharf labourers is a fair return, in view of the fact that raw recruits can send the average up to 24 tons or 25 tons per hour. In a private business concern such as that I cited in the case of  Senator Barnes,  head of the Australian Workers Union in Australia, this inadequate return would not be tolerated. Similarly, it should not be tolerated in the interests of the community. 
Ex-Senator Gardiner, who for many years was Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, told us on one occasion that the workers represent 90 per cent, of the people pf this country. I do not question his statement, hut I suggest to -honorable senators opposite that it is remarkable that the people of Australia in the exercise of the franchise recently, instead of returning the Opposition in the Senate apparently realized that, notwithstanding all their fair promises, they were Labour's false friends. They preferred honorable senators on this side. This Government, I contend, is in power by virtue of the votes of the workers, if ex-Senator Gardiner's statement is correct. Surely, then, it was reasonable to expect the Government to do something to protect the rights and interests of 700,000 workers - 80 per cent, of the trade unionists in Australia - who have no sympathy with the views of the minority, and who loyally abide by arbitration. The answer is to be found in this bill. If only a fraction of what honorable senators opposite have said about the Government and its supporters were true in regard to industrial legislation, we should not be in our present position in this chamber. But the people realized that the truth was not in them; they were weighed in the balance and found wanting, and they left them wanting the posts they sought. Honorable senators opposite appealed to the workers of Australia to place them on the Government benches, and their appeal was refused. The workers realized that they are not to be trusted, and left them where they are. 
Order ! I ask the honorable senator to discuss the bill, and members of the Opposition to refrain from interjecting. 
This measure proposes to develop the idea underlying the act passed last year, namely, to issue licences to workers in the same way that the trade unions of this country grant tickets or licences to their members. The trade unions have brought the licensing of workers to a fine art; we have reached the stage where no person who is not licensed by a union has a chance of earning a livelihood. If this bill is not passed, and the licensing system is rejected, we shall give to men, not the right to work, but the right to starve. Fair play is bonny play, and if men will not obey Arbitration Court awards, they must make room for others who will. Why do honorable senators opposite not be frank and denounce the men for what they have done? They should not be so concerned about their political skins. Why are they afraid to say that the licensing system is necessary for the good of the community? It ill becomes any Australian to persecute his fellow man merely because he is earning an honest livelihood. The object of those who seek to destroy this bill is to give to men the right to go without food. I shall not stand idly by and allow that to be done. On humanitarian grounds alone, I could not stand by and see the meanest person in the community forced into starvation without seeking to assist him. Nothing more than the passing of this bill is necessary to hold the scales evenly between the different classes in the community and to give men the right to work. I offer this advice to honorable senators opposite in the. kindliest spirit. As a parent who truly loves his child has sometimes to chastise it, so if I have chided honorable senators opposite, it is because I love them. Instead of speaking with their tongues in their cheeks, members of the Opposition should adopt a manly attitude, and show some of the spirit that was in the old pioneers who accepted this continent as it was given to them by Mother Nature and developed it, bravely facing dangers and difficulties. Let them show some of the characteristics of the men who came 12,000 miles to possess and develop this land, and not devote so much energy to condemning the' capitalist, in whose interests they say this bill has been introduced. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I have listened with a great deal of patience to the speeches of honorable senators in support of the hill in the hope that I should hear some valid argument in favour of this legislation being placed on the statute-book, but having heard the diatribes which have been uttered by them, I am more than ever convinced that no sound reason  exists for passing it. There has been a wild hurry-scurry from Dan to Beersheba in search of excuses for the introduction of this measure. The main excuse offered seems to be that honorable senators opposite regard the Labour movement as a menace to this country, and its members as persons not to be trusted. Some of those who have criticized members of the Labour party to-night, were at one time honoured and respected members of that party, and their erstwhile opponents used the same arguments concerning the Labour party in those days as these new apostles of what was then known as conservatism now use in relation to present- day members of the Labour party. Some more substantial argument will have to be advanced before I shall cast an affirmative vote for a measure of this description. 
The Labour party, which represents nearly half the people of the Commonwealth, and at the last election received the support of a substantial majority of the electors of South Australia, is just as law abiding, and just as keen to safeguard the established institutions of this country, and to maintain its industries, as is any other party. 
It is interesting in this connexion to hear what some of the leaders of the parties opposed to Labour said when seeking the suffrages of the electors during the recent campaign. I shall first quote some remarks made by the Prime Minister in the course of a speech he delivered at Norwood, South Australia. The right honorable gentleman, at that meeting, made a statement which, had it emanated from a Labour candidate, would have been published throughout Australia in the largest and blackest type to be found in the newspaper offices ; but, because it was uttered by the Prime Minister, it received very little prominence in the South Australian press. The Prime Minister emphasized that he intended to deal with fundamental principles, and, indeed, he enunciated a number of principles which, he said, were necessary to good government and prosperity. But he said more than that. The Adelaide  Register,  the conservative organ in South Australia, in its issue of the 23rd October, 1928, credits the right honorable gentleman with having said that, if he was a waterside worker, he would go round with a bottle in his hand looking for some of the men who had led them into this present trouble. The Prime Minister, who says so much about peace and goodwill, and law and order, advised his hearers to arm themselves with bottles against those who had caused trouble in the community. Yet we are told that we, the opponents of this measure, and not the Prime Minister and his followers, are the apostles of disorder and disruption. 
The bill before us is opposed to all sense of fair play, because it gives to an individual - a licensing officer - the power to deprive others of the right to earn their living. The Leader' of the Government, in moving the second reading of this measure, endeavoured to draw an analogy between the licensing of plumbers, motor drivers, electricians, and baggage carriers with the system of licensing under this bill. There is no similarity between the two systems. Licences are granted to plumbers, motor drivers and other skilled artisans, as well as to members of the medical profession, in order to safeguard the interests of the community generally. I have read this bill carefully, but I cannot find in it any reference to competence or skill as a qualification for holding a licence. In the early stages of the application of the licensing system at Port Adelaide there were some appalling instances of incompetence. Accident after accident occurred, some minor and some serious, and in two cases death resulted. Inquiries among the foremen in charge of operations elicited that the accidents were caused by the inefficiency of the licensees and their lack of knowledge of the work they were called upon to perform. At that time many of the Southern Europeans licensed were not acquainted with the English language. I understand that a language test has since been applied, and that some of these men have had their licences cancelled. But it is a condition of affairs that is possible of repetition under the provisions of this bill. In South Australia Southern Europeans were found to have disposed of their licences to fellow countrymen. It was difficult for the authorities to prove cases of this kind, but in several instances the charge has been sheeted home, although the penalty imposed, in my opinion, has been extremely small for what I regard as a most serious offence. 
The luggage porters referred to by the Leader qf the Senate are licensed for a certain reason. The railway authorities decide that a certain number of porters can cope with the work at a particular railway station, and in order to prevent the reservoir of labour being flooded at that point, the number of licences issued is restricted. 
I shall come back to that point later. Normally 1,800 waterside workers can handle all the cargo offering at Port Adelaide, but 3,274 men hold licences there. It is likely to create a very difficult problem later on. Because of the casual nature of their occupation and because a sufficient number of men must be available to handle cargo at a peak period, the pay of the wharf labourer is usually higher than the ordinary rate of wage. It must be  sufficient to  enable him to earn something like a living wage over the whole twelve months. If more than twice the number of men required to handle the work of the port are licensed, and each man is to earn a living wage over the twelve months, the rate of wage that will require to be bed must be 40 high as to lead to complications in years to come. "Will honorable senators who favour this bill support an increase in rates of pay for that class of work to provide for these circumstances? "When these regulations  were proclaimed in Port Adelaide the strike was over. On a Saturday the men decided to return to work, and the regulations were proclaimed on the following Monday. The anxiety of the Government to insist on licensing the workers of Port Adelaide had the effect of prolonging the dispute for nearly a fortnight. Had the regulations not been applied in Port Adelaide the men there would have begun and continued working and would not be under licence to-day. 
By way of interjection the Leader of the Senate a few moments ago spoke of protecting passengers' luggage, and on the second reading he emphasized the necessity for protecting cargo. Is' Port Adelaide the only port in Australia where pillaging of cargo takes place? There are no licensing provisions at Sydney or Fremantle. 
They are not licensed at Sydney. 
I gather from the honorable senator's interjection that the bill is required not to prevent pillaging, but to tie the workers to their jobs under all conditions. There are six ports in South Australia where substantial numbers of waterside workers are employed. In only one are the men required to take out licences. The Port Adelaide waterside worker is regarded as a potential pillager, and must secure a licence ; but he may go to Wallaroo, Port Lincoln, or Cape Thevenard and work without a licence. The worker at Port Lincoln or Cape Thevenard is deemed to be quite honest while he remains at either port, but immediately he goes to Port Adelaide to pursue his calling he is regarded as a potential pillager, and must take out a licence. The whole system is bristling with inconsistencies. 
I do not favour it at all. 
I should like to hear more valid reasons for its introduction than those advanced by the Minister in his tirade of abuse when moving the second reading. The bill provides that if the holder of a licence commits certain offences he may be delicensed for a period of from three to twelve months. That is an unnecessarily hard penalty, particularly as the majority of men employed on the waterfront have established homes adjacent to the ports at which they are working, and have families and financial responsibilities which make it difficult for them to obtain employment elsewhere. If they commit an offence within the meaning of this law they run the risk of losing their means of livelihood, and cannot submit their case to a properly constituted tribunal. Of course, there is the right of appeal; but when a worker is delicensed another worker secures a licence and takes his job. Of what avail then is a successful appeal ? 
During the. election campaign the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham),  speaking at the Camberwell Town Hall, said - 
The Transport Workers Act did not discriminate between unionists and non-unionists in any respect. The Government was determined to do everything in its power to secure to all citizens the fullest opportunity to work so long as they observed the law, including the awards of the Arbitration Court. 
Why does the Government not keep the promise made by the Attorney-General on its behalf? It has allowed unfair discrimination at Port Adelaide, where the employers are giving preference to volunteerlabour. Any work available after all the first preference volunteers - and they are numerous - have been absorbed is given to the regular waterside workers who have taken out licences, and obeyed the law of the land and the award of the Arbitration Court since the day they became licensed. Appeals have been made to the Government to bring about a more equitable distribution of work at Port Adelaide, but up to date nothing has been done. In consequence of the Government's inactivity in this respect, unemployment and misery are more pronounced in Port Adelaide than ever before in the history of South Australia. We have it on the authority of medical men that little children have died as the result of lack of nourishment. The principal newspapers of South Australia, the Mayor of Port Adelaide, and the Lord Mayor of Adelaide are cooperating in an appeal to the citizens of South Australia to relieve the distress that exists among the families of waterside workers at Port Adelaide. Business men are closing their establishments because of the loss of trade. Prior to the introduction of this system approximately £900,000 was earned by the Port Adelaide workers every year, over 90 per cent. of which was spent in Port Adelaide and its environs. As a result of the introduction of this system- 
As a result of the introduction of this system about 40 per cent. of the wages paid is now being earned by men, many of whom are single Southern Europeans, who do not live at Port Adelaide. 
There should he some spirit of forgiveness displayed in this instance. Under the British law the greatest offender can appeal for and expect forgiveness. There is at present in South Australia a man who is alleged to have battered his wife to death in the most brutal circumstances and who was sentenced to imprisonment for fifteen years. Owing to good conduct the prison doors were closed behind him before his term expired and he is now a free man. But the waterside workers who have committed some alleged offence against the arbitration laws o'f the Commonwealth are not to be -forgiven ; they are to be hounded down. It is not only the men who are suffering; their wives and their little children are in many cases living in a state of absolute poverty for which this Government is responsible. 
Honorable senators opposite are not alone in their desire to safeguard the interests of the primary producer. I have been a primary producer all my life and am still actively engaged in primary production. I claim to know something of the trials and struggles of the man on the land, because I have acquired knowledge in the hard school of experience. I object, however, to the primary producers being used as a stalking horse by certain honorable senators in an endeavour to gain political kudos. I strongly object to some of the statements made during the currency of the waterside workers' dispute concerning the great losses which the wool-growers of Australia were supposed to have sustained as a result of the hold-up in shipping. I do not 'expect the Senate to accept anything that is not authoritative. Notwithstanding the severe drought experienced in the particular part of South Australia where I live, I was able to produce a few bales of wool which were catalogued for disposal at the sale in South Australia which was postponed in consequence of the waterside trouble. As honorable senators are aware, the sale was eventually held in Melbourne and in common with other sellers, I received a priced catalogue from the well-known and old-established firm of Goldsborough, Mort and Co. That firm stated - 
Unfortunately for the growers, the trend of the market lias been downward during the hold-up. This is not due to the shipping strike, but to the slackness in trade in the wool industry more particularly affecting Bradford and France. It is now evident that wool values have been too high, but at the recently established prices it is hoped the market will stabilize. There was a large attendance of buyers at the sale. Best wool eagerly competed for, Russia securing the bulk. 
I could quote a statement by a prominent wool authority published in the Adelaide  Mail,  subsequent to the strike to the effect that the hold-up was a blessing in disguise to the wool-growers in South Australia. That authority said that it permitted the market in Bradford to recover to a certain extent from the glut, and enabled certain stocks, which had been embarrassing the buyers of Australian wool, to be disposed of. "With the disposal of those stocks it was hoped to create the right atmosphere for the sale of Australian wool. He said that in hi, opinion so far from losing as a result of the shipping strike, the grower benefited to the extent of 10 per cent. The  Mail  featured the item under the heading "A blessing in disguise." 
According to the authorities I have quoted, the industry did not suffer.  Senator Cooper  mentioned the difficulties of the settlers on the river Murray districts in South Australia. I have not heard that shipments from those districts were affected by the trouble on the waterfront. I am inclined to believe, therefore, that if the honorable senator had inquired more closely into the position he would have realized that it is not labour costs that are crippling the industry so much as the mistakes made by the Liberal Government in South Australia in settling people on certain areas. "We remember the famous Loveday scheme, which cost about £1,000,000. After a good deal of work had been done for settlement under that scheme, it was found that the land was unsuitable. The workmen had to use dynamite to blast out holes for the trees. One can readily understand that the sensitive roots of vines would not flourish in that class of soil. As a result the scheme was abandoned and there was a loss of nearly £1,000,000. Similar mistakes were made in other areas. At the present time returned soldiers and other settlers on the newer areas along the river Murray are struggling against high capital charges. Although costs have been written down by the State Government there will have to be further reductions before the men engaged in the industry can make a success of it. "When the right honorable the Prime Minister was speaking in Adelaide he gave a definite undertaking that the withdrawal of the licences would receive the earnest consideration of the Government. Speaking from memory and subject to correction, I think he said that Parliament would be given an opportunity to consider the whole question. The Leader of the Senate has told us that the Government is doing that. But the Prime Minister, when speaking in Adelaide, said that if a conference of employers and employees asked for a repeal of the licensing provisions, he would be prepared to amend the bill accordingly.The Peace in Industry Conference has been held and the trouble on the waterfront has received and is still receiving consideration. A considerable section of the people of Australia object to the licensing system. The Leader of the Senate yesterday quoted figures to show that there had been an increase in the quantity of cargo handled by gangs of workmen since the licensing provisions had been enforced. I do not propose to cast a doubt upon his figures, but I can assure him that if he went to Port Adelaide he could obtain another set of figures proving that the genuine waterside worker can handle more cargo and do it more efficiently than the volunteer worker. Employers who pay additional handling costs at Port Adelaide as a result of the inefficiency of the volunteers whom they are compelled to employ are much perturbed about this matter, as also are shippers whose returns are being depleted and business people whose costs are being increased. But the most serious aspect about the whole business is that local workers who have wives and families dependent upon them have been displaced by single Southern Europeans who send their savings to Malta, Italy, or Greece. Altogether too many of these foreign migrants are being employed, whilst good Australians are out of work. Because of . their frugal habits and because they have no dependants in thi, country, the bulk of their earnings go out of Australia. 
Many of these Australian workmen went to the war. There are 274 returned soldiers in the .ranks of the Port Adelaide branch of the "Waterside Workers Federation. These are the men to whom preference in employment was promised when they returned from the war, but because of some alleged industrial offence they are now thrown on the scrap heap and, with their wives and families, are permitted to starve whilst Southern Europeans are given employment. 
Is there no compassion in the make-up of the honorable senator? Is there not one kindly spot in his heart which one can touch on behalf of good Australians who have been dispossessed of their employment? Is there to be no repentance or atonement for them? 
We have heard all these libels upon Australian workers before. Honorable senators op*posite appear to lose sight of the fact that more time is lost in Great Britain, than in Australia as the result of industrial disturbances. This statement is borne out in the latest industrial statistics available, for the period ending 31st March, 1928. Honorable senators supporting the Government have endeavoured to belittle the amendment moved by my leader. They argue that even if it is carried the licensing provisions will still operate. I admit that they will, but I suggest that it is easier for the Prime Minister to repeal regulations than to repeal an Act of Parliament. For this reason I hope that the amendment will be carried, and that the bill itself will not be placed upon the statute-book. 
.- Everyone, I am sure, regrets sincerely the s need for the introduction -of this bill; but one cannot shut one's eyes to the fact that the majority of the people feel that the time has arrived for the passage of such legislation. I need only remind honorable senators that for some years now there has been an almost continual dislocation of industry owing to the action of a section of workers who have been spurred on to disobey awards of the Arbitration Court. Honorable senators opposite have said repeatedly that the waterside workers were determined not to work under the Beeby award. The fact is that in the majority of disputes the workers are called out and have no option. As a rule the workers do not, of their own volition, come out on strike. I have been a worker all my life. I have conversed on this subject with a great number of working men, and I say without hesitation that I have obtained the confidence of hundreds of them. They have assured me, time after time, that they have no desire to cease work but are obliged to do so at the dictation of the militants in the various organizations. When T have asked them if they attended the meetings of their unions, they have replied in the negative, giving as a reason that if they did so and protested against the action of those who were endeavouring to foment trouble and disorder, they would be called " scabs." I have had this information from bona fide members of the Waterside Workers Federation and the Stewards Union. I was assured by a member of the Stewards Union that they had no wish to take part in the last strike, but that they had received instructions to cease work and if they had disobeyed, life would have been made intolerable for them. It is no use blinking the facts. No one has a greater respect than I for sane unionism, but even zealous unionists confess that they are appalled at the manner in which trade unionism .. Australia has been prostituted during the last ten to fifteen years. 
The Leader of the Opposition and his  deputy, Senator Findley,  voiced their desire for industrial peace. I do not question the genuineness of that desire, but I deplore the fact that the political representatives of trade unionism have not been able to restrain the extremist section of the movement which has been instrumental in fomenting the trouble that has necessitated the introduction of a bill of this character. Reference has been made to the Peace Conference which recently sat in Melbourne and Sydney. I, and hundreds of thousands of others in Australia, expected great results from that convention. One could scarcely have imagined that, in a country like ours, where the average individual enjoys greater advantages than his prototype in any other country, even  while  the peace tribunal was in session the extremist section which controls the industrialists would have ordered the timberworkers to disobey an award of the court. 
The honorable senator seeks to introduce something quite irrelevant to the debate. He might as reasonably ask why the Government does not appoint arbitration judges who will always make awards that are favorable to the industrialists. 
I deprecate the casting of reflections upon our judiciary. 
It has been suggested by some honorable senators that this bill was introduced by the Nationalist Government with the object of crushing trade unionism. Such a statement is entirely without foundation. 
I believe that is so, but I regret that honorable senators should utter such sentiments. It must be realized that trade unionism properly applied can do more for the workers than any other system. Its original purpose was to see that those engaged in any trade or occupation became absolutely efficient and gave of their, best to the country. It also safeguarded the interests of the workers in regard to hours, condi-  tions and wages. That splendid objective has been lost sight of, and to-day many trade unionists would drop out of the movement if it were not for the fact that if they did they would lose their tickets and be unable to obtain employment. I have personal experience of such cases. I know of one man engaged in the furniture trade who was fined £10 by his union because he did in lj hours a job the log time for which was 2 hours. Here is a reference to a similar incident in  The Furniture Worker,  the official organ of the union - 
W.  Belgrove,  upholsterer (ex- Victorian Branch), was recently fined the sum of £10 for breaking log times at Messrs. Hacketts Limited. The member in question subsequently returned to Melbourne. 
I assume that the Sydney union made things too hot for him. That man, actuated by a desire to do an honest day's work, was fined £10. Trade unionism was never intended to be prostituted in that fashion. 
He did nothing of the sort. What authority has any man or organization to say that a man shall take two hours to do a job which he can do in one and three-quarter hours ? That is the sort of thing that is breaking down industry in Australia. If such vicious practices were abandoned, and every unit in the community did his or her best at all times, unemployment would be unknown and poverty unheard of. 
I do not; but I wish to see common sense prevail. If every man did his best, that would necessarily cheapen the cost of living, and people with a limited income would be able to purchase more and more of the desirable things in life. No country ever made progress when its citizens set out deliberately to curtail the output of industry. 
I have as great a sympathy for the distressed as has the honorable senator. The suffering which prevails as a result of the timber workers' strike and the industrial trouble on the waterfront was brought about by those who control the unions. Is it not a fact that last Christmas was the first for many years when trade relations were maintained between the mainland and Tasmania? Previously, a certain little clique, disregarding the distress caused by their action, and animated only by a desire to keep their billets warm, fomented trouble at that time of the year. If they were ousted from the industrial movement matters would" be on a better basis. No individual or section should have the power to direct the men to disobey the awards of the court. I have been told by men who received such instructions that they emanated from the executive. 
I shall instance another case of what I term industrial cruelty. It concerns a young fellow of only 18^ years of age, who was the main support of his mother, a widow with two young children. Through slackness of trade in Sydney, he was temporarily put off. I met him about ten days ago, and asked him if he was keeping a look-out in the advertising columns of the press for a job in his own line. He said that it was of no use to do so, as he dared not reply to any such advertisement without first consulting the union. 
Because the union instructed him not to do so. I shall read such an instruction from  The Furnishing Worker  of the 5th February, 1929. That journal is published in Sydney, registered at the General Post Office as a newspaper, and is printed by Stephen James Stanbridge, of Wambool, 73 Thomasstreet, Croydon, at  The Worker  Office, St. Andrew's-place, Sydney, for the Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia, Federal Council, Trades Hall, Sydney. It reads - 
No member, in any circumstances, can answer an advertisement for labour without consulting the office. 
Although a man's wife may be starving, he cannot avail himself of a vacant job without first asking permission of his union. The result is that the employer gets no opportunity of seeing the men he is engaging. A man may be in sore financial straits, yet he dare not apply for a job without first approaching the union. Have honorable senators previously heard of such tyranny ? I should not have mentioned this case had not two honorable senators said that we, on this side, are out to crush trade unionism. It is true that I desire to crush that kind of unionism, but not legitimate and straightforward trade unionism. 
I am not opposed to genuine trade unionism; but when abuses creep in and the members of the unions are powerless to prevent them, it is time for me to say something.  Senator Barnes  appears to believe that the Government has declared war on organized labour. 
The Government has indeed declared war on organized , labour in so far as it flouts the awards of the court; but it has no quarrel with organized labour that is prepared to abide by the laws of the country. 
It has been suggested that this is panic legislation, introduced during a fit of hysteria. So far from being panic legislation, its introduction much earlier would have been justified. It is legislation which for months has been under consideration by some of the best minds in the community - men who desire that our legislation shall be in the best interests of all sections of the people. 
There is nothing wrong in that. I have yet to learn that there are not proportionately as many honest men in the Employers Federation as in the Workers Federation. The term "employer" is not one of reproach. I am proud of the great bulk of Australian employers, for I believe that among them is as big a percentage of men who are prepared to give their employees the best conditions possible as there are in any country. 
The Nationalist party accepts instructions from no one. If I had to take instructions from Ministers, I should no longer remain a member of the party. Fortunately, I have not to obey instructions but am free to oppose any legislation introduced by the Government with which I do not agree, and I do not think that the members of the Ministry think any the worse of me for so doing. 
I have done so. Honorable senators opposite have said that the introduction of this legislation would lead one to think that Australia was the only country in which there were industrial disputes. Australia is not the only country in which industrial disturbances occur, but having recently travelled through a number of other countries, I am of the opinion that there is much less reason for industrial disputes in Australia than in those countries. No country that I have seen offers such favorable conditions to the workers as Australia offers. 
I am not saying anything against what the trade unions have done in that direction. Had they stuck to their first principles they would have made Australia a country in which an industrial dispute would not have been possible. 
I have heard trade unionists say that a man who will not join a union ought to starve. Such men are not true trade unionists, but an excrescence on the movement. I claim that no man who is willing to work, whether he is a member of a union or not, should be . prevented from doing so, provided that he gives an adequate return for the wages he receives. When absent from Australia last year, I took the opportunity to converse with men engaged in industry in England, Canada and the United States of America. They all seemed surprised at the number of strikes that take place in this country. Men to whom I spoke in England said that if conditions there were similar to those existing in Australia, they would have no disputes. 
The Arbitration Court has been established for the settlement of industrial disputes. Before the constitution of the court, trade union leaders said that its establishment would prevent industrial disputes because it would ensure fair play. 
Is there any more effective way of destroying the Arbitration Court than by refusing to obey its awards ? 
I believe that this bill will assist in preventing a recurrence of the disturbances we have experienced, and for that reason I urge honorable senators to support it. 
I do not think that the honorable senator should make such a reflection on the judiciary.  Senator Daly  said that licences are not required at  Port Pirie although they are necessary at Port Adelaide. 
 Senator Daly  said that if a worker from Port Pirie desired to obtain employment at Port Adelaide, he would first have to get a licence from the dictator. The honorable senator claims to support any action taken by the trade unions of Australia. Does he agree  that no member of a union may apply for any job advertised in a newspaper without first going to the union office ? 
The lad of 18^ years of age to whom I have referred as having been prevented from accepting employment offered to him, was working in Sydney and receiving £5 a week. Through a falling off in business, his employer had temporarily to dismiss two adult workmen. But knowing the circumstances of the lad's family, knowing that his widowed mother was solely dependent on his earnings, the employer kept him on. In a little while an official of the union called on him and accused him of having in his employment more improvers than he was entitled to under the rules of the trade. The employer explained that because of his decreased turnover he had to put off two employees temporarily, but that he had kept on this lad because of the circumstances .of his family. 
No; the employer was paying £5 a week to this lad, who was only 18£ years of age. The lad had to leave the job, but the union official promised that if he would call at the union office the union would see what could be done for him. It was two weeks before the union obtained a job for him, and it was worth only £2 10s. a. week. 
It was the Furniture Trades Union. 
He was not. He asked the official to allow the boy to remain in the circumstances. 
I cannot see anything in the bill which can justifiably be described as tyrannical. It is a reasonable piece of legislation necessary for the effective carrying on of trade and industry in this Commonwealth. There are no grounds for the fears of our honorable friends opposite. When the trouble first arose, and men refused to work, others had to be found who would work. Would honorable senators opposite discard those who came forward to carry on the wheels of industry for the time being? 
Why? 
It is a pity the honorable senator cannot think of a better word to apply to these men. 
It might more reasonably be applied to those in the organizations who were responsible for  the recent trouble, those fat parasites who get £8 or more a week from the union. 
But I am not battening on the unfortunate workers. Cases have been brought under my notice of men who, although they were apparently contented with their conditions, and were doing their work well, were compelled to hold up ships after a visit from an organizer. I remember on one occasion when I was in North Queensland there was a large steamer taking on raw sugar at a certain port. A week afterwards, when I returned to the port, the steamer was still there. The custom had been to place twelve bags of sugar in the ship's sling. The workers did none of the lifting, machinery did it all. But after an organizer who had travelled up the coast on the same steamer as myself put in an appearance the shipowners were informed that in future only .nine bags would be put in that sling; and the reason given in reply to the ship-owners query was that it was not conducive to the health of the men to follow the old custom. I believe this bill will be in the best interests of the Commonwealth. I hope that it will eventually be found that every effort recently made by" the Government to secure industrial peace has been successful. No one hopes more than I do that the peace conference, which has temporarily suspended its sittings, will be revived. I have enough confidence in the good sense of a certain proportion of those who are identified with the trade union movement of Australia to believe that the disgruntled few who have withdrawn from the conference will be replaced by others who, in the long run,, will be found to be more competent to deal with important questions than those who have withdrawn. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Dooley)  adjourned. 
This afternoon I asked the following questions of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs: - 1, Has the Minister or the Government given consideration to the request of the Tasmanian Apple Evaporators' Association for a bounty on evaporated apples exported, and, if so, with what result? 
If not, will consideration be given to the request at once, so that if a bounty is granted it will be available for this season's export? 
The answers I received were as follows : - 
The matter has been considered, but no finality has yet been reached. 
It will not be practicable to take any action with regard to this season's exports. 
I note with pleasure that the matter has been considered; but I am disappointed that no finality has yet been reached. I urge the absolute fairness of the request of the Tasmanian Apple Evaporators' Association for Commonwealth assistance to enable' their industry to continue. The canned fruits industry and grapegrowers have for years been receiving assistance to enable them to market their products, and I cannot understand why the Government should hesitate about granting the same assistance to the apple evaporators of Tasmania. The orcharding industry in my State is a very important one. Many returned soldiers have been settled on small orchards, particularly in the Huon district. The best grade apples are sent overseas, in order to ensure a continual market,  and the lower grade apples are usually sold in Australia; but the inferior apples, and those which are damaged whilst growing, which form no inconsiderable portion of the whole crop, are treated by the evaporating process. They are just as fleshy as the perfectly formed apples, and there is a world-wide demand for them, but the Tasmanian growers, like the canned fruit-growers of Victoria and New South Wales, are unable to compete on the European market with evaporated apples from the United States of America. They would be in a position to compete if a small bounty were paid to them. At a meeting of the Tasmanian 
Apple Evaporators Association, held in Hobart on the 9th August, 1928, the following resolution was carried: - 
That, for the purpose of stabilizing the evaporating industry, the Government be asked to make available to evaporators a bounty on evaporated apples exported  in any year, the amount of which, together with the sale value realized overseas, would return to the evaporator1d. per lb. over and above his cost of production, such bounty not to exceed 2d. per lb. in any year. 
This resolution was forwarded to the Prime Minister. The amount involved would not be more than £3,000 or £4,000 ; but would be very helpful to the returned soldiers and other small fruitgrowers who have orchards in Tasmania to-day. I urge the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs to submit these representations to his colleagues, so that, at the earliest opportunity, finality favorable to the apple evaporators may be reached by the Government. 
The facts disclosed by the honorable senator will be placed before the Minister for Trade and Customs, who will probably be in a position to give a more definite reply in the course of the next few days. I understand from the honorable senator that a bounty of 2d. per lb. would yield a profit of1d. per lb. to the grower; but it strikes me that it might be better to consider the advisability of giving the growers1d. per lb. and leave the apples where they are. That, however, is a matter I shall discuss with the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received the following telegram from McLaren Vale, in South Australia - " Sales have been made here as follows : - "Grenash £4, doradillo £3, currants, £6 5s." I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs if he is aware that the price per ton fixed for grenash grapes was £85s. - for which buyers are paying £4 - and for doradillos £5 15s. - for which they are paying £3. In view of the serious position of the grape-growers throughout Australia, which will become worse if these prices continue; I ask the Minister whether the Government will give the matter immediate consideration? 
I can assure the honorable senator that full inquiry is being made into the whole position, and that a reply will be furnished as soon as practicable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether it is essential that arrangements be made almost immediately for the disposal of the new season's cotton crop? 
Has the promised report of the Tariff Board been received? 
In view of the promise by the Prime Minister at the close of last session to deal with the report of the Tariff Board early in the new year, will the Government take steps to give effect to so much of the report as they endorse, before Parliament rises for the forthcoming recess? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions is - 
The complete report of the Tariff Board was received yesterday. The matter will receive immediate attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as announced in the London  Times  of 22nd October, 1926). page 18, column o, that post-letter telegrams at the rate of1½d. per word, subject to a minimum of 2s. 6d. per telegram of 20 words or less, can be sent by wireless from Canada to England - the post- letter telegrams being handed in as telegrams between London and Montreal, but collected and delivered as letters ? 
Yes. 
asked the VicePresident of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
Ishe aware whether a bill has been introduced into the British House of Commons by the Private Secretary to the Foreign Secretary, Commander Locker-Lampson, to provide for the transportation to the Dominions of 1,500,000 British unemployed? 
Is he aware, further, whether it is proposed under the bill that these migrants shall continue to receive unemployment pay for two years after migration to the Dominions? 
Is he aware, too, whether this unemployment pay is designed to make up the wage received by the migrants to the ruling local wage ? 
Were the Dominion Governments consulted before this bill was introduced; if so, what reply did the Commonwealth Government make? 
What is the opinion of the Government concerning the scheme? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I have no knowledge of the introduction of such a bill other than what has appeared in the press. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In connexion with the projected extension of the aerial service from Derby to Wyndham, will the Minister cause inquiry to be made into the suitability of Turkey Creek as a landing place on such contemplated extension? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.Yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is  the  Minister aware whether members of the Adelaide Plains Grape-growers Association have  been  compelled  to  accept £3 for doradillos and £4 for muscatel grapes, and that several growers have been unable  to  sell even at low prices? 
Is he aware whether the fixed prices last year were approximately £10 per ton? 
Is it correct that the prices fixed last year were laid down by the Tariff Board after exhaustive inquiry, and were considered to be the lowest prices- at which grape-growers could carry on? 
Is it correct that the Prime Minister stated at the time the wine bounty was reduced that if the surplus could not be marketed with the reduced bounty, he would have to seriously consider the position of grapegrowers ? 
If these growers have to accept £4 per ton, is it not a fact that soldier settlers and others will be forced to walk off their holdings ? 
Will the Government give the position of these grape-growers its immediate and earnest consideration ? 
The information is being obtained. 
In following very closely the speeches delivered by honorable senators opposite on this bill, I noticed that special reference was made, particularly by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  to the pillaging which has occurred on the wharfs, which the right honorable gentleman claimed would be largely prevented by this bill. But honorable senators on this side have shown that it is not Australian wharf labourers who are responsible for the pillaging, which unfortunately occurs, as cargo is frequently pillaged before it reaches Australia. 
I am a member of a trade union, and I have been associated with trade unionism all my life. I first became associated with an industrial organization because I had been misled by my employer. When I secured employment as a boy, the manager of the mine in which I was engaged informed me that if I did my best and helped to make a success of the undertaking, he would see that as soon as an opportunity offered I should be placed in a more responsible position. I regarded that as an honest promise, and did my very best. In those days there was no payment for overtime, and no award of the Arbitration Court to protect employees. I worked from 10 to 12 hours a day without overtime pay, at times for six hours without a meal, for the paltry wage of ls. an hour. After carrying on fort three or four months I found that, notwithstanding the experience I had gained and the promise made another man was placed in charge of the work which I had been doing. On making inquiries from my mates, who numbered 30, I found that a similar promise had been made to them, and that we were pitted one against the other. We all realized that we had been tricked. 
If my first employer had kept his promise perhaps I would have had more faith in employers generally. 
Even when a man is doing his best there are some employers who think that he should do more. The Government professes to be sympathetically disposed towards unionism and the working classes generally, but legislation such as we are now discussing will result in increased unemployment, reduction in the standard of living, and wholesale " scabbing " on the waterfront. The employees to-day are finding that they have been tricked as I was in my early days. I have always advocated arbitration and I honestly believe that if arbitration is administered with justice it will be a success. Arbitration was, I believe, introduced originally with the intention of forcing unscrupulous employers to deal justly with their men. 
If the wageearners are treated fairly they will always render efficient service in return. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are perhaps more concerned than honorable senators opposite with the progress of the Commonwealth, and the necessity to ensure peace in industry. Under a recent award of the Arbitration Court the working hours have been increased from 44 to 48 hours a week, and as there is an army of unemployed numbering perhaps 100,000, the Government must expect some dissatisfaction amongst the workers.  Senator Payne  has told us that he believes in unionism, but he did npt mention the brand. 
A system of trade unionism administered, no doubt, by  Senator Payne  and those who share his views on industrial matters. The honorable senator said he objected to trade union organizers going on to the waterfront and, as he put it, dictating to the workers as to the number of bags they should put in a sling. I have had wide experience in that class pf work, and I can assure the honorable senator that if slings are loaded beyond their capacity, serious trouble will result. 
-I have no doubt the honorable senator believes that what he said about the incident was true, but, my experience is that industrial organizers are reasonable and fair. 
I have been associated with the Australian "Workers Union for thirty years. I know practically every officer of that organization, and I resent the reflection which honorable senators opposite endeavoured to cast on it yesterday. The officials of the Australian Workers Union, from the  president  down, have always done their best to induce employees to accept the awards of the Arbitration Court, whether favorable or otherwise. 
Apparently they have not been very successful. 
In the debate on this measure in another place, the honorable member for Fawkner  (Mr. Maxwell)  stated that Nationalist supporters of the Government believed in trade unionism, and, like   Senator Payne  just now, he added that it must be sane trade unionism, but the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  corrected him by saying "No; we say it must be industrial and not political unionism." What is the difference between the two brands of unionism? Industrial unionism, as I understand it, has as its objective the passage of industrial legislation that will deal fairly and honestly with all sections of the people, and to this end it seeks to elect its repre sentatives to Parliament. This bill will break down .industrial organizations in Australia. We cannot have the licensing of employees and at the same time retain our trade union organizations. As  Mr. Hughes  said, in another place, it is impossible and unreasonable to expect the two systems to work together. We cannot possibly have arbitration without organized trade unionism. The two must go hand in hand. Do honorable . senators opposite suggest that in our industrial relationships we should revert to individual bargaining between employers and employees ? 
SenatorCrawford. - Does not the honorable senator know that the power of the Government is limited in that respect? 
As a representative of the workers who constitute 95 per cent. of the people of Australia, I strongly protest against this bill, and will do all I can to prevent its passage. Supporters of the measure argue that since a plumber and certain other mechanics are required to be licensed, there should be no objection to the licensing of men engaged on the waterfront. They overlook the fact that before skilled tradesmen, such as plumbers, can obtain licences to do certain classes of work, they must pass an examination in competency. 
Is a luggage porter called upon to pass an examination? 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Is the honorable senator in favour of eliminating the penalties from that act ? 
Unless those remarks have some bearing on this bill the honorable senator will not be in order in reading them. 
Order ! I ask  Senator Needham  to withdraw that remark. 
The PEESIDENT. -  Senator Dooley  was referring to  Senator Lynch.  I am perfectly familiar with the contents of the bill and, as it makes no reference to  Senator Lynch,  I issued a warning to  Senator Dooley  that he must not trespass beyond its confines. 
We were told at the last election that one of the bad practices - one of the samples of maladministration - of the Labour Government was in connexion with preference to unionists. The electors throughout the Commonwealth were asked to give the Liberal party power to abolish that practice. In Western Australia, the appeal was made with the same force and lack of scruple as was displayed elsewhere in the Common wealth,' yet that State sent back to this Parliament men more strongly fortified than ever in their determination to support the Labour party in what they had done. In South Australia, the reply of the electors was to send back one more recruit to help the Liberal party in doing their nefarious work. 
Queeusland replied to the appeal by sending back more men, though by increasing majorities to maintain preference to unionists. Victoria stands in about the same position, if not a little better, whereas Tasmania has not receded from its position. We, therefore, have only one part of the Commonwealth which, owing to circumstances entirely foreign to tlie issue, gave a chance majority to the Liberal party. But, viewing the Commonwealth at large, we have the spectacle of five States, not only standing firmly behind the Labour Administration in giving, preference to unionists, but actually sending back to this Parliament more representatives to help and sustain that party in what they had done, that is, so far as the election aspect of the proposal is concerned. 
The speech continues at some length in  the  same strain, but I shall not weary  honorable  senators by quoting further from it. It will be seen that the honorable senator was at one time an ardent advocate of industrial unionism. I believe that the reason why he has altered his vIews is that he was hopeful that his ideals would be realized by the organization and co-operation of employers and employees. We still entertain such a hope, and continue to strive for industrial peace. 
I remind honorable senators that the judiciary makes just as many errors as do average members of the community. A judge could not be blamed if he used his own discretion when incorrect evidence was submitted to him. Undoubtedly, there have been cases when matters have been misrepresented to the judge by the employers. The working class has had to wage a lone and strenuous fight to gain the conditions which now obtain in Australia. We know that those conditions can still be improved, and that such an improvement would bring prosperity to the country. But if the workers are to be submitted to reactionary legislation of this character, if working conditions are made worse and hours of employment increased it will constitute the worst day's work that has ever been performed in this Parliament. Honorable senators opposite have referred to extremists, "reds" and bolsheviks, being in the working class movement. I remind them that nothing breeds extremism more readily than oppression. It is unwise to force the workers to return to conditions under which they cannot live decently. If peace is desired, honorable senators must be honest in their endeavour to bring it about. Legislation of this nature will merely fan the flame of revolt and perpetuate industrial unrest. If thi3 measure is passed I can visualize a future Australia over-run by Southern Europeans and other foreigners, antipathetic to the White Australia policy for which the workers have sacrificed so much,, men who, temporarily, are content to work for poor wages and under bad conditions. 
Does the honorable senator really believe that ? 
 Senator Dooley  has drawn such a harrowing picture of the consequences to Australia of this legislation that I rise to address myself to the bill more or less in fear and trembling. I am one who loves his country, as I believe all other honorable senators do. But when t contemplate the awful happenings that have been predicted by  Senator Dooley  I begin to wonder whether we should not take immediate steps to obviate their occurrence. It may be, however, that the honorable senator has rather overdrawn the picture, and that he is not viewing the future in that common-sense manner which is usual with him. This is a deliberative assembly, and not the place in which to make wild and impassioned speeches which seek to inflame men by stirring ip the passions. 
Possibly the honorable senator may temporarily have done so. I prefer to be charitable and to think that, as has been the case with every other honorable senator when he first entered this chamber, he is filled with all kinds of visionary ideals acquired by many years of outside experience, but that the corners will be rounded off by contact with others who have gone through the mill and who now probably know more than the newcomer about these matters. 
I am not entirely ignorant of industrial affairs or problems. For many years I was a trusted executive officer of the greatest joint industrial organization of Australia. But that was in the clays when trade unionism was quite different from what it is to-day - before it had acquired many of those peculiari ties, shall we call them, that have made certain aspects of it a by-word, in this country, or something for which no one can have very much respect. I do not however approach the subject from that position. Already too much has been said on both sides of the chamber that is not strictly in accordance with what I regard as the actual situation. 
Listening to the impassioned addresses of honorable senators opposite one would imagine that the waterside workers are little, if anything, short of angels; that they are men of tremendous capacity and wonderful honesty of purpose; that in fact, they stand pre-eminent over every other section of the community as honorable citizens. On the other hand, we have honorable senators on the Government side of the chamber, who almost regard them as fiends incarnate - men who cannot in any circumstances be trusted to do the right thing and must be reviled and condemned. 
Things have been said on this side of the chamber about these men that I have been sorry to hear. After all, the waterside workers are ordinary everyday citizens. They are drawn from all grades of society and professions. I have worked with them. I have met medical men and lawyers working on the wharfs as wharf labourers. Most of the workers on the waterfront are eminently sensible and reasonable men. Others, of course, are extremists, men of very poor judgment,, who we  may  be sure will always do the wrong thing if it is possible for it to be done. But as we have to live and work, with the waterside workers and they have to co-operate with us in building up the Commonwealth to make it the great country we hope it will be in- years to come, we should approach the consideration of this bill in a Christian spirit, always remembering our own shortcomings as well as theirs. And when we hear references to the presence of criminals among the waterside workers let us recognize that it is not peculiar to them. There have been members of this most distinguished and illustrious chamber who have fallen from grace and have rendered themselves in the eyes of society not fit to remain at large, yet the Senate is not to be condemned on that account. 
It is not, but when I have seen what these men have done I have at all times been prepared to say, " There, but for the grace of God, goes Duncan." 
In moving the second reading,  Senator Pearce  made out a very strong case ju support of the bill. He argued on fairly sound lines, but I agree with one or two honorable senators who have said that his analogies were not, in one or two respects, as good as they might have been. For instance, he said that plumbers and men engaged in certain trades did not regard it as a hardship that they were required to be licensed, and he therefore contended that no logical objection could be raised to the licensing of waterside workers. There is a greater distinction , between the two classes of licences than there is between the two callings. A plumber does not secure a licence until he has served a period of apprenticeship and can furnish to the proper authorities complete evidence of his capacity to do the work of a plumber. 
No reasonable objection can be raised to that argument from one point of view, but nevertheless there is an objection to it and I propose to state it. 
No. One or two of the honorable senator's analogies were certainly sound, but I cannot admit that there is any analogy between plumbers and wharf labourers. Baggage agents are' licensed for the protection of the individuals for whom they work. 
That is so. The baggage agent often handles valuable baggage without supervision; but waterside workers are or ought to be all the time working under close supervision. It may be true that a great deal of pilfering occurs; but it is also true that it occurs to a greater extent on some wharfs than on others. Very largely the root of the whole trouble is lack of proper supervision. On some wharfs in Sydney over which a greater quantity of cargo is handled than over other wharfs, the pilfering is negligible, whereas on otherwharfs there is a tremendous amount of it, because of the lack of reasonable supervision. We know what the opportunity to pilfer means to poor devils of men, some of whom are drawn from almost the lowest strata of society, and it has very often been proved in the courts that these men have seized the opportunity to pilfer at the suggestion of others whose duty it was to check them. The whole of the blame cannot be placed ' on the unfortunate waterside workers. The licensing of these men will not stop pilfering unless proper care and supervision are also exercised. Bill Jones, who was a thief yesterday when he had no licence, will not be honest to-day because he has a licence. 
The honorable senator remembers the famous recipe for jugged hare. " First catch your hare. " Most of the offenders are not convicted because they are not caught. Even under the licensing system it will be necessary to catch the pilferer before he can be convicted. 
It must not be imagined that I am defending conduct like that. No punishment is too severe for a man of that type, and it is possible that the organizations have been lax to an even greater extent than any one else in imposing discipline on their members who are guilty of such conduct. The union that extends the protection of its membership to men who are, to its knowledge, being continuously convicted of various misdemeanours, is likely to bring itself into disrepute and has only itself to blame if bricks are thrown at it. I suggest that if there is any blame attachable to the Government in connexion with this action as is alleged by honorable senators opposite, a greater blame attaches to the Waterside Workers Union. The time will come when the union itself will take a stand against this kind of thing, as other unions have done. The licensing system will not, of itself, entirely remove existing evils, but it may rid the waterfront of certain undesirable persons who are found guilty of repeated acts of pillaging. 
There is a feeling among honorable senators opposite that the licensing system is a deliberate blow at trade unionism. Against certain aspects of trade unionism it is true that it will strike a blow. 
While the fears of honorable senators opposite are, to some extent, justified, there is no justification for certain aspects of trade unionism. Like other organizations, trade unions are not wholly good. Trade unionism is a social system capable of immense service not only to unionists but also to the community generally; but certain developments of an anti-social character in the unions during recent years constitute a menace not only to the community at large but also to the unionists themselves. That aspect of the question has not been dealt with by honorable senators opposite. Some unionists appear to consider that the possession of a union ticket makes a man superior to the average citizen who does not hold one. The licensing system disregards that view because it places humanity before unionism, the man before the union: It provides that any man who is willing to work shall have the right to work, whether he belongs to a union or not. The system meets the demand of those who repeatedly claim "the right to work." In a free community, every citizen has a right to expect to have an opportunity to earn an honest and decent living, but honorable senators opposite and the members of the Waterside Workers Union would deny that right to a man who refuses to join a union, or, having made application for membership, has his application rejected. They are not concerned that their action might force starvation on that man and his family. The licensing system will strike a blow at that kind of thing. Now, when a worker applies for employment on the waterfront he is asked, not "Are you a member of the Waterside Workers Union," as was the case in the past, but "Do you hold a licence to work on the wharfs?" If he replies that he is so licensed, he may obtain work; if he says that he has no licence but is a member of the union, it will avail him nothing. The Waterside Workers Union has forfeited the almost impregnable position, it once occupied because it has not disciplined its members and made them deserving of a continuance of that consideration and, indeed, privilege, which they enjoyed for many years. 
Then the honorable senator admits that the licensing system will punish the unions? 
Nor will it send them back to Italy. 
To me it is a terrible sight to see one Australian family starving. 
They sell their labour on credit. Can any Australian worker do that? 
Because the only persons bound, by an award are the parties to it. The honorable senator is seeking to create non-parties to an award. 
The honorable senator was dealing with Italians generally. 
The Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Pearce),  in moving the second reading of this bill, referred to the work that has been done in certain Australian ports under trade' union conditions and under the licensing system. The right honorable gentleman quoted figures to show that those who have taken the place of the ordinary wharf labourers are handling a larger tonnage of cargo per hour than was ever handled by the unionists. When the Minister was speaking I was reminded of what the members of the Royal Commission on the Navigation Act, of which I was a member, witnessed when visiting certain Queensland ports. Whilst the steamer on which we were travelling was at the wharf in one port, tomatoes, which are packed in small half-bushel cases, were being loaded for the southern markets. I have never seen such an exhibition of inactivity on the part of any workmen. Although the trucks used in handling tomatoes were of a fair size, only one-half bushel case was placed on a truck at a time. The way in which those goods were handled reminded one of a funeral procession. When a case had been placed on a truck the wharf labourer, after surveying the surroundings and having a chat, started off with measured tread. The men undertook their work with so much reverence that one would have thought they were handling a corpse. 
Would the honorable senator oppose such a suggestion? 
Then the licensing system is to provide a means of punishing the men. 
Have the members of the Australian Workers Union ever gone on strike? 
I have been associated with trade unions for many years, and think it is time the people of Australia realized the benefit that trade unionism has been to Australia. I can recall the time when it was difficult for honest working men to walk erect among their fellows. They were compelled to be subservient to every whim of their employers; but, as a result of the work of trade union organizations many of them are now receiving the treatment to which every white man is entitled. The labour organizations have, and are still, organizing in the interests of humanity. No one can deny that. We have been endeavouring, not without strong opposition, to make this a white man's country, and to improve the conditions of living so that men, however humble their calling, may enjoy the benefits as well as share in the responsibilities of citizenship. As a result of these efforts, the industrial conditions in Australia to-day are better than they are in any other country. The Labour organizations have always advocated improved educational facilities, higher wages, shorter hours, and improved conditions generally. It is the pioneers of the Labour movement who are responsible for the conditions which many of our people now enjoy. 
The Government says that it is in favour of trade unionism, and that, without organized labour, the Arbitration Court would be unable to function. Notwithstanding these assertions, the Government has introduced this measure, under which decent and enlightened men cannot obtain work unless they possess a licence. In the pastoral industry many years ago, it was the custom of employers to give their employees a reference, which cer- tified that the holder was  of  good character and a first class workman. But these references, even if carried from the Gulf of Carpentaria to the Southern Ocean, would not assist a man in obtaining 'employment, because they often bore a secret mark upon them. Men would present these references to station managers, and would wonder why they were not given work. That system is being restored under this bill. Under that system a man might be carrying what he thought was a reference, but in reality it might be, in a sense, his death warrant so far as the obtaining of employment was concerned. He might be the best worker in his particular line in Australia, but because he happened to hold such a ticket he would  be  unable to secure employment and at the end of each day's search would have to go home to his wife and admit his failure. Perhaps he would wonder why he could not get a job. But I know,  and  so do honorable senators opposite. I know that there is a desire in some quarters to push the industrial movement in Australia back to the position it occupied in 1894, when men had to present tickets before they could hope to secure employm'ent 
I know that, but it is quite clear that the destiny  of  Australian workmen will be in the hands  of  licensing officers, to be appointed by the head  of  the department. I object to this proposal. In my own town not far from 
Melbourne  there are 125 Australians from one establishment alone, out  of  a job. They cannot get work,, but apparently men coming to this country from Southern Europe can. I do not know how they do it. I do not know whether there is any " backsheesh " in the business or whether they are prepared to work under conditions that do not square with the awards  of  the Arbitration Court. What I do know, is that they can get work, while good Australians have to stand aside. 
In the face of these facts it is no use for honorable senators opposite and the people they represent to tell the workers that this Government is not  legislating to break down their industrial standards. The average intelligent Australian when he is out of work and sees a recent arrival from a foreign country getting the job that should be his, draws his own conclusions. It is idle therefore to say that this Government is not plotting to break down industrial conditions. 
Suppose they did, what are we going to do about it? I do not stand for industrial inefficiency. I say that every man ought to be able to do his job. If he is not able to do it, he should not get it. This standard of efficiency should apply not only to the workers, but also to other people in places of power who so often use the great influence they possess to injure the prospects of the industrialists. 
The timber workers are out on strike. Why? Personally I do not believe in the weapon of the strike. It is foolish, too, for any section of industry to use it; but there comes a time when trade unionists can do nothing else. They are forced into a dispute, they are like rats in a corner and have to fight. What has happened in the timber industry? In my own town the wages of timber workers have been reduced by 13s. a week and their hours of labour have been increased by four. Do honorable senators opposite believe that they can convince intelligent Australian trade unionists, when these things are happening, that the Ministry is not plotting to break down their conditions? Is it not a fact, that tens of thousands of Australian trade unionists are out of work at this moment? I accuse this Government of using the industrial machinery available to it to increase the hours of labour and to reduce wages. The Ministry and their supporters are endeavouring to put the industrial clock back 50 years, and yet they have the audacity to suggest that they are the friends of the workers. 
Of course I do. I have fought for the principle of arbitration for more years than the honorable senator has lived. It has always been my endeavour to assist in establishing a sane method of arbitration to which my fellows in the industrial movement could look for justice. The organization with which I am associated has always stood for the same principle. 
I have worked more than eight hours a day in my time, but I do not think that there is need for one man to work eight hours a day whilst another man can get no work at all. 
Does the honorable senator wish to see our people driven back to the slave market days, so that we may compete in the overseas markets with the products of certain cheap labour countries? I do not stand for that sort of thing. I have always stood for sane methods even in the conduct of an argument. Persuasion in an argument is much better than direct action. 
As a responsible person in the industrial movement I charge this Government and its supporters with having created the industrial unrest that exists in Australia, to-day. The Ministry has the power to prevent trouble but it will not use it. It has allowed things to happen which could have been avoided and trouble has arisen in consequence. 
I shall give the honorable senator my personal views on the subject. To answer that question I should have to put myself in " Gilligan's" place. It is easy for any man to stand apart and condemn the timber workers for their action of a few weeks ago. But let us put ourselves in their places. If  Senator Foll  were a timber worker what would he do? What must be the feelings of the timber worker whose wages have been reduced by 13s. a week and his hours of labour increased by four hours a week, while his neighbour is out of a job? How can we  expect him to remain calm in such circumstances? If I had my way I should remove from authority any man who was cranky enough to do that sort of thing in Australia. "We cannot have lunatics governing the people of Australia. "Why does the Government allow all this turmoil to continue when, by a stroke of a pen or by a vote in this Parliament, it could put a stop to it? 
It is idle for the Government to say that this class of legislation will save Australia. It is hypocritical for Ministers to suggest that longer hours of work will remedy unemployment. There are 100,000 men out of work in this country, largely because of the policy of this Government, which has been responsible for so much dislocation in - industry. And what is the position in the Mother Country? There 2,000,000 men are out of work. Throughout the centuries the people of Great Britain have fought practically every country on earth in order to build up what is known as the "tight little island" where to-day hundreds of thousands have to tighten their belts and are reduced almost to starvation because they cannot get work to do. This Government has been bringing out many thousands of workless people from Britain and is shoving them on to the Australian labour market at a time when thousands of Australians who have family responsibilities and are willing to work, are vainly seeking a job. The purpose, if I understand the motives of the Government aright is to pull down the industrial standards of the people of this country. And yet honorable senators opposite would have me take them seriously when they say they are the friends of the workers. I am no hypocrite; I believe in giving every man a fair deal and in telling the truth ! 
This Government has been responsible for most of the industrial trouble that has occurred in Australia in the last few years. No one knows better than does the Leader of the Senate what is the cause of the industrial unrest in this country. There was a time when he and I were pals in the fight to secure improved conditions for the workers. What caused his change of heart, I do not know. But I tell him now that had this Government been so disposed, the Arbitration Court could have been so easily fixed that there would have been no industrial trouble worth bothering about. 
Let me tell the honorable senator what I mean by that. My own organization has had a claim awaiting a hearing before the Arbitration Court for two years, and when our members come to me and ask why we cannot get it heard, all I can say is that we are doing our best. 
The. trouble at South Johnstone was but a drop in the bucket. It was hardly worth bothering about ; but I remind the honorable senator that the action which the Australian Workers Union took in that strike saved the people of Queensland from a great industrial disaster. We isolated the strike. 
We knew that we were up against trouble at South Johnstone, so just as an experienced medical man endeavours to prevent the spread of a contagious disease by isolating his patient, we built a ring around the disturbed industrial area at South Johnstone and in that way kept the trouble from spreading throughout Queensland. 
Why does not this Government adopt the sane course of wiping this legislation off the statutebook? The honorable senator and his party would have the workers licensed like dogs. What will happen under this licensing system? Before a man will be able to secure employment he will have to be registered, and if he disobeys the orders of his employer his licence may be cancelled and he will be unable to get work. 
I believe that every one should get a square deal. Arbitration should work along the sane and progressive lines that we have been following so long in Australia. If honorable senators supporting the Government wish the Arbitration Act to be an effective instrument, they must see to it that it is so administered as to deal justly with the industrial movement. They should realize that the average Australian, unless he feels that he is getting justice, will fight. They will never be able to convince him that it is to his advantage to work 48 hours instead of 44 - and at a reduced wage - and that he should work the additional time because some lunatic has suggested that he should. They cannot expect intelligent Australian workers to take that sort of thing lying down. 
The honorable senator knows to whom I am referring. He and his party are sponsoring him and allowing this sort of thing to continue. Some people in this country would like to see Australians working 54 hours a week. We, on this side of the Senate, do not. 
I know they do; but surely the honorable senator does not stand for that. 
I had to work much more than 48 hours a week in my younger days, and I put it to the honorable senator that it is because of the fight which I and others in the Labour movement put up then, that it is unnecessary now for Australians to work long hours. 

 Silting suspended from 12.U5 to 2.15 p.m.. 

During the luncheon adjournment I have recalled to mind  Senator Foil's  anxiety to ascertain  how I was going to fix the Arbitration Court so that it would render better service to the country. It must be fairly obvious to honorable senators that, to give satisfaction, an Arbitration Court must be able to give quick service. I have previously mentioned the fact that there are many cases in the court that have been long delayed, and that one of them, in which my own union is involved, has been before it for just on two years, awaiting settlement. Meantime the unionists concerned are suffering conditions which they know are not right. Why cannot we so constitute the court that it will be able to expedite the hearing of their grievances ? The remedy is clear. If the court is so overworked and congested, the remedy is surely to appoint more judges. That is done in every other activity when there is a great pressure of work, so why cannot it be done with our Arbitration Court? That seems to me to be a logical argument. What would be the expense incurred by the appointment of even an additional ten judges at £2,000 a year compared with the industrial relief that it would give the country ? By maintaining industrial peace - 
Even judges are susceptible to the frailties of human nature, and make mistakes. But, instead of perpetuating the trouble, we should try to remedy it. That cannot be done by the methods adopted by this Government. 
It is a well established fact that I am not an advocate of industrial trouble. I am the  president  of the biggest union in Australia, the Australian Workers Union, and my counsels and those of my fellow officers have always been in the direction of keeping our people at work. I have always urged that if a dispute cannot be settled directly between employer and employee resort should be had to the machinery provided by the common sense of the people of Australia - the machinery of the Arbitration Court. Surely that is a fair and reasonable ' attitude. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate asked me, " Do you accuse the Government of causing the waterside workers' strike " ? 
I do not, but I accuse the Government of prolonging it. I was inCairns when the waterside trouble began there. 
The officers of my union reported to me that there were five people in Cairns who are called "Reds," and who never work except when requested to do so by the Government in order to serve its own ends; those men were deliberately sent to Cairns to cause the waterside trouble there, and that having done so they shifted to Townsville. The object of the Government was to start trouble on the waterfront, all round the coast, merely for political purposes. 
The honorable senator may deal with that subject if he chooses when he speaks to this motion; I am expressing my own point of view. Although I personally cannot say that the Government started that strike. I repeat that that was the story told to me by responsible officers of our union. I know that an election was then impending, that the Government could not win on its merits and had, therefore, to create a set of extraordinary circumstances in order to secure a victory. And so the waterside workers' strike began. The Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr. Scullin)  and  Mr. Ned  Hogan, then Labour Premier of Victoria, brought the union leaders together and induced them to give instructions to their members to return to work. "Who kept them from doing so ? Did  Mr. Bruce,  the Leader of the Government in the Commonwealth Parliament, do anything to settle the trouble? The Labour leaders asked, almost begged, him to use the influence of his high position to settle the strike by bringing together the ship-owners and " wharfies." But he did not do a thing. The right honorable gentleman and his followers wanted the trouble, bceause it would enable them to indulge in insidious propaganda which would inflame the minds of common-sense electors of Australia. It did so to a certain extent, but not to the extent that was expected and desired by honorable senators opposite. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order!  Senator Foll  stated that a certain remark by  Senator Barnes  was a lie. He must withdraw that remark. 

 Mr. PRESIDENT. I ask the honorable senator to withdraw that remark  as  it is unparliamentary. 
That may be; I am simply repeating the story told to me by responsible officers of my union. It is believed that those extremists to whom I referred acted in Queensland as the emissaries of this Government of which the honorable senator is a supporter, in order to stir up trouble. I cannot say whether the report is right or wrong. Those responsible officers are not employed by the Australian Workers Union because they are the biggest chumps in the country, but because they are trained men who know the needs of Australia. Surely I, as their  president,  can reasonably expect that what they tell me truly represents the situation. 
That they, were right. I and my colleagues, and I claim this without egotism, stand for the uplifting of the interests of the country. I, like other honorable senators of my party am a responsible person with a wife and family in Australia, and it is not likely that I would do anything to injure my  country, my  family, or my fellow men. 
I want the best I can get for my country, for my fellow unionists and myself. That cannot be considered selfish. I do not grudge any one the same conditions. I use all the energy at my command to establish the means, whereby this objective may be reached. There can be nothing wrong with that. If I pull some unfortunate creature out of the gutter, so to speak, and put him where he can stand with other men, surely that is good work ? Who can accuse the Labour movement of doing anything but that type of work? Were we not responsible for shortening the hours of labour, for the establishment of the Arbitration Court, and for the introduction of reasonable methods for settling disputes? Were we not responsible for setting up a higher standard of living in Australia than is to be found elsewhere ? That has always been our objective. Then when we have reached that stage, the Employers Federation, assisted by this Government, deliberately sets itself out to break down the system of arbitration. That is borne out by reports of conferences of Employers Federations. They have declared that the system is obsolete and even the " Big Four " - the recent British Economic Delegation which visited Australia at the request of this Government - has said something to the same effect. 
This Government is responsible for the flooding of the country with an army of hungry men from all parts of the world. I am one of a race of people that stands for all that is best in life. I realize that, unfortunately, there also exists a hungry army of my kinsmen in other parts of the world. They are hungry, but not because of anything that Labour has done. They are workless but willing to work; they are ready even to fight and die for their country ; but owing to a Government of prototypes of honorable senators opposite, in Great Britain, they have been reduced to the present sorry plight. Australia has been flooded with Britishers and men from other countries who know nothing about the industrial conditions prevailing here, and since they cannot obtain work we now have to feed and clothe and house them. Who finds the wherewithal? Surely it is done at the expense of the rest of our army of workers who are providing the necessities of life to keep the hungry army in idleness. Those men, of course, have no desire to remain idle. They are loyal and big enough to share our responsibilities, and to stand side by side with our workers if they can get their fair share of the rewards of their industry. Why are they not allowed to do that? Provision is made in Australia for old-age pensions and for the superannuation of public servants when they reach a certain age. There comes a stage when a public servant reaches the limit of his powers, according to the view of his Government, and he is paid a superannuation of £1,000. a year, in grateful recognition of his services to. the country. Later, another Government composed of men of the kidney of honorable senators opposite puts the man, who has been deemed by his own Government to be worn out, in a position in which he presides over the destinies of the wageearners of this country. He. draws a superannuation of £1,000 a year and also a salary of £2,000 a year in order that he may lengthen the hours of labour and shorten the rates of pay. Is it remarkable that I should become angry when these things are done? Honorable senators opposite know that they are done and should not be hyprocrital about it. The country ought to wake up. These things make me angry, because I know there is no need for a lot of them, because I know there is a means of settling much of this trouble. 
The Peace Conference is portion of the little joke that the Government is perpetrating. Ministers came along to the unions with  a  gift from the Greeks. They held out, so to speak, a bunch of carrots to the donkey and suggested that peace conferences and round table talks might take the place of the Arbitration Court. 
The Australian Workers Union is never aggressive, it simply takes what it wants ! The Government offered the old soldiers of the Australian Workers Union a peace conference, forgetting that there was a time  when, we went on our knees to the employers, asking for round table conferences, and our requests were turned down with contempt until we spent our money in having men returned to this Parliament and by that means had arbitration made possible. Now that we are in a position to go to the Arbitration Court or have a round table conference with the employers, we can always get a conference. If the Arbitration Act is wiped out we shall revert to the condition of affairs we had in the '90's. The employers of labour will be able to say, "Why should we have a peace conference when there are 100,000 men out of work, whose economic circumstances will fix the conditions under which you shall work. The 10,000 hungry men at the gate will fix the hours of labour." The Government is anxious to push labour into that position. 
We are told through the press that we must get rid of the Arbitration Court. The Arbitration Court may not be a perfect piece of machinery, but since it has come into existence, we have had more industrial peace in Australia than there has been anywhere else in the world except perhaps in countries where the workers are almost slaves, and have not the spirit to fight their masters. Surely there ought to be no desire on the part of any Australians to reduce our workers to that condition. Yet the troglodytes in the present Government are endeavouring to do it, and therefore the Australian Workers Union is spending its money to shift them f rom office. When Labour was governing Australia, we had more prosperity and less unemployment than we have had at any other time in our history. Every person was content. Industry was making progress and there were no unemployed. 
Wages have only been increased at the point of the bayonet, and because Labour has insisted on having a little greater share than it formerly had of the wealth of this country. Honorable senators who sup port the Government are out to smash arbitration. That is why men are appointed to make awards for which no white man will stand. I say to honorable senators opposite, "You take the tools of this Government - the worn-out machinery of this country - and put them in a position of power which enables them to get the workers of this country by the throat and to cut wages 13s. a week and increase the hours of work." 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Had  Senator Barnes  referred to judges of the Arbitration Court, I should have called him to order. He referred to tools and wornout machinery. 
Thank you,  Mr. President,  I am too old a boxer to fall into any trap. I have no excuse for a man who loafs. Every man should be expected to do a dinkum job; but I trust that the waterside workers will not be required to carry a licence or see their wives and families go hungry. In times past my people have had to go hungry, and I do not want to see a repetition of those days in Australia. I hope that honorable senators will agree to the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition that consideration of this bill be postponed. We are dealing with an ugly problem, and surely we have no desire to endanger the progress of industry or plunge the country into further trouble. But if we persist with this legislation we shall certainly push Australia over the brink of industrial turmoil. 

 .- Senator Barnes' speech was exceedingly disappointing. Thousands of persons look to the  president  of the Australian Workers Union for guidance, but the honorable senator's words, when they are read, will only tend to increase Australia's difficulties. We are passing through desperate times. There is a wave of depression and drought affecting us. There is industrial trouble in the timber and mining industries. Yet the  president  of the Australian Workers 
Union makes a loud noise, tells us he believes in arbitration, and roundly condemns our arbitration judges.  His  speech from beginning to end was a denunciation of arbitration judges and judgments, and of every one outside his own particular clique. But those who know the honorable senator will not believe that he meant nine-tenths of what he said. I was in Cairns when he was there, and I made it my business to ascertain the cause of the continuous trouble on the waterfront. The honorable senator has told us that he went to the officials of his organization - if they were as biased against the authorities as he is I am sure they would say anything - but I went to impartial people. I shall not mention names, but they were people in authority, and quite outside the ranks of any political party. The majority of the wharf labourers in Cairns are married men, who have houses of their own and families to maintain, but they are constantly thrown out of work by the actions of men who do not belong to Cairns. I was told that the trouble was caused by a communistic section that works between Townsville and Cairns. When Cairns is busy exporting sugar and maize these men go there and foment trouble. The honorable senator does not believe that any government in Australia would employ these useless beings to stir up trouble. 
They are extremists belonging to the Communist party, who travel between Townsville and Cairns stirring up trouble. Their doctrine is that reforms can be instituted only by breaking down capitalism. The maizegrowers of Atherton decided to challenge the waterside workers, but first they saw that the sheds were filled with maize. Then they loaded the steamers themselves. Had the Nationalist party engaged men to cause trouble it would not have taken those precautions to prevent trouble. The Beeby award is identical with that of the Queensland Board of Trade under which the men had been working without trouble for about eighteen months, yet, so soon as those conditions were embodied in the Beeby award, a strike occurred. 
All the wharf labourers north of Brisbane were bound by it, and had been working under it for about eighteen months. At Bowen, Cairns and Mackay the waterside workers ignored the advice of their own executive and the Board of Trade in connexion with the rotary system. 
All that has been said against the licensing system is ' intended to deceive the worker. What difference does that system make to a wharf labourer? If he is prepared to work in accordance with the award of the court, his licence will not be cancelled. 

 Senator Barnes said that the satisfactory conditions enjoyed by Australian workers are the result of the work of the trade unions. It was not the trade unionists, who comprised only seven per cent. of the people of Australia, but the arbitration system which gave to the workers the satisfactory conditions they enjoy in Australia to-day. Indeed, the huge organization of which  Senator Barnes  is  president,  has been built up by the Arbitration Court. The real enemies of unionism are their so-called leaders. Honorable senators opposite cannot tell me much that I do not know about the Australian Workers Union. Before the organization was known as the Australian Workers Union it was the Australian Shearers Union. At that time the gentleman shearer, who received £1, and previously 15s. for every 100 sheep shorn by him, did not associate with the rouseabout or the labourer. The treatment of the rouseabout and the labourer by the gentleman shearer caused the workers in that industry to organize. In organizing them I undermined my health so much that my life was despaired of. I know the struggle of the workers in those days. It is true that then, as now, some pastoralists, not fit to be employers, used their power to injure certain men. In those days a great deal of gambling took place in the shearing sheds on days when dews or wet weather made shearing uncertain. Under the preference clauses employers were able to rid their sheds of inveterate gamblers. Others, it is true, misused the power given to them. But the licensing system provided under the Transport Workers Act is not in the hands of private employers ; , it will be administered by Government officers. All honorable senators will agree regarding the neutrality of public servants in these matters ; they do not take sides in matters of this kind. All the talk about the injustice of licensing workers is so much dust thrown in the eyes of the people. If honorable senators opposite realized what arbitration has done for the workers of Australia they would insist on the awards of the court being carried out; but they have not been sufficiently courageous to advise the men to abide by the awards of the court. 
SenatorREID. - It might not be strictly correct, for I know that  Senator Needham  and  Senator Barnes,  as well as some of the union leaders, would go out of their way to prevent strikes; but the wild statements made by  Senator Barnes  this afternoon will make the workers feel that they have been unjustly treated by the Government. A statement by the  president  of the Australian Workers Union, that the Government hired communists to organize strikes because an election was imminent, although not correct, will inflame the workers. When the strike occurred an election was not pending. Later, the Government decided to appeal to the people, and when they were consulted they returned the Government to carry out the law. All the talk about loss of dignity associated with the licensing system is nonsense. At Brisbane no carter is allowed on the wharfs without a licence. 
No man may drive a tramcar in any of our cities unless he is licensed to do so. Is there any essential difference between a wharf labourer and a tram driver? Tram drivers, taxi drivers and other men who are responsible for the safety of the public must be licensed. Similarly, the licensing of waterside workers is a means of protecting the public against those persons who stir up trouble on the waterfront. When the benefits of this legislation have been revealed to the wharf labourers they will have no more to do with those who in the past have caused trouble. The award of Judge Beeby did not reduce the rates of pay; it increased them. 

 Senator Barnes spoke of the delays in having matters dealt with by the Arbitration Court. So far as I know, those delays have not yet caused a strike; but strikes have occurred because the workers have not been satisfied with awards which have been given. Before Judge Beeby would undertake to make an award, he demanded from the waterside workers an undertaking in writing that they would abide by the award when it was made. 
SenatorREID. - I shall show that it is. 
SenatorREID. - I refer to the whole of Australia. The guarantee demanded by Judge Beeby was given by the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia. 
SenatorREID. - I shall deal with that later. , 
The following is a comparison of some of the old and new rates paid to members of the Waterside Workers Federation :  - 
Dinner, 5s;11d. an hour as against 5s.8½d.  ;  supper 8s.10½d. as against 7s. 9d. ; dinner and tea on Saturdays 8s. 10½d. as against 7s. 9d.; tea on ordinary holidays,8s. 10½d. as against 7s. 9d., and supper 9s. 8½d. as against 7s. 9d. ; meals on extraordinary holidays 9s. 8½d. as against 9s. 3d. Take a few examples of the hourly working rates. Between 0 p.m. and midnight on ordinary days, 4a. 5¼d. an hour as' against 4 s. 3d.; between midnight and 7 a.m., including Saturdays,5s.11d. as against 5s.;- Saturday afternoons, 5s.11d. as against 5s.; between midnight and 7 a.m., on ordinary holidays, 6s. 9d. as against 5s. 
If honorable senators opposite' will peruse those rates they will see that they are far in excess of the wages received by rural workers, mechanics in city workshops, or by many other sections of the community. Many men engaged in rural pursuits work as long as 60 hours a week and do not receive even the basic wage. High wages such as some of the waterside workers receive naturally affect the price ' of the commodities they handle and that increases the cost of living. Even under the old system many waterside workers were unable at times to obtain sufficient work to provide them with a decent living as foremen preferred to engage regularly certain gangs of men upon whom they could depend. Some of these men whose employment is fairly regular receive as much as £20 a week. 
That is so. The regular employment of certain members of the Waterside Workers Federation, whilst others were idle, -was responsible for the adoption of a rotation system under which the work would be more evenly distributed. Reference has been made to the provision in the Beeby award for two pick-ups. As every one with  a  knowledge of the shipping industry knows, owing to climatic, tidal, and other influences, it is impracticable for the representatives of the ship-owners to determine the exact time when a ship will be able to commence loading or discharging. If the wharf labourers were engaged at the morning pick-up and their services were not required until the afternoon, they would have to be paid during the time they were idle, which in some cases might be eight or nine hours. The Board of Trade in Brisbane, of which an exPremier of Queensland  (Mr. Gillies),  an ex-secretary of the Australian Workers Union  (Mr. Dunstan),  and a legal member with strong Labour sympathies, are members, opposed one pick-up. In Brisbane the men are engaged by the representative of the shipping companies at the Wharf Labourers Hall, but the employers have to provide a 'bus to take them to the wharfs or pay them for the time they are engaged.  Senator Hoare,  who seems to doubt the accuracy of some of my statements, should carefully peruse the award. He does not seem to understand it. 
Honorable senators will recall the great dislocation of trade which occurred some time ago, when the wharf labourers refused to handle sugar from the South Johnstone mill, and when the canegrowers and others undertook the work. Disturbances occurred at Bundaberg, Cairns, and Mourilyan Harbour. Most of the trouble was caused by about twenty extremists. The representatives of the Australian Workers Union, including  Mr. Dunstan,  member of the Board of Trade and late secretary of the Australian Workers Union, visited the South Johnstone mill on three different occasions, but they failed to discipline the men. Although representatives of the Australian Workers Union met from time to time and told them that if they did not resume, they would not receive any strike pay, they not only continued on strike but dragged the railway employees in. They defied the Government, the Arbitration Court, and the leaders of their own unions until the Premier of Queensland  (Mr. McCormack)  took drastic action. If the licensing system had been in operation in that case the men who refused to work could have been deprived of their licences. 
I believe the licensing system will prove a God-send to the waterside workers. If the men had obeyed the awards of the court it would not have been necessary to introduce such drastic legislation. Honorable senators opposite have referred to unscrupulous employers, and the unfortunate position of many of the workers, but they have not had a word to say concerning the manner in which the general public is being penalized. One would think from their utterances that they were the only friends of the working man. It has been stated that 95 per cent, of the people in Australia are industrialists, and as the policy of the Government was endorsed by a large majority of the voters, many men who are supposed to support the Labour ' party must have actually assisted to return this Government. 
That is so. They realize what a benefit arbitration has been to them, and many of them wish to assist the Government in its endeavour to preserve the arbitration system and ensure an observance of its awards. 

 Senator Barnes said that he knew of men who in consequence of the Timber Workers' Award had had their working hours increased from 44 to 48 and their wages reduced by 13s. a week. If such a reduction has been made, it is because the timber industry in its present state cannot pay more. According to the evidence submitted to the court the timber industry is in a stagnant condition, and the judge, after carefully investigating the whole situation, made a just award. Some honorable senators will recall the depression which followed the financial crash in the "nineties" when, owing to economic conditions, wages in almost every industry were reduced. At that time the people accommodated themselves to the circumstancs, but it was not long before conditions began to improve and wages commenced to rise. No one believes in wages being reduced when our industries are flourishing, but it is impossible for the workers to obtain high wages from any industry which is incapable of paying them. Ever since the Arbitration Court was established wages have been increasing, but we have now reached a point at which we may possibly have to call  a  halt. The high wages awarded by the Arbitration Court are to some extent responsible for the prevalence of unemployment. Thousands of unionists are out of work and starving because the high awards of the Arbitration Court will not allow them to work. 
I do not wish to see our . existing high standard of living break down. I gave many years of my early life to. the building up of that standard, and I and my family suffered while achieving that objective. I know what the old conditions were, but there are very few present-day unionists who do. I feel for the unemployed, because I know what it is to be unemployed. There is only one hope for the workers in Australia, and that is to bring about industrial peace. 
It is being prevented only because of the political capital that the honorable senator and his colleagues are making out of the measure. It is no more a degradation for the wharf labourer to be licensed than it is for the wharf porter or for the carter. All parties must view the matter sensibly. If that is done, all must agree that it does not matter " tuppence " whether a wharf labourer is licensed, so long as he is paid the award rates. If employers and employees would get together and discuss the situation in an unbiased manner, the difficulty would soon be overcome. The whole trouble is caused by those soap-box orators who endeavour to bulldoze the community by making inflammatory utterances in the Sydney Domain, the Botanic Park of Adelaide, and such places. 
I worked hard for unionism in the past, and I have nothing to say now against the principle. I realize that it is the extremist element that is causing this trouble, by inciting the men to break awards, as was done by the waterside workers in connexion with the Beeby award. Surely honorable senators opposite realize that something must be done. It was not the Labour party that gave to our workers their present splendid conditions. I admit that they ploughed the lands and sowed the seed, but it was the general public that made possible the harvest. If that public is not properly treated, it will turn and take away the privileges that have been granted. Although I realize that I am making a vain appeal, I urge honorable senators opposite to look at the facts without bias. If they do that, make an appeal to the workers, and so have the Peace Conference again brought together,, we shall have peace in industry and prosperity throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I admire the sincerity of tone adopted by  Senator Reid,  but I do not like his suggestion that honorable senators on this side are endeavouringto misrepresent the provisions of thisbill to the workers of Australia. We give honorable senators opposite credit for being sincere in their views, and we expect them to believ.e that our views areput forward in all sincerity. Honorable senators on this side recognize that more than one section of the community is endeavouring to destroy arbitration. There is, for instance, an unscrupulous section of employers. 
I shall quote a report which contradicts that opinion, and proves that the people on whose behalf the honorable senator interjects, seek to destroy arbitration. My extract is from the report of the conference of the Metal Trades Association of Australia which was recently held in Sydney, and it reads - 
Industrial arbitration is a beautiful ideal and a righteous one. It was originally evolved to protect the workers, who were unable economically to protect themselves. It has overdone it. It has pampered them so that they are becoming bowelless tyrants and unmitigated ruffians towards the industry from which they dra,w their sustenance. Away with it, and let Us get back to the clear open economic ring. That is the only way to prosperity and increased employment. 
I am not responsible for what Arthur Rae writes or says. I signed the platform of the Labour party, which declares that the movement believes in arbitration. 
The honorable senator is unfair in making such an insinuation. He knows the stand that I took last year before Parliament was dissolved. 
Two wrongs do not make a right. Many employers want to break away from arbitration. I recognize what- Labour has to gain from the system and what arbitration has done for unionism in Australia. It has been the bulwark of the working classes. But it has also protected the honest employer by preventing unscrupulous employers from taking advantage of cheap labour. 
I am not aware of that. I recognize that there is a small section of the community who go from State to State - well fed and well groomed, and who have apparently never done a day's work for years - en deavouring to bring about industrial disruption. They are the people who seek to destroy arbitration. 
They are not. 
 Senator Foll  may not know it, but it is our considered belief that they are paid by the employers. 
This party realizes that these people cannot live without being paid, and we know that they are not paid by the workers of Australia. 
I have frequently ventilated my views about Jock Garden. I have no time for him. 
-I should say that they are. He certainly receives something from New South Wales unions, but it is my firm belief that he is being paid by the employing class to create industrial trouble on the eve of elections. 
The same people. 
I did not want to get him out of gaol. It has always been my belief that those two individuals and a number of others do not belong to the working classes of Australia.  Senator Reid  made reference to the Beeby award. I blame Judge .Beeby for the prevailing unrest on the waterfront. Just prior to the Prime Minister making a statement that the election would be held on the 17th November last, Judge Beeby made a court-room of his bed-room arid issued an award foi' the waterside workers of Australia. An award previously provided for two pick-ups daily, but thousands were not aware of it. When the award was originally promulgated, both the ship-owners and the waterside  workers protested against the two pick-ups and were requested to confer and endeavour to arrive at an amicable arrangement. The representatives of Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia, and Western Australia met and decided upon one pick-up, which system operated harmoniously for six years.- The unions wonder why Judge Beeby insisted, just prior to the election, that there should be two pick-ups. I do not know that there is any reason for it. If there had been any need for an alteration - if the shipowners or the waterside workers had required it - an application would have been made to the court. But both parties remained silent on the point, and in those circumstances there was no justification for the alteration made by Judge Beeby. He must have recognized that by enforcing that particular portion of his award he. would be helping to create industrial upheaval on the waterfront. 
There are others besides the extreme industrialists and unscrupulous employers who are opposed to arbitration. Some of those who are administering the affairs of the arbitration courts seem to' be endeavouring to break down the system. At any rate, if they were anxious to do so they could not have gone about it in a better fashion than by making such, awards as those relating to the waterside workers and the timber employees. Some people say that honorable senators of the Opposition tried to induce the waterside workers to go out on strike. That cannot be said in truth. For my own part, in this chamber I expressed my regret that the men had decided to disobey the award of the court, and I have often said that it was an error of judgment on their part. They recognize it now. But surely they have been sufficiently punished. Are they to be penalized for all time? It is true that the Port Adelaide workers at first declined to obey the instructions issued by the conference in Melbourne to return to work, but when they did so they were under the impression that the number of volunteer workers would not sub.sequently be increased. The ship-owners, however, have steadily added to the numbers of volunteer workers until there are almost enough of them to do all the work of the port. If the ship-owners had acted fairly, they would have given first preference to the volunteers who came to their assistance and second preference to the members of the federation. The fact that they have not done so has been the cause of a lot of the disturbance which has recently taken place on the waterfront at Port Adelaide. Accompanied by  Mr. Makin,  the member for Hindmarsh in another place, I had the honour of leading a procession in Port Adelaide. 
Before the march started both  Mr. Makin  and I emphasized that it must be an orderly one and that a good example should be set to the citizens of Port Adelaide. The women and men were agreeable, and everything went well until we reached a spot where it was necessary to head the procession away from a vessel which was being worked by volunteer labour. The women were incensed because Italians and others were working on the boat, and although  Mr. Makin  and I did all we could to persuade them to keep away from the vessel, our persuasions were of no avail. The women knew that their offspring were being deprived of bread and butter and trouble commenced. Law and order ! On that occasion we had law and order run mad. What happened was a disgrace to civilization. The police seemed to exercise no discretion. They simply let themselves go. They galloped down the thoroughfare on the road and on the footpaths, striking with their batons .at random. Women and children were struck and people almost ridden down. One man alongside me, who narrowly escaped being trampled to death, said to the trooper who was on the horse, "Why are you galloping over me? What have I done?" The trooper simply replied, "You move on again when I tell you." There was not sufficient justification for that trooper to gallop after the man in the way he did. Policemen should be advised to exercise more discretion and better judgment in similar circumstances. 
There is one way of controlling them. The women broke out of the procession because their children were almost starving. . And where is the woman who would not put up a fight for her starving offspring? 
The honorable senator knows perfectly well what happens during industrial strife. Why should the women and children be punished for the sins of the fathers? 
It is all very well for the honorable senator to talk in that way. Did he do so when formerly he took part in industrial upheavals? We must put ourselves in these men's position before we can utter judgment upon them. While we may not agree with their action in disobeying the award of the Arbitration Court, it was quite a different matter with the womenfolk whose children wanted bread. I can readily understand what they felt when they saw men doing work on boats which their breadwinners ought to have been doing. At any rate, that was the cause of the disturbance on that occasion. 
When  Senator Reid  was quoting the rates of pay fixed by Judge Beeby, he did not tell us that men working side by side would be receiving different rates of pay for the same class of work. Provisions of that nature in an arbitration award are always likely to cause dissatisfaction. 
While we always endeavour to live up to our system of arbitration, we recognize at the same time that it is a long way from being perfect. When the locomotive engine drivers and firemen of South Australia went to the State Arbitration Court and secured an award, the railways commissioner appealed to the Full Court and employed King's Counsel to plead for him, with the result that the award was quashed and the men were deprived of approximately £5,000. in retrospective pay and certain improved conditions of labour. The union then applied to the Federal Arbitration Court but it has been waiting for two years and five months to have its case heard and has already spent £1,500. Why should it cost any union £1,500, to say  noth--  ing of the delay, before it can get its case heard? Delays like this make  us  understand the difficulties the unions have to encounter in approaching the Arbitration Court. The Government' should try to find some means of overcoming this. We know that strikes have been brought about for the sole purpose of enabling a union to get  its  case heard by the Arbitration Court, instead of having to wait for years as the locomotive engine drivers and firemen in South Australia have had to do. The Arbitration Court should not take so long in giving its decisions nor should the process of obtaining awards be so costly to applicants. If more judges were appointed to expedite the hearing of cases, there would be greater peace in industry. 

 Senator Duncan made light of the number of foreigners working on our wharfs. In South Australia there are numbers of these men who work on a system of credit, sometimes extending over a period of twelve months. Many of them are found on farms and among the workers on the roads. 
Employers can pay these foreigners what they like, and therefore, they give them preference over Australians. 
It would be useless to prosecute, for, although it is well known that these things are done, it is difficult to prove them. While foreigners are provided with work, good Australians and their wives and families are left to starve. 
Nothing of the kind. There have been ho strikes on South Australian f arms. , 
Surely  Senator Cooper  does not suggest that Australia can progress along such lines. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later  date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
On the 8th March  Senator Chapman  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether members of the Adelaide Plains Grape-growers Association have been compelled to accept £3 for doradillos and £4 for muscatel grapes, and that several growers have been unable to sell even at low prices? 
Is he aware whether the fixed prices last year were approximately £10 per ton? 
Is it correct that the prices fixed last year were laid down by the Tariff Board after exhaustive inquiry, and were considered to be the lowest prices at which grape-growers could carry on? 
Is it correct that the Prime Minister stated at the time the wine bounty was reduced that if the surplus could not be marketed with the' reduced bounty, he would have to seriously consider the position of grapegrowers ? 
If these growers have to accept £4 per ton, is it not a fact that soldier settlers and others will be forced to walk off their holdings ? 
Will the Government give the position of these grape-growers its immediate and earnest consideration ? 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 
Reports have reached the department that in some cases grapes are being bought at prices below those fixed by the Minister under the Wine Bounty Act. In these cases the wine made from such grapes will not be eligible for bounty, if exported. 
The fixed prices last year were £6 10s. per ton and £9 10s. per ton respectively. 
The Tariff Board did not in any way deal with the prices fixed last year. 
5 and 6. The position is that while the Minister can control the prices of grapes used in connexion with wine for export, and withhold the bounty if reasonable prices are not paid, he has no further power in the matter whatever, and cannot control the prices at which grapes are bought for anyother purposes, such as the manufacture of wine for local consumption. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister received the Tariff Board's report on the flax industry. 
If so, will he make it available to members ? 
The answers are :  - 
Yes. 
The report is now under consideration and will be made available in due course. 
This clause provides that the act shall commence on a day to be fixed by proclamation, but I should like to know why it is necessary to proclaim this measure at any time. Why go further with this legislation until the peace-in-industry conference, which is still functioning, presents its report?  Senator Ogden  quoted one important resolution, which was agreed to unanimously by the committee of management. 
Yes. 
The committee of management appointed by the conference is still functioning. 
The conference has not concluded its deliberations. The resolution which  Senator Ogden  quoted urged that the penal provisions of legislation passed by this Government were not conducive to peace in industry. 
The resolution was in these terms - 
The committee is in agreement regarding the principle that the penal provisions of industrial legislation of the Commonwealth are not generally conducive to industrial peace. 

 Senator Ogden then went on to say that  Mr. Crofts,  the secretary of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, had urged that the penal sections of the Arbitration Act should not be repealed. 
Did the honorable senator quote the whole of  Mr. Crofts'  statement? 
I understood that the peace-in-industry conference sat  in camera.  Representatives of the press were not admitted, so I am at a loss to understand how  Senator Ogden  got a copy of a speech made by. one of the delegates. Copies of speeches were not available to others. 
From the public press, to which it was given by  Mr. McDougall,  the  President  of the Chamber of Commerce. I am not objecting to  Senator Ogden's  quoting a statement by  Mr. Crofts,  but he should have quoted  Mr. Crofts  in extenso. 
(Senator Duncan). - Order! I have been waiting for the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the clause. I cannot allow him to proceed further. If  I  did so I should have to allow other honorable senators the same latitude. He must confine his remarks to the clause. 
[5.55]. - If the committee deletes the clause the bill will become law immediately it is assented to. The retention of the clause will mean that the act will not take effect until a proclamation is issued by the Governor-General. As for the peace-in-industry conference  I  am afraid that if we hold up legislation until that body presents its report we shall be depending upon a very rotten reed. Union after union has withdrawn its delegates and generally the attitude of the various organizations has been so hostile that the conference has adjourned  sine die. 
 As this clause is a very comprehensive one, embracing five pages of the bill, I suggest that each proposed new section be dealt with separately by the committee. 
(Senator Duncan). - Is  it the wish  of  the committee that each  proposed  new section covered by clause 8 be put separately? 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear! hear! 
 I hope that the committee will not agree to this proposed new section, which provides that any man seeking work on the waterfront must obtain a licence, for which he must pay a certain fee, which shall be prescribed. Why does the bill not stipulate the amount to be paid? 
That is an even happier suggestion. Why should a man who is seeking work and willing to obtain a licence have to pay for that licence ? 
I might as reasonably ask what it costs  Senator Guthrie  to remain a member of the organization to which he belongs, or what it costs to become a member of the Employers' Federation. 
I might also ask what itcost the consultative council of the Nationalist Party when it had to pay for  Senator Guthrie's  election expenses to return him to this chamber. 
 Senator Guthrie  is not prepared to disclose that information, so I shall confine myself to the proposed new section. Perhaps at some not far distant date the meaning of the term " transport " may be extended to embrace not only waterside workers, but railway and tramway workers, also the driver of a horse and cart. For the time being, however, the term as used in this bill is confined to men engaged on the waterfront. Those men must first obtain a licence to work, and for that licence they have to pay a fee which is to be prescribed. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

I see no reason why the fee to be charged for the licence should not be set out in the bill. If this bill becomes law a man must have a licence before he can work. 
Then why the need for this bill?We are told that the Government has brought it down for the purpose of converting certain regulations into a statute, and, as  Senator Kingsmill  has told us in his usual condescending manner, in order to carry out a promise it made. We have had many bills before us in which salaries have been fixed. They were not left to be prescribed by the Governor-General in Council, or by any body of men who, for the moment, happened to hold sway over the country. Why, then, cannot we fix in this bill the fee to be charged for a waterside worker's licence? A man does not need a licence when he applies to a railway stationmaster for employment as a transport worker. Why should he be required to carry one if he seeks the same class of work on the waterfront? We are told that doctors and others are licensed; but that is not correct. They are registered. The proposed new section is unnecessary. We have peace on the waterfront to-day. Why should we seek to stir up trouble by passing aggravating legislation of this sort? Why cannot we let bygones be bygones, and allow the transport workers to carry on their work without having this added insult heaped upon them? I shall vote against the proposed new section. 
.- The proposed new section says that a worker "may" make application for a licence, but the whole purport of the bill is to make it compulsory for him to do so. It would be interesting to learn what revenue is likely to be obtained from the licence-fees. Honorable senators opposite have emphasized how necessary it is that every citizen should be at liberty to go wherever work is offering and secure employment; yet they seek to make one section of workers pay a fee before they can approach certain places where employment may be obtained. Honorable senators are somewhat inconsistent. The amount of the fee to be charged for a licence has not been divulged to the Senate. I agree with  Senator Needham  that it should be made known. A government which is afraid to tax big people apparently does not mind imposing a fee on the fellow who goes on a wharf to earn the price of a loaf of bread for his kiddies ; but it makes no attempt to impose a fee on shearers or coal-miners. There is to-day no award operating on the waterfront, and in the event of a section of men combining and applying for an award, I should like to know if they will get preference over those who hold licences ? 
I understand that there is no union recognized to-day. All that the employers are expected to recognize is a licence - not a union ticket, nor even experience. 
I cannot say what the entrance-fee to the Waterside Workers Federation is, at the moment. 
 Senator Guthrie,  of course, has worked on a wharf, and knows all about the work on the waterfront! But thework he did was very different from that which is done by the man who loads a" bale of wool into a ship; he simply had a book and pencil, and watched the bale being loaded as if it were " the Golden Fleece " going to ancient Greece. If honorable senators knew what fee was to be charged for the licences, their opposition to the bill might be more violent. The Waterside Workers Federation has been broken. Like the harp of dear old Erin, it is a mass of broken strings. Preference of employment is to be given to holders of licences over a " dinkum " organization that would approach the Arbitration Court. The proposed section should be deleted, because it is offensive. 
[8.15]. - I draw the attention of  Senator Barnes  to the regulation fixing the fee for a licence at1s. 
.- If the regulations provide for a fee of 1s., provision to that effect should be  made in this bill. So long as the fee is governed by regulation, it may be altered by proclamation at any time.  I  do not think that the Government has any intention of increasing the fee, and  I  think it would be wise to fix the amount iri the bill. 
 During this discussion honorable senators opposite have frequently referred to awards of the court. One would think that this bill was aimed at men who disobey such awards. The principal act contains no mention of an award1 of any court, whether good, bad or indifferent, nor is there any reference in the bill, so  far,  to any award of a court.  If  the object of this measure is to penalize men. who have committed breaches of awards of the Arbitration Court, the Government should move an amendment to include coal-owners also. 
We, on this side, are trying to abolish penal legislation; but if legislation of that nature is to remain, it should apply to employers as  well  as to employees. Only within the last week or so 17,000 men were dismissed from their employment by coalowners, despite an award by an industrial tribunal. 
I realize,  Mr. Temporary Chairman,  that any reference to the dismissal of coal-miners  is  irrelevant at this stage. I was endeavouring to show that  if  honorable senators opposite are so concerned about the observance of awards of the court they should see that employers who commit breaches of awards are penalized in the same way that this legislation penalizes employees. 
.- I hope that the committee will not agree to this proposed new section, which reads -  (1). Where an application is made under the last preceding section to a licensing officer he may issue to the applicant a licence in accordance with the prescribed form, bearing a number and the name of the port in respect of which it is issued. 
There is no obligation on the licensing officer to issue a licence. The word used is "may." He may issue a licence. An arbitrary discretion is thus vested in a departmental officer who, for any reason whatever, or for no reason, may refuse to issue a licence. He is, as it were, an industrial dictator. The person to whom he refuses to grant a licence has no right of appeal; he cannot appeal to Parliament, because Parliament has no jurisdiction over the licensing officer. Similarly, Cabinet has no jurisdiction over him  Senator Ogden  said that this provision is included in the bill to give effect to a principle which has been in operation in Great Britain for many years. The committee has affirmed the principle that  workers shall be licensed. Various reasons have been given by honorable senators opposite for licensing workers; some wish the waterside workers to be punished; others think that the time is ripe for unionists to be licensed; others desire to crush trade unionism. 
SenatorFoll. - No honorable senator on this side gave that as a reason. 
Of course not, because honorable senators opposite look to unionists for votes. If honorable senators opposite would examine their own consciences they would know that they support this measure because it offers an opportunity to crush the trade union movement. "We listened to-day to a lecture on behalf of the shareholders of a certain company. We heard how the actions of the men in insisting upon a decent wage had led to the cessation of certain mining operations. Some honorable senators opposite see in this measure an opportunity to crush the unions and get back again to the days of individual bargaining. 
I am. Only after many years of agitation was the system of arbitration affirmed inthis country, and placed on the statute-book. If honorable senators opposite were honest they would admit that in assisting to place this measure on the statute-book they are obeying the dictates of the Employers Federation. They are not prepared to say publicly that they are opposed to arbitration. 
The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the proposed new section, which refers to the granting of licences. 
As I understand the clause, the issue of licences by the licensing officer is to be optional, and  Senator Daly  would prefer that all applicants should be supplied with a licence. Is that the position ? 
Does  Senator Daly  argue that every person who applies for a licence should get one? 
Why then does the honorable senator object to the clause? 
Is it not conceivable that a person making application for a licence may be totally unworthy of having one issued to him? Is it not conceivable also that an applicant may have broken a Commonwealth law; that he may have been guilty of intimidation, or have engaged, in company, in a brutal assault on his fellow-men during an industrial dispute? 
As all honorable senators know,  Senator Daly  is a member of the legal profession. We may rightly presume that before the authorities issued to him a certificate entitling him to practise his profession, they satisfied themselves that he was a fit and proper person to practise the profession of law. We are all aware that, in certain circumstances, licences or certificates are refused to aspiring members of the honorable senator's profession. 
At all events, certificates are sometimes withheld, and at other times they are cancelled. It would appear, therefore, that  Senator Daly  would have one law for himself and a totally different law for wharf labourers. And yet he poses as a democrat! The Government has decided that the licensing system shall be adopted to meet an abnormal situation. No one dreamed, prior to the creation of the Arbitration Court, that its awards would be disobeyed and its authority flouted as has been the case lately. Exceptional circumstances require special remedies. The people demand that the industries of the country shall be carried on, and its laws obeyed. Unless we can devise the means to maintain the authority of the Arbitration Court, the future progress and well-being of the workers of this country will be imperilled. As one who has been through a number of strikes, I know that the worst award of the worst court in Australia is better than the best settlement that can be obtained as the result of a strike.  Senator Barnes,  who has grown grey in the service of trade unionism, can bear witness to the truth of this statement. It is extraordinary that after a long struggle for arbitration, the very men in whose interests the law is invoked from time to time deliberately disobey it. 
It is, I suggest, a speech worth listening to.  Senator Daly  appears to take exception, to the discretionary power to be vested in the licensing officer to issue licences. All I can say on that point is that the same system is adopted in connexion with Labour organizations. If the executive of an industrial union believes that a membership card should not be issued to an applicant, it is withheld. This licence enables a man to work, and that is where it differs from the form of licence which is issued by present day unions. 
 Senator Barnes  knows, and  Senator Daly  may know, that for many years seamen, who work alongside the waterside workers, had to possess certificates or licences before they were permitted to work. It was a condition of their employment. And what was wrong with such a provision? This is merely a device to ensure harmonious working, in keeping with the principle of humanitarianism. The proposed new section will not prejudice the rights of any man. I quite appreciate the spirit of  Senator Barnes,  who believes that trade unionists are the salt of the earth. 
The honorable senator believes that the tradition about the Jews being the chosen people is all humbug, and that the chosen people are really present day trade unionists.  Senator Daly  wishes to narrow the choice of the licensing officer, and to make his position ridiculous. He would have him issue a certificate to all and sundry, irrespective of character or ability to work, or previous bad behaviour. The provision is on all fours with other systems of licensing which obtain throughout the Commonwealth. 
These licences give a man the right to work, which is the inalienable right of every man in the community. They also bear testimony to his character and ability. I see no objection to them, except that which exists in the imagination of  Senator Daly. 
Provision is made that if a man is granted a licence and it is cancelled, he may appeal. But no appeal is provided for the man who is refused a licence. That is an anomalous position which needs attention. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [8.53]. - The position that the honorable senator visualizes has not yet occurred, and is not likely to occur. Many thousands of licences have been issued and not one protest has been received to the effect that a reputable person has been refused a licence. The instructions to the officers who issue licences is that they are not to exercise any discretion, and certainly not as .between unionists and non-unionists. 
.- What is the objection to the Government granting the right of appeal as suggested by  Senator E.  H. S. Abbott? I can conceive that a licensing officer, actuated by wrong motives, might exercise a biased discretion. 
Proposed new section agreed to. 
Proposed new section 8 agreed to. 
[9.1]  -  No charge is made by the Commonwealth Bank for the depositor's original pass; book. In connexion with licences for the transport workers, it must be remembered that some holders of licences are anything but friendly to the act. The provision requiring payment of a second fee when a licence is replaced, will be a deterrent against the wilful destruction of licences and will prevent men from hindering the licensing officers in the administration of the act. 
 It is vindictive to expect a second fee to be paid because some workers are opposed to the Transport Workers Act. I cannot understand the Government being desirous of imposing a penalty upon its pets - the army of volunteers which this legislation protects. It may be true that no charge is made for the issue of a pass-book by the Commonwealth Bank, but do  Senator Pearce  and his lieutenant,  Senator Lynch,  forget their own statements in this chamber, when the Commonwealth Bank Bill was first introduced? Do they forget that they then said that there were people in Australia who were opposed to such a fee. Yet to-day those two honorable senators demand that a man who has lost his licence must pay a second fee for another. This legislation is not only hasty and provocative, it is also vindictive. 
Proposed new section agreed to. 
Proposed new section 11 (Licence for another port) - 
 If a man takes out a licence for one port and pays the prescribed fee and perhaps  a  second fee for the renewal of  a  licence which has been lost or become illegible, he has still to take out another  licence when he transfers to another port. "Where will the Government stop in its pursuit of these men who have allegedly broken the law of the land? Surely one penalty should be sufficient. Why should a man be chased from one port to another and charged a second or, as it might perchance be, a third fee? 
When the honorable senator was secretary of the Amalgamated Miners Association, he knew that he could transfer from Bendigo to Kalgoorlie without paying a second entrance fee or taking out another ticket. When  Senator Pearce,  as a member of the Amalgamated Carpenters Union  was  working at his trade at Subiaco, Western Australia, he knew that he could transfer to Melbourne and work at his trade there without having to pay another entrance fee. I am a member of the Australian Workers Union and I can work in any part of Australia on the ticket I take out in Western Australia for a fee of 25s. a year. It is vindictive to charge the waterside worker a second feeon a transfer to another port. 
This is the most important provision in the bill. It provides - 
A licensing officer may cancel a licence issued under this Part to a waterside worker in any case as to which he is satisfied that the worker after a licence has been issued to him - 
has refused or failed to comply with any lawful order or direction given in relation to his employment. 
I ask the Minister in charge of the bill to tell the committee who will be responsible for determining what is a lawful order; whether the matter will rest with a licensing officer. It is also provided in paragraph  e  of subsection 1 of the proposed section that the licence of any man who has been convicted of an offence against any other Commonwealth law, or against any State law, committed upon a wharf, pier, jetty, hulk, barge or ship, may be cancelled. Here, again, the licensing officer is to be the judge of the nature of the offence. 
In sub-section 3 it is provided that; - 
Where a licence issued to any person is cancelled under this section, the licensing officer by whom the licence is cancelled shall, by writing under his hand, fix a period, not being less than six months nor more than twelve months from the date of cancellation, during which the person shall be ineligible to receive a licence under this part, and the person shall, subject to this part, thereupon be ineligible accordingly. 
In this sub-section the word " shall " is used for the first time. We have heard of  the tyranny of unionism; but is this not tyranny of the worst kind? A man who leaves the path of rectitude shall be ineligible for employment for a period of six months! It is true that a worker whose licence is cancelled may appeal to a court of summary jurisdiction against the cancellation of his licence ; but it may be that here again the functions of the court are vested in the licensing officer. Sub-section 6 of proposed new section 12 provides that the court, on hearing the appeal, may restore the licence or confirm the cancellation. In the latter case it may vary the period during which the appellant is ineligible to receive a fresh licence; but that period shall not be less than six months. In this proposed new section Parliament is taking to itself powers which the people refused to give it in 1926, when the Government appealed to the electors to give this Parliament power to control essential services. Moreover, this legislation makes a distinction between States. 
Why should this law apply to Melbourne, and not to Sydney? 
Different penalties are provided for the same offence. The sub-section is . not only tyrannous, but it also violates the sovereign rights of the States. If a man breaks a State law, he can be dealt with in the courts of that State. This bill interferes with that right, for it makes a licensing officer the judge. I ask the committee to reject this proposed new subsection. 
 I hope that the Minister will agree to an amendment to sub-section 3 of this proposed new section. The minimum period of six months for which a licence may be cancelled is altogether too long. Some of the offences enumerated are, indeed, serious, and six months is not too long a period for a person found guilty of such offences to be delicensed; but in other cases six months' cancellation of a licence is an almost inhuman punishment. In a fit of passion a man may do something which, at other times, he would not do ; yet, if found guilty, he will, for a period of at least six months, be deprived of the opportunity to work on the wharf. I favour the retention of the maximum period of twelve months in order to deal with offences of a serious nature; but the minimum period should be less. It is not right that a man who has been goaded into committing a minor offence should be forced to seek employment elsewhere, and bring hardship and suffering to his family. The minimum punishment provided in this sub-section is too severe. 
Believing that the minimum period of six months is too long, I move that - 
The word " six sub-section 3, proposed new section 12, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " three ". 
Probably one month would be a sufficiently long minimum period ; but I have suggested a period of three months as a reasonable compromise. 

 Senator Sir GEORGEPEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.30].  -  It is all very well to suggest, as some honorable senators have, that the clause is aimed at trivial offences only. 
 Trivial and serious. 
Evidence has been given in every port, except Launceston, where no such persons are employed at the present time, that such persons are employed on the wharfs under the authority of the persons who require their services, and the unions to which they belong, The latter take no action against their being so employed. The employers are not bound to employ men whom they know to have been convicted, provided there are a' sufficient number of men to choose from. If there are not more than the required number of members of a union present the  men  known to have been convicted must be employed. This is unfortunate, considering the fact that the unions at the ports where preference to unionists obtains can prevent honest men who are not members of the unions from securing employment on the wharfs. As to what extent they are employed, there is no bar to their employment. 
It was also asked - 
What special measures, if any, are necessary to prevent pillaging in the future? 
It reported - 
Without the full and whole-hearted cooperation of the unions concerned in dealing with cargoes on the ships and wharfs, thieving of cargo in Australia will remain forever as a standing disgrace to the good name of the nation. Even the children of the waterside workers must know that it is carried on; and what kind of an education is it for them? 
Maybe, in course of time, it may become an honour instead of a disgrace to be a thief; fortunately it is not so at present. 
Many of the secretaries of the unions  who  have appeared before the commission say they have no knowledge of thieving of cargo taking place here. Now they can learn in the plainest possible terms that it takes place to a great extent in Australia. 
There are as honorable men who are members of the unions as in any other profession in life, and it is to be regretted that they seem to be unable to make a stand against the thieving of cargo. 
Many of the union officers who appeared before the commission are men of high integrity, who could be placed in any position of trust, and would faithfully carry out their duties; but most of them, unfortunately, take the view that a member of a union who has been convicted of stealing, and one of them said even up to half a dozen times, should have another chance, although some of them admitted that if a servant employed by them was convicted of stealing their goods they would not employ her again. 
So long as the unions concerned countenance, or even approve of, the thieving of cargo in Australian ports, by taking no action to prevent it, so long will cargo thieving continue, despite every other precautionary measure to prevent it. 
It is not suggested that they should necessarily expel the dishonest members from the unions if the unions desire them to retain their membership, as it is a matter purely in their discretion; but they should allot them other work such as coal lumping, timber handling, wheat-stacking or loading, &amp;c, where they would not he open to the same temptation as they would be in handling cargo liable to pillage. 
Surely for the honour and good name of the unions the members will recognize the extent of the evil, and do all in their power to suppress it. 
That -was the position in 1921. So far from improving it became worse. We are now told that these are trivial offences and that we should not be too harsh in framing legislation to deal with the offenders. Let me remind honorable senators that this law need have no terrors for the honest law-abiding citizen. No man who obeys the law need fear that his licence will be cancelled. I submit, therefore, that the committee should stand by the clause. Let us make it plain to these law-breakers who have involved this country in such heavy losses that we are tired of this rebellion, these offences against the law, and these frequent dislocations of industry. Let us inform them that the price of their employment in this key industry in future will be good behaviour and obedience to the law, and that the penalty for disobedience will be such as to make them think twice before they break the law. 
I regret that the Minister appears to have misunderstood the reasons underlying my amendment. Apparently he makes no distinction whatever between the minor offences that may be committed, and the offence to which he has directed attention. He has told us that certain criminals have broken Ihe law repeatedly; that one man was convicted twelve times and in respect of many offences was sentenced to terms of imprisonment. I make no appeal on behalf of such persons, and I do not suggest that their period of punishment should be interfered with in any way. I suggest, however, that minor offences such as the use of abusive language should not be treated as a criminal offence. Abusive language is sometimes indulged in in this chamber and no one suggests that the offender should be punished with exceptional severity. To me it seems anomalous that for what I regard as minor offences, the punishment should be cancellation of licences for six months, whereas according to the Minister, a person who has been convicted of a serious offence no fewer than twelve times will have his licence cancelled for only twelve months. I protest, therefore, against the implication in the Minister's remarks that those honorable senators who may support my amendment desire to put. up a fight for convicted criminals. I make no such proposal. On the contrary I am prepared to extend the maximum punishment in the case of convicted criminals. In my judgment, cancellation of a licence for three months is sufficient punishment for minor offences. I should have no objection to extending the term even to twelve months for a second offence. We should, I think, observe the common law in regard to such cases and allow for the exercise of a little mercy. Punishment should depend upon circumstances. In some cases a fine of 5s. and in others a fine of 10s. might be sufficient. If, as the Minister attempted to show, the clause is aimed at criminals, then all I can say is that the punishment contemplated is not sufficient, and it is idle to suggest that the amendment is put forward in their interests. 
I hope that this proposed new section will not be carried. There is a good deal of truth in what  Senator Duncan  has said. I invite the right honorable the Leader of the Senate to consider what would happen if a man charged with pillaging was brought before the Criminal Court, and the circumstances were such that the judge decided that it was a proper case in which to extend the provisions of the Offenders Probation Act. According to the right honorable the Leader of the Senate that man's licence would be cancelled. ' 
That is but another example of what has been claimed earlier in the debate, that there is a certain section of honorable senators opposite who see in this measure a tyrannical means to get rid of trade unions. 
Legislatures throughout the British Empire have decided that there are cases in which the provisions of the Offenders Probation Act should be applied, and clemency shown to the erring individual. But this measure provides that such action by a Supreme Court judge is to be disregarded, and that any man who receives the advantages of  the Offenders Probation Act shall have his licence cancelled for at least six months. 
That is a most illogical argument. Such a man will be thrown into another industry, and, if he decides to be a confirmed thief, he can continue to move from industry to industry. 
That appears to be the only object of the Government. 
I think we might with advantage begin by cleaning up our parliamentary institutions. I do not consider that any cleaning up is needed on our wharfs. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate intimated that SO per cent, of the waterside workers are decent men. I venture the suggestion that quite a fair percentage of decent men have been released at various times under the provisions of the Offenders Probation Act. During a previous debate on this bill the right honorable gentleman challenged my statement in regard to the appellate tribunal. He stated that an appeal may be made to a court of summary jurisdiction, and that the licensing officer has to justify the cancellation of a licence. At that time  Senator McLachlan  was not in the chamber. He is here now, and I challenge the right honorable the Leader of the Senate to repeat his statement that the onus is upon the licensing officer to prove that he was right in cancelling the licence. The onus is on the waterside worker. The right honorable gentleman, who desires to clean up the wharfs, has provided for a tribunal, which may consist of justices of the peace, to deal with what he admits to be an important matter. Is the right honorable gentleman aware that the High .Court of Australia has decided that the meaning of the words in the section is that if an appeal is lodged we must take the court as we find it? For instance, in Adelaide, owing to pressure of business, it has been necessary to constitute additional courts. Two are presided over by stipendiary magistrates, and the other by justices of the peace. Appeals under this measure may be dealt with by those justices of the peace, by men who, although perhaps actuated by principles of equity and good conscience, would not be guided by legal precedent, and are not learned in the law. If I wanted to prosecute a unionist to-morrow for arrears of contributions the case would be heard by a stipendiary magistrate, yet this proposed new section provides that an ordinary justice of the peace, untutored in the law. shall decide the important matter concerned. That tribunal will first of all decide whether the man is guilty of the offences alleged, and will then award the punishment. It will be the final court of appeal. What a remarkable position ! I recall my experience with justices of the peace, in the celebrated Peace Day troubles in Adelaide, in which the Municipal Tramways Trust and its employees were concerned. The returned soldiers demanded that they should be given time off on Peace Day. Certain prosecutions were launched, and the court was presided over by a stipendiary magistrate and justices of the peace. Two of the justices met in the justices' room and stated "We will have to deal with one of these men, and that will stop the trouble!" Some honorable senators opposite may some day lose their seats in the Senate, and perhaps sit in judgment on an industrial matter. I shudder to think what would happen, particularly if industrial trouble were occurring at the time, if a waterside worker appeared before them. He would not have much chance of obtaining a licence. A stipendiary magistrate trained in the law and removed from all political influence would constitute the best tribunal and, if the Government intends to proceed with the measure, I urge that the proposed new section be amended to provide for an appellate tribunal presided over by a stipendiary magistrate. There may be doubts as to how that could be effected in remote parts. The Commonwealth Government has power to appoint honorary magistrates. That has already, been done in South Australia, and could be done in remote places, such as 
Broome. The Leader of the Senate says that we are dealing with important matters, and that the wharfs have to be cleaned up. Let us clean matters up in an Australian way, and introduce into this statute legislation consistent with that which has previously been passed by other Governments. 
.- I regard this as one of the most important provisions in the bill, as it gives protection to those who desire to carry on their work as waterside workers. When trouble occurred on the Brisbane wharfs last October, the majority of the Brisbane branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation were opposed to a strike. A ballot was ordered and taken, but before it was possible for a count to be made, some of the hot-heads in the Brisbane branch kicked the ballot-box to pieces and spread the ballot-papers to the four winds of heaven. There then existed no restraining influence such as is contained in this bill, the cancellation provision of which will make an extremist think hard before he indulges in intimidation; I believe that it will do much to check trouble on the waterfront. 
That discounts the argument of honorable senators opposite that unionists will be shut out by the operation of the bill.  Senator Daly  seems very much concerned about the provisions of proposed new section 12. I understand that the honorable senator is an employer of labour. What would be his attitude if one of his staff committed any of the offences referred to  in  the proposed new section. I can imagine that if such an employee refused to comply with his lawful directions he would be dismissed, but he would not be asked to return in three months to resume his old job. If any person working for  Senator Daly  or any other employer committed an offence of the nature of those set out in. the proposed new section, he would not be suspended for six months or at the most twelve, and told that he could return again and be re-appointed. He would be told to remain away altogether. 
The men who are deprived of their licences for serious offences committed on the wharfs may seek employment in other walks of life. This provision will do more than any other to give adequate protection to the waterside workers, unionists and non-unionists, who are desirous of carrying on their work without the frequent stoppages that have characterized work on the waterfront in recent years. 
I agree with  Senator Foll  that this is one of the most important provisions in the bill and is absolutely necessary, but I do not agree with him in his opposition to the amendment moved by  Senator Duncan.  I can understand extenuating circumstances inducing a licensing officer to impose a small penalty. I am not suggesting that we should seek to relieve from the heaviest of penalties those who are guilty pf heinous offences on the waterfront, or that the maximum penalty of twelve months should be reduced. All I am saying is that it should be left to the discretion of the licensing officer to impose a smaller penalty than six months for the cancellation of a licence. 
I am second to none in my desire to make disturbances on the waterfront and dislocation of trade impossible. 
The right honorable gentleman has on more than one occasion expressed surprise at my attitude, but I follow my own conscience in anything I do. In any case, the Government is not infallible, and I am. confident that there are many members of this Parliament who will agree with  Senator Duncan.  I have no desire to give the criminal section of those engaged on the waterfront any reduction of the penalty, but I can imagine that a happening of a minor character may be surrounded by extenuating circumstances, which the bill will not allow the licensing officer to take into account. 
The majority of people would consider aminimum of three months reasonable. 
Sub-section  4  provides that the worker whose licence is cancelled may appeal to a court of summary jurisdiction against the cancellation of the licence, and sub-section  6  provides that the court may, as it thinks fit, confirm the cancellation or order the restoration of the licence, or where it confirms the cancellation, may vary the period during which the appellant is ineligible to receive a fresh licence, but so that the period of ineligibility is not less than six nor more than twelve months. It may reduce the period from twelve to nine months, but may not make it less than six months. The same condition is imposed on the licensing officer. I suggest that favorable consideration should be given to the amendment. 
This is not ordinary legislation. 
It was passed to deal with exceptional and extraordinary circumstances and I shall not support any proposal to whittle it down. Wherever the awards of the Arbitration Court have been observed, the workers are not required to be licensed, but in ports where the law has been broken, the act has been applied, and men have been required to take out licences. The Senate would do wrong if it did not give its fullest support to a government which is determined that the law must be observed. It would be dangerous to whittle down provisions which enable trade- and commerce to be carried on. Tasmania has suffered more than any other State from interruptions to shipping, and I am determined not to deprive the Government of any authority that will enable it to preserve law and order and see that essential services are maintained. 
.- This is an astounding provision. It appears to abrogate certain State powers. A man may be deprived of a licence if he has been convicted of an offence against any State law committed on a wharf, pier, jetty, hulk, barge or ship. Half a dozen men caught playing " twoup " on a wharf may be punished by a  State court. 
But under this provision it could be done. It is a dangerous provision. Persons caught playing " two-up " on a wharf, and sentenced by a State court to two months' imprisonment could, on their return to the waterfront, be sentenced to another twelve months' absence from work. The licensing officer has the power to do it. I have no time for criminals. In Australia a man ought to be able to get an honest living ; but, unfortunately, we have criminals in our midst and possibly some of them gravitate to the wharfs. What would happen in the case of a man sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment for larceny from a wharf? For the protection of the shippers would he be driven from the waterfront to make a living elsewhere for another twelve months? He might not be able to do any work other than that of a wharf labourer. Are the shippers the only people to be saved from the depredations of those who break the law? When one authority has dealt with people who have committed an offence it should be sufficient. Once the State has punished a man, the Commonwealth licensing officer should not be authorized to double the penalty. It would appear that the Commonwealth, by subterfuge, is trying to abrogate the authority of the States. No officer should have this power. Would honorable senators agree that in the case of a wharf labourer living' at, say, Brunswick or Fitzroy, who is found guilty of robbery or drunkenness, the licensing" officer, knowing his address, should be able to impose a further punishment upon him after he has served the sentence imposed by the court ? No licensing officer should have that power ; but that is what we are doing in this legislation. The whole principle underlying this bill is wrong. A man who serves the sentence imposed  by a court for a breach of the law should not be subjected to further punishment by a licensing officer. 
I am sorry that the Minister is not prepared to accept the amendment of  Senator Duncan.  The speeches of  Senator Herbert  Hays and others might be justified if this were a temporary measure to apply for a period of six months. But it is not a temporary measure. Once it becomeslaw it will remain on the statutebook forall time, unless it is - and that may be a difficult matter repealed. In years to come, men who had nothing to do with the strike will be employed as wharf labourers. Should they disobey a lawful command, however trivial the result of that disobedience may be that they will be subject to the penalties provided in this legislation. No man who has committed a mere minor offence should be prevented from working for a period of six months. It is not sufficient to say that he can obtain work elsewhere, for we all know that it is not always easy for a man to find a new job.  Senator Duncan's  amendment, while not affecting the punishment for serious offences, would make more reasonable the penalty imposed for minor offences. I should like to see a further amendment to sub-section 4 of the proposed new section, which reads - 
Any waterside worker whose licence is cancelled under this section may within fourteen days of the cancellation appeal to a court of summary jurisdiction against the cancellation of the licence. 
I should like the words "or whose application for a licence under section  1  of this act has been refused" inserted after the word "section." If that were done there would be consequential amendments in the following three sub-sections. A man to whom the licensing officer refused a licence would then have the right of . appeal against the officer's decision. There is as much reason for a right of appeal against a refusal to grant a licence as against the cancellation of a licence. 
-No ; but if a licensing officer can make a mistake in cancelling a licence, he may make a mistake in refusing to grant a licence. 
We should endeavour to legislate in such a manner that justice will be tempered with mercy. I agree with  Senator Duncan  that the minimum period for which a licence may be cancelled should be lets than six months. Swearing at the boss would be regarded as a breach of the law, and would render a man guilty of that offence liable to have his licence cancelled for six months. If I were a justice of the peace I should dismiss a case of that nature rather than sentence a man to be altogether too severe minimum penalty provided in this sub-section. 
At Port Adelaide some time ago a man kicked a ballot-box to pieces. He was a " red-ragger " from another State who caused a great deal of trouble. Fearing that the . result of the secret ballot which the waterside workers had decided to hold would mean the end of the strike, this man destroyed the ballot-box. Yet he got off scot-free, whereas, in my opinion, he was guilty of an offence justifying a severe punishment. Who is to determine what constitutes an offence under this act? Will the ship-owner or the licensing officer decide that matter? Again, who is to say what a lawful command is? These things should be made clear. I hope that the amendment will be accepted by the committee. 
It is difficult to anticipate what form the opposition to this measure will take. Sometimes it appears to be heading north by south and at others east by west. This chamber has re-echoed with the condemnation of the bill, because according to honorable senators opposite, the Government proposes to issue licences to transport workers.  Senator Daly  has argued that this is an iniquitous proposal; that the whole purpose of the Government is to smash trade unionism. Then when the Government proposes to withhold licences in certain circumstances he protests and says that the men should not be denied an opportunity to get licences,  Senator Elliott  is also opposed to the cancellation of licences for six months. Surely he and other honorable senators realize it is about time that we told these waterside workers, who represent less than 2 per cent, of trade unionists in Australia, that they owe a duty to society; that they must not, in future, interfere with the every-day occupations of the people and retard the progress and development of Australia. Who gave them a mandate to do this? They have over-long arrogated to themselves this special privilege. It is time that they were taught a sharp lesson, if only in their own interests. If they cannot be brought to reason by moral suasion, then we must apply a certain measure of force. We must penalize them for their callousness and cold-blooded indifference to the interests of their - fellow Australians. Honorable senators opposite always have a good word to say for these waterside workers who have done so much harm to the trade and commerce of Australia. I invite them to place themselves in the position of the man outback, the man who has his head down to his job and who is depending on supplies from the centres of civilization, and whose very life depends on the safe transport of his produce to our ports for shipment overseas. How would they feel if they saw their produce rotting on the wharfs, as was the case in Tasmania and Western Australia, simply because the transport services were dislocated at the whim of this small section of trade unionists? It is because honorable senators opposite have never been in that position that they are now expressing so much concern for the future of these defiant law breakers. But what about the 80 per cent, of trade unionists who loyally abide by arbitration awards and do their duty to Australia? Are they not entitled to consideration? Apparently  Senator Needham  and his friends hold the view that they are not. We know, of course, that they sympathize with this remnant of trade unionists because they typify the red element and are, in fact, their political bosses. Let me tell these wharf labourers and their friends that if they were in Soviet Russia they would find a rusty bayonet behind them for nearly every hour of the day to ensure their obedience to the law. This bill may be regarded as a little-big measure. It is a Tittle bill dealing with a big subject. It is a beginning, a step forward in the direction of protecting the people of Australia from the assaults of law-breakers representing but a negligible fraction of trade unionists.  Senator Needham  and his colleagues really owe their position and strength in this chamber to the fact that they have bowed the knee to this irresponsible remnant of the industrial movement. If they had stood true to their principles they might to-day have been on the treasury bench. They remind me of a certain French political leader who was asked "Why do you not check the excesses of your followers?" "How can I do that?" he answered. " I must follow, because I am their leader. " That is where  Senator Needham  and his friends stand .to-day. The penalties proposed to be inflicted are not by any means harsh or vindictive, as has been suggested; but they should be sufficient to bring the law-breaker to his senses. They will serve as an intimation to him that he cannot continue violating the law with impunity. We must make it absolutely clear to wharf labourers that they cannot expect to usurp the powers of government and rule this country as they have done over-long. 
I wish to clear up one or two points in connexion with this clause. As far as I can see, if a worker commits any of the offences mentioned in paragraphs a,  b, c  and  d,  his licence may be cancelled for a period of not less than six nor more than twelve months. I agree with  Senator Lynch.  We are dealing with a union which for a number of years has caused far more economic loss to this country than even the Seamen's Union, and that is saying a good deal. The waterside workers in recent years have cost Australia millions of pounds. 
Honorable senators opposite are always talking about unemployment. Do not they realize that the wharf labourers have been largely responsible for much of the unemployment in Australia? The constant friction in the transport unions for several years has contributed more to unemployment  than any other single factor. It has reduced the volume of production, the only source from which the community can be employed and wages paid. Therefore, it is high time that the offending unions were brought to book. The punishment proposed for offences mentioned in paragraphs  a, b, c  and  d  is not excessive. It is only in regard to paragraph  e  that any difficulty might arise. 
Paragraph e deals with the case of a transport worker who  lias been convicted of an offence against any other Commonwealth law, or against any State law committed upon a wharf, pier, jetty, hulk, bargo or ship. 
It is conceivable that a man might say something offensive to another man and get" punched on the nose. That would constitute an offence for which he might be proceeded against and convicted under a State law. As I read the bill it would also provide grounds for the cancellation of his licence, and he would have no appeal. 
If his licence wore cancelled for nine months he might appeal, and the magistrate could reduce the period to six months, but if the cancellation were for six months he would have no appeal since six months is the minimum fixed by this proposed new section. I believe that is the difficulty in the minds of some honorable members on this side. The whole thing boils itself down to a matter of administration. Is the law to be administered in r drastic and injudicious fashion? 
And my opinion is that it will not be in the future. No official will be foolish enough to take extreme action because a man may have been convicted of a minor or technical offence. 
I think the honorable senator is right. I believe that the measure will be administered with the utmost care. Honorable senators opposite would be delighted to discover one glorious example of the exercise of what they term " tyranny " in the administration of this law. It would be broadcast from one end of Australia to the other. I feel that the Government will issue such instructions to its officers as to the administration of the law that no offence of the nature which I have attempted to indicate will bring about the cancellation of a man's licence. The endeavour of the Government is to try to  restore peace on the waterfront. It can definitely be claimed that not only have the regulations been successful in preventing dislocation of industry, but that they have caused work on the waterfront to proceed with greater expedition and smoothness than has occurred for many years. I believe that that state of things will continue. 
I believe that it is entirely due to it. Although the regulations have not been made to apply to New South Wales, there has been a most marvellous change in the conduct of affairs on the waterfront in that State since the passing of the principal act which this bill proposes to amend. 
It is because the waterside workers know perfectly well that this weapon is in the hands of the Government, and that a system of licensing will very quickly apply at the port of Sydney if the men do not do their jobs properly. I consider that we will be well advised to accept the bill as it has been drafted, and leave it entirely to its administrators to see that it is administered fairly. I have not the slightest doubt that if at any time any individual has the slightest ground for claiming that he has been unfairly treated by the operation of the measure, it will not be very long before we hear of it in this chamber. 
 I should prefer to see the amendment by  Senator Duncan  incorporated in the proposed new section 12. I am totally against the system of licensing. 
Because I believe that as a free and enlightened people, we do not need to be granted licences to enable us to look for work.  Senator Lynch  delivered a flowery speech in which lie pointed to the alleged beauty spots of the bill, and instanced how the measure will operate. I cannot see eye to eye with the honorable senator in that regard. If a man's licence is cancelled for six months, not only will he be precluded from obtaining waterside work, but the very fact that his licence has been cancelled will prejudice his chances of obtaining work elsewhere, and the probability ia that be and his family will starve. It is well known that all employers seek favorable references before engaging labour, and one cannot regard a cancelled licence as a favorable testimonial. I do not countenance pillaging or thieving of any description on the wharfs or elsewhere. Men guilty of such acts should be dealt with by the law. But we must be careful not to penalize the honest worker. A minor conviction might very easily damage the future of a perfectly honest waterside worker, and I urge the Government to be careful in this regard. I- am not prepared to give power to any official to determine whether a licence shall be cancelled for six or twelve months. I am absolutely opposed to any system of licensing, but J shall support  Senator Duncan's  amendment, believing in the principle that half a loaf is better than no bread. 
 The Opposition seek in the first place to have proposed new section  12  deleted, but they realize that such an. objective is unlikely to be attained, as the numbers are against them. We rejoice to find that at least one honorable senator opposite,  Senator Duncan,  considers that the punishment provided is too harsh and wishes to reduce the minimum period for which a licence may be cancelled to three months. We are prepared to assist the honorable senator in his efforts. The Leader of the Senate again quoted from a report on pilfering and pillaging which he has previously used in this chamber. Proposed new section  12  contains no reference to such offences. 
Paragraph "« deals with the case of a man who -  lias been convicted of an offence against any other Commonwealth law or against any State law committed upon a wharf, pier, jetty, hulk, Barge or ship. . 
The words "pillaging" and "pilfering" do not occur. Will the right honorable gentleman inform me whether any volunteer who applies for a licence is questioned as to his previous career ! 
Although he may be an habitual criminal, a murderer, or guilty of that unforgiveable offence, the violation of a woman, he is granted a licence in order that he may " scab " on his fellow workers. When trouble took place this Government did not  a3k  for the history of a man who applied for a licence. Whether he had been a murderer or a burglar he was welcomed. But if he commits a further breach of the- law, Commonwealth or State, his criminal record is quoted against him. I direct attention to subsection  1,  which reads - 
If, where a licence has been cancelled under paragraph (c) of sub-section (1.) of this section, the court, on the hearing of an appeal against the cancellation of the licence, is satisfied that the intimidation or violence, or the threatening or abusive language, had no relation to the employment of the waterside worker, or to the fact that the waterside worker had. offered for, accepted, or continued in employment in the work in respect of which he was licensed, the court shall order the restoration of the licence. 
I should like to know if compensation will be paid to the man who can thus prove his innocence. Quite recently a high officer in the Commonwealth Public Service was suspended, but when upon inquiry it was found he was not guilty of the charges made against him, I presume his pay continued from the date of his suspension. 
It is quite the right thing to do; but the unfortunate man who is deprived of his licence on the charge that he has committed a breach of the law, and on appeal proves his innocence, gets no compensation for his lost time. The most rabid antiLabour man in this chamber cannot see any justice in this sub-section. 
When speaking on this measure last Friday I was directing attention to the menace of the influx of foreigners who are displacing our own people. In conversing with some gardeners in South Australia recently I was informed that they usually receive 6s. n case for lemons and 2s. a dozen bunches for turnips, but" the Italian gardeners with whom they have to compete are selling lemons at1s. 6d. a case and turnips at1s. a dozen, bunches. It is difficult to understand how Australian gardeners can successfully carry on against such competition. 
The consumers may derive some temporary benefit, but if the Australian growers cannot obtain a fair price for their products it will not be long before they will be forced off their holdings and be compelled to join the ranks of the unemployed. When the fruitgrowing and fruit-drying industry was first undertaken in California, only white men were engaged in the industry; but later the Japanese crept in as employees, and it was not long before they began to force the white man out of the business. That is what is likely to happen in Australia. 
SenatorHOARE. - There are always some people who will buy anything that is cheap. 
I can scarcely imagine that that was the case; but I do not dispute the honorable senator's statement. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I remind the honorable senator that the  matter  he is discussing is not in any way associated with the Transport Workers Bill. 
I was merely replying to an interjection by  Senator Duncan. Senator Payne  contended that since the introduction of arbitration, wages had increased. The honorable senator omitted to state, however, that prices of commodities also  had  increased, and that for many years wages had been chasing high prices but were always a long way behind. If it is wise to allow the Arbitration Court to determine the wages to be paid in industry it is equally reasonable to urge that the court should also fix the selling price of commodities. If this were done we should not have these repeated appeals by trade union organizations to the Arbitration Court for increased wages to meet the higher cost of living. Surely  Senator Payne  realizes that the value of wages is determined, not so much by the total received, as by their purchasing power. 
The purchasing power of the sovereign has fallen appreciably in recent years. To-day the purchasing power of the sovereign is not more than about 12s. 6d. compared with what it was in 1914. There is sound reason, therefore, for the contention that the Arbitration Court should fix the prices of commodities. 
I object to such stupid interjections. 
Order ! I ask honorable senators not to interrupt  Senator Hoare,  and I suggest that the honorable senator take no notice of interjections. 
On the plea that a better distribution of work amongst members of the federation is necessary, the accepted policy of the federation is to "spin out the job" and so to destroy the mobility of labour engaged that many more men will be employed than are necessary..... Definite allegations were made during the proceedings that notwithstanding provisions for extra labour and other advantages conferred by past awards, members of the federation in some ports have systematically reduced output, and that gangs of men, although numerically increased, load and discharge less tonnage per hour than in pre-arbitration days. 
That is not the experience in South Australia. I have here some figures compiled by  Mr. Condon,  M.L.C., showing the relative output of volunteer labour and waterside workers. 
It took volunteer labourers two days longer than waterside -workers to discharge No. 1 hatch of s.s.  Tarcoola. 
The following figures show the relative rate of loading by volunteer workers and the waterside workers on s.s.  Nolisment - 

<graphic href="120332192903134_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

It should be noted also that the volunteer workers worked four hours longer than the waterside workers. 
I emphasize the point that there will always exist a small percentage of men who will dodge the boss, but it has been my experience that in workshop, field and factory, at least 97 per cent, of the workers of Australia are prepared at all times to do a fair day's work. The bill contains a provision which reads - 
Any waterside worker whose licence is cancelled under this section may within fourteen days of the cancellation appeal to a court of summary jurisdiction against the cancellation of the licence. 
That means a court presided over by justices of the peace. If a motorist runs over an individual or is caught for exceeding the speed limit his case is heard by a stipendiary magistrate. Why, then, is the same privilege not extended to a waterside worker when his licence is cancelled? There is every chance that the justice of the peace before whom the case will be heard will be biased by reason of a fancied injury that he has sustained' at the hands of a waterside worker. 
SenatorCrawford. - A stipendiary magistrate would not be available at some of the remote ports. 
Much has been said about jurisprudence. No doubt it is generally conceded that we owe our system of jurisprudence to Some, our art and culture to the ancient Greeks, and our religion and morals to the Jews. But this antediluvian legislation suggests that the Government has not profited much from the lessons of the past. Only a despotic power would endeavour to make a moral wrong into a legal right, and I am of the opinion that the Government should accept the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition and cast this proposed legislation aside temporarily, if not for all time. There would then be no trouble on the waterfront. As it is, the men at Port Adelaide are not receiving proper treatment, and it will be found that, when the volunteers have served the purpose of the boss, they will be discarded and treated just as drastically as he is now treating the waterside worker. 
The Government has been returned with a majority, but it is not nearly so strong as it was before the elections. If it has one or two more victories of the same sort, it will not be long before there is another party in control of another place, and when that time comes the Transport Workers Act and similar legislation introduced by the present Government will be repealed. On Friday I spoke of the extremists of Australia. If those men had not been antagonistic to the Labour movement, and if they had not brought about the British seamen's strike, which organized Labour in. Australia could not prevent, we should not now be sitting in opposition, fighting thisbill; we should not have had to fight against the recent amendments to the Arbitration Act or the Crimes Act. A Labour government would have been in power. 
SenatorKINGSMILL (Western Australia) [3.50].- The debate on this bill has been characterized by an interchange of amenities from either side, which, I think, creates a record for the Senate for the time I have been in it. It has been characterized also by a number of definite statements on both sides, some right and some quite wrong. We are on common ground in regard to one statement that has been, made - that this bill is unnecessary. I am inclined to agree that it is, because there is already on the statute-book a Transport Workers Act which this bill amends. The introduction of this measure is simply the fulfilment of the Government's promise that such a bill would be brought before the new Parliament for consideration, and that certain provisions which hitherto had appeared only in regulations should be embodied in it. If the Government had chosen to retain its power to issue regulations under the existing act, it could have gone far beyond the limits it has imposed on itself in the bill now under consideration. In the circumstances, therefore, although the measure we are debating may not be altogether unnecessary, it is perhaps superfluous. It is, however, here for consideration, the promise of the Government has been redeemed, and this new Parliament, as well as the old, has full opportunity to consider its provisions. One very important factor that should be borne in mind, is that the electors of Australia have had an opportunity to pass an opinion on the necessity or otherwise for a Transport Workers Act. I can assure honorable senators that in Western Australia the measure formed a prominent feature during the elections. Its pros and cons were discussed, and candidates on every platform on both sides were asked questions relating to it. No other subject received greater prominence. Honorable senators who support the Government have every reason to be satisfied with the. verdict the people have given on this and other matters brought forward by the Government. 
Those who are opposing the bill are doing so, I think, from lack of sense of proportion. When any subject is set down for argument it is easy for those who choose to set aside for the time being, and for the sake of argument, some of the main facts of the case, to take up an attitude which is very attractive to those who are not acquainted with the circumstances, or who have given no consideration to them. Honorable senator after honorable senator opposite has said that Labour in this Parliament represents the bulk of the electors of Australia. One honorable senator went so far as to say that it represents 95 per cent, of the electors. ' Then why is Labour in opposition? Is it generosity, diffidence, or lack of desire to occupy the treasury bench that keeps honorable senators where they are? So far as I can gather from history that altruistic attitude has not been characteristic of them. If they represent 95 per cent, of the electors, why do they not rise in their might and cast forth the Government from the position it occupies and has occupied for six  years? They show too much tolerance, too much modesty. Their diffidence is so overcoming, that I cannot believe it. My opinion, which I have been many years in forming and which I claim is justified by facts, is that this lack of a sense of proportion, and this overestimation of their numbers and importance have been characteristic of the Labour party ever since it has been in existence. According to the latest figures given in the  Year-Book,  in 1927 the membership of Labour organizations was 911,000 and the number of electors in Australia was about three and a third millions. Those figures do not bear out the claim of honorable senators that they represent 95 per cent. of the electors. Furthermore, I object to their division of the electors into two classes - . employers and employees. Between those two classes there lies the most important section of people this or any other country could have - those individuals who are actuated by a desire to work for themselves and not for wages. Let me ask if honorable senators opposite can cite any country that has ever been made by wages men, or any country that has ever reached prominence in which individual effort and the desire to work for themselves as well as for the good of the country has not played a leading part. Therefore I say that in regard to both numbers and importance to the community - and the good of the community should be our guide in these matters - the contentions put forward by honorable senators opposite are trifling and valueless. I should hate to accuse  Senator Hoare  of exaggeration, but I cannot visualize the aweinspiring picture he has drawn of those loyalist workers of Port Adelaide walking about rather like perambulating ironmongery stores festooned and rattling with razors, revolvers and huge knives. The only thing that would save the inoffensive, unfortunate, unprotected worker would be the noise that would be made by one of these armed men approaching him. It would enable him to flee from danger. Let us contrast the happy hunting ground of the loyalist in South Australia with what has happened in Victoria where I understand 1,000 or 2,000 workers bravely and boldly attacked23 policemen - not, it is true, with huge knives or razors, which I suppose are for the  coup de grace  when you get a man down- 
I understand that when the leather is cut away from the metal in toe-capped boots the effect of a kick is like that of a blow from a cold chisel. 
I have seen many inoffensive persons injured in that way. 
There again we have unsolicited testimonials given, so freely that I pause while they are given, because they are all in favour of my case. But I was about to say that the position that existed before the Transport Workers Act came into force was intolerable. The waterside workers were principally to blame for it. They had come to look upon the wharfs on which they work as their own property. Their  unions  were guilds, entrance to which could not be obtained for a shilling. They demanded £10 in some cases and their membership was limited. They have attempted to hold up the commerce of Australia and to wreck the prosperity of their fellow citizens who are endeavouring to make a living for themselves and to develop the country. It is time that they were stopped. Honorable senators opposite say that the institution  of the licensing system will not bring peace in industry. I remind them that since the regulations under the Transport Workers Act were put into operation there has been greater peace in industry than existed previously. That act has already accomplished a great deal, and I believe it will do a great deal more in the future to ensure industrial peace. I, therefore, intend to vote for the bill. 
I am glad that the honorable senator expected me to support this measure, the object of which is to establish better conditions in industry. Occasionally my views and those of the honorable senator coincide; but there are limits beyond which I cannot go. I am glad that he did not expect me to support him in the attitude he has adopted towards this measure. The Transport Workers Act of last session played an important part in the recent election campaign, for it showed the electors the difference between the two main parties seeking their suffrages. It separated the party which aims at legislating in the interests of the whole of the people of Australia from the party opposite which, confessedly, stands only for protecting the alleged rights, and for adding to the imaginary rights of only one class in the community. For the reasons I have given I shall vote for the second reading of the bill. 
The licensing system which has been forced on the workers of this country is not in their best interests. Honorable senators opposite have contended that because cabmen, motor drivers and others in the community are licensed, there is nothing wrong with the licensing system instituted under the Transport Workers Act. It is true that cabmen and drivers of other vehicles have to be licensed; but such licences are precautionary measures taken in the interests of the safety of the travelling public. Moreover, were it not for the licence-fees paid in connexion with motor-driven vehicles, there would be insufficient revenue to maintain our roads in a proper state of repair. There is this further difference between the two classes of licence ; whereas in the case of licences of motor vehicles the employer is the person licensed, under the Transport Workers Act the employee has to take out a licence. Honorable senators who support legislation of this nature show their desire to get back to the time when men had, as it were, to crawl on their stomachs like snakes, and approach their masters with a request that they be allowed to work. In these days we should be past such things; such methods will not inaugurate an era of peace. 
It has not. I remind honorable senators who support this coercive legislation that it will have a boomerang effect. Among them are some who in times past did yeoman service as members of trade unions. There was a time when  Senator Lynch,  who has so stoutly championed this legislation, would have resisted the pernicious system of licensing which it has instituted. 
That is not so, for a man may work for a fortnight without applying for a union ticket. A man who is not prepared to stand by his mates who have battled to improve the conditions of the workers should not be allowed to work. This legislation takes us back 50 years. I ask those honorable senators who support it what they would do if tomorrow they were forced to seek employment on the waterfront. Would they join the volunteer workers? They know that they would not do so. When  Senator Ogden,  who was associated with the labour movement for many years, supports a measure of this kind and condemns the methods of the workers, he speaks with his tongue in his cheek. During the last five years the Government has brought to Australia large numbers of migrants, not with a view to settling this country, but in order to increase unemployment. They have come here in thousands, with the result that large numbers of Australians have been thrown out of employment. Foreign migrants, through force of circumstances, are prepared to accept conditions lower than the standards we have set up for ourselves. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was at one time a stalwart unionist, who did a great deal to improve the conditions of the workers, butnowhe, like  Senator .  Kingsmill, would force them back to the days before trade unionism and revive the system of individual bargaining. A good deal has been said about volunteer labour. I remind honorable senators who decry  labour organizations and favour volunteer labour, that in our banking institutions there is no volunteer labour. Every man employed in them is a member of an organization. There are no " scabs " among them. The workers who have only their labour to sell should be protected by the Government instead of being penalized as they are at present by the iniquitous laws which this Government has foisted upon thom. The unemployment problem with which we are confronted to-day is due to the migration policy of this Government, which is resulting in stagnation of trade, unemployment and starvation. The unfortunate bombing outrages which occurred in Melbourne during a recent industrial upheaval were condemned at the outset by Labour leaders, who knew that unionists were innocent and that those outrages were the work of some irresponsible persons. Honorable senators may be surprised to hear that the Prime Minister, when speaking on the industrial situation at a meeting in one of the suburbs of Adelaide, said that if he were one of those who had been thrown out of employment he would deal with those who had led them into trouble with a bottle. A statement, to that effect appeared in the South Australian  Register,  which as honorable senators know is an anti-Labour paper. 7' am one of those referred to by  Senator Kingsmill  as having met with defeat at the last general election, and in going out to earn my living in another sphere, perhaps on the waterfront, I shall be compelled to approach a licensing officer and say, "Please, sir, here is a shilling ; I want a licence." Th; licensing system is objectionable to every unionist, but it would be interesting to know why those who desire a licence have to pay for it. Why should men have to pay for the right to work? In what way is the Government using the money it derives from this source? Is it to be used to reduce the deficit? I do not know what  Senator R.  H. S. Abbott thinks of the licensing system. 
Then the honorable senator falls 100 per cent, in my estimation. He is apparently the only sup porter of the Government who does not believe in unionism. They all profess to believe in the principle and some are still members of trade unions. By introducing legislation of this character the Government is only widening the breach which exists between the employer and the employee.  Mr. Holloway,  one of the most modest and reasonable men associated with the trade union movement in Victoria, was recently fined for doing something in the nature of inciting a strike and the union has also been penalized. I believe that the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  is largely responsible for the drastic provisions which have been embodied in certain legislation recently passed by Parliament, and I suppose before very long that gentleman will appoint himself to a position on the High Court bench. 
I do not think that that gentleman is sufficiently philanthropic to sacrifice even " two bob " in the interests of his country. A farmer in Western Australia told me quite recently that he offered employment to three Italians, who were without food and who were wanting work, in clearing five and a half acres of land under contract. During the time they were engaged on the work he fed them and the remuneration they received at the termination of their contract was about 4s. lOd. each. If Australian workmen have to contend with competition of that kind it will not be long before they will all be faced with starvation. It is impossible for Australians to live under conditions which are acceptable to some foreigners. The men who should be encouraged to migrate to Australia should be virile, self-sacrificing, and hard working, who will make good citizens, help to improve the standard of living, and, should the occasion arise, be prepared to defend this country against invasion. The Government is solely responsible for the chaotic industrial conditions which prevail in every State, and peace in industry will never be brought about while legislation of th:: character is on the statute-book. 
I should like to remind honorable senators opposite that I supported the act which this bill is to amend before I had the honour of occupyi rig a seat on the Treasury bench. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  has moved an amendment to provide that the consideration of the bill be postponed until such time as a committee of the Peace in Industry Conference has made representations to the Government with respect to the penal provisions of certain Commonwealth legislation. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition is thoroughly acquainted with the details of the resolution carried at the Peace in Industry Conference. The resolution submitted by the committee is not of great importance. It reads: - 
The committee is in agreement regarding the principle that the penal provisions of the industrial legislation of the Commonwealth are not generally conducive to industrial peace. 
That was the main resolution submitted to the conference by the sub-committee. The committee further reported that - 
The time at the disposal of the committee did not permit of a detailed analysis of the Commonwealth Arbitration Act, the Crimes Act, and the Transport Workers Act; but the committee should be authorized to continue its labours and submit its recommendations as to the nature of desirable legislation, for immediate approval, with the object of making joint representation to the Federal Government. 
It is extremely interesting to study the Opinion of the leader of the industrial section of the Labour party at that conference. He is not strongly in favour of the abolition of the penal clause of the Transport Workers Act and the Crimes Act, and we can also presume that he would include the Commonwealth Arbitration Act.  Mr. Crofts,  the Secretary of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, stated at the conference that those whom he represented were not in favour of the complete elimination of the sections under which penalties are provided. Honorable senators opposite realize that if there were no penalty provisions, the acts in which they are embodied would be valueless. 
 Mr. Crofts  does not want the penal clauses eliminated. He went on to point out that the unions contemplated the prosecution of certain employers. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition reveals that he places the industrial movement before the welfare of the State, and that, in his opinion, unionists are the only members of the community worthy of consideration. During a dispute on the waterfront, a senator representing Tasmania, submitted a motion asking the Senate to affirm the desirability of continuous communications between Tasmania and the mainland, but the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues opposed the motion, thereby indicating that the rights of unionists were of greater importance than the welfare of the State. That ia on record in  Hansard'.  Senator Findley  made a sentimental appeal to the Senate and said that although a unionist might hold very strong views upon certain questions he must subordinate them to the decisions of the majority. The greatest treasure a man possesses is his liberty and freedom of speech. Do honorable senators opposite believe that unionists must subordinate their convictions and opinions to the terms of resolutions submitted at union meetings? That is not my idea of unionism. 
The honorable senator knows from experience what is done at such meetings. What is the difference between a unionist and a nonunionist? I assume that honorable senators opposite are, most of them, members of a trade union organization. I am myself. I have been made a life member because of the work which I have done for the Labour movement. Actually there is very little, if any, difference between honorable senators opposite and members on this side of the chamber. We are all human beings, actuated I hope, by a desire to do our best for the Commonwealth. It follows, therefore, that a man is not the better citizen simply because he happens to be a member of a trade union.  Senator Daly,  who may be regarded as the legal member of the Opposition, had in front of him when he rose to speak, a formidable array of legalworks. I was under the impression that he was about to train all his big guns on the Government and the bill; but actually he fired a few squibs which were completely harmless. He had something to say about an industrial dictatorship, which he declared would be established under this measure, and he directed attention to those clauses in the bill which give the Minister power to extend the licensing provisions of the act to a group of ports. How can the honorable senator argue that there will be an industrial dictatorship in view of the fact that the Minister will be responsible to Parliament, and Parliament to the people? Surely there can be no more democratic form of control. 
But the people have their remedy, and I need hardly remind the honorable senator that quite recently they emphatically endorsed the industrial policy of this Government.  Senator Daly  also argued that in the event of an appeal against the cancellation of a transport worker's licence, the onus of proof would be on the appellant. Actually, the onus will be on the licensing officer, who will be called upon to show cause why a licence has been cancelled. 
Honorable senators opposite also referred to the effect of arbitration awards and the attitude of trade union organizations generally. Let us consider the position. All those who have any knowledge of the trade union movement will know that prior to the introduction of the arbitration system, it was extremely difficult to organize trade unions. Immediately following the establishment of the Arbitration Court, the work of the organizers became exceedingly light, because the arbitration system gave added strength to trade unionism. 
That is so. It has given them the power which they now possess. 
Surely the honorable senator cannot be serious. It is admitted that the Arbitration Act strengthened the trade union movement. If the Government wished to destroy trade unionism, would not its first act be to introduce a bill to abolish the Arbitration Court? The Government has been in power for six years with a substantial majority in both Houses and it has never attempted to do anything to interfere with the smooth working of the Arbitration Act. It cannot be denied that the party which stands more loyally by the arbitration system is the party sitting on this side of the chamber. This Government has been the salvation of the arbitration system. 
SenatorOGDEN. - If any attempts are being made to destroy arbitration, responsibility for that action rests not upon the Government or its supporters, but upon honorable senators opposite, and the trade unionists themselves. 
The honorable senator knows very well that the Employers' Federation does not wish to see the arbitration system discarded. The record of this Government is a complete answer to all those ridiculous statements that have been made from time to time that the Ministry is desirous of repealing the Arbitration Act. One honorable senator opposite stated that under this bill the worker would have to apply to a licensing officer for the right to work on the waterfront. On that point I direct attention to the attitude of the waterside workers themselves, and at the same time, would remind honorable senators that all the privileges which members of that organization enjoy, have been won for them under the arbitration system. They now have high wages and good working conditions. They had preference of employment on the wharfs which belong to the people of Australia. Actually, they had the right to say to men, " You shall," or " You shall not work here." They have extraordinary power. 
That is true. It cannot be argued that the Waterside Workers'Federation has used its powers wisely. On the contrary, it has abused its power. Let me give one illustration. Membership of the organization costs not1s., the amount charged for a licence under this bill, but some pounds. At times, the federation closes its books, so that new members may not be enrolled. During the busy fruit season in Tasmania, a number of overseas vessels call at Hobart to ship the exportable surplus to Great Britain. Work is plentiful at the time, but local workers, who were not permitted to join the union and would not be called human beings by some people, if one may judge by the speeches made by certain senators opposite, but who have wives and families to maintain, are not even allowed to work. The federation imported fellowunionists from Melbourne and Sydney and permitted them to register as members of the Hobart branch which accepted their transfers from Melbourne or Sydney. 
I know that they were admitted to the Hobart branch on transfer from Melbourne or Sydney. The local workers very occasionally get a small share of the work. These men are called "dicky birds" because, so I presume, they cannot get into the union. At odd times they get an hour or two of casual work, when unionists who may have been working for ten or twelve hours and have earned a week's wages in that time, are unable to cope with the work ; but as soon as the unionist has finished his job these men are peremptorily told that they must quit. In 1928, the waterside workers went on strike to force their application before the court. They held up the trade and commerce of Australia and got back just in time to save their industrial skins, after pressure had been brought to bear upon them by other trade unions. As a result of that disturbance they got certain concessions, which were included in the Beeby award. Still they were not satisfied, and again declared war on the community by refusing to work under the two pick-ups. Can any honorable senator seriously argue that by exercising their power in this way, the waterside workers are dealing justly by the people of Australia, and by the 700,000 odd unionists who are working amicably under Arbitration Court awards? The waterside workers, the seamen and those engaged in the transport industries, hold the key to the situation. When they declare war, there is war. When they say that there shall be a cessation of trade, there is no trade. They persisted in exercising that extraordinary power in a manner which was detrimental to the best interests of the country. It was fortunate for Australia that honorable senators opposite were not in power, and that the community had this Government to rely upon to come to the rescue. I tremble to think what would have happened had Labour been in power. It recognizes the rights of no man who has not impressed upon him the hall mark of trade unionism. The Labour party is building up a psychology which will be a danger to future generations. It is silent when it should speak, and shouts when it should remain silent. It acquiesces when the laws of the country are broken by its supporters, and refuses to direct trade unionists along right and proper lines. Labour to-day does not lead; it follows.  Senator Hoare  and  Mr. Makin  vainly imagined that they were leading the workers along the streets of Adelaide. Actually the workers were driving them. When  Mr. Jacob  Johnson demands that something shall be done, the Labour party cringes and does it. When  Mr. Jock  Garden issues an instruction there is no one in the party to say him nay. 
It is unnecessary to detail specific cases. I have never known a Labour supporter to publicly express disapproval of the action of those men. In private they admit that such things are wrong, but they are afraid to adhere to their opinions in public. It was because of that condition of affairs, and that I dared to speak out, that I was driven from the ranks of Labour. 
I regard this, not as a coercive measure, but as a charter of liberty which establishes the right of every individual in the country to work. It lays down the inalienable right of every man to earn a living for his wife and children; a sacred right, which is possessed alike by unionist and nonunionist. I welcome the introduction of this bill, which has already borne fruit.  Senator Hoare  quoted figures as to the amount of work performed by volunteers. A better comparison would have been to give the amount of work performed by waterside workers before and after the operation of these regulations. The Tasmanian workers were wise enough to return to work before the regulations became operative, and they are now work ing peaceably and better than ever. Local men who have not been allowed to join unions are no longer ostracised, but arc permitted to work during the present fruit season. The operation of the regulations has also decreased pilfering. I do not know why there is so much protest against the measure, as licensing exists in Great Britain. 
The conditions of licensing are similar in Great Britain, the only difference being that unionists in that country have more sense than those in Australia, and welcomed the system. I hope that before it has been long in operation in Australia trade unionists will appreciate its advantages, and realize that it enables them to get rid of the undesirable element now associated with the Waterside Workers Union. I know that trade union leaders are anxious to rid the movement of that element, and I believe that before long the bill will be welcomed by them, and that every person who receives a licence will automatically become a unionist. 
The need does not exist. If, for instance, the coal industry got into a position similar to that which existed on the waterfront, when the activities of the Commonwealth could not carry on owing to a lack of coal, as the result of the activities, either of the employers or employees, similar drastic action would be justified. However, I shall not deal further with that aspect of the matter. As 'a member of the Government I support the bill, just as I supported the principal act before I had any intention of joining it, as I believe it to be in the best interests of the workers, and necessary for the welfare of Australia. 
.- I cannot allow the bill to go through without saying a few words upon it, because I can approach the subject from an angle somewhat different from that of most other honorable senators, the angle of the employer. I have been connected with employers associations for  some years, and before the system of arbitration was established in Queensland I had, on several occasions, the privilege of acting upon Wages Boards as a representative of the employers. I was not here last year when the parent measure went through, but I gather that it gave the powers which are now being amplified by this bill. I can say with certainty that the result of the regulations has been particularly satisfactory in Queensland. There industry was very much hampered from time to time by the action of" the waterside workers, but no disturbance has occurred on the waterfront since the regulations have been in force. The following extract from a New South Wales publication,  Australian Goal, Stepping, Steel and the Harbor,  is interesting: - 
Interstate vessels have got away at their scheduled sailing dates to the great joy of the passengers.. Firemen have abstained from deserting at the last moment, thereby necessitating a long delay while they were being sought for in far-distant places of refreshment. Country storekeepers have received their supplies with unaccustomed regularity. Even the seamen have not' passed adverse judgment upon the sea cooks on board their respective vessels, nor have they chased the chefs from their galleys with curses and threats as formerly. 
It indicates that the measure has also had far-reaching and beneficial effects in New South Wales. Apparently, the principle of licensing meets with great objection from honorable senators opposite. I remind them that no objection was taken to the licensing of carters under the old Customs laws, nor to the licensing of baggage porters. . Why, then, should waterside workers object to being licensed in order that they may ply their trade? . 
I wish to sound a note of warning in regard to free labour. Volunteers should be afforded the greatest possible protection, since, it is only by their assistance that the business of the country can be carried on when unionists decline to work. Free labourers volunteer their services, and they should receive every protection, particularly from State Governments against brutal assailants, who should be severely punished. 
While I believe that arbitration ha.3 not come- up to expectations in Australia, I contend that the employers have faith- fully obeyed the awards of the courts. The observance of those awards has been one-sided, as they are obeyed by the workers only when it suits them. I think we can safely say that this is truly a union-ridden country. The union officials are very domineering and, when they become organizers, seem to think that a halo surrounds their heads and that they are above the law. They would not get any backing were it not for the support they receive from young irresponsibles in the unions. I can quote a Queensland experience in proof of that assertion. When the Mount Morgan Company f6und that the ore was becoming poorer, while expenses were increasing, Judge McCawley, Queensland;s first arbitration judge, a man with distinctly Labour tendencies, who had been appointed by a Labour Government, made an award for the employees of the mine which the company considered reasonable and which was in accordance with the capacity of the industry to pay. But the workers would not accept it. They wanted 20 per cent, more than the judge awarded them Their organizer at the time, who was a man who looked particularly well cared for and weighed about 15 or 16 stone, urged them not to accept the award. He told them that the eyes of Australia were on them. 
At any rate they decided to stand firm. A ballot was taken and it was against accepting the award, although I had it on pretty good authority that the bulk of the employees of the company were in favour of accepting it. One day I said to a leading worker "You married men who believe that the award is a fair one and want, to get. back to the work which is offering ought to assert yourselves. Why do you not do so"? He said "I will tell you privately what happened at. a recent meeting. Two or three o£ us suggested that the award should be observed, and we were so maltreated that, two of us had to be taken to the hospital. " I asked him who had interfered with them, and he told me it was the young irresponsibles who are the support of the  organizers. Although work was available for the Mount Morgan men at the rates given in the award made by Judge McCawley, they remained out on strike for eleven months and during that time were in receipt of Government doles. Of course, a Labour Government was in power at the time. And here is where I wish to nail down a lie frequently uttered by Labour members. It is claimed that the Queensland Government came to the rescue of the Mount Morgan Company by contributing £1,000 per week to enable it to pay the workers the wages demanded by them. What happened was that the Queensland Government arranged with the company that £1,000 a week should be paid out of the railway earnings to make up the difference between Judge McCawley's award and the amount which the men  were asking. It did not quite come up to the 20 per cent, asked for by the men; in reality it did not amount to more than 15 per cent, above the award rates. But the fact remains that the Queensland Government encouraged the men at Mount Morgan to disobey an award of an arbitration court, and gave them. doles for eleven months, and at the end of that period 15 per cent, over the judge's award by means of a contribution of £1.000 a week to the Mount Morgan Company. Later on there was another strike and the mine was fired. I suppose there were 1,000 men on the mine that night, but they, would not at first allow the boiler fires to be kept going to enable water to be pumped into the shafts. Eventually, better counsels prevailed among them and the mine was flooded and the fire was put out. But for four years the company had been struggling against adverse circumstances and union methods, and in face of a decrease in the value of the ore it was obliged to go into liquidation, as a result of which 1,700 or 1,800 men lost their employment. This was largely due to the attitude of the unions. 
I regret to say that it is. Although it has been proved that there is still £16,000,000 worth of gold and copper ore in the mine, it is estimated that it would probably cost £17,000,000 to get it out. The present cost of production is too high to enable the mine to be re-opened. A great avenue of employment has thus been lost. 
Although arbitration has not come up to expectations, I am not advocating its abolition, but if the unions continue to flout awards it will become a question of whether the arbitration system should not be abrogated altogether. If the system is abandoned we shall not have far to go to find countries where very satisfactory results are obtained in labour circles without resort to compulsory arbitration. When I was in Canada and the United States of America I paid very close attention to the labour problems in those countries. Neither country has a system of arbitration, yet I found unionists and non-unionists working contentedly side by side. Differences are settled by conferences and conciliation, and when the parties come to a dead-end an umpire is called in. 
An American told me that Australia is now going through the process that America has already gone through. My reply was, "I hope that you are right, because as things are in Australia to-day, I do not like its future prospects. " There are few labour troubles in America. When I was speaking the other day,  Senator Needham  interjected that there were lots of strikes in America, but during the three weeks I spent in California and the six weeks I was in Canada there was not the slightest sign of a strike. 
Wages are higher in America than they are in Australia, but the employers get good value for the money they pay. 
What does it matter? If American workmen get higher wages per day they must certainly get more in the year than the Australian workmen get. The wages we pay in Australia create a fictitious standard of living. Reasonable hours with reasonable rates of pay would give a better standard of living than is possible with a few men earning high wages and a great number earning nothing. 
The honorable senator means that the cost of living is higher in the United States of America than it is in Australia, but I am not sure on the point. It is certainly not higher in California. In my opinion the coal business in Australia has been handled very badly throughout. After the 3s. a ton given to the employers by  Mr. Hughes  had been paid for some time it was found in Queensland that it was more than was necessary, and refunds had to be made by the coalowners. Ever since then, although the price of coal has been reduced, wages have not come down. In Central Queensland we have managed to introduce cooperation in coal-mining with very good results. On a mine which was working on the day-labour principle with a hewing rate, the men were unquestionably practising the darg. Every fortnight the company found that it was losing money and it ultimately intimated that it would have to close down. ' But a party of very good miners offered to work it on tribute, and their offer was accepted, with  the result that the company began to make money straight away, and when orders were coming in freely, the miners were earning on an average at the rate of £1,200 a year. They did not make it all the year round, but they did so when orders were coming in freely. I think that eventually co-operation will be found to be the solution of our troubles in coalmining. 
Every miner in Queensland must have a miner's right which is the equivalent of a licence and the men do not seem to mind it. 
Certainly, and he would not object to being licensed. This measure is calculated to establish peace in industry, especially among the waterside workers. Indeed, it has already had that effect. I, therefore, give it my unqualified support. 
This bill is more the complement of the Transport Workers Act of last year than an amendment of it. The regulations under that act which practically settled the trouble on the waterfront and kept the wheels of industry running, are now being incorporated in a statute in order that no future government may alter them by proclamation. So long as they remained regulations only they could be altered in Executive Council, but as an act of this Parliament legislative action will be necessary before they can be altered. I listened with a great deal of interest to the fervid oration of  Senator Barnes,  whose life has been spent in fighting for the interests of workers who, not having so much technical skill as craftsmen, are possibly at a disadvantage in the matter of remuneration for their services. Listening to the honorable senator, I was reminded of - 
How well Horatius kept the bridge 
In the brave days of old, 
. even the ranks of Tuscany 
Could scarce forbear to cheer. 
Other honorable senators must have been similarly impressed.  Senator Barnes  appeared to be afraid that this legislation would destroy unionism.  His  remarks showed that he had little sympathy for the waterside workers or others who defy the Arbitration Court and flout the law of the land. Industrial conditions in Australia at the present time recall to my mind the account of the great feast of Belshazzar, when, as he and his courtiers were assembled, there appeared a hand which wrote on the wall " Mene mene tekel upharsin." For the benefit of the honorable senator I shall endeavour to give a free translation of those words to suit the spirit of the times and the possibilities of the future. If the unions continue to flout the Arbitration Court, disregard the law of the land, and adopt an attitude generally detrimental to the welfare of other workers, a modern translation of those words will be as follows - "Mene mene" - the domination of the unions shall pass away; "tekel upharsin " - the law shall be obeyed, the liberty of the workers shall be restored, sympathetic strikes and holds-up inimical to the public weal must cease. ' Large numbers of unionists adopt the line of least resistance; they take out their tickets, and they work under the rules of the union, because they cannot obtain work otherwise. If we restore to the worker his freedom, we shall get back to the position from which we ought never to have departed. In those days the workers enjoyed greater prosperity than they do to-day. Almost everything that the primary producer requires has increased in price during recent years. For that state of affairs, some blame the tariff, others the trade unions. Something is wrong when the return which the primary producer receives for his produce is less than the cost of production. The cost of labour to-day is so great that it is almost impossible for his products to compete in the world's market. The trouble to-day is that men are asking for their labour more than their services are worth. Recently, a friend of mine was asked to pay £79 for the labour involved in erecting lj miles of ordinary fencing - five wires  and a barb. That represented about £45 a mile. While labour costs are so excessive primary producers cannot make a success of their holdings. On many orchards in Victoria to-day, the fruit is rotting on the trees because it does not pay to engage labour to pick it. The cost of processing fruit is also very high, not only in respect of overhead expenses, but also in other directions. If we are to find an overseas market for our fruit, these costs must be reduced. I was in London during the great strike of 1926, when no newspaper was published for some days, and even the House of Commons was unable to print its notice-paper. For three days the British Government could not issue a printed proclamation; every proclamation had to be written. But the Government did not stand idly by and allow the unions to take charge of affairs. It took steps to see that the ships were unloaded so that the people of England did not starve; 60,000 special constables and 300,000 volunteer workers were engaged to do essential work. In preventing the newspapers from being published the unions did themselves a great injury. In the emergency, the Government utilized the wireless broadcasting stations to dis seminate news. Four or five times a day it broadcast through 2LO information which it desired to place before the people of Great Britain and Ireland. Rumours that the Welsh Fusiliers had been ordered into barracks were contradicted by that means. Magistrates sat in the courts for 24 hours at a time to deal with persons found guilty of outrages in the streets. The result of these activities was that within 24 hours the conditions in London became almost normal. At first there was a complete dislocation of transport services, but on the fourth day a skeleton 'bus service was inaugurated. With my two sons I travelled through the streets of London on one of the first 'buses which ran under the emergency scheme. As we passed through the East end of London, every window in the 'bus was smashed, but the 'bus continued on its way. Soon a more regular service was established. The 'bus on which I rode was driven by a peer of the realm, while a church dignitary, protected by special constables, collected the fares. Later, the same 'bus was driven through the streets of London bearing a placard on which were the words "We have no pane, dear mother, now." In emergencies of that kind, governments must act with firmness. In Melbourne there has been considerable anxiety recently because of industrial disturbances, but the Transport Workers Act and the licensing system, which it has set up, have broken the domination of the unions, and will yet do a great deal more to cope with organizations which are throttling industry and creating an army of unemployed. If their labour is not worth the price they demand, they cannot be employed. There must be thousands of men who are able and willing to work, but the scale of wages fixed and the conditions obtaining are such that they cannot be profitably employed. It is useless to carry on industry under conditions which will only result in insolvency. We must face the situation. The trade unionists in Great Britain usually adopt a more reasonable attitude during trade depression. The employees there frequently confer with the employers and agree to a temporary reduction in wages; but when the conditions improve they rightly insist on being paid higher rates. They seldom attempt to hold up industry. Unionists in Australia sometimes refuse to work at wages which would he considered highly satisfactory in some European countries.  Senator Graham  sought my opinion on the licensing system, and I interjected to the effect that I would prefer a government licence to a union ticket. The holder of a government licence has the Government, the law, and all right thinking people behind him, whilst the holder of a union ticket has only the Labour organization, and the forces which that organization can employ to aid him. Some unionists believe in holding up industry indefinitely without regard to law, justice, or any right principle that should guide us. I intend to support the bill, and trust that it will be the forerunner of a system of control that will overcome industrial trouble in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What amount of revenue does the PostmasterGeneral's Department receive from wireless listeners? 
In view of that revenue, could not the department appoint inspectors to give advice to the owners of "squealing" sets? 
Is it not a fact that, owing to the amount of interference and annoyance from this cause, particularly when important events are being broadcast, many listeners are cancelling their licences ? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer :  - 
One shilling per licence, which does not cover the cost of departmental administration. 
The department's inspectors systematically give advice to owners of receiving sets as to the proper means of operating their equipment. Many cases of interference have been investigated with the object of instructing the users of particular types of sets which are capable of causing interference. 
Not that I am aware of; but it is conceivable that this has happened in districts which are very remote from the existing broadcasting stations. The programme of development which will be pursued under the national broadcasting scheme will be very beneficial' from this stand-point. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,upon  notice - 
Whether the Government has yet come to any determination as to the action they propose taking on the report of the Tariff Board on the cotton industry, and whether such action, if any, will be taken before Parliament goes into recess? 
The following answer hasbeen supplied :  - 
The Government has not yet determined what action shall be taken on the report of the Tariff Board on cotton, but hopes to make an announcement at a very early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What amount of loan money was expended on the postal service in each State during each of the last four years? 
The following reply has been supplied: - 
The expenditure from loan moneys on new telegraph and telephone works and buildings and sites was as follows: - 

<graphic href="120332192903145_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
When will the question of the amendment of the Navigation Act be submitted to the Tariff Board for consideration and report? 
Will the Government, when submitting this matter to the board, regard it as deserving of taking precedence over all other questions, and request the board to deal with it as an urgent matter? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 
The subject was referred to the Tariff 
Board on 4th January, 1929. 
The Governmenthas intimated to the  chairman  of the board that it is desirous the new board when appointed should, as far as practicable, give precedence to this matter. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the value of wheat has fallen about1s. per bushel this year as compared with last year's price? 
If so, will the Government consider the claims of the wheat industry for a bonus at the same time as it grants a bonus to the coal industry? 
If a bonus is to be given to the one and not to the other, is it because the wheatgrowers never go on strike, whereas those engaged in coal production go on periodical holidays when they please? 
I understand that there has been a fall in the price of wheat. 
The question of a bonus on wheat has received consideration, but the Government regrets that it is unable to see its way to grant such a bonus. 
There is no justification for any such suggestion. I would remind the honorable senator that there are special conditions underlying the offer of a bounty oncoal exported overseas or interstate, and that a specified reduction in the selling price of that commodity, to which all parties in the industry are required to contribute, must precede the payment of a bounty. The incidence of the bounty offered in the case of the coal industry would, therefore, be quite different from that of a bonus on wheat. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are - 
Yes. 
No. 
It is not believed that there has been any undue delay, but inquiries will be made into the matter. 
[3.12]. - I move- 
That the bill be nowread a second time. 
The object of this measure is to validate the financial agreement already entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. Honorable senators will remember that when that agreement was submitted to the Senate in December, 1927, I explained the circumstances leading up to it and the history of the financial clauses of the Constitution. They will also remember that the agreement was a prominent issue in the recent election campaign. I do not propose this afternoon to cover that ground again, but shall confine my remarks to the circumstances in which the bill now comes before the Senate and to the main features of the agreement itself. The bill validates the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and the States and signed on the 12th December, 1927, which agreement has since been ratified by the Commonwealth Parliament, and also by the Parliament of each of the States. One condition of the agreement was that the Commonwealth would seek an alteration of the Constitution in order to give the agreement constitutional force and effect. That has been done. The agreement sets forth the text of the amendments proposed to be made to the Constitution. As both inside Parliament and outside, that text has been the subject of discussion, I desire to make it clear that not only was it submitted to the Crown Law Officers of the Commonwealth, but also that the advice of eminent counsel outside was obtained before the technical alteration was agreed upon. Briefly, the clause gives power to the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States relating to the public debts of the States, and to validate any such agreement when made. It also provides that the agreement may be varied with  the consent of the parties thereto. The constitutional alteration was approved by an overwhelming majority in each of the States and in the Commonwealth, the voting being - 

<graphic href="120332192903145_2_1.jpg"></graphic>

So that the aggregate majority in favour of the proposed alteration was 3 to 1. 
An important feature of the Government policy which was placed before the electors was the validation of the financial agreement. The Government was returned to power by the electors, and thus had a mandate from the people to validate the agreement. It also has the approval of all the State Parliaments for the validation of the agreement. The position of the Government in submitting this measure for the approval of honorable senators is, therefore, very strong indeed. At the recent elections the Leader of the Labour party in another place, while supporting the referendum, opposed the Financial Agreement, and stated that he favoured the restoration of  per capita  payments and a new agreement with the States with regard to debts. The opposition of the Labour party to the Financial Agreement was, therefore, placed very prominently before the electors, and as that party was returned with a minority the Government is definitely entitled to claim that it has the approval of the people. 
A copy of the agreement is printed with the bill, and I propose briefly to explain some of its main provisions. The agreement is divided into four parts. The most important provisions of Part I relate to the constitution and powers of the Loan Council, the object of which is to bring about permanent co-ordination in our governmental borrowings and debt management, and to mobilize the credit of Australia so as to secure the best terms in the money market. In the past, the credit of the Commonwealth and the States has undoubtedly suffered from competitive borrowing, and it was not until a voluntary Loan Council was formed in 1924 that co-operative methods valle instituted. The experience of that voluntary body has made it clear that our  credit  will be enhanced by the estab lishment of a permanently constituted Loan Council, which will ultimately result in a large saving in our annual interest bill. 
It is provided in the agreement that the Loan Council shall consist of one representative of the Commonwealth and one representative of each State. Where a vote is necessary the Commonwealth is to have two votes, each State one vote, and the Commonwealth will also have a casting vote. This agreement was reached after considerable discussion, and it was therefore considered to be a fair arrangement. 
One of the most important questions to be decided by the Loan Council will be the amount of money that can be borrowed by a first-class borrower at reasonable rates and conditions. The decision on this question will really not be difficult, as the matter is one that is determined by the money market itself. ! desire to make it perfectly clear that the Loan Council has no power to deal with the loan estimates of the Commonwealth or the States. No sovereign Parliament in Australia would permit any outside body to interfere with its individual rights. If, in times of stringency, it is found that the total programmes of the Commonwealth and the States exceed the amount that the Loan Council considers is available in the market at reasonable rates and conditions for a first-class borrower, the agreement prescribes the method of apportionment of the reduced amount amongst the various Governments. If the Loan Council can reach a unanimous decision, the allocation will be in accord with that decision. If it fails to do so the Commonwealth is to be entitled to have not more than one-fifth of the reduced amount allocated to it, and the States are to be entitled to share the balance in proportion to their net loan expenditure during the preceding five years. Each Government will thus reap an equitable share of any reduced sum, and competition will be avoided. 
Broadly speaking, the Commonwealth is to arrange all borrowing subject to the Loan. Council. There is, however, a provision in the agreement by which a State can borrow moneys outside Australia in its own name, subject to the unanimous consent of the Loan Council. 
Part II. of the agreement deals with the temporary provisions, which are being applied for a period of two years from 1st July, 1927, to 30th June, 1929, and which have already been approved by Parliament. The plan of co-operative borrowing has been in full operation and lias produced beneficial results in our loan transactions. The experience of the temporary period has already demonstrated the advantages to be gained from the establishment of the Loan Council on a constitutional basis. 
Part III. deals with permanent provisions which will come into operation on 1st July, 1929, subject to the approval by Parliament of this bill. The Commonwealth will take over the debts of the States existing on 1st July, 1929, and will thus assume as between the Commonwealth and the States the liabilities of the States to bond-holders. The Commonwealth .will contribute annually towards payment of interest on the debts of the States for the remainder of a period of 58 years, commencing from 1st July, 1927, £7,584,912, and the States will provide the balance required to meet the full interest charges. A sinking fund of 7s. 6d. per cent, is to be established to wipe out in 58 years the net debt of £641,000,000 which existed on 1st July, 1927. Towards this sinking fund the Commonwealth will contribute 2s. 6d. per cent, and the States 5s. per cent. A sinking fund of 10s. per cent, is to be established on all new borrowings after 1st July, 1927, so that each debt will be extinguished in 53 years. Towards the sinking fund the Commonwealth will contribute 5s. per cent, and the States 5s. per cent. The sinking funds are to be controlled by the National Debt Commission. Sinking fund moneys are to be regularly applied to the re-purchase or redemption of debts of each State. 
As securities come into the hands of the National Debt Commission they will be cancelled and, thereafter, during the prescribed sinking fund period, the State concerned will pay to the Sinking Fund Commission an amount equal to 4£ per cent, per annum on the cancelled .debt. In that way the sinking fund will receive the benefit of compound interest at the rate of 4-J per cent, on the prescribed contribution. The annual con-  tribution  by the Commonwealth to the sinking fund on debts at 30th June, 1927, will be £801,680 per annum. On new debts the annual contribution will be determined by the amount of new borrowing and will be at the rate of £100,000 a year for 53 years for every £40,000,000 raised by or on behalf of the States. 
Provision is also made for a settlement of the contentious problem of the rate of interest to be paid by the Commonwealth to the States on the value of transferred properties. The States will be discharged of all liability whatsoever in respect of £10,924,323 of the States debts, bearing interest at 5 per cent. That sum is the agreed value of the properties in. question. Up till 30th June, 1927, the Commonwealth had paid interest at the rate of only 3£ per cent. The settlement is really equivalent to a payment at the rate of 5 per cent, and represents an annual gain to the States of approximately £164,000. 
The effect of the agreement on the finances of the Commonwealth for 1927-28 was as follows: - 

<graphic href="120332192903145_3_2.jpg"></graphic>

It will be noticed that every State received a fair share of the increased payments. This increase was distributed for the benefit of the States thus: - 

<graphic href="120332192903145_3_3.jpg"></graphic>

These increased payments were not lightly undertaken by the Commonwealth when the agreement was under discussion, but it was felt that the Commonwealth was warranted in making a substantial contribution from its revenues to secure for the people of Australia the benefits that will accrue from the establishment of adequate and properly safeguarded sinking funds. I do not think that the Commonwealth has received that credit which it should receive from the fact that it was the making of the largely increased payments that practically led to the establishment of these sinking funds. 
The fact that the Commonwealth revenue has had to meet an extra burden of approximately £900,000 under the agreement does not mean that the taxpayers of Australia are being called upon to provide that sum. This extra cost to the Commonwealth is more than compensated by the immediate savings to the State budgets. 
The South Australian Government did not make up a penny of that money. Actually it was £122,678 better off last year than it would have been under the  per capita  system. 
For the current year the estimated payments by the Commonwealth under the agreement are £8,569,051, which represents an increase over the payments for 1927/28 of £109,726. This increase is due to the growing sinking fund contributions by the Commonwealth. 
As honorable senators are aware, the agreement was signed by all State Premiers in December, 1927, and it has since been ratified by all State Parliaments. Honorable senators will no doubt be interested to learn of the attitude of State Premiers and State Parliaments to the agreement when it was under discussion in those parliaments. 

 Mr. Stevens, the Assistant Treasurer of New South Wales, said there was a distinct financial advantage to his State of £595,185 for the first two years, and in ten years a financial advantage of £1,602,633. He also stated, according to  Hansard,  of 22nd May, 1928, page 820:- 
This Government signed the agreement believing it to be in the best interests of the State and the community generally. and,  Hansard,  22nd May, 1928, page 838:- 
I believe in signing this agreement we have acted in the best interests of the Parliament and the States; we have adopted the national outlook; we have done something that will prepare the way for the binding together in closer relationship of the Commonwealth and State. We have done something that will ultimately improve our credit abroad, that will effect appreciable savings in our interest bill and thus improve the capacity for development. 

 Mr. Hogan, then Premier of Victoria, said that his State's revenue would benefit immediately by £553,000, that there was an annual improvement over the  per capita  payments of £182,916, and that for ten years there would be a net increase of £685,000.  Mr. Hogan  also said - 
I am satisfied that under this agreement the Commonwealth has no desire to involve the States in any financial difficulty or to embarrass them in any way, but is prepared to treat them with absolute equity. 

 Mr. McCormack, Premier of Queensland, stated that for the first six years there would be for his State an annual gain and for ten years a gain of over £124,790. 

 Mr. Barnes, Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament, referring to the agreement, said - 
Every public man should do his best to get it carried - and  Mr. McCormack  interjected - 
Every political party should do its best to get it passed. 
I quote from Queensland  Hansard  of 13th December, 1928, page 1673. 
In South Australia,  Mr. Butler,  the Premier, said that his State was benefiting in 1927-28 by £35,000 and would at least benefit for ten years. He also stated that the agreement - 
Could do much more than the  per capita  payments ever did. 
The Premier of Western -Australia,  Mr. Collier,  in his speech on 12th June, 1928, said - 
This agreement is incomparably superior to anything that has been offered to us by the Federal Government or the Commonwealth Parliament previously. . . . 
I think the agreement is undoubtedly more favorable to Western Australia than to any other State. . . . 
I would infinitely prefer the financial agreement to the  per capita  payments with the possibility and probability of these payments being abolished at any time. 

 Mr. Collier also said that during the first fifteen years, Western Australia would receive, under the agreement, £745,000 more than it would have received under the  per capita  system, after allowing for an annual increase of 3 per cent, in population. He submitted to his Parliament a table showing that the total benefits to Western Australia, including interest on cancelled debt and savings in sinking fund contributions, would amount to £10,613,537 over a period of thirty years, or an average of £353,784 a year. 
In Tasmania, the Premier said that the State would receive £35,500 a year more than at present and pay £78,500 a year less to sinking fund. The agreement was  accented  by the Tasmanian Parliament without debate or division. 
The agreement has created a most favorable impression abroad, and financial experts have expressed the view that it will do much to enhance the credit of Australia. The  Financial News,  London, on 2nd June, 1927, said - 
If, by the referendum vote, the public in Australia approve of the determination to straighten things out in regard to sinking funds, public credit from that fact alone will be lifted to an extent which will make the sinking fund obligation under the scheme, to all intents nil. In other words, the threeeighths allocated to the common sinking fund will be offset - in time more than offset - by the average saving in the rate of interest. In addition, there will be all the advantages of unity - advantages gained at no cost. A plan  of  this kind is a genuine essay in statesmanship. It embodies the large view and the long view, and without encroachment on any real rights of the States, it is in principle honest and sound. 
It will be noted that this important journal voices the opinion that, in the course of time, the saving of interest effected will more than offset the cost of the sinking fund. Other influential financial press in London and New York have made equally favorable comments. 
The British Economic Mission, referring to the agreement in its recent report, said - 
Our knowledge of the London market enables us to say that the sooner the final step is taken the better it will be for Australian credit. 
I submit to honorable senators that the merits and benefits of this agreement cannot be over-stated. It provides a satisfactory settlement of two long outstanding and contentious problems - financial assistance to the States, and transfer of States' debts - both of which have been discussed by many conferences dating back to the commencement of federation, without any comprehensive plan being agreed upon. The achievement of an agreement on these contentious problems is, therefore, a matter for extreme gratification to the Governments of the States and the Commonwealth. 
The agreement safeguards the position of all State finances, inasmuch as it ensures definite Commonwealth assistance on a satisfactory basis, and the States will no longer depend on the will of the Commonwealth Parliament. It also provides for immediate relief to the finances of the States. The establishment of properly safeguarded sinking funds is another important feature of the agreement, and is an essential adjunct of sound Government finance to which lenders of money now pay special attention. The creation of a Loan Council on a permanently constituted basis to deal with our debts and borrowings should result in immeasurable benefits. It will put an end to competition between Governments such as was experienced some years ago with disastrous results, and will enable us to mobilize our credit and obtain better terms for our loans. Above all, it will so enhance Australia's credit that substantial savings of interest will ultimately be secured to the people through the issue of new and conversion loans on better terms than would be possible in the absence of co-ordinated debt management and adequate sinking fund provision. In conclusion, may I say that the agreement can briefly be described as a business-like arrangement based on the best principles  of  sound finance, and as it has already been approved by the State Parliaments and the people of Australia, I urge honorable senators to vote for the bill so that the final stage may be reached and those immeasurable benefits which considered and representative opinion have no hesitation in saying will be secured by this agreement, may be reaped by the people of the Commonwealth who are also the people of the States. 
This is the third occasion on which I have had the honour to  speak upon the all important subject of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States. At the federal conventions the allotment of customs revenue was a stumbling block that for a long time prevented the delegates from the various colonies from reaching unanimity, but as I dealt very fully in 1926 with the events that led to the arrangement for the payment of 25s. a head to the States, it is not my intention on this occasion to traverse the same ground again. In 1926 also I spoke of the unfortunate position Western Australia was likely to occupy if the financial agreement was continued. I have no reason to alter the opinion I then formed. During the past three years we have had many statements from Ministers, particularly from the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  and his second in command,  Dr. Page.  Speaking in another place, in moving the second reading of this bill, the Prime Minister said - 
There is no doubt that the great majority of the electors, notwithstanding my desire that there should be no misunderstanding, voted in the affirmative on the referendum in the belief that by so doing they were voting for the financial agreement. 
The absurdity of that statement is apparent to the veriest tyro in politics. In making his policy speech, on the eve of the recent elections, the Prime Minister said - 
The approval of the referendum by the people does not involve the acceptance of the financial agreement itself, but will merely give the Commonwealth a general power to make agreements with the States in regard to public debts and public borrowing. 
There is no consistency between the two statements. I wonder if the Prime Minister believes that inconsistencies of this nature will always be swallowed by the people.  Dr. Earle  Page has, in the course of his political career, made many statements, a number of which have not been altogether reliable. It would appear that the Prime Minister's lieutenant sometimes forgets what he has said about certain matters. As Leader of the Country party he also made a policy speech, though I wonder why it should bo necessary to have two policy speeches, since the Nationalist and Country parties are supposed to be one and indivisible. But we had two policy speeches - one delivered by the Prime 
Minister as the Leader of the so-called Nationalist party, and another delivered by  Dr. Earle  Page as the Leader of the socalled Country party. At this stage I may be permitted to digress and direct attention to a statement made a few days ago by one member of the Country party who declared that he would not attend further joint meetings of the parties. Indeed, he treated the proposal with contempt. 
I merely wish to show the feeling that exists between members of the respective parties. As  Senator Greene  knows, I am referring to a statement made by the honorable member for Richmond  (Mr. R. Green),  and I may remind the honorable senator that but for the entry of his namesake into the political field a few years ago he might still be the representative for the division of Richmond. But let me return to the statement of the Leader of the Country party. In his policy speech he said :  - 
This amendment (of the constitution) which is the subject of a referendum at the forthcoming election is of a general nature, and does not involve, in itself, the acceptance or rejection of the financial agreement. It merely provides for power to the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States relating to their public debts. 
My purpose in quoting  Dr. Earle  Page is to show that whilst the referendum was carried by a majority, the people of Australia did not, necessarily, give this Government a mandate to force this validating hill through. The question submitted to the people was in the following form :  - 
The Constitution is altered by inserting after section one hundred and five the following section: - " 105a. - (1.) The Commonwealth may make agreements with the States with respect to the public debts of the States, including - 
the taking over of such debts by the Commonwealth ; 
the management of such debts; 
the payment of interest and the pro vision and management of sinking funds in respect of such debts; 
the consolidation, renewal, conversion, and redemption of such debts; 
the indemnification of the Common wealth by the States in respect of debts taken over by the Commonwealth ; and 
the borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth, or by the Commonwealth for the States. "2. The Parliament may make laws for validating any such agreement made before the commencement of this section. " 3. The Parliament may make laws for the carrying out by the parties thereto of any such agreement. " 4. Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto." 
Though there can he no amendment of the agreement without the consent of all the States and the Commonwealth, the Prime Minister made a promise in another place that it would come up for review at the expiration of ten years. 
I consider that the Prime Minister was inconsistent in giving an undertaking of that nature. However, I do not propose to argue that phase of the proposal at the moment.I am satisfied that if my honorable friend were Prime Minister - and he might have been but for an accident' in the spelling of his name - he would not have had the audacity to promise that an agreement made by this Parliament would come up for review ten years hence, when he might not he a member of the Parliament. 
The Leader of the Senate has referred to the attitude of the Labour party to the financial agreement. The right honorable gentleman did not state the position clearly, so I propose to do so. The Labour party made it plain that it was opposed to the abolition of the  per capita  payments, but urged the voters to vote " yes " for the referendum, so as to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make agreements with the States for the taking over of State debts, and for the control of future borrowing. As a party we have always approved of the establishment of the Loan Council. We realized that it was suicidal to have several States in the money market at the same time and, therefore, we always favored some system of control to safeguard the financial position of the Commonwealth; but as a party we held that a vote in favour of the referendum question would not be regarded as a vote for the financial agreement. Accordingly, the Labour party in another place opposed this bill and the party in this chamber will do likewise. During the election campaign in Western Australia, the honorable member for Perth  (Mr. Mann),  the honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse),  the Honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Gregory)  as well as  Sir Hal.  Colebatch and  Mr. Johnston,  senators elect, all strongly denounced the financial agreement and advised the people of Western Australia to vote against the referendum question. The vote, however, gave a majority for the question. Consequently, the honorable member for Forrest voted for this bill in another place because the party whip was cracked over his head. To that extent he was recreant to his election pledge, but to his credit it may he said that he had the courage to vote in the division. Another honorable member, I refer to  Mr. Gregory,  was lacking in courage, and rather than vote he left the chamber when the division bells were ringing. When a man walks out of the chamber in good health and strength and does not record his vote, I can only describe him as a political coward. If the Prime Minister were so sure of his position with regard to the financial agreement, why did he not submit it to the people in conjunction with the proposal to alter the Constitution? Speaking in another place  Mr. Bruce  said- 
It was obvious that if the agreement wore to take a permanent form it must have a basis that could not be altered at the whim of a chance majority in any Parliament. 
Actually that is what is happening now. The Prime Minister has forced this validating hill through another place on a chance majority, other wise, it would not have made its appearance in this chamber. So precarious was the position of the Government at one time that every nerve was strained and every whip was cracked to force the supporters of the Government to record their votes for the bill. As a result we had the spectacle of members who denounced the financial agreement from public platforms in every State during the election, voting for a measure of which personally they did not approve. They did so because they were given to understand that if the Government were defeated on its most important financial proposals there would be another election. 

 - Senator Elliott has been absent from the chamber for some time. I have been speaking for about half an hour. If he wishes to ascertain my views on the point which he has raised, I must refer him to the  Hansard  report of my speech. This measure was passed through another place by the votes of a chance majority, such as the right honorable the Prime Minister had previously denounced. I wish to compare the statement of that right honorable gentleman on this subject with that of another gentleman, who some time ago went to his reward and whose memory we all revere. I refer to the late Lord Forrest. The late Lord Forrest, who was then  Sir John  Forrest, speaking in 1910 on the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, said - 

 I make this statement in the full knowledge of its truth that the reasons the States were willing to accept 25s. per head was that they were guaranteed that amount until the people should otherwise decide, and that it did not depend on the chance vote of Parliament. 
At the last referendum the electors did not affirm the adoption of this agreement. The words of the Prime Minister prove that assertion. I have .already mentioned that some honorable members supporting the Government in another place who opposed this measure have since been disciplined. They have been brought into the fold. They attended caucus meetings and they had to vote as directed. 
The policy of the Labour party on this subject has not varied. We are adopting the same attitude as we did years ago. There was no need for the members of the Opposition to be disciplined, as the policy we are now advocating is a portion of our platform which we put before the people. Had we received a majority we should have refused to validate this agreement. We did not hide that from the electors. The members of the Nationalist party hold different views and express contradictory statements. When the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and I were members of the same party we met in the same party room, in the same trades hall, worked on the same committees and spoke on the same platforms. I used to say "George, you have done very well." 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - I ask the Leader of the Opposition to confine his remarks to the subject matter of the bill. 
I was merely reminding the Minister that at the time of which I am speaking, he advocated- 
I ask the honorable senator not to disregard my directions. 
The honorable senator will be quite in order in proceeding on those lines. 
Order! My action was not in any sense offensive. The honorable senator was introducing a matter which appeared to have no bearing on the bill, and it was my duty to see that the rules of debate were observed. I do not wish the honorable senator to lecture me as to the manner in which my duties should be performed. 
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, said in 1925- 
The Nationalist party platform contains a plank which specifically provides that the  pur capita  payments are not to be altered unless arrangements are made satisfactory to the States.' 
The Government utterly disregarded that plank in the Nationalist party's platform and is now forcing this financial scheme upon the States. 
When addressing myself to this" subject on a previous occasion, I said that the States' financial supplies had been cut off by the Commonwealth Parliament of which this Senate, which is supposed to he the custodian of the States' rights, is a branch. The members of this chamber were elected to protect the interests of the States, but on the day on which the States Grants Bill was passed the Senate lost the right to be regarded as the protector of the States. The States are now compelled to accept what the financial gods - Bruce and Page - have to offer them. The Leader of the Government quoted the opinions of some State Premiers to the effect that their Governments had agreed to this proposal. The right honorable gentleman quoted a portion of a speech delivered by the then Premier of Victoria  (Mr. Hogan),  but I shall quote another portion which reads - 
This Government, as well as other State Governments have to make the best of the situation. 
That supports the contention of the Labour party, to which I have the honour to belong. The present Premier of Victoria  (Sir William MacPherson)  speaking on the 15th December, 1927, said - 
What right have we to make a contract for 58 years? Who can say what may happen in a young community such as this? 
When speaking on this subject in 1928, I pointed out that at the end of 58 years, the period during which this agreement is to operate, Western Australia would lose approximately £25,000,000. The Prime Minister admits that the States will lose, although he has not mentioned any specific amount. 
It is true that if the  per capita  system were continued each individual State would, after a long period of years, receive more than under the agreement. 
Under this arrangement Western Australia, a State of great expanse, wonderful resources, and much potential wealth, will suffer more than some States which are more thickly populated. For every person who settled in a State under the  per capita  system, the State revenue benefited to the extent of 25s. per annum. Under this agreement the States will gain an advantage for four of five years, but after that, as the Prime Minister stated, they will begin to lose. As the States develop, their expenditure increases and, under this agreement, they will be deprived of the revenue which the f ramers of the Constitution intended them to receive. I realize that the Commonwealth is to contribute 5s. towards the sinking fund in connexion with new debts; hut within a few years the States will be worse off financially than they are today.  Sir Alexander  Peacock, once the Premier of Victoria, and now  Speaker  of the Legislative Assembly in an article contributed to the Melbourne  Herald  wrote - 
Speaking as a member of the Federal Convention there would have been no federation without a financial partnership between the Commonwealth and the States regarding the distribution of customs and excise revenue. 
We have it on the authority of one who took part in the Federal Convention that federation would not have been consummated if the States had not been promised a share of that revenue. No member of this Parliament is prepared to say otherwise. A bond was entered into which this hill seeks to destroy. Before the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States could become effective three things had to be done - the bill embodying the agreement had to pass this Parliament; the people had to be consulted regarding the necessary alteration of the Constitution; and this new Parliament had to ratify the agreement. We are now concerned with its ratification. If this bill is agreed to, an arrangement regarding important matters of finance will operate for a period of 58 years.No man living can visualize the financial position of the Commonwealth 58 years hence. An interesting episode occurred the other day in another place. The right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt)  was at one time a strong opponent of the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments from the States. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - For a considerable time prior to his recent visit to Canberra  Mr. Watt  had not been seen within the precincts of this House. Indeed, he had absented himself so long that I was fearful lest a search warrant would be issued to ascertain his whereabouts. But the right honorable gentleman condescended to visit Canberra, and the Government waited in fear and trembling for him to express his views regarding this measure. The right honorable gentleman said that if the Government would consent to the agreement being reviewed in ten years' time he would vote for the bill. The Prime Minister, anxious to save his Government, readily acquiesced and the Government was saved. There is nothing in the bill about the agreement being reviewed ten years hence; it cannot be varied or rescinded without the consent of all the parties thereto. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - In that case what is the value of  Mr. Watt's  suggestion, and the Prime Minister's acceptance of it? In his second-reading speech on the Financial Agreement Bill in December, 1927, the Prime Minister said, in respect of proposed new section 105a - 
That proposed new section recites the matters with respect to which there will be the power to make an agreement. The latter portion gives to the Commonwealth Parliament the power to pass a law validating any agreement entered into prior to the amendment of the Constitution - including the agreement now before us - and to give effect to any alteration of any agreement that may be decided upon by the Commonwealth and the States. The power thus given will not extend beyond the making of a law to give effect to agreements that are entered into, and any alterations thereto that have the approval of all the States, without referring the matter further to the people. I have no doubt that honorable members will wish to study the exact wording of the proposed alteration. The matter has been examined exhaustively by the Crown Law authorities of the Commonwealth and every one of the States. It has been altered considerably since it was originally drafted, but the law authorities of both the Commonwealth and the States agree that, in its present form, it will give effect to what is the intention of all. That is, it will validate this agreement and leavethe way open to its being altered at any future date if all parties are agreeable to such an alteration being made. 
It was obvious that if the agreement was to take a permanent form it must have a basis that could not be altered at the whim of a chance majority in any Parliament. 
The promise of the Prime Minister that the agreement would be reviewed ten years hence was only a snare to catch the vote of  Mr. Watt  and save the Government. 
I should like, also, to quote from the speech made by  Senator Lynch  when the Financial Agreement Bill was last before the Senate - 
I appeal to honorable senators with all the earnestness at my command to reject this agreement. I pointout that, if they pass this bill, they will assuredly sign the death warrant of the States financial security and independence. If they do, the fault will be on their own heads. I shall fight the measure to the last ditch, and to the limit of my endurance in Western Australia. I will not allow such a fraud to be perpetrated on the people. The late Chief Justice Griffith described "as an act of fraud under the Constitution " something far less serious than this. This chamber is the custodian of the rights of the States. It is the supposed citadel of State rights. We are here to see that they get a fair deal, and they are entitled to natural justice. Tlie present necessities of the States should not be dealt with as merchandise, as this Government is doing. No doubt normal times will return. Fifty-eight years hence, Western Australia, on a most moderate estimate, should have a population of 1,500,000. When that time comes, the grant to Western Australia under this financial agreement will amount to 30d. per head of the population. Thirty pieces of copper - not even silver - to the betrayed in this case, and not to the traitor! 
To interpret  Senator Lynch's  statement I should say that the Government corresponds with Judas Iscariot, and Western Australia with the Crucified. I wonder whether  Senator Lynch  will on this occasion stand up to the statements that he then made. I have nothing further to say at this stage, except that the Opposition will strenuously oppose the passing of the bill. 
I shall not detain the Senate for more than a few minutes. No one can disguise the tremendous importance of this measure. Honorable senators are called upon to give a vote on a matter of supreme importance to Australia, and figuratively to put their signatures to an agreement which will bind the Commonwealth, in the event of the States declining to make any alteration in its terms, for the next 58 years. 
This Senate has two duties in connexion with the financial agreement. It has a duty to the Commonwealth as a whole, and a duty to the States individually. It is within the memory of a number of honorable senators who are now present, that when we discussed the measure, which originally provided for the cancellation of the 25s.  per capita  payments to the States, but did not substitute any other arrangement, I opposed it. I did so because I considered that it was not right that the existing arrangement should be cancelled until a concrete proposal had been substituted. I thought then, as I do now - and in saying this I do not reflect on the vote of the Senate - that the Senate was not wise at that time in surrendering the rights of the States until their position had been secured. I was also entirely opposed to the tentative proposal -which the Treasurer of the day suggested should be substituted for the existing financial arrangement between the States and the Commonwealth. It consisted of the surrender by the Commonwealth of a large amount of direct taxation to the States. That, I believe, would have led to financial chaos in Australia. I then indicated that I believed that the proper solution of the difficulty was to take over the State debts in such a way as would secure the position of the States for the future. For that I had two reasons. First, I believe in the Commonwealth agreeing definitely to a proposal which stretches away into the future and provides for the payment of a specified sum. Naturally the Commonwealth would be growing continually during the period and the proportion of burden upon its total revenue would be constantly decreasing. Secondly, I felt, and I do so still, that it was wise that the Commonwealth, for a considerable time ahead, should secure to the States some portion of the customs and excise revenue. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  talked about imagination, and the visualizing of the future. It does not take very much imagination to conjure up the position which would result if the Commonwealth were tempted to launch out into some extraordinary form of legislation involving the expenditure of vast sums of money, which might place it in such a position that it would be unable to contribute to the State revenue. So that, from both those aspects, I believe that we are perfectly justified in giving our approval to the bill.  Senator Needham  questioned the right of the Government, in view of what happened at the last elections, to ratify this agreement. The honorable senator very definitely stated that had the Labour party been returned it would have had no hesitation in giving effect to its policy, which was to return to the 25s.  per capita  payments. His only justification for such a course is 'that the people would have endorsed the policy - of his party. Surely what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. 
I cannot see that that makes any difference. The Government of the day, which was the responsible body, appealed to the country on this issue, which was very definitely stated by both the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page).  There was no doubt as to where the Government, as a government, stood, and so far as  I was personally concerned, I advocated the acceptance not only of the referendum hut also of the agreement itself. If ever a government was justified in carrying out its policy, it is this Government. I may go further and say that in view of the double  imprimatur  of the public, its carrying of the referendum and return of the Government to power, the Government is perfectly justified in giving effect to its policy. Even the State of Western Australia, from which  Senator Needham  comes, carried the referendum and returned the Government to office. 
I do not see how  Senator Needham  can get away from that fact. He stated that if his party had been returned to power it would have carried out its policy. This party has been returned to power and it is carrying out its policy. Surely it may be claimed that the people have endorsed it? 
It is difficult for me to follow the reasoning of the honorable senator. Can he put forward any other reasons which indicate that the country has not shown its approval of the Government's action in this matter? 
There is no doubt as to that. 
Unfortunately  Senator O'Halloran  belongs to a party which has departed from the ordinary constitutional procedure observed in all British communities. 
I do not say that, but the Labour party hasmade the departure. It insists that every one of its members shall follow theleaderand do as he does. It does not matter what they believe, they have to say the same thing. The constitutional procedure which has been built up and followed in British communities is that the government of the day states its policy, and its followers are individually free to say whether they agree to it or not. The final responsibility for whatever happens is always on the government of the day. Honorable senators on this side believe that each individual member of the party should be free to express his opinions and vote as he pleases, and the Government is always in the position that it can modify a measure, withdraw it, or ride for a fall if it so desires. The final responsibility is always with it, and that is the only means by which it is practicable to reconcile that freedom and liberty in which honorable members of this party profess to believe, and at the same time to uphold government responsibility in carrying on the business of the country. 
I believe that the Senate should ratify this agreement. I recognize the tremendous responsibility that rests upon honorable senators in doing so, but taken all in all I believe it is the best thing that can be done for the country. It is perfectly true that the arrangement embodied in the agreement cannot be altered during its currency without the unanimous consent of every State and the Commonwealth, but I have no doubt whatever that if, in the course of time the operation of the agreement is found impracticable, the good sense of the governments then in power may be relied upon to effect the necessary alteration. I repeat what I said on a previous occasion, that I hope that while the Loan Council will exercise the strictest possible control of the whole system of borrowing, it will from time to time make the fullest use of that provision in the agreement which enables individual States to go on the market in their own name. Notwithstanding what has been said in quite a number of influential quarters, both here and in London, I am satisfied that periodically there are conditions of the money market under which the 
States, borrowing in their own names, can obtain better terms in London, and possibly in New York, if it be found necessary again to go there, than they could get by borrowing as a Commonwealth. I shall not weary the Senate with a long dissertation on finance giving my reasons for that conclusion; but I am satisfied that such will be found to be the case. I hope that there will not be a too rigid interpretation of the powers that obtain under the common borrower provisions of the agreement. I hope that the Senate will carry this bill and I congratulate the Government on having finally adopted a means of settlement which I believe to be sound and which, I believe, will prove, in the long run, to be very beneficial to this country. 
The importance of this bill cannot be stressed too much, because it affects the financial relationship of the two constitutional authorities which at the present time control the destinies of the Australian people. On that account it is necessary for honorable senators, before they place their final seal upon it, to view it from the respective angles of the Commonwealth and the States, and particularly, because of the constitution of this chamber, from the stand-point of how it will affect the States in the years to come. It is argued by some that because the people of Australia, whether they be controlled in the State spheres by State Parliaments or in the greater or national sphere by the Commonwealth Parliament, are one and the same, their interests are necessarily identical. But even a cursory study of the conditions existing in various parts of the Commonwealth convinces one that that is not altogether correct. Certain legislation passed by the national Parliament may benefit one portion of Australia, and at the same time, in a parochial sense, prove detrimental to another portion. It is, therefore, necessary for us to study very closely a bill which validates the financial agreement made two years ago by the Commonwealth and the States.  Senator Pearce  told us this afternoon that this agreement was adopted unanimously by the States Premiers, but the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  has pointed out that the events which preceded the drawing-up of the agreement made anything but unanimity impossible. The  per capita  payments which the States had enjoyed in some form since the inception of federation had- been taken away from them, and they were thus in the position of beggars on the doorstep of the Commonwealth Parliament, ready to accept whatever this Parliament was willing to hand out to them. At least one Premier, who signed the agreement on behalf of his State, is not to-day so enamoured of it as he was then. Let me point out what is the opinion of the public outside in reference to this agreement. I propose to quote from a leading article in the Melbourne  Age,  a very responsible organ, which is fully capable of expressing public opinion in Victoria. It also expresses with great accuracy the view-point of South Australia in this regard. In a leading article in its issue of 19th February last it said - 
In his policy speech the Prime Minister explained that "an arrangement was arrived at  which  was mutually acceptable." Yet the whole nation knows the agreement was presented as it were - a pistol at the head of each State. Governments were free to accept or reject, but whichever they did, their  per capita  grants were to be stopped; and stopped they were. Compensator amounts were set aside and used as financial bait to lure any State that might hesitate. 
Compensatory payments were made to Western Australia and Tasmania in order to induce them to agree to the proposals submitted by the Commonwealth Government - 
In the end each State succumbed. But the claim made by Federal Ministers during the general election that each State Parliament had ratified the agreement had to be discounted. - It was under duress that certain States consented. The referendum seeking sanction to the amendment of the Constitution was essential to the completion of any agreement. Sanction to the amendment, but not necessarily to the particular agreement now to be brought before a new Federal Parliament was granted. The Government is singularly obtuse if it does not realize that. 
What the  Age  had in mind at the time were the statements of the Prime Minister on behalf of his party, and of members of his party during the recent election campaign. The  Age  spoke of a growing uneasiness in the minds of the people which was reflected when this bill was discussed in another place, and, if it could only find expression, also exists in the minds of many honorable senators who are sitting on the Government side of this chamber. But the party whips have cracked, and honorable senators must, of necessity, obey the dictates of the powers that be. The  Age  commenced its article in the following words:-__ 
The Bruce-Page Government has all along considered the financial agreement a feather in its cap. During the election the feather was ostentatiously flaunted. Since then the feather has inclined to droop; there is even a danger of it being plucked out. 
There was a danger not many days ago of this feather being plucked out, but fortunately for the Government the danger has been avoided, and we have now before us a bill which is to ratify the financial agreement  betwen  the Commonwealth and the States. According to  Senator Pearce  this agreement has settled for all time the vexed question of Commonwealth assistance to the States, but I remind the right honorable gentleman that if additional financial assistance is not given to South Australia the people of that State will be coming, cap in hand, and asking the Commonwealth to take over some of the State's liabilities. In his policy speech at Dandenong, the Prime Minister did not say that the Government would stand or fall by its financial proposals. Nor did he ask the people to return his Government  to  power so that the financial agreement with the States might be validated as "the result of carrying the referendum. He appealed to the people to cast an affirmative vote on the referendum, because he said - 
The approval of the referendum by the people does not involve the acceptance of the financial agreement itself, but will merely give the Commonwealth a general power to make agreements with the States in regard to public debts and borrowing. The referendum should, therefore, be supported by the electors whether they favor the particular plan set out in the financial agreement or not. 
And the people did so because there was a realization on their part that the Commonwealth Parliament should have the power sought to be obtained by the referendum. For example, most Labour candidates supported the referendum, although they were opposed to the financial agreement. But a considerable section of the electors did not believe that, when they were casting an affirmative vote, they were giving away the right of the States for all time to an expanding share of the Customs and excise revenue. 
I  cannot speak from knowledge of what was said in other States, but in South Australia there was a serious difference of opinion among Government candidates upon the question as to whether this agreement should be validated or not. I venture to say that  Senator Chapman  did not, on a public platform, advise the people to vote " Yes," because an affirmative majority meant the validation of the Financial Agreement Bill. 
Not among the candidates for the Senate. The attitude of the Leader of the State Labour party was due, not so much to his objection to the Commonwealth having this power to make agreements as to the manner in which the Premier of South Australia had sacrificed the. interests of his State by signing the agreement without receiving a satisfactory  quid pro quo  from the Commonwealth. 
Let us examine the position of South Australia under this agreement and compare it with the probable position of the State if the  per capita  payments had been continued. Our complaint is that South Australia is not receiving a fair deal. When the financial agreement was under consideration, there was a strong feeling that South Australia, with Western Australia and Tasmania, should receive special consideration to compensate it for the financial disabilities which it has suffered under federation. The Gunn and the Hill Governments made strong representations for assistance, apart altogether from the capitation payments; but unfortunately there was a change in the personnel of the South Australian Parliament and a consequent change in the administration.  Mr. Butler,  the Premier, did not adopt the proposals of his predecessors in office. When he attended the conference of Commonwealth and State Premiers to consider the financial proposals in May, 1927, he said he was perfectly satisfied with the agreement that had been made.  His  view was expressed in these words - 
I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's explanation of his Government's proposals. I was struck with the soundness of his argument. I am in entire agreement with the principle he enunciated; but in matters of detail his proposal requires amendment. Although we all desire a continuation of the  per capita  payments for 58 years as  Mr. Lang  suggested, I realize that it would probably be impossible for the Commonwealth to continue the present scale of payments beyond twenty years. 

 Mr. Butler accepted the agreement without argument. He failed to place before the Prime Minister the financial difficulties of the State he represented, and. did not make any claim for special consideration. 
It may be, but I can assure the Leader of the Senate that the Government's attitude on this question has an important influence on my attitude towards the bill. The Government of South Australia over two years ago made an urgent request for financial assistance, but the matter has been handled in such a dilatory way by this Government that we have not yet had any definite pronouncement on the subject, and although the royal commission completed its inquiry some time ago its report is not yet available. I suggest that the Government should take steps to expedite the presentation of the report to Parliament, so that we may ascertain to what extent the Government proposes to assist South Australia. . Both the Hill and the Gunn Governments emphasized that South Australia was not receiving sufficient financial aid under the  per capita  payments and asked that the amount be increased.  Mr. Butler  did not press this claim. At the conference to which I have alluded, he said - 
I am not bothering about arrears. This conference is endeavouring to arrive at an agreement which will be durable and therefore must be based upon equity. 
Can it be argued that the agreement which this bill validates is based upon equity? Does it deal fairly with the States in view of the promise given to the people prior to the inauguration of the Commonwealth? 
I was not taking an active interest in politics at the time, but I have studied carefully the debates of the federal conventions and I can say definitely that there was an implied promise that the States would receive for all time a definite share of customs and excise revenue. 
Clearly it was the intention that the Braddon section providing for a return to the States of three-fourths of the customs and excise revenue should ultimately be a permanent arrangement; but it was not so provided in the Constitution because of the fear on the part of the freetrade representatives at the conventions that it would perpetuate the policy of protection. 
I Have stated the substantial facts of the case. The Braddon section was not permanently incorporated in the Constitution for the reasons which I have given. When the period fixed for the "Braddon blot" as it was called, expired, the  per capita  payments commenced. It was generally agreed that that was the fairest basis upon which the Commonwealth could grant financial assistance to the States. 
Interesting figures dealing with this matter have been quoted again and again in this chamber. These are allegedly authoritative and up to the present have not been challenged. They show that if the  per capita  payments were continued over the full period of the agreement, 58 years, the States would receive about £823,000,000, and under the agreement, they will get only about £440,000,000, a difference of approximately £382,000,000. 
I am afraid the Leader of the Senate has been for so long in the Federal sphere, and as a Minister in successive Governments has for so long enjoyed "easy money" through customs and excise collections, that he is unable to visualize the difficulties of State Governments 'which have to work in the unpopular field of direct taxation to obtain the revenue for their governmental activities. Let me give, as an illustration, the position of the State which I assist to represent in this chamber. If the  per capita  payments were retained for the full period of 58 years, South Australia would receive £72,000,000, less contributions to sinking fund and interest on the public debt, but under the agreement it will get £41,000,000, a difference of £31,000,000. 
I am not responsible for the figures. I understand they were compiled by the Commonwealth Statistician at the request of an honorable member in another place, and since they have been on record for more than twelve months and have not been' challenged, I suggest that they cannot now lightly be brushed aside. Under the agreement the amounts payable to the States are fixed definitely, whereas had the  per capita  system been continued, the payments would have been increased with the increase in population. 
I understand that only one State has, at the moment, what may be regarded as a stationary population. 
It has made considerable progress during the last twenty years and would have been in a perfectly sound financial position to-day but for the policy of the party represented by the Butler Government, to which honorable members supporting the Government in federal politics subscribe. The figures which I have quoted show, that while for the first few years of the agreement, the amounts payable to the States may be slightly higher than would have been due in the form of capitation payments, they diminish gradually and over the whole period of the agreement will be considerably less. That is one of the strongest reasons why some  per capita  system should be restored. Practically the whole of the addition to a State's population is due to the natural increase and the arrival of assisted migrants, none of whom possess much of this world's goods and immediately become a burden upon the finances of the State. Children have to be educated, and migrants settled on the land or absorbed in industry under governmental schemes. In South Australia, because of the low rainfall in certain portions, and the absence of rivers and natural water supplies, land settlement is becoming more expensive every year. On the other hand, every additional  settler in that or any other State immediately becomes a contributor to Commonwealth revenue in the form of customs and excise duties without the financial obligations of the Federal Government being substantially increased. That important factor should not be overlooked. 
The records of the Labour party in the Federal sphere have never been excelled by any other party- 
Although the Labour party has been in office in South Australia at different periods for ten and a half years it has never been in actual power. It has always had to contend with a hostile majority in the Legislative Council, to which Labour's financial proposals had to be submitted. I am not permitted at this juncture to mention some of the reasons responsible for South Australia's financial position, but an opportunity may be afforded later. Before long  Senator Pearce  may visit South Australia and endeavour to assist his friend  Mr. Butler  in what will be a fruitless endeavour to convince the people that the Labour party is responsible for South Australia's position. 
The members of the Labour party have been charged with being unificationists. We believe in unification but we propose, when the opportunity offers, to introduce the system in a fair and reasonable way, and not by strangling financially the smaller States, as this Government is doing. The Premier of South Australia  (Mr. Butler)  is reported in the South Australian  Register  of the 7 th March as having stated at Peterborough on Tuesday of last week that - 
Unless the Commonwealth Government is prepared to assist South Australia by a special grant there is little hope of the State paying its way. This means that it will have to borrow money to pay salaries and interest on the public debt. If this is continued for any time, it must lead to the insolvency of the State. 
I remind the Minister that every penny appropriated by the Gunn or Hill Governments was appropriated with the consent of a majority of Liberal members in the Legislative Council, which has the power to reject any appropriation bill. During the 73 years which South Australia has  enjoyed  responsible government the Labour party has been in office - not in power - for only ten and a half years. For the remainder of that period,- Liberals, Nationalist and others masquerading under different political names, who have occupied the Treasury bench, have contributed to the doleful position portrayed by the Premier at Peterborough. If the people of South Australia who are taxed more heavily than those in any other State could see a possibility of a reduction in taxation, they might be able to carry on; but  :is  the Premier pointed out the burden will become heavier. That is due largely to the persistence with which this Government is forcing this financial agreement through Parliament. I stress the point that with the increase of population the obligations of the States in providing railway transport, water conservation and distribution services, housing, public health facilities, police protection, and education become greater, whilst the Commonwealth without incurring expense immediately benefits by increases in customs and excise revenue. 
We believe that a protective policy is in the best interests of Australia. We contend that the inequalities that arise between the agricultural and manufacturing industries should be removed by more equitable apportionment of the proceeds of these imposts between States which rely on primary production as against those which have secondary industries established as a result of a protective policy; but  Senator Chapman,  in order to assist only the agricultural section, supports a policy that would result in disaster to the nation. 
Yes, but what will be the position of South Australia in ten years time ? At the expiration of this agreement, 58 years hence, South Australia will have been deprived of £31,000,000. 
No. Parliament was morally bound to retain the  per capita  payment during the continuance of the federal system. The Labour party believes in keeping the promise made to the people years ago, and had members of that party been returned with a majority we should have introduced a bill to provide for the restoration of the  per capita  payment. I hope thateven now the Government will recognize its responsibility, particularly to those States which, through no fault of their own, are on the verge of insolvency. As this chamber is allegedly the custodian of the rights of the States, I appeal to honorable senators opposite to reject the bill and force the Government to introduce in its place a measure which should more nearly meet the wishes of the members of a chamber constituted as this is. 
It may be a hackneyed phrase to say that the subject of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States is an old friend of the Senate. It would appear now, however, that it is making its last appearance in the Senate for some years, and, I, therefore, feel that I should have a last word, although I realize that it is impossible to say anything new on the subject, other than to make mention of the change of attitude of some persons towards it. All honorable senators are aware that a referendum of the people has been taken in this matter, and that they have emphatically approved of the alterations proposed. Nevertheless, I feel that we should ask ourselves what the electors had in mind when they agreed to the referendum proposals. If they were of the opinion that those proposals meant only that the Commonwealth would have power to make agreements with the States, and not that they were bound to a particular agreement, we are entitled to consider whether this agreement should not, even now, be reviewed. If, on the other hand, wo believe that the electors had this agreement in mind, we have very little ground for opposing the bill. Indeed, in opposing it, we should be like the man who entered into a religious discussion - a foolish enterprise at any time - in Constantinople, and argued that the Mohammedan religion was wrong. It is not easy to take a different view from that expressed by the electors at a referendum, because we have been led to believe that the decision of the people thus expressed is necessarily right. I do not hold that opinion; I believe that sometimes a majority can be decidedly wrong. The only reason for bowing to the decision of the majority is that the majority can force its will upon us. I am not here to follow slavishly the decision of any majority. I remind honorable senators that in the past majorities have blocked reforms. Emerson once said that every reform was at one time the opinion of one individual; as time passed others came to think as he thought, until eventually what was the opinion of one man became the opinion of the majority. There is nothing sacrosanct about the decision of a majority; it has been as often wrong as right. In this case I believe it is wrong. 
Although I am here to respect the wishes of the majority, I have grave doubts whether- the electors had this agreement in mind when they gave an affirmative answer to the referendum proposals. I remind honorable senators that the Prime Minister himself, when he asked the electors to give power to the Commonwealth Government to enter into agreements with the States, emphasized that he did not necessarily mean a particular agreement. In the  Daily News  of Friday, November 16, 1928, there appears an artistic representation of an alleged Western Australian crowd. The artist has, however, drawn somewhat on his imagination, for he has depicted some of the men wearing bell-topper hats. I have seldom seen a hat of that description in Western Australia. Beneath that picture, over the signature of  Mr. Bruce,  were these words - 
I wish to emphasize that by passing the referendum you do not vote for a particular form of financial agreement. 
The Prime Minister gave the electors to understand that, while he sought authority for the Commonwealth to enter into agreements, he referred to no particular agreement. I feel, therefore, that I am entitled to the opinion that this agreement was not clearly in the minds of the electors when they passed an affirmative vote for the referendum proposals. For that reason I shall vote against this bill, as I did previously against the Financial Agreement Bill. Perhaps honorable senators will regard me as a lamb about to be led to the slaughter - and, indeed, I dread the butcher's knife - but I feel' that some good might result from my opposition to this measure. In any case, I am prepared to be the sacrificial element. 
The success of the Government in connexion with the Financial Agreement with the States has depended on two fallacies. I have referred to them previously. The Leader of the Senate  (Sir George Pearce)  said just now that the day might come when a Labour government would be in office and be at liberty to devote any surplus revenue to the establishment of a child endowment fund. I suggest that the electors would still have a say in the government of the country even though the Labour party were in office, and they would not allow a government to utilize its surplus revenue in a way of which they did not approve. There is, perhaps, some ground for the right honorable gentleman's fears, but it is not very solid. What has the Labour party done in connexion with this agreement? It has out-Heroded  Herod in coming to the rescue of the States. It is generally understood that the policy of the Labour party is to aggrandize the Commonwealth and to abolish the States, or at least to reduce them to such a state of penury and impotence that they will be like glorified shire councils. What is the reason for this change of front? Why would the Labour party restore the  per capita  payments if it occupied the Trea.tury bench? That party has changed its policy because it has regard to that large body of electors not associated with any political party. The Labour party realizes that the electors will stand across the path proposed to be followed by any party or government whose policy does not meet with their approval. 
The other fallacy to which the Leader of the Senate gave expression was that owing to its heavy commitments, which imposed a drain on its resources, the Government was forced to take this action. It is a wrong principle to use a passing circumstance as the basis of a permanent arrangement. This agreement is a permanent arrangement, for it will extend for at least 58 years, and, it may be, until the crack of doom. It will remain in operation until a future generation alters it if they can, which is well nigh impossible. 
Australia's expenses in connexion with the Great War amounted to about £400,000,000, and this Parliament passed a measure in 1923-24 to amortize that debt. We set about in a creditable way to hit upon a device to rid Australia of that millstone, and the result of our efforts will be that the responsibility of Australians in that matter will cease to exist in about 35 years' time. It is wrong to use the effect of a passing circumstance for the purpose of coming to a permanent arrangement. If a man on the land is temporarily experiencing a drought and losing money he does not take that as criteria of his whole career. He realizes that it is but a passing phase, which will be balanced by coming events. So passing circumstances should not be taken into consideration by the Government when formulating a financial agreement with the States practically for all time. The Government has provided a sinking fund in connexion with the redemption of Australia's war debt which has absorbed many extraneous and large sums of money. Already it has swallowed surpluses amounting to £7,000,000, and nearly £1,500,000 from the profits of the Commonwealth Bank in addition to wai" reparations. In the opinion of myself and many with expert knowledge of the subject, our war debt should be wiped out by 1965. It may be claimed that Australia will then still have to pay pensions which are the result of the war. The war ended in 1918, and a simple calculation discloses that after the lapse of another 58 years, it is extremely unlikely that we shall have a single war veteran in existence to draw a pension. 
I admit that some dependents of soldiers might then still remain to draw pensions, but the amount involved will be negligible. So that in 58 years our war debt will be repaid and even our war pensions obligation will be practically wiped out. The change of opinions expressed on behalf of the States is remarkable. 
The period of 58 years will not see the end of this agreement. Then the States will experience a lean time. The Commonwealth Government will, for the first 53 years, set aside £100,000 annually to sustain a borrowing policy of £40,000,000, and thereafter until the crack of doom, if we want such a sum. What will become of that £40,000,000? The vital point is that in the 59th year the Commonwealth will pay only about £5,200,000 towards a perpetual borrowing rate of about £40,000,000 annually. And this £5,200,000, the peak point of the charge on the Commonwealth Treasury is all that tlie Commonwealth will pay on behalf of the States. On the other hand, their return from a continuance of the 25s.  per capita  payments would be £25,000,000! So that, with the war obligation of some £10,000,000 per annum saved, and £20,000,000 saved by not paying "the States their capitation due, the Commonwealth Treasury will have a fine time! "What a remarkable change of opinion and mentality! It is difficult to account for such changes. I at one time read an article by some American publisher, in which it was claimed that the opinion of the time is largely moulded by the dominant thought of the hour. He cited the case of the American Constitution, the originators of which were under the influence of the great Newton, who made discoveries based upon the influence of checks and balances in the physical and cosmic sphere. The results are indelibly engraven on the American Constitution. By comparison, what has taken place in this country? When federation was accomplished nobody dreamed that 28 years hence a political party would arise and say unto the States of the Commonwealth "We shall give you no more money from customs and excise revenue. We shall cut you off from that source of supply." But that is what has actually happened. When federation was accomplished provision was made for the financial assistance of the States and, ten years after, the desire was still to give effect to that policy. The Deakin Government of 1910, propounded a scheme whereby each State should receive 25s. per head of its population from the customs and excise revenue, and proposed to embody it in the Constitution. The country rejected the proposal. I well remember participating in the discussions that then occurred. The general impression was that 25s. per head was insufficient and that was the stand that I took when I argued the matter in Western Australia. I believed then, as I do believe now, that, in view of the possibility of the discovery of untold wealth in that vast region, the amount proposed was totally inadequate for the proper development of the country. And during the last eighteen years there has been a  see-sawing  of opinion as to how the States should be assisted. The reason for the ratification of the present agreement is that the mouthpieces of the States, when in con  ference  with the Commonwealth authorities at Melbourne not very long ago, were too stiffnecked, and declined to accept the proposal put forward by the Commonwealth Government, when it expressed willingness to evacuate the field of direct taxation. As a result that Government, in turn, got its own back up, bristles rose on both sides, and eventually the States fared worse than they would originally have done. That is only natural, as the Commonwealth holds the key to the position. It collects the money, and has the power of the purse. And just as the power of the purse established the House of Commons in its early and struggling days, and raised it to its present stable and impregnable position, so that power will make this Parliament equally impregnable. This central Government will, as the result of this bill, be denied no avenue of taxation. It will be able to step into the States' arena and levy taxation in any direction that it sees fit. Consequently the States will have to scratch around and take what is left - the crumbs from the rich glutton's table. 
It is clear that the power of the Federal Government has waxed and not waned. At one time it was found necessary to encourage the federal spirit and to nurse it very indulgently, but now the central power is strong beyond all expectation. The States are in a helpless position, and forced to levy taxation to meet the ordinary demands that are made upon them. 
How will the average citizen fare - the individual responsible for the election of representatives to this and to the State Parliaments? His interests should at all times be kept in mind, but too often they are forgotten. It will be no satisfaction to him to be told that he cannot have an extension of his railway system, his water supply, his educational system, and that he cannot have justice brought to his door instead of having to travel long distances to secure it. He will have, in future, to look to the Federal Government for assistance, and probably go wanting. While the central Government is in the field of direct taxation, it is bound to get all that is available of the surplus earnings of the people, because always the superior authority comes in first and the inferior authority last. The Federal Government will always be safe. The 
Federal Parliament is established as firmly as the House of Commons. It is only the States who are in a helpless position now that they are deprived of portion of their financial resources, their share of the customs and excise revenue. By accepting this agreement they are taking a headlong, course down a steep place. No longer will they be able properly to safeguard the interests of their citizens. I cannot account for the change of mentality on the part of the Nationalist party, the direct descendants of the old Liberal party. I presume that if there had been no war and some of us had not been called upon to "walk the plank," so to speak - if we were still in the ranks of Labour and Labour was still sane, as we all would wish to see it - the old Liberal party if still in power would be doing exactly what it proposed to do in 1910; that is to provide in the Constitution for the payment for all time of 25s. per head to the States. It is not my responsibility to explain why a party that was formerly friendly to the States is now the spoiler of the States. It is quite enough for me to explain my own actions. It is the country man who will suffer. He will go to the State Parliament and will find an empty Treasury unless the State chooses to impose more taxation. But, as I have already explained, the central authority is bound to get in first in the matter of collecting taxation on the surplus earnings of the people. 
The Canadian provinces, I think, get 5s. or 6s. per head from the Dominion Government, whereas 58 years from now Western Australia, with its population of 1,500,000, which it should have by that time, will get 30d. per head. It will not be enough to provide for the State's needs. I would say to the Commonwealth Government "Take it back with the rest. Let the tail go with the hide." At the same time, the populous and opulent States of Victoria and New South Wales will be receiving millions of pounds compared with tlie small payments made to other States, which will have gradually overhauled them in the matter of population. At least that has been the experience of Canada and United States of America. Although they have now a population of 44,000,000, the thirteen American States which fought England in the War of Revolution, are not the United States of America of to-day. The other States, which have since been included in the union and which were not even settled at the time of the War of the Revolution have a population of 70,000,000. In the Canadian provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan the increase in population over a period of twenty years has been 35 per cent., whereas in the older settled provinces of Ontario and Quebec the increase has not exceeded 2 per cent. 
One weak feature of the financial agreement is the fixed nature of the Commonwealth's contribution to the States. It commences with a division of £7,500,000 among a population of 6,000,000, but iu 58 years, when the population of the Commonwealth reaches 20,000,000, the proportion will be exceedingly small. The position of the outer States will theo be like that of a youth who has grown to manhood, but is still compelled to wear the knickerbockers and short jackets of youth. The older and more populous States of to-day will be like the youth pf twenty, who will not grow any bigger and still be able to wear the clothing of to-day. The idea of the Commonwealth Government is that knickerbockers and short jackets should still be the suitable garb for the Western Australia and Queensland States when they reach the age of manhood. 
I have quoted figures which clearly disprove it. The only two examples we are entitled to cite are those of Canada and United States of America, and in both cases the increase of population has been infinitesimal in the older Provinces or States compared with what it has been in the newer areas. 
Another aspect of this question to be taken into consideration are the functions which the States perform to-day compared with what they were in days gone by. Every one knows how Thomas Jefferson in that document so full of poetry in prose, the American Declaration of Independence, laid down the functions of States. As a matter of fact the States that form the Union to-day have  added very little to the traditional task of aiding citizens laid down for them 150 years ago. But the functions performed by the States of Australia are vastly different. Not long after the foundation of Australia, railway lines were projected, built, and owned by the people. The United States of America has never had railway lines owned by the people, and there has been very little of State-owned railway construction in Canada. What there is of it belongs to the Dominion Government, and not to the provinces. The States of Australia are regarded by the people as the agencies that should come to their aid in their everyday occupations. They are not expected simply to maintain law and order while citizens work out their own destinies. For instance, the State of Victoria has its railways, its harbours, its light and power, and its water supplies, which are owned by the people, because the sentiment of the people is in favour of Government control of these utilities. What time would a candidate for parliamentary honours have if he proposed to sell the Victorian railways or hand over to private enterprise the water works which are now under various chartered authorities ? It is time we realized that the States are doing the work of helping the pioneers to have an easier and more progressive time, and that we should encourage them instead of taking from them the wherewithal to administer to the people's needs. 
It is true that for seven or eight years under this agreement the States will fare better than they would have done under the  per capita  system, but after that, instead of the Commonwealth's contribution to the States, expanding as it should do with every increase of population, it will start to shrink in proportion to the population, until in 58 years  itwill not  be more than about £13,000,000 compared with the £25,000,000 the States would receive on the  par capita  basis for a population of 20,000,000. Looking at, the matter from the point of  view  of helping the States to do those things which public opinion expects them to do, it is about time we revised our opinions and said that the States should be helped and not hindered in the performance of the services expected of them. I cannot support a measure which is fraught with danger to the States and to future generations of this country. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to8 p.m. 


 At8 p.m. private members' business talcing precedence, 

I  have given considerable thought to the motion submitted by  Senator Lynch,  and it seems to me that the inquiry which he proposes may be divided into two parts. The first relates to the conditions of those engaged in our primary industries, the rewards which they are receiving for the investment of their capital and the expenditure of their labour, and the second portion seems to suggest that an attempt should be madeto ascertain what prospect, if any, there is for an expansion of the farming interests in this country. The inquiry, to be effective, should be of a very comprehensive nature. Whether or not it will have any practical results is another matter. Before securing election to this chamber  I  had some experience in the State Parliament in South Australia. A number of inquiries along the lines now suggested by  Senator Lynch  were made in that State; but invariably, in spite of valuable data collected and helpful suggestions made by the respective commissions or committees, successive governments, for one reason or another, took no action.  I  can claim to  speak with knowledge of this subject, because I was reared on a farm. I have been connected with primary production all my life, and I still have land interests in South Australia. With this knowledge as a background, I can say with every confidence that, although the lot of the man on the land to-day is not so good as many of us would like it to be, it is infinitely better than it was 25. or 30 years ago. Our farmers are now working under much better conditions. They can command, the use of improved agricultural machinery and modern means of transport. The 'motor car is now in almost universal use. The introduction of modern machinery has taken much of the drudgery out of harvesting operations, and to a great extent it has reduced the volume of labour necessary to carry on farm work. The more general application of better methods of cultivation and the use of superphosphates have had a marked effect upon the development of the industry. The isolation of the primary producer has to a large extent disappeared. Again he lias to thank the motor car as well as the extension of telephone services to country districts and the development of wireless broadcasting. The farmer of to-day, living in what were formerly regarded as isolated districts, enjoys privileges which 30 years ago were the admiration of the unfortunate primary producer of that time and the proud possession of his more fortunate city cousins and dwellers in the larger centres. Despite these advantages, however, the primary producing industry - and in this term I include not only the wheat-grower but the mixed farmer and the pastoralist - is not developing ns Ave should like to see it develop. It is desirable, therefore, that we should take steps to ascertain what should be done to remedy the existing state of affairs. We are told by some that the industry has not progressed because primary producers have to pay high wages and are in other  ways  handicapped by industrial conditions peculiar to Australia. I venture to say that if a comparison were made of the wages costs in relation to production 25 or 30 years ago, and the wages costs of to-day, it would be found that we must look beyond wages for the solution of the problem. One possible explanation is the distribution of the cultivable lands in Australia. Provision should be made for the sons of small farmers who may desire to launch out and become primary producers on their  own  account. Another factor is the provision of suitable farm labour. Although I have not been an employer in a large way I  know  some of the troubles in regard to the employment of labour. The small farmer is in a much more difficult position, from this point of view, than is the man  who  is producing on a more extensive scale. Because of the intermittent nature of farm work it is difficult for the small farmer to attract the right class of labour at the time  when  he most needs it. When the seasonal demand ceases he is obliged to dispense  Avith  his employees,  whereas  a farmer  working  on a comparatively large scale can find employment for a certain number of hands all the year round, and so is able to retain  a  suitable class of labour for the harvest season. In addition to the need to make available suitable land for settlers, there is the financial aspect of farm operations to be taken into account. This difficulty has been, to a certain extent, overcome by the inauguration of State banking systems and by the establishment of the rural credits branch of the Commonwealth Bank. While on this point I may be pardoned if I remind the Senate that the party represented by honorable senators on this side of the chamber pioneered the  way  in granting assistance to primary producers. It  Avas  a Labour government that established the  Commonwealth  Bank and made possible the present system of rural credits; and in my own State a Labour government, in the teeth of considerable opposition, established the State Bank which to-day is granting considerable assistance to all sections of primary producers. The extension, if any, of such assistance should come  within  the scope of the proposed inquiry, in order to bring about an expansion of the industry. It should be the desire of the Government to go the limit in granting assistance not only to those who receive help from the State institutions, but also to those  who  do not have to call upon financial reserves other than their  own.  In the pastoral industry with which I am associated, we have in the past relied to a great extent upon the financial assistance rendered by stock and station agents to carry us over periods of depression. I have nothing whatever to say against such firms who have carried the producers through difficult periods. I have received assistance from them myself and would be ungrateful indeed if I did not recognize the help they have been to primary producers. But as these firms know that they have to take a risk during periods of depression, the charges imposed for the service they render are higher than they would otherwise be. In these circumstances, higher commissions on sales and higher fees have to be paid for the work which they do in connexion with the pastoral industry. Their policy, however, is not unreasonable as they are holding shareholders capital on which investors expect a dividend. 
It is the duty of the National Parliament, with the assistance of the Commonwealth Bank, to endeavour to evolve some system whereby the agencies I have mentioned would be relieved of their responsibility, and the burden carried by the nation. One of the great difficulties confronting Australia to-day is the absence of a peasantry such as that which exists in other countries where there are families with an agrarian mind who take a pride in the fact that the farms which they work have been handed down to them through generations. Such people have no desire to leave the land and seek employment in other avenues of industry. The present drift towards the cities is largely due to the possibility for profits in selling land. Land values in certain well established areas have been increasing, with the result that the farmers who, perhaps, 25 or 30 years ago, had no intention of selling their holdings and leaving the country districts, have in consequence of the high prices offered, sold their land and invested their capital in city industries. This has not been beneficial to the country, as the vendors as a rule, settle in the city and take their money with them. . Their place is usually taken by another settler who is struggling with a big mortgage and paying interest which is also spent beyond the confines of the district in which he is living. 
The first essential is to prepare and carry out effective closer land settlement. The smaller primary producer who cannot afford to continuously employ labour to assist him in production must be assisted in some other way. The most effective way that I can visualize is a scheme such as that inaugurated in South Australia many years ago by the late Honorable C. C. Kingston who was afterwards a very prominent member of this Parliament. In the late " nineties " that gentleman, in conjunction with the late  Sir Frederick  Holder, was responsible for the sub-division of a huge area of perpetual leasehold in the northern and northeastern portion of South Australia for mixed farming purposes. Workmen's blocks were provided, homestead leases were granted, and conditions were inserted in the lease to prevent one person securing more than one block. There was also a residential clause. As you, sir, will remember there was, unfortunately, a " fly in the ointment," as the land sub-divided was not suitable for agriculture, and not only the farmers failed, but the system was also a failure. Had the land been within the good rainfall belt in which mixed farming could have been successfully carried on, the system would, undoubtedly, have been a success. Such a scheme gives a degree of stability to a family in a small country town, it provides a man with a young family with an inducement to settle in the vicinity of a country town, and gives him the knowledge that he can produce from his own block at least a portion of his livelihood. He should also be able to secure casual employment, and there should be reasonable opportunities in rural pursuits for the employment of members of his family. Such systems ought to be encouraged so that the population in country districts could not only be maintained, but increased instead of being encouraged to gravitate to city industries, or during periods of depression be unemployed and a constant drain upon the community. 
What  opportunities  are there for expanding the primary industries of this country?. I have not a very thorough knowledge of the conditions in the States, with the exception of 
South Australia, beyond what I gathered as  Chairman  of the South Australian Railways Standing Committee, in which capacity I visited five of the States in conducting inquiries on behalf of the State Government. In South Australia, however, we shall have to give very serious consideration to the extension of our primary industries. South Australia is unfortunately situated because of the absence of deposits of coal suitable for commercial purposes. Cheap power is not available to encourage the extension of secondary industries. "We shall, therefore, always have to depend upon the primary industries for the greater portion of our production. One would think that South Australia with its huge area of pastoral leasehold land, comprising hundreds of thousands of square miles would, at least, produce sufficient meat to meet the demands of its own consumers. But at present South Australia has to import 40.000 sheep and 14,000 cattle annually to maintain its flocks and herds, and provide for the needs of its own people. Honorable senators will agree that there is something wrong when such conditions exist, especially if they know, as I know, the amount of public money that has been expended in the development of that territory, . in providing railways, water, and hospitals as well as educational, telephonic, telegraphic and other facilities. The wheat-growing industry is far from being in a satisfactory position in South Australia; nor can the position of the wool industry be regarded with equanimity. It is true that the production of wool has increased in that State, but not to the extent that it should have done when we compare the relatively high yield per sheep to-day with the yield a few years ago. In order to find a solution of these difficulties, two commissions of inquiry have been appointed. In 1918, the then Liberal Government in South Australia appointed a royal commission to inquire into the matter. After an exhaustive inquiry, that commission reported that there was an acute' need for the subdivision of land in both agricultural and pastoral districts. Its report showed that one individual held huge tracts of pastoral lands of which very little use was made, whereas other and smaller holdings were put to better use. The majority of the members of that commission were Liberals - a term synonomous  with Nationalists - yet the Liberal Government of that State refused to act upon their recommendation. In 1924, a Labour Government instituted another inquiry by a body of men not connected with politics, but selected because of their practical knowledge of the industry. In the main, they endorsed the recommenda tions of the 1918 royal commission in relation to the subdivision of large pastoral holdings. For the past two years, a Liberal Government has been in office in South Australia, but it has made no attempt to give effect to those recommendations notwithstanding the serious condition of the pastoral industry in that State. It was because of my knowledge of what had occurred in South Australia that, in my opening remarks, I expressed doubt whether any benefit would accrue from an inquiry such as that suggested by  Senator Lynch.  In addition to instituting an inquiry into the pastoral industry, the Labour Government of South Australia appointed a Rural Settlement Royal Commission in 1924 to inquire into the possibility of closer settlement within the recognized rainfall belt in that State. Again, the men. selected were not connected with political parties. Three experts in the public departments of the State undertook the inquiry. They were  Mr. Colebatch,  at that time the principal of the Roseworthy Agricultural College, and now a member of the Irrigation and Drainage Commission,  Mr. Field,  then Secretary for Lands, and now  chairman  of the commission referred to, and  Mr. Spalford,  the. soil and plant expert of the Department of Agriculture. Those men conducted an inquiry into the lands within Goyder's line of rainfall - a line drawn by  Mr. Goyder,  a former Surveyor-General of South Australia, by means of which he classified the rainfall areas. For the basis of his classification, he took the plant life of .the several districts. Using the salt bush, the blue bush, and the myall as guides he was able very accurately to define the rainfall line. On one side of Goyder's line, where the average rainfall is 13 or 14 inches per annum, wheat-growing can be profitably carried on, whereas, say 10 miles on the other side of the line, where the rainfall averages only 10 or 11 inches per annum, the possibilities of successful wheat-growing become more and more remote as the settlers move northward and eastward. Before they proceeded very far, the experts discovered a great number of facts which they thought should be placed before the State Parliament in connexion with legislation for the compulsory subdivision of large estates. The greater portion of 23 counties is within Goyder's line of rainfall. The counties of Robe and Grey were selected for a detailed investigation. The experts found that in those two counties alone there was sufficient land held in large estates, and not being properly utilized, to settle approximately 1,700 additional farmers without extensive works, such as railways, roads or drainage schemes, being necessary. The two counties mentioned are situated in the south-eastern district of South Australia where there is an abundant rainfall. The provision of better railway and road facilities, and the draining of low-lying land would make it possible to settle nearly four times that number of farmers. In County Grey there were at the time 91 land-holders who, according to the latest land taxation assessment, held in estates the unimproved value of which exceeded £5,000, land worth £1,064,847. In County Robe 79 land-holders in the same category held land, the unimproved value of which was £953,326. Thus in the two counties, 170 of such land-holders held land, the unimproved value of which was assessed at £2,018,173, an average of £11,871 each. 
It is a little under 1,000,000 acres - I speak from memory. The commission classified the land on a scientific basis, and suggested the various classes of settlement for which it was suited. It also recommended that steps be taken to acquire it for closersettlement purposes. Forty land-holders were approached in that connexion. But only two of them took the trouble to reply; and in each case the owner stated that he was not prepared to offer his land for closer-settlement purposes. Then the Government adopted the recommendation of the royal commission, in which it suggested that the power compulsorily to break up large estates should be sought, subject to fair conditions of valuation and to the conservation of the just rights of the existing owners, and, of course, of the community. The Labour Government of the day introduced what, in my opinion, was a perfectly fair proposal : To apply to that class of resumption similar conditions to those that had applied to the resumption of lands for the buildings of railways, water schemes, and for other public purposes. The bill passed the House of Assembly, in which the Labour party had a majority, but when it went before the Legislative Council, in which the Liberal party predominated, the Minister in charge was not even permitted to make a second speech. And again, for the third time in less than ten years, the party to which the honorable senator who moved this motion belongs, stultified endeavours to bring about closer settlement and the expansion of our primary industries. The State of South Australia has built approximately 2,600 miles of railways, it has spent large sums in providing roads, schools, police stations and public utilities, and no adequate return is being received for that expenditure. That is one of the main reasons for the present unfortunate position of the State which I represent. An improvement of that position can be accomplished only by increased production, which will give our railways and other public utilities an increased revenue to enable them to earn working expenses and interest on their capital cost. 
To demonstrate that this is possible I shall give one or two instances which have come within my own knowledge. In the south-eastern district to which I have referred there have been sporadic attempts at closer settlement, and lands have been cleared for sale from time to time. There is one notably successful instance to be seen in the vicinity of Mount Gambier, the sub-division of the Moorak estate. Thirty years ago when Moorak was run as a sheep-station there  were two inhabited holdings, in addition to the homestead, on the whole of the large area which adjoins Mount Gambier on the north-west, west and south-west. To-day there are approximately 350 families obtaining a living from that area, and the town of Mount Gambier has been benefited thereby to a very great extent. Then we come to a small place like Glencoe, which was subdivided from 22 to 25 years ago. That small township puts more produce on the railway than does the comparatively large town of Penola. Glencoe is a closely settled area, while Penola is mostly grazing country. 
I know the districts very well,  and  acre for acre I would not exchange Penola for Glencoe land. Of course, honorable senators opposite are inclined to condemn Penola, and if Millicent were held in large estatesto-day they would probably condemn it, because the south-eastern land is peculiar. When placed under cultivation it does not immediately respond, as it requires sweetening. Consequently the best returns are not secured in the first few years of settlement. If Penola land had the same cultivation and assistance with superphosphates that Glencoe has received substantially the same results would follow. That has been proved by what has been accomplished by settlers on similar lands at Naracoorte and Lucindale, which, if anything, are not as valuable as Penola. If  Senator Guthrie  were familiar with that district he would be aware that the small settlers there have done remarkably well in recent years. In comparison, I recently met a farmer at Tantanoola who, on 98 acres of land, carries a few head of cows, a small flock of sheep and goes in for pig raising in a small way. He is a thrifty, methodical, small holder. That man, for the past three years, has averaged a net return of over £400 per annum from his block. In addition he has secured from it a substantial portion of his own living. In the same district there are estates, one of which is of 12,000 acres, another of 18,000 and a third of 7,000 acres, of substantially similar country. I put it to honorable senators opposite which is the better proposal - to have a community of small holders producing intensely from their holdings, or to have two or three large estates carrying sheep, giving employment to comparatively few people, and  producing little for the railways to handle. Again, take Kybybolite. As  Senator Guthrie  will remember, Kybybolite, up to about 1921 was considered to be very poor country indeed. The introduction of top dressing and subterranean culture has revolutionized the district and to-day it contains many small holdings carrying three sheep to the acre and cutting 10 lb. of wool per sheep. Over the range there are two large estates comprising 63,000 acres, held by one man, and assessed by  Mr. Spafford,  the soil expert of the Department of Agriculture, as being 25 per cent better than Kybybolite. That great acreage carries only 18,000 sheep whose average wool production is under 6 lb. 
Only this afternoon this Senate was engaged in a second-reading debate of a bill which to a certain extent, will place the States of Australia under the financial control of the Federal Parliament. I suggest that if it is able to take to itself such powers it can also urge the State Governments actively to interest themselves in establishing the policy of small holdings instead of large estates. It is our duty to tell the States that they must make the best use of the land available. Such' a procedure is essential if we are to populate this country and to maintain our migration policy. This party does not quarrel with a policy of migration, which I think is essential if we are to populate the country. But it does consider that we should not induce people to come here until opportunities are afforded them to sustain themselves in industries which have been established. So far as my own State is concerned, the only scope of any magnitude which presents itself for carrying an increased population is the development of its primary industries. Before those industries can he developed we must solve the land question, as I have endeavoured to explain. For that reason, I hope that the resolution will be carried, that an inquiry will follow, and that before long a scheme will be inaugurated under which the State and Federal Governments will co-operate to bring about closer land  settlement, and to make the conditions of our primary producers such that, having placed them on the land, they will operate successfully and willingly stay there, so that they will build up a peasantry in Australia that will assist to mould this into a great nation, just as the peasantry of older lands have played their part in moulding the destinies of those countries. 
I listened with a great deal of interest, and with some surprise, to  Senator O'Halloran:  With interest, because he dealt with a subject with which he is evidently well acquainted in a most attractive manner, and with surprise, because it is all too seldom that we hear from gentlemen belonging to his party some of the sentiments which he enunciated. I was very much struck by his use of a word that we hear but seldom these days. The honorable senator deplored the lack of a peasantry in Australia, the lack of that class which has done so much to make possible the small holdings of which he spoke, and a strong factor in moulding the destinies of older countries. Listening to him I recalled to mind the lines - 
. a bold peasantry, their country's pride," 
When once destroyed can never be supplied. 
I have often spoken in this chamber about the necessity for turning our attention to what I believe will ultimately prove to be of great help to Australia, the cultivation of small holdings, and their encouragement by every means known to Federal and State authorities. It is because we very seldom get any encouragement from honorable senators opposite, that I so warmly welcome the speech that  Senator O'Halloran  has just made. But while I support all that the honorable senator has said, and&gt; all that  Senator Lynch  said in moving his motion, I want to make a plea for the smaller industries which are to a great extent neglected, and which, in my humble opinion, offer a very fair field for the employment of people who very often are at a loose end. Men who have come from parts of Europe where tobacco is now a staple product, have told me that in some parts of Greece - and it is peculiar that the great bulk of what is known as Turkish tobacco should be grown in Greece - where wheat, farming was carried on without great advantage to the people who grew it - in fact, it kept them poor - they suddenly conceived the idea of growing tobacco for making cigarettes. While cigarettes may not be conducive to the health of a nation, the growing of the tobacco from which they are made affords a very profitable avenue for employment. Within a few years the wheat-farmers in a part of Greece called Morea, with one accord, abandoned the cultivation of wheat and commenced the cultivation of tobacco. Cigarette tobacco grows in a temperate clime, and on land which is a little too moist for the cultivation of modern wheat. I suppose there are millions of acres of land of that type in Australia. Some of the best tobacco I have ever smoked was, grown about 100 miles from Perth, but, strange as it may seem, Australians are really very conservative. If you tell an Australian that he is a conservative he will laugh you to scorn, but nevertheless, if not by his speech, al all events by his actions you have opportunities of telling that conservatism is very strongly rooted in him. I have had cigarettes made in Western Australia from Western Australian leaf grown, not as an experiment,- but as the commencement of an industry, and the leaf would be a credit to any part of Europe. Surely something of a practical nature can be done by the Commonwealth co-operating with the States, because, after all, not in discussing the matter, but in taking active steps to forward it we may be encroaching on the domain of -the States. Surely inquiries and experiments - and an ounce of experiment is very often worth a pound of inquiry - would be welcomed if as a result of them some relief could be found for the ever-growing mass of people who want to employ their energies, not alone by working for wages, with which subject I dealt last night, but also by working for themselves, and in that way adding to the prosperity and stability of their country. In the establishment of small industries there is much to overcome, not only the innate conservatism of the Australian branch of the British race, but also the love for broad acres. When the pioneers came to Australia they found these broad acres open for their selection and they become accustomed to vast expanses. They had no use for intense culture. They preferred to take up large areas of land but did very little with them. They did not hold with the theory of a " little farm well tilled. " Nowadays we have irrigation lands waiting to be taken up, and it is a pity we cannot hy some means, either by taking them young and educating them, or by pointing out to them how profits can be made on these lands, train a lot of our youths to take up these industries and become that peasantry which I feel sure in the case of Australia, as it has been in other countries, would turn out to be the country's pride. I have read a good deal of the progress which is being made in growing rice in Australia. I hope later on to have an opportunity to see what is being done. Rice-growing is one of the few instances in which, in my .opinion, any good has been derived from Australia's protective policy. Whether it will continue to make progress I do not know. 
Some people have no sense of humour and, therefore, make ridiculous demands. I feel sure  Senator Lynch  will not misunderstand me when I ask him to consider the narrower as well as the broader aspects of primary production, because the smaller industries may prove more valuable than the wider whose cause the honorable senator has taken up. I hope that the motion will be carried and that the Government will take some notice of it. Already it has at hand sufficient methods and channels of inquiry to make the investigationsfor which  Senator Lynch  has asked without burdening the revenue of the Commonwealth to any great extent. I have great pleasure in supporting the motion. 
I thank honorable senators for the way in which they have received my motion. On further consideration I am inclined to delete from the motion the words " and other allied primary industries. " I felt, originally, that I had set the Government a formidable task, and I think now that it would, be better to limit the scope qf the inquiry to wheatgrowing, fruit-growing and dairying. 
I included allied industries in the motion because I thought that the people engaged in them would feel hurt if inquiry were not made into the conditions under which they are working, but I single out wheat-growing, fruitgrowing and dairying, because the people who are engaged in these industries have to find a market for their produce outside Australia, whereas the smaller industries depend upon the local market. They are, therefore, in an entirely different category from those which have to jostle in the markets of the world for the disposal of their products, and to their credit they have held their own up to the present. 
I am prepared to retain the words if their deletion would imperil the safe passage of my motion, but it will not be child's play to have an investigation into the condition of all of Australia's primary industries allied to wheat-growing, fruit-growing and dairying. It means tackling four or five States within the temperate zone, and the inquiry should last for more than twelve months. Of course the work could be undertaken in sections, and if the Government is prepared to allow the investigation to be done by taking one industry after another in turn, I am prepared to allow the first part of my motion to stand as it is. But I wish to amend the latter part of it by omitting from paragraph / the words "what room there is, if any, for the expansion of these industries under present conditions," and substituting the words " what impediments there are, if any, to the expansion of these industries under present conditions." I want to give a wider scope to the inquiry. Honorable senators are evidently satisfied that I have, made out a prima facie case. The industries I have particularly mentioned have never been the subject of a proper investigation, except that there had been partial inquiries into wheat and fruit-growing. I thank honorable senators and the Government for the way in which my motion has been received and I hope that it will have beneficial results.. If it is found that these industries are flourishing, it will be the happiest of revelations. If, on the other hand, it is found that they are struggling under disabilities removable  by  law, or under economic disadvantages that can be eased, some good will come from the inquiry. 
Motion  (by leave)  amended to read - 
That a full  inquiry be made into the position of the wheat-growing, fruit-growing, dairying, and other allied primary industries in the  Commonwealth  in respect  to - 
The amount of capital employed in these industries, 
The reward obtained on the capital invested, 
The hours of labour worked in these industries, 
The rate of pay per hour or per day now being  paid, 
The social conditions of the people engaged as "compared with other sections of the community, 
What impediments there are, if any, to the expansion of these industries under present conditions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Recently the Prime Minister, in another place, said that this agreement will need to be reviewed in ten years' time. When the proposal  Avas  previously before the Senate, it was spoken of in such  glowing  terms that honorable senators were almost convinced that it was without blemish. However, some doubt persisted in our minds, and the statement of the Prime Minister now indicates that the measure is not the bright and shiny thing that we were led to believe. I see no provision in the schedule which will permit a review of the agreement in ten years' time, and I wish to know where it is made. It is not sufficient to have a verbal announcement by the Prime Minister that such action will be taken; I wish to see it in black and white in the bill. I admit that it is quite reasonable to expect that the contributory parties may desire to have the measure reviewed before that time, but it has been indicated that the. agreement is to operate for the full 58 years, and I fail to see where the option is provided in the schedule. If that option is implied, I urge that it be directly incorporated in the bill; I contemplate moving an amendment to that effect. If the Government will not undertake to do so. 
[10.7] .  -  This agreement provides, among other things, for a sinking fund in connexion with the debts of the Commonwealth and the States, which will amortize them within a given period. That being so, this portion of the agreement must be permanent, otherwise there would be no guarantee that the debt would be liquidated. It must be permanent in the sense that a sinking fund must be provided for the period of the existence of the debts. 
If it were not permanent there would be no guarantee for the lender of money. The other portion of the agreement deals with the payments by the Commonwealth to the States, and it was in regard to that that the Prime Minister said that he had no doubt that at the end of ten years the parties would review the position. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I draw the attention of  Senator Lynch  and other honorable senators to the fact that this agreement provides in itself that it may be altered, provided that the consent of all parties  is  obtained. 
I suggest that  Senator Needham  should consult the legal luminary sitting at his rear, who is so fond of giving legal advice to the Senate when it is not sought, and he will learn from him that an agreement cannot be altered unless with the consent of all the parties to it. 
It would be queer if an agreement made with all the States could be altered by any individual State at any time. If  Senator Daly  drew up many agreements of that* nature for his clients he would not have a very big practice. As was indicated by the Prime Minister it is quite likely that, in the interests of all parties, it may be necessary to review the agreement. But there is no necessity for that to be incorporated in the bill, as provision already exists 'that it may be altered, provided that all parties unanimously agree to the alteration. It is not necessary even to wait ten years. If in five years the conditions of the agreement proved irksome and prejudicial to the States or the Commonwealth generally, it could by a unanimous agreement of the parties concerned be altered. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is quite clear that the agreement may be altered with the consent of all parties. It is not necessary to insert a special provision to that effect in the schedule. . 
I am glad that the Leader of the Senate has broken the impressive silence that has enveloped him for some time. I thought that the right honorable senator might have replied to various queries that were raised during the second-reading debate, but he did not. Now  Senator Lynch  has raised the point as to whether there will or will not be a review of the agreement in ten years time, as was stated by the Prime Minister, and wishes to know if such a provision is incorporated in the schedule of the bill. The reply of the Leader of the Senate is that there is a provision in the  bill but that no alteration can take place in the agreement until all parties have consented to it. 
Is it in the bill? 
I am aware of that, but I am dealing with the promise made by the Prime Minister to the right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt)  in another place. Following are the actual words of the right honorable gentleman :  - 

 Mr. Watt. I think the States would welcome that, and record it as their view. 

 Mr. BRUCE. That is as far as I think we can go, bearing in mind that the agreement must have some permanency because of the liability which the Commonwealth is taking over from the States, and to ensure that the agreement cannot be varied at the will of any one party to it. 
The suggestion I make is that, if the House feels strongly that the agreement should be subject to review from time to time, we should record our opinion that, at the expiration of ten years, if the matter has not previously been discussed between the Commonwealth and the States, it should bo re-examined to determine whether the basis of it should be altered in accordance with changed circumstances. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate rightly insists that permanency should be established in order to have a sinking fund, but why did the Prime Minister make a statement which would lead the people of Australia to believe that this agreement can be, not only reviewed, but also altered periodically? It is true that the preamble sets forth that the agreement is to remain until it is altered by the parties thereto, but even if the State Parliaments unanimously desired an alteration, no such alteration could be made if the Commonwealth Parliament was not "agreeable. There must be unanimity before any alteration can be made, and the statement made by the Prime Minister and endorsed by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, promising a review of the agreement within ten years was, therefore, misleading to the people. There is nothing in the bill to indicate that the agreement can be reviewed at any particular time. If the Prime Minister had been sincere in what he said, he would have permitted Parliament to record its opinion in the bill itself that the agreement should be subject to review within a certain time. Honorable senators of the Opposition will oppose the schedule, but I presume that our friends opposite, with the solitary exception of  Senator Lynch,  will be bound by party ties to support it. 
I should not have spoken at this stage had it not been for the cheap sarcasm of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate. I am not in the habit of giving an opinion unless I believe in what I say. I am of opinion that  Senator Lynch  is right in saying that the whole of the States could agree that this agreement is not in the best interests of the States, but the Commonwealth could keep them to the compact. There is no need to attempt to mislead honorable senators, and the Leader of the Senate should always be prepared to state what be believes to be the truth. I agree with  Senator McLachlan  that all the parties to the agreement might vary it. In ten years' time it may, if they so desire, be in the best interests of South Australia to withdraw from the scheme on certain terms, yet it could not do so without the consent of all the parties. Of course it could not do so, leaving the Commonwealth in a hole, but I am sure an agreement could be drawn up providing for such a contingency. Whilst providing ample protection for the interests of the Commonwealth it could, at the same time, conserve the interests of the States. 
I wish to remind honorable senators opposite of what they have evidently forgotten - that the right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt)  in another place, stated that in his honest opinion, under this agreement the Commonwealth was taking on more than it could possibly fulfil in regard to the States; and for that reason he claimed that there should be some power of review. It has been inferred by honorable senators that  Mr. Watt  was induced to vote for the bill because of some promise the Prime Minister made. I heard  Mr. 
Watt make his speech. He certainly referred to the fact that the bill had from the very beginning contained provision for a possible variation of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The agreement provides that it may be varied or rescinded by the parties thereto, and the Prime Minister said, in another place, that in his opinion, it would, probably, be subject to discussions between the States and the Commonwealth much earlier than at the end of the ten years' period suggested by  Mr. "Watt.  Weighing his words very carefully he said "I shall never be a party to the variation of an agreement that has been made with the various States except upon the condition under which it was made : that the alteration is consented to by all the parties thereto." If the honorable member  for Balaclava was induced to support the bill on a promise such as that, he did not require very much inducement to do so. 
I fail to see the need for the motion. 
Nevertheless, it should not be necessary to suspend the Standing Orders. We have made very satisfactory progress. In another place the bill was debated for some days, and would have been discussed at greater length if the Government had not placed a time limit on the debate. It is true that the Leader of the Senate has not attempted to restrict discussion in this chamber, but I suggest that it would be better to take the third reading tomorrow. If the right honorable gentleman persists with his motion to suspend the Standing Orders, honorable members on this side will vote against it. 
 If as a result of the financial agreement which has been made, State governments find their resources seriously impaired, they will be unable to carry out efficiently many governmental activities for which they are properly responsible. I agree that we are just at the turning point. There now appears to be a settled conviction in the minds of the people that the States should not venture further into the industrial field. Experience has proved a good teacher. Long before the Labour party rose to power in this country the people, almost by universal consent, approved of State governments becoming actively interested in certain industrial enterprises. In later times in Queensland the State government some years ago bought a number of large station properties and entered into the business of cattle raising on an extensive scale, with most unfortunate results. In stead of showing a profit, the government cattle stations involved the taxpayers of that State in a loss of £1,250,000. 
We can readily understand the feeling of the people in Queensland to-day concerning that venture. The Government is endeavouring  to  sell the properties. We have had a similar experience in Western Australia in connexion with the State implement works. The Minister in charge of that scheme satisfied himself and apparently the Government also that it would return a profit of 25per cent. in addition to supplying the farmers of Western Australia with agricultural implements and spare parts at a reasonable price. A considerable sum was expended on the erection of the works, but unhappily the enterprise has not fulfilled expectations and the Labour Government is now endeavouring to induce private enterprise to share in the control of the undertaking. If that is not getting out of the business then it is a near approach to it. If we turn to Tasmania we find that the Labour Government there got rid of governmentowned ships without a word of complaint from the people. If an anti-Labour government in any of the States mentioned attempted to do what Labour governments have done in the three States mentioned, the air would be thick with curses. Those socialistic schemes failed because those who launched them did not take into account human nature. But there are certain activities which, for good reasons, should still be controlled by the State. No one would suggest, for example, that our railways, our post and telegraph systems and a number of other public utilities should be handed over to private enterprise. And whilst State governments are responsible for the carrying on of these great undertakings, it is essential that they should not have their financial resources impaired. They are entitled to generous treatment at the hands of the Commonwealth Government. 
In the early years of federation, the customs and excise revenue amounted to about £8,000,000 annually. The  framers of the Constitution considered that one-fourth of that amount would be quite enough for the needs of the central government. Actually it was more than sufficient. Careful handling of Commonwealth finances enabled the central government from time to time to return to the States the unexpended balance of the one-fourth of customs and excise revenue earmarked for Commonwealth purposes. To-day the collections from the customs and excise amount to over £40,000,000, and there seems to be a disposition in some quarters to retain the whole of it for Commonwealth purposes. It is true that, with the years, there has been a corresponding increase in Commonwealth financial responsibility; but there is a big difference between £2 a head customs and excise collections in the early years of federation, and over £7 a head to-day. 
In 35 years from now the Commonwealthwar debt, except ing war pensions, should be entirely liquidated, andwe may presume that there will not be a very heavy liability in respect of Avar pensions. 
If the Commonwealth Government cares to engage in all sorts of undertakings concerningwhich constitutional objections may be raised, many avenues for the expenditure of public moneywill be opened up. Surely the time is approachingwhen a clear line of demarcation must be drawn between Commonwealth and State responsibilities and activities. We cannot continue to tell the States that they can undertake certain work until the Commonwealth is in a position to assume control. The result is clearly shown in other lands. In the magnificent library of the Parliament there are, as honorable senators know, important works- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
It appears somewhat extraordinary to most of us that there should be any strong opposition to the validation of this important financial agreement be- tween the Commonwealth and the States, under which the Federal Government is, amongst other things, to assume responsibility for certain State indebtedness. There have been a good many assertions as towhatwould happen if the  per capita  payment were continued for the period covered by this agreement. The action of the Government since the expiration of the time fixed by the Braddon section in impinging on the revenue to be paid  to  the States from Customs House receipts has had an adverse affect upon State finances. But the immigration policy towhich the Labour party has taken such strong exception, particularly when unemployment began to manifest itself in different parts of the State, was under the  per capita  system of great benefit to the States. When the Commonwealth first propounded the idea that the  per capita  payment should cease there was naturally some dismay and concern amongst State Treasurers as to how they should adjust their finances. Many of the proposals first submittedwere unacceptable to the States. The right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt),when  Commonwealth Treasurer, submitted certain proposals which mat with an unfavourable reception, and it is rather surprising now to find that the right honorable gentleman is one of the strongest opponents of this scheme. 
He spoke against it in Victoria, and voted for it here. The present scheme was of such an unusual and unexpected character that it took the financial advisers and authorities of the States completely off their feet. To them it was an attractive proposal to be relieved of their debts and of the necessity to provide millions of pounds by way of interest on money, which was supposed to have been spent on reproductive works; but much of which has not been spent on anything of the kind. The proposals of the  Government  appeared to State Treasurers like the opening of a direct road to a financial haven. At the time a Labor government was in office in Victoria, and  Mr. Hogan,  who was Premier and Treasurer, and who was, of course, opposed to the Bruce-Page Government, welcomed the scheme with open arms. 
He was in considerable difficulty in meeting a large deficit left to his Government by the Allan-Peacock Administration . 
The action of the Commonwealth Government gave him the reputation of being one of the most satisfactory Treasurers Victoria has ever had. The Commonwealth Government practically made his Government a present of between £600,000 and £800,000,with the result that the deficit with which he would have had to face the country - and a deficit is always presumed to be a result of Labour administration - completely disappeared. Labour Governments have a reputation of being able to spend more money than they can raise, and the action of the Commonwealth Government allowed the Hogan Administration to close its books in a manner which was creditable to them, and which afforded great relief to the Victorian taxpayers at that time. Mention has been made of the manner in which the Federal Government has been paying off its dead weight war debt, which, amounts to approximately £400,000,000 sterling. The Government has certainly made the position appear satisfactory, but while it has succeeded in reducing the war debt by an appreciable amount, the total indebtedness of the Commonwealth has increased instead of decreased, and to-day is more than it was five or six years ago. When the Government first introduced this means of reducing the dead weight debt it appeared satisfactory; but if the present position continues a situation will arise that will be difficult to meet. Unfortunately it has become the practice of State Governments to borrow money and then spend it in a variety of ways in an endeavour to secure a continuance of the support of the electors. In Victoria that course has been followed to such an extent that money borrowed for closer settlement purposes has actually been wasted, as when the land was found unsuitable and was. sold by auction the proceeds were treated as revenue. 
During the ten or fifteen years that practice has been in forcewe have had three or four so-called National or Liberal Governments. The Hogan Governmentwas not in power long enough to make any alteration, and did not appear to fancy such a stupendous task. We are repeatedly informed by different governments that Victoria's debt is represented by reproductive works, such as our modern railway systemwhich has cost approximately £70,000,000. Valuableworks have also been undertaken in connexion with the conservation and distribution of water. But notwithstanding the usefulways inwhich a great deal of this money was supposed to be invested, the Auditor-General is continually drawing attention to the fact that these works are not in any sense reproductive. Last year, the Auditor-General said that the general revenue in Victoria was drawn upon to the extent of £1,750,000 to pay interest on so-called reproductiveworks. The Victorian Parliament welcomed the Commonwealth's scheme because, amongst other things, it approved of the proposals concerning the Loan Council, which it contendedwould be a check upon the borrowing policies of the States. Even this year the Loan Council has done excellentwork in limiting the State borrowing towhat it considers a reasonable amount. The members of the British Economic Mission known as the "Big Four " studied the financial situation of the Commonwealth and submitted a report as favorable to Australia as they possibly could. But I am inclined to think some of the members of the Governmentwho met these British magnates over a glass ofwhisky, heard a different; tale. Doubtless these gentlemen commented upon our excessive borrowing for financing wild schemes, many of which are before their time. In that respect, the Commonwealth is just as much to blame as is the States. The Commonwealth  is constructing railways  200  years before they are required - lines which cannot be expected to pay interest on capital expenditure or one half of their working expenses. There seems to be a tendency on the part of both Commonwealth and State administrations to proceed at a faster rate than circumstances demand. In Victoria we have done wonderful work, particularly in irrigation, and have made a garden of what the late  Sir John  Robertson - when incensed over the duties imposed by Victoria many years ago - said was a cabbage patch. Victoria has been made what  it  was termed  by  its discoverer, the Australia felix of the Commonwealth. Although the Commonwealth has assisted in connexion  with  this huge scheme for the storage of water, production on the Victorian irrigation areas has increased to such an extent that a market for the produce cannot be found. The returns from the irrigated blocks do not justify the payment of the water charges. These are some of  the  problems which we hope will be remedied by the financial agreement. The members of the Victorian Parliament are, for the most part, satisfied with the comprehensive and statesmanlike proposal of the Treasurer to settle the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. "With the withdrawal of the  per capita  payments, the States would indeed be in financial difficulties should this agreement not be validated. Indeed, it is difficult to see how they  would  be able to pay the interest on the money borrowed by them. The Commonwealth has dealt  Avith  these problems in a proper manner. The States are opposed to unification, although the Labour party is strongly in favour of having one Parliament and one purse for the  whole  of Australia. Were the Labour party in  power  in the Common-  wealth  and referendum proposals for unification  were  submitted to the people by way of a referendum, I feel sure that the electors  would  cast a strong negative vote.  Senator O'Halloran  quoted from a leading article in the Melbourne  Age.  That newspaper is an unfortunate political guide. It extolled the Hogan Government in Victoria, and, at the same time, supported the Bruce-Page pact. It spoke with  two  voices. Eventually the  Age  lured the Hogan Government to destruction. When that government, fol- lowing the suggestion of the  Age,  introduced a bill for the redistribution of seats, the members of the Country party rose practically as one man, and the Hogan Government went out of office. I predict that it will be a long time before there is another Labour Government in Victoria. 
In our borrowing policy  Ave  should not lose sight of the fact that a large proportion of the land in Australia is practically valueless, and that continued borrowing imposes a heavy burden on our population of less than  7,000,000.  -Senator Lynch  spoke optimistically regarding the future of Western Australia, but I venture the opinion that the population and  wealth  of the industrial centres of 
New South Wales and Victoria will increase much more rapidly than will be the case in Western Australia. 
Honorable members on this side will, of course, oppose the third reading. During the debate in committee some doubt was expressed about a statement made by the right honorable member for Balaclava  (Mr. Watt)  in the discussion on the bill in another place. I take advantage of this opportunity to place on record his exact words.  Mr. Watt  said - 
If wc could bc sure that ten years hence the people's representatives in this Parliament would have an opportunity to re-examine this agreement I would vote for the bill. 

 Mr. Coleman. But the agreement does not permit Of that. 

 Mr. Watt. It does, and it does not. 
[10.47]. - In moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I wish to intimate to honorable senators that I propose to*morrow to ask the Senate to meet on Tuesday of next week,  at  3 o'clock. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Senate adjourned at 10.48  p.m. 
 (By leave.)  - I desire to inform the Senate
            that this morning  Senator J.  J. Daly, of South
            Australia, was appointed Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. 
[11.9]. -  (By leave.)  - On behalf of
            honorable senators on this side of the chamber, I desire to congratulate  Senator Daly  on his appointment, and to assure him that
            the same consideration that we have endeavoured to extend to the Leader of the
            Opposition will be extended to him when acting in his stead. 
asked the Min ister for Defence, <inline font-style="italic">upon notice
                -</inline>
Is ita fact - (a) that there is no adequate provision for aviation at Canberra;
                (b) that there is not even an air vane to indicate the direction of the wind; (c)
                that valuable machines worth £6,000 each have had to be tied up to a telegraph
                post many miles from the city, and that there is no protection whatever for
                aeroplanes? 
Is the Minister aware whether a valuable life was lost when an aviator was burnt
                in a Government machine at Wangaratta lately, owing to a land-holder erecting posts
                so that aviators could not land in his paddock? 
When will reasonably adequate provision be made for aviation at the Federal
                Capital and elsewhere? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.The replies to the
            senator's questions are as follow : - 1. (a) An area of ground near Duntroon has
            been selected as suitable for a landing ground and marked. Negotiations are now taking
            place between the Department of Defence and the Federal Capital Commission to make this
            land definitely available for aviation purposes under a suitable lease; (b) a pole was
            erected at the aerodrome for the purpose of carrying a wind-vane, and a wind-vane was
            fitted. If there is not one there at present it has been destroyed by the wind, and will
            be replaced immediately; (c) the Defence Department has no knowledge of any particular
            instance of a machine of this value having been tied to a telegraph post on the
            aerodrome at Canberra, but any machine arriving there, and staying over night, must
            necessarily be pegged down, as no hangar accommodation exists at present. The question
            of the provision of bandar accommodation willbe considered when civilian aviation
            traffic justifies it and/or in connexion with the development of the Royal Australian
            Air Force. 
Arrangements were originally made for a landing ground at Wangaratta with the
                owner of an area of ground convenient to the town, and which was perfectly suitable
                as a landing ground, and a. number of machines used it without accident. Later, the
                landowner took exception to machines landing there, and steps wore taken to find
                another suitable area. In the meantime, however, aircraft used the original ground.
                It took some time to find another suitable ground, and the owner of the original
                ground erected posts so that machines could not land on his ground without accident.
                Another area of ground possible for use as a. landing ground, but not entirely
                suitable for all types of machines, although the best available at that time, was
                then taken. This is the area upon which the accident occurred last week.Efforts were
                continued with a view to obtaining a more suitable place, and some six months ago an
                officer of the department visited Wangaratta and interviewed an owner of land which
                was quite suitable, near Bowser. The owner agreed as to terms, &amp;c., and an
                agreement was drawn up, but although the depart' tent made three efforts to get
                the agreement signed, up to the present these efforts have been without result. The
                area now marked as the landing ground is considered suitable for the type which are
                landing there, i.e., light aeroplanes, the type with which the accident occurred
                last week. 
Arrangements are being made as rapidly as possible, having regard to the amount
                of funds available for the purpose. 
asked the Minister for Defence - 
Who owns or controls the aviation ground at Canberra? 
Is it a fact that the aerodrome is not provided with telephonic facilities?
              
Do telephone or telegraph lines cross the aerodrome ? 
Are adequate facilities for the provision of water for aeroplanes afforded, or
                has water to be secured from some miles distant? 
Is it a fact that, whilst an aeroplane has taken 1 hour 20 minutes to come from
                Sydney, owing to lack of telephonic facilities, it some times takes one hour for
                visitors to reach Canberra from the aviation grounds? 
Is there an air vane on the aerodrome; if not, why not? 
Are live stock of any kind allowed to graze near the aerodrome? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that quantities of cement for use by the Works Department in South
                Australia have been secured from Tasmania during the past twelve months? 
Is the Minister aware whether these supplies could have been secured fromfirms
                manufacturing cement in South Australia? 
Why were supplies not secured from these firms ? 
The following replies have been supplied - 
No. 
See answer to No. 1. 
Locally manufactured supplies have been obtained from South Australian firms.
              
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
Is the Government aware of the serious position of the finances of South
                Australia us disclosed by the Premier of that State in recent public utterances?
              
When will the report of the South Australian Disabilities Commission be
                available? 
Will the suggestion of a special grant for South Australia be considered during
                this financial year? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the
            honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
The Government is aware of the views of the Premier of South Australia on the
                subject of the financial position in that State. 
The Government has no information as to the date on which the report will be
                available, but the Commission, in reply to an inquiry by the Government, has
                intimated that the report is being finalized. 
No provision fora financial grant to South Australia having been made in the
                budget of this financial year, it would not be possible for the Commonwealth to make
                such a grant. The matter will, however, be considered in connexion with the budget
                for 1929-30. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been directed to extracts from Bulletin
                No. 8 of the Public Service Association of New Guinea, published in the  Rabaul Times  of Friday, 21st December, 1928, in which
                it is alleged that letters addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and forwarded
                to the Administrator for transmission have not been forwarded, as far as the
                association can ascertain ? 
When (if at all) were certain letters, dated 24th September, 1927,5th June,
                1928, 6th July, 1928, and 8th August, 1928. referred to in the above-mentioned
                publication as having been forwarded to the Administrator, received by the Minister,
                and were any replies sent; if so, when? 3.What was the reply to the letter of the
                8th August, 1928, in which the association asked for a definite ruling from the
                Minister? 
Is it a fact that this question was brought before  Senator Crawford  (then Minister) in 1923, during his visit to the
                Territory, by a memorandum handed him by the secretary of the association, and,
                also, before  Mr. Marr  in the Territory in 1927 ;
                if so, what instructions (if any) we're given to the Administrator? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Are efforts still being made on behalf of the Commonwealth Government to locate
                oil within Australia or the Mandated Territories? 
What has been the total amount expended thereon during each of the past six
                years ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the
            honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
Efforts are still being made on behalf of the Commonwealth Government to locate
                oil in Papua and New Guinea. In Australia, efforts to locate oil are being made by
                private enterprise, in some instances with financial assistance from the
                Commonwealth Government, and with advice from the Commonwealth geological adviser.
              
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representingthe Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Are wireless organizations in Australia, which are participating in licensing
                fees, allowed to take payment for advertising by wireless ? 
If 80, is the money so received from advertising shared with the Government?
              
Does the Government approve of licensed wireless listeners being charged for
                listening to advertisements? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following replies: - 1 and 2.
              Broadcasting companies are permitted under the wireless regulations to broadcast
              advertisements, the payment for which is retained by the companies. The broadcasting
              of such advertisements is subject to certain regulations ' which limit the periods
              during which they may be broadcast. 
When the regulations  were  prepared it was
                contemplated that the revenue received from advertisements would be a useful
                addition to the licence revenue, particularly in States where comparatively few
                licences were issued, and thus enable the companies to improve the programmes.
              
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has stated recently that the East Coast
                (Tasmania) Development Company Limited can participate in the proposed coal bounty?
              
If so, will the Government provide facilities for out-of-work miners at
                Newcastle to proceed to Swansea, in Tasmania, so as to enable them to earn a living
                in order to support their families ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the
            Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
The Prime Minister has stated that any bounty payable by the Commonwealth
                Government upon coal exported overseas and interstate would be applicable to the
                coal industry in all States. 
The Government does not consider that any obligation devolves upon it to follow
                the course suggested. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the officers of the headquarters staff of the Repatriation
                Commission have received notice that the Government intend to transfer them to
                Canberra? 
When will such transfer be made? 
Is the Minister aware whether most of these officers arc temporary, and,
                consequently, will suffer considerable disadvantages as a result of such transfer?
              
Before finalizing the transfer, will the Minister go into the whole question, so
                as to ensure that officers so transferred will not suffer in any way? 
The following replies have been furnished by the right honorable the Prime
              Minister: - 
It has been decided to transfer the headquarters staff of the Repatriation
                Commission to Canberra. 2, 3, and 4. The conditions under which the staff will be
                transferred are still receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice-- 
In view of the great interstate inconvenience which is being experienced through
              the SydneyBrisbane mail and passenger train not running daily, will the Federal
              Government use its influence with the Queensland and New South Wales Governments to
              secure an uninterrupted daily train service, including Sundays, for mails and
              passengers between Brisbane and Sydney? 
The PostmasterGeneral has furnished the following reply:- 
Every effort is made with the State Governments to secure the best mail service
              possible to the States. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the Government aware whether the Chamber of Mines at Kalgoorlie and other
                mining people are anxious to know when the Government will give effect to the
                recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission respecting the
                gold-mining industry, in order that they may take their proper share in the vigorous
                development and carrying on of the industry? 
In view of the urgency of the case, when will the Government make a
                pronouncement on the subject? 
Representations have been made to the Government in regard to this matter by the
                Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines and other interested bodies. 
Owing to the continuous sittings of Parliament it has not been possible for the
                Government to complete its consideration of the questions involved. It is, however,
                hoped that it will be possible, shortly, to make a pronouncement on the subject.
              
I move - 
That the bill bo now read a second time. 
It is, perhaps, unnecessary for me to inform the Senate that no new
            principle is involved in this measure, the object of which is to create a board to deal
            with the overseas marketing of wine. The bill is similar to existing legislation dealing
            with dried and canned fruits and dairy produce which has given general satisfaction to
            the producers in those industries. The production of wine in Australia exceeds the local
            consumption, but an overseas market for the surplus can be found if the industry is
            properly organized. 
Prior to 1924, when no bounty was paid on sweet fortified wine exported from
                Australia, the average quantity of wine exported yearly was about 800,000 gallons.
                The granting of the bounty resulted in a considerable increase in the quantity of
                wine exported. In 1925-26 Australia exported 1,700,000 gallons of wine, and in the
                following two years 3,077,000 and 3,770,000 gallons respectively. Those figures show
                tho benefit derived by the industry from the wine bounty. The marketing of those
                large quantities of wine, most of which went to Great Britain, has in the past been
                carried out in a haphazard way. There has been no co-ordination of effort amongst
                exporters to regulate the exportation of wine, and the absence of any method of
                control has acted to the detriment of the wine exporters in particular, and in a
                general way to the growers. As in other measures of this kind, the organizing of
                export marketing operations is handed over to those engaged in the industry itself.
                The bill provides that a board of eight members shall be appointed, one of whom will
                represent the Government, and will be appointed by the Governor-General. As the
                board is vested with statutory powers, it is highly necessary that there should be a
                connecting link between it and the Government. The constitution of the board will
                consist of one member representing Victoria, one New South Wales and Queensland, two
                South Australia, one Western Australia, and two representing co-operative wineries
                and distilleries. In addition, there will be the Government representative to whom I
                have referred. 
It is thought that by giving representation to the cooperative wineries and
                distilleries, the growers will have a form of indirect representation. 
Exactly. The growers are shareholders in these concerns, and are, therefore,
                interested in the export of wine. 
Not at the moment. In giving the co-operative wineries and distilleries two
                representatives the Government has in mind that, though growers are not directly
                connected with the making and selling of wine, their interests have to be
                considered. All the shareholders in the five co-operative companies operating in the
                Commonwealth are growers, and all the profits are divided among the shareholders,
                who number over 1,000. Their representatives on the board will see that the
                interests of growers will not be overlooked. The successful operation of the board
                depends on its personnel, and it is certain those concerned will see that only the
                very best men in the industry are elected to it. The Government representative will
                not in any way be connected with the viticultural industry. Of necessity, he must
                have had a wide commercial experience, and must be willing to give his time and
                energy in the interests of the industry. 
The export trade has had a sei back owing to the heavy exportation of wine in 1927,
            between the time that the announcement was made of the reduction of the bounty by ls.
            per gallon and that when the actual reduction took place. The British market then became
            flooded with wine, which created a glut, and greatly reduced the previous demand. That
            glut has been very nearly cleared, and the exports of wine should again become active.
            The over-export of wine to which I have referred has had a very depressing effect on the
            industry. If a marketing organization such as the one proposed had been in existence at
            the time, exports could have been so regulated and controlled as to avoid over supply,
            and a greater stability in the English market would have been secured. At present,
            marketing is carried on with little or no system, and, if the wine export trade is to
            expand and flourish, organization is vital. The extent of the market open in Great
            Britain may be estimated from the fact that average imports of wine in that country
            reach approximately 1 8,000,000 gallons. The present consumption of Australian wine in
            Great Britain is about 2,250,000 gallons a year. It will therefore be realized that
            Australia's share of the trade is capable of considerable expansion. Without proper
            marketing organization it is very improbable that the export trade can develop to the
            full extent, and this bill provides the necessary machinery for the industry itself to
            place its overseas marketing on £ii organized basis, with statutory powers. 
The undoubted success of existing marketing boards in bringing about improved
            methods of distribution, moro stable prices, and considerable savings to freight
            reductions, has no doubt been a strong factor in convincing the wine industry that
            organization is very necessary to them. This was evidenced by the action taken at the
            conference of those connected with the viticultural industry which was held in Melbourne
            early in January. Every organization of growers, wine makers and distillers was
            represented at the conference, which unanimously carried a resolution that a marketing
            organization similar to those already in existence was highly desirable for the success
            of the wine export trade. The Minister for Markets met the representatives of the
            industry, who gave their full approval and support to this bill. It is unnecessary for
            me at this stage to dilate upon the different clauses of the measure, as that can be
            done in committee when the necessity arises. Perhaps I might be permitted to point out
            that, clause 14 is probably the most important in the bill, as it provides that nil
            exports of wine shall be prohibited by proclamation unless shipped in accordance with
            the conditions of a licence issued by the Minister for Markets. This is not a new
            principle, as a similar provision applies in other marketing organizations. Export by
            licence enables the Marketing Board to regulate shipments to overseas markets, and also
            to arrange for wine to be marketed through those channels which are considered most
            beneficial to the exporters. 
Clause 12 is also important, as it provides for the establishment of a London
            agency. Provision is being made in a bill which will follow this one for the machinery
            to collect the necessary fees to afford the board its revenue. The constitution of the
            London agency will be left entirely to the board, except that it will be necessary to
            appoint one member as a representative of the Commonwealth. 
Clause 16 contains penalties for contravention of the regulations, and enables a
            check to be exercised over the board by providing that the proclamation may be cancelled
            should its conditions be found unreasonable. That power is considered necessary if the
            board is to fulfil a useful purpose.- I remind honorable senators that the operation of
            this bill is contingent upon approval being granted by a poll taken of the wine-makers
            and distillers. A bare majority only is required. If the bill is approved its provisions
            will remain in force for three years, at the expiration of which time a fresh poll may
            be held if demanded by 30 per cent, of the wine-makers or distillers. That safeguard
            gives the wine-makers an opportunity to discard the Marketing Board if it is not giving
            satisfaction. It is proposed to make a levy of 5s. per ton on all grapes supplied to
            wineries, to supply the board with funds to finance its London agency, and for other
            purposes. 
No, by the makers. Provision for its collection will be made later in the bill
                to which I have referred. I am aware that in some quarters there is a disinclination
                to approve any form of government control, but it must be realized that this measure
                leaves the marketing of wine entirely in the hands of the industry. The Government
                hopes and believes that the constitution of this board will assist in capturing a
                greater share of the British markets and consequently place the industry on a much
                sounder basis than hitherto. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Halloran) 
            adjourned. 
I do not see the necessity for this motion. I have never yet consented to the
            suspension of Standing Orders to allow bills to go through their remaining stages
            without delay unless the matter has been one of urgency. The Leader of the Senate has
            not suggested urgency in connexion with this measure, which is merely an amendment of
            the Tariff Board Act. The Tariff Board will continue its activities whether the bill is
            read a third time now, or this time next year. I suggest to the Leader of the Senate
            that the measure be allowed to remain at its present stage, and that it be read a third
            time next week. Honorable senators on this side will not support the suspension of the
            Standing Orders in order to allow the remaining stages to go through without delay.
          
Question - That the motion be agreed to - put. The committee divided - 
Ayes . . . . 19 
Noes...... 7 
Majority . . 12 

<graphic href="120332192903156_21_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192903156_21_3_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192903156_21_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Briefly, the object of the bill is to facilitate the work of the
            Tariff Board in many directions. It contains a provision under which discretionary power
            is given to the Minister to refer to the board certain questions such as the
            classification of goods and the determination of values under section 15. Another
            important feature relates to the manner in which the board should conduct its work.
            Authority is to be given to the board to divide itself for the purpose of making certain
            inquiries, so that, instead of the full board being engaged, two members of it may
            conduct investigations, whilst the remaining members give their attention to other
            matters; but the full board must accept responsibility for all recommendations. These
            are the general features. Among the other amending provisions is one empowering the
            Governor-General to appoint a person other than a member of the Public Service to be a
            chairman of the board. This is considered desirable in view of the possibility of some
            person being available of outstanding ability, capable of dealing with all the
            intricacies and difficulties of tariff board work, and especially gifted to analyse the
            various cross currents that are met with in tariff investigations. There also is
            provision authorizing the board, in certain circumstances, to confer with the Director
            of Economic Research. I may add that the Government contemplates bringing down a measure
            during the present session to establish such a bureau. 
.- The bill may be divided into three parts. The first part provides for increases
              in the salaries of members of the board, the second reduces the days of sitting, and
              the third alters the machinery provisions of the act so as to enable the board the
              more expeditiously to carry out its work. Despite the Minister's statement, I take
              the view that this measure opens up a wide field for discussion; but I shall confine
              my remarks to the three points which I have mentioned, and I shall be as brief as
              possible. The remuneration of the board was the subject of considerable argument when
              the original billwas under discussion in 1921. I have always believed that a good man
              should be paid what he is worth. 
My honorable friend has put to me a very pertinent question. I freely admit it
                is difficult to discover the real worth of every man ; but the point I wish to make
                is that the efficient discharge of the duties of a member of the Tariff Board calls
                for the ablest men we can get, and I believe that their remuneration should be
                adequate. While on this subject I remind honorable senators that usually the
                Government is anxious to increase the salaries of higherpaid officials, but is
                indifferent about the lower-paid public servants. The Secretary of the Defence
                Department, for example, is in receipt of £2,000 a year, whilst his predecessor
                received £1,150 or thereabouts. We have never been told what is the reason for
                this discrepancy. My view is that all grades of the Public Service should be well
                paid. 
I come now to the method of payment of members of the board. The bill provides that
            the board shall receive sitting fees. I protest against that system. Members of the
            board should devote the whole of their time to the work and they should receive adequate
            remuneration. I consider it wrong that men who may be interested in private businesses
            should receive sitting fees as members of the Tariff Board, and be in a position to
            determine tariff requests which may indirectly affect their own business interests. I
            wish to make it clear that in saying this, I am not making allegations against any one.
            I am merely pointing to the danger that might arise under the system proposed by the
            Government. The Leader of the Senate, speaking in this chamber in 1921, said in reply to
            a suggestion that members of Parliamentshould constitute a Tariff Board - 
It is a fact that members of Parliament will not have the time to do the work
              which is called for if the work is to be efficiently done. 
If members of Parliament are not in a position to perform the work required of
            members of a Tariff Board, neither are persons interested in commercial enterprises -
            men whose attention must be divided between their own businesses and the work of the
            board. What  Senator Pearce  said in 1921 about
            members of Parliament applies to-day, with equal force, . to business men. The board, it
            will be noted, acts only in an advisory capacity. 
I am aware of that. My object in mentioning it was to direct attention to a
                speech delivered by  Senator Crawford  in this
                chamber in 1921. The honorable senator' said : - 
I favour the appointment of three salaried members of the board; members who would
              bc expected to give the whole of their time to tariff matters ... I do not think that
              either a member of Parliament or a person who is actually engaged in business can
              devote the necessary time to efficiently discharge the duties of a member of the board
              .... I am strongly opposed to payment by sittings, and to the appointment of persons
              who arc actively engaged in business. 

 Senator Thomas, speaking on the same subject, said - 
If the board is appointed it will be far better to pay fixed salaries than a sum
              for each sitting. 

 Senator Duncan, who also took part in the debate,
            stated : - 
I am in favour of paying a fixed salary to members of the proposed board. It would
              be bettor to have purely a departmental board of men possessed of ability and
              knowledge such as many of the officers of the department have. 
I strongly object to the remuneration of the board being in the form
            of sitting fees. Members of that body should be employed continuously and be adequately
            paid. 
I confessed in reply to an interjection by Senator 
                  R. H. S. Abbott just now, that I was not in a position to say what
                salaries should be paid ; but I have always been in favour of paying well ' for
                efficient services. I would have no objection if the members of the board sat only
                four days a week. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have been condemned
                for supporting those who believe in a shorter working week; but in this instance the
                Government is adopting the principle which Ave have always advocated. I believe that
                some of the work now undertaken by the Tariff Board could be performed with equal
                satisfaction by departmental officers. In order to expedite inquiries by the board
                it is provided iu this bill that it may work in two sections each sitting
                separately; but that any decisions reached by a section of the board shall be
                confirmed by the full board. It will be interesting to see if this arrangement will
                have the effect of facilitating the work of this body which is so important to the
                producing interests of the Commonwealth. When a tariff board bill was before
                Parliament in 1924  Senator Reid  said: "I
                trust that effect will be given to the opinion expressed in favour of all inquiries
                being held in public." If the honorable senator wishes to be consistent he
                should, when the measure is in committee, endeavour to give effect to the principle
                which he previously advocated. 
I understand that some of the evidence is taken <inline font-style="italic">in
                  camera.</inline>
Why should not all the information essential to an inquiry be placed at the
                disposal of the hoard ? 
If they are, why should  Senator Reid  say
                that trade secrets should not be disclosed. 
Then, all the meetings of the board are not held in public. I do not wish to
                discuss the measure further at this juncture; but in committee I may suggest certain
                amendments. 
As I sponsored the legislation under which the Tariff Board was first
              appointed, I can claim some knowledge of the subject. The principal act was in the
              nature of an experiment, and there should be some satisfaction in realizing after this
              lapse of years, that the legislation, as originally introduced, has, with certain
              minor amendments, remained operative. The Government is wise in dispensing with the
              obligation which was placed upon the Minister to submit certain matters to the board.
              At the same time I understand from what the Honorary Minister  (Senator  McLachlan) has said, that while the obligation
              lias been removed certain discretionary powers will still remain in the hands of the
              Minister. That is a wise provision, as some of these questions which appear to be of
              minor importance may ultimately prove to be of major significance. As it is impossible
              for Parliament to deal with every possible contingency arising under the tariff, it is
              essential that a certain amount of discretionary power should be placed in the hands
              of the administration. The Government is very fortunate in having in the department of
              Trade and Customs the highest possible type of public servants; but it is to be
              regretted that the devotion to duty of some of the men of exceptionally high calibre,
              with whom it was my pleasure to work for several years, has in some instances caused
              their death. 
For the information of the Leader of the Opposition I may say that the principal act
            did not provide that inquiries before the board should be held in public ; that was
            provided for in an amending measure. 
The inquiries themselves are held in public, but there is a provision availed
                of by the board, under which a witness may submit confidential information. It would
                be unreasonable to ask manufacturers and others to disclose the whole of the details
                of their businesses. To enable the Tariff Board to obtain a clear conception of the
                problems with which it is dealing, it is essential that it should have complete
                information, and that witnesses appearing before it should be encouraged to disclose
                the fullest particulars concerning the industries in which they are interested. Thy
                only way in which that can be done is to provide the board with statutory authority
                to obtain certain information confidentially. It has been my pleasure to give
                evidence before the Tariff Board in connexion with two businesses with which I am
                associated, and on those occasions I submitted the most complete costing details
                that it was possible for the accountants to compile. The members of the board stated
                that the tables I tendered were the most comprehensive they had ever studied. It is
                only by permitting witnesses to give information of a private nature  in camera  that the board can analyse the actual
                position of an undertaking. Nothing would be more prejudicial to the interests of
                the country and the work of the board than to discourage witnesses from submitting
                confidential information. 
A clause in the bill provides that the board shall have power to confer with a
            director of economic research, who, I understand, is to be appointed under another
            measure which has not yet come before the Senate. As I may not be present when that
            measure is under discussion, I should like to record my hesitancy in supporting any
            proposals for the establishment of further bureaux or boards. All the information
            required car I think be obtained by such bodies as the Development and Migration
            Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, which, under their
            very wide charter, can inquire into and report upon a variety of subjects. We also have
            the Tariff Board itself, as well as the Statistician's Department, which should be
            able to render efficient service in this regard. In view of our financial position the
            Commonwealth should hesitate before setting up another entirely new body, which, if
            established, will soon lie costing the country from £60,000 to £S0,000 a year.
            There is an old saying, that when a public servant has been supplied with an ink pot and
            blotting pad it is not long before he has a department around him. If the measure to
            which I have referred receives the approval of Parliament, it will not be long before
            the director will be surrounded by a highly-paid staff. 
That is another matter. As we shall probably be faced with an accumulated
                deficit of over £4,000,000 at the end of the financial year, the Government
                should not appoint a new body such as that contemplated under another bill. As the
                provision in this measure relates only to conferences with a Director of Economic
                Research to be appointed it is innocuous, but the Government should call a halt, and
                endeavour to devise means to save money rather than establish a new organization,
                the usefulness of which I very much doubt. I am not opposed to research into
                economic subjects. 
The honorable senator's interjection is a clear indication that in his
                opinion, and that of his friends in the Country party, the appointment of a Bureau
                of Economic Research would lead to a reduction in the tariff. 
Now that we have this very definite statement from the honorable senator there
                is, in my opinion, less reason than ever for the appointment of this bureau, because
                if the great majority of members of this Parliament hold that the tariff, as a
                whole, should be reduced, it can be done. Is this proposal merely a bit of
                camouflage to satisfy the consciences of a few people? 
I do not know what it is intended to be, but this period of financial stress
                is the worst possible time for setting about the appointment of such a bureau. Now
                that Senator R.H.S. Abbott has raised this
                issue by his interjection. [ arn reminded of a long series of resolutions
                appearing in this morning's press, and for which I imagine he is partly
                responsible. These are resolutions which have been adopted by the Country party. I
                have no desire to read them all, but they start off by asking for a scientific
                re-adjustment of the tariff so that production costs may be led need. 
I see. And if primary production costs are reduced it is necessarily
                scientific? 
I am afraid my friend is hardly fair game, because, if I went further, I might
                secure confessions from him which would prove injurious to him later on. 
It is perfectly clear that some people regard the appointment of this Bureau of
            Economic Research as being likely to lead to a reduction in the tariff. That is their
            objective and, as Senator R.H.S. Abbott has
            already indicated, to them a scientific readjustment of the tariff can only mean a
            re-adjustment in a downward direction. 
But that is what Senator R.H.S. Abbott
                has said. I do not suggest that  Senator Carroll, 
                who is also one of the authors of this string of resolutions, thinks the same.
              
But it is clear that in the minds of some people that a scientific
                re-adjustment of the tariff would mean a reduction of duties. 
The Tariff Board is afforded every opportunity to state its opinions in a form
                which will enable this Parliament to become acquainted with them, and that is an
                additional reason why there is no necessity for the appointment of a Bureau of
                Economic Research. However, I wish to read the last of the series of resolutions
                carried by the Country party. It is as follows: - 
And commend the Government for its intention to appoint an Economic .Research
                Council for the purpose (amongst other matters) of inquiring into the economic
                effect of the Tariff upon industries not directly the subject of duties imposed or
                proposed. 
I have been puzzled as to the meaning of this extraordinary
            resolution. It evidently means that the Bureau of Economic Research can have nothing
            whatever to do with any industry in Australia which is protected by a duty, or for which
            a duty has been proposed. Let me point out that there are already duties on sugar, wine,
            butter, wheat, onions, potatoes, and a long list of primary products. In fact, the only
            primary product of which the bureau could take cognizance would be wool. 
My friend is one of those fiscal troglodytes - one of those fiscal atheists -
                who believe that the farmers of Australia would get cheaper machinery if the
                Australian agricultural implement making industry were wiped out. But once that was
                done and, incidentally, to the detriments of the country, I venture to say, it would
                not be very long before the honorable senator changed his opinion. There are,
                practically, no duties on agricultural machinery in New Zealand, but in nearly every
                case its cost is greater there than it is in Australia. There is a vast agricultural
                industry in the Argentine - the American imple ment makers have so firm a control of
                the market in that country that no one else can get in - and there is no duty on
                agricultural machinery there, yet it costs 50 per cent, more than it docs in
                Australia. That is the position Senator R. H. S.
                Abbott would bring about in Australia. So long as I have breath in my body it will
                never be done with my approval. I do not want to see the Australian farmers held to
                ransom by great combinations of capital in America. 
No ; but if effect were given to the honorable senator's policy that would
                inevitably be the result. 
We can. I honestly believe that if the Australian fanners made up their minds
                that they would use nothing but machinery made by Australians they would be able to
                buy it at a price 30 per cent, lower than they are paying to-day. 
The motor cai' industry requires a vast amount of capital for the
                provision of the necessary plant, and it would, probably, take many years before it
                could be established in Australia, but when it was established I have not the
                slightest doubt we should be able, to get our cars cheaper than they ari; to-day.
              
Unfortunately the financial position of the Commonwealth is such that it is
                obliged to collect revenue though its Customs House, and this Parliament, regarding
                motor cars as being more or less luxuries, has thought fit to expect them to
                contribute something towards the revenue. It is not possible to discriminate between
                the luxury car and the utility car; otherwise, I have no doubt the duty would be
                higher than it is. 
I do not wish to be led any further by honorable senators' interjections into a.
            tariff debate which the President would not permit. What I was about to say was that 1
            do not think the appointment of a Bureau of Economic Research is justified. I am not
            opposed to the fullest investigation from the economic point of view of all our
            activities, but there is not a single thing such a bureau could do which cannot now be
            done by some existing Government agency. Not a scrap of information could it gather
            which could not be gathered and collated for the information of Parliament by some
            existing agency of the Government. There is no need to set up a new bureau employing a
            huge staff to engage in duplicating the work of existing departments, or in collating
            information already obtained by those departments. 
I have no doubt that it will be fully discussed in connexion with another
                measure, but it may be that pressure of business will debar me from referring to it
                then. I have, therefore, taken the opportunity presented by this measure to refer to
                it this morning. 
I had hoped that the Minister would give us a little more information of the
              kind that the manufacturing industries would appreciate. I agree with him that the
              Tariff Board has done, and is doing, useful work in making inquiries into various
              industries with a view to determining the amount of protection which should be
              afforded to them. The great trouble with the Tariff Board is that sometimes long
              delays occur in dealing with the applications which come before it. An industry might
              be languishing, and in need of protection, but those engaged in it might not desire to
              rush in too early with an application to the Tariff Board for assistance. In such a
              case, should a long delay occur in dealing with their applications they might be
              forced out of business before the increased protection they sought was granted to
              them. The Minister said that this bill would, to some extent, remove that objection;
              but, unfortunately, it cannot be removed entirely. I welcome the proposal that the
              board may be divided, but even under the new system I fear that it will be unable to
              handle applications with the necessary despatch. 
I believe that the bill will remove many of the difficulties under which the
                board is labouring to-day, and to that extent I welcome it. Nevertheless, there will
                still be delays which cannot be justified. Should the application of a struggling
                industry be not dealt with expeditiously, the delay might make all the difference
                between continuing production and going out of business. 
I deplore the attitude adopted by Senator
                  R. H. S. Abbott, for many of our manufacturing industries are essential
                to the continuance of our primary industries. The home market must be developed;
                wiping out our manufacturing industries will not develop it. 
I endorse the remarks of  Senator Greene  in
                relation to another body which the Government proposes to set up. The bill for the
                creation of a Bureau of Economic Research and the appointment of a Director of that
                bureau will be closely scrutinized in this chamber. There is something about the
                proposal which is difficult to understand. The bill before us will not end the delay
                in dealing with applications which come before the Tariff Board, or remove all the
                existing difficulties, but as it will go a long way towards doing so, I welcome it,
                and shall support the second reading. 
.- In speaking on the Address-in-Reply some weeks ago, I mentioned that, at times,
              applications for higher duties have been favorably considered by the Tariff Board, and
              additional protection given to industries, which, nevertheless, have soon ceased to
              exist, leaving the increased duty still in operation. The Tariff Board should watch
              the results of the applications that come before it, with a view to ascertaining
              whether the industries to which additional protection is given develop as the persons
              who apply for the assistance say they will when presenting their case to the board.
              Should it find that an industry thus protected has not been successful, and is no
              longer being carried on, Parliament should be notified so that, if thought desirable,
              the duty may be removed. 
The average user of dutiable articles does not know the conditions in the
                industry which produces them. Those who establish new businesses are frequently
                unduly optimistic as to the result of their efforts. They place before the Tariff
                Board glowing prospectuses, which probably influence the board into recommending
                higher duties. Should their anticipations not be realized, there is danger that the
                duty imposed will remain, not to protect any Australian industry, but merely as a
                revenue duty. 
In my speech on the Address-in-Reply I gave two instances. I reminded the
                Senate that, as a result of representations made by  Senator Duncan  on behalf of the manufacturers of fibre matting, higher
                duties were placed on imported goods which competed with the Australian-made
                article. The manufacture of fibre mats in Australia has ceased; but the duty of 5
                per cent, imposed to protect that industry still remains. 
The duty was not imposed for revenue purposes, but to protect an Australian
                industry. The Tariff Board should not recommend duties and take no account of the
                result of their imposition. The other instance to which I referred was a duty on
                furs.  Senator Payne,  after strenuously opposing
                other proposed duties, advocated a higher duty on certain goods which competed with
                a Tasmanian industry. 
Tasmanian industry, for a similar industry was being carried on in New South Wales. 
I gave  Senator Payne  all credit for
                endeavouring to build up the industries of Tasmania. He has certainly done much, in
                his very able way, in that direction. But I understand that the Tasmanian fur
                industry is now in liquidation, and if that is so, it is an anomalous position that
                the duty on certain classes of furs should be permitted to remain in force. It now
                acts purely as a revenue producer for the Commonwealth, and the general public are
                penalized by its operation. The Tariff Board should investigate the matter with a
                view to abolishing that duty. I do not believe in revenue duties, but unfortunately
                Australia has reached a stage when they are practically unavoidable. The Customs
                House is practically our chief tax collecting machine, and directly action is taken
                to reduce duties our revenue will bc seriously curtailed, and the country generally
                embarrassed. 
That' ma.y, be the opinion of the honorable senator, but the perpetuation
                of a system of purely revenue duties would nullify the protectionist policy for
                illich Australia has declared. During the last twelve or fourteen years we have
                placed ourselves in such a position that it is impracticable to reduce our customs
                revenue; but the Tariff Board should closely follow the life of an industry, and
                take action to withdraw a duty, when it is no longer of any use. I believe that
                   Senator Greene  was Minister for Trade and
                Customs when the Tariff Board was established, and that the idea of the Government
                and of the honorable senator at that time was that the board should act as a sort of
                foster-father to our industries and see that they were adequately protected. I hope
                that, in future, it will be their policy to give some consideration to the needs of
                the general consumer. The policy of the board has been to call before it only
                representatives of manufacturing and importing sections of the community. 
The <inline font-weight="bold">PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John
              Newlands).</inline> - Order! The honorable senator is now discussing the tariff
            generally, which is not permissible in this debate. 
I shall endeavour not to offend again, but would like to cite just one example.
              I know of a gentleman who, representing certain industries, went before the Tariff
              Board and submitted seemingly irrefutable evidence to show that duties should be
              increased on certain articles. A few mouths after he was dismissed from his position
              and joined an importing house. He was again called before the Tariff Board, and this
              time he submitted irrefutable evidence in favour of the withdrawal of the duty for
              which he had previously pleaded. I hope that this bill will usher in a different and
              better condition of affairs. 
I am prepared to support the bill as I find it, because I believe that it will
              be very helpful in assisting the Tariff Board to do even better work than it has done.
              Like  Senator Greene,  I am led to make this remark
              because of the statement uttered by  Senator Greene 
              to-day. All sections of the community are not represented before the board. In
              addition to the manufacturing and importing sections there is a third and very
              important section of the community, the consuming public. That section is not at
              present receiving any consideration. In this Parliament there are three distinct types
              of representatives, fiscal fanatics, fiscal atheists and moderate protectionists-
            
I must ask the honorable senator to discuss the bill, and not the tariff.
            
The honorable senator knows that interjections are disorderly, and that he is
                not expected to reply to them. 
Tariff Board and advocated the imposition of high duties, the effects
            of which must be prejudicial to the general community. 

 Sitting suspended from 1245 to 2.15 p.m. 

Board or the manner in which the board has carried out its work in the
            past; but I hope that with this amendment of the act, the board will become more
            valuable to the Government in legislating for the development of this country. For the
            reason which I have given 1 intend to support the bill. Before I resume my seat I may be
            permitted to say something by way of explanation to a remark made by  Senator Foll.  The honorable senator referred to a certain
            action which I took some time ago in connexion with the duty on dressed rabbit skins. I
            should like to make it clear that a New South Wales concern known as Furs Limited,
            Sydney, carrying on exactly the same business as the Tasmanian company, was actually
            more interested than was the Tasmanian industry in obtaining a duty of 25 per cent.
            British on imported dressed rabbit skins. The company in New South Wales had a large
            amount of capital invested and was already employing a considerable number of hands. 
I support the bill as far as it goes but it seems to me that it might well
              have included many provisions that have been omitted. In the first place I direct
              attention to the fact that it contains no accurate definition of the relations that
              should exist between the Tariff Board and the Minister, and between the Minister and
              Parliament. This, I think, is to be regretted. It is also regrettable that there is no
              provision that the board's reports shall at once be presented to Parliament
              instead of going first to the Minister who later, lays them on the table. If they came
              to Parliament direct, Parliament, if it thought fit, could take the action recommended
              by  the  board. At present, so I understand - if I
              am in error the Minister will correct me - it is in the Minister's discretion
              whether or not Parliament shall be given an opportunity to consider the reports of the
              Tariff Board. As a matter of fact the Minister for Trade and Customs, has power which
              few Ministers for Customs in other countries possess. In this connexion I wish to
              bring under the notice of honorable senators the action of the Minister in relation to
              a certain recommendation of the board. A request was made to the board for protectiion
              for a certain industry - the production of peppermint oil. It was considered by the
              Tariff Board and reported upon favorably, but the Minister, so I understand, rejected
              it. The application, I may add, was made by a man who spent thousands of pounds in
              connexion with the industry and he had demonstrated that it could be carried on
              successfully with tariff assistance. Although the Tariff Board reported favorably upon
              his request the Minister, exercising the power which he possesses, has not adopted
              that recommenddation and under the act there is no opportunity given to Parliament to
              consider it. If the procedure which I advocate were adopted and if the bill provided
              that recommendations made by the Tariff Board should be presented at once to
              Parliament, we should have an opportunity to express our views upon them. In this way
              a great deal of indecision would be avoided and a number of requests which to-day are
              refused by the Minister, would probably be granted by Parliament. I have also a word
              or two to say about clause  1  of the bill, which
              provides that the board may confer in respect of certain matters with the director of
              the proposed Bureau of Economic Research. 
I should like to hear from the Honorary Minister why the Tariff Board cannot at
            present call witnesses, expert or otherwise, to give evidence either in favour of or
            against a proposal submitted to it. Is it not its privilege to call such experienced
            witnesses and examine them on the subject with which it is dealing? I am sure the answer
            will be in the affirmative ;" if that is so, this proposal to legalize a
            consultation which, I think, needs no legalization should not find a place in this bill.
            It is out of order, 
I know, to impute motives, even if the motives are good; but perhaps
            the Government in its search for information embodied this clause in the bill in the
            endeavour to elicit information from honorable senators concerning the proposed Bureau
            of Economic Research. Whether it was done with that intention or not, it has already
            drawn fire from two or three points in this chamber. While I recognize the value of
            economic research", I consider that there are already in existence sufficient
            governmental bodies to carry out any research that may be needed. I repeat that expert
            evidence can be obtained as expeditiously and as cheaply by calling witnesses as by
            retaining men permanently, or at least, for the greater part of their time. The
            Government will get the same result with less trouble, in a shorter time, and with a
            smaller expenditure. In these circumstances, I do not feel inclined to support such an
            unusual proposal as has been adopted in this instance of mentioning in an act of
            Parliament a Director of Economic Research who has not yet been appointed. There is no
            need to burden the Estimates with the salaries of men who would be highly remunerated,
            when by following the course I have suggested the Government would be saving time and
            money. I commend these facts to the consideration of the Minister in charge of the bill,
            and I trust that the few small but important points I have raised concerning the rights
            of Parliament will receive his earnest attention. They are important, because they
            render possible a more expeditious and more efficient working of this necessary body,
            about whose failures we know nothing or, at least very little, and which has to act as a
            guide to the Government. The recommendations of the board are not always followed, and
            when they are not, reasons should be given. I think that the course I have advocated is
            better than that for which provision is made in clause 7 of the bill. Some of the other
            provisions are admirable. With the system of payment to members of the board I have no
            fault to find. I think it is- a good system and quite generous enough to men who are
            simply to carry out the functions of the Tariff Board, and, if necessary, those other
            functions which I have vaguely outlined. With these exceptions, I support the second
            reading of the bill, but I regret the measure has been brought before this chamber at a
            time when there is little opportunity - if the feelings of the Government are to be
            considered, and I believe that is the desire of the Senate - to frame amendments such as
            those which I have mentioned. 
I intend to support this measure, and I am rather surprised at the opposition
              shown this morning to a certain provision in it. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
                Greene,</inline> who I understand sponsored the principal act, admitted that it was
              introduced with the object of bolstering up and supporting the high protectionist
              policy under which we are operating. In my opinion, the Tariff Board has to a certain
              extent failed to achieve one of the objects for which, in my opinion, it was
              appointed, and that is to hold the balance evenly between all sections of the
              community. There are two important sections equally interested in the decisions of the
              Tariff Board and which have the right to be heard before it. There is also a third
              party whose interests should be considered, but which, up to the present, has had very
              little consideration. I refer to the unfortunate public, which up to the present has
              always had to pay.  Senator Kingsmill  referred to
              the proposed appointment of a Bureau of Economic Research, and for the information of
              the honorable senator and the Senate generally, I wish to read the following paragraph
              which appeared in the speech with which His Excellency the Governor-General opened
              this Parliament. It reads - 
There are many departments of Commonwealth activities, the work of which would be
              greatly facilitated if an economic research service were available for this purpose,
              and to provide fuller information for the public upon many subjects of importance. It
              is proposed to establish a Commonwealth Bureau of Economic Research and to extend the
              scope of the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
I cannot recall any strong exception being taken at the time to the
            Government's proposal in that regard. The intention of the Government is to
            establish a Bureau of Economic Research to assist the Tariff Board, and whilst I agree
            with  Senator Kingsmill,  that at present the board
            has power to call expert witnesses on the economic aspects of any request it is
            considering, I do not think that by following the course he has suggested the object
            which the Government had in view in submitting this proposal would be achieved. It seems
            to me that the main reason for appointing a Bureau of Economic Research is that we
            should have a body that is able to deal with industry as a whole and not in a piecemeal
            manner. The absence of such a bureau possibly has resulted in the work of the Tariff
            Board not being as effective as some desire. It is, however, not the fault of the board,
            because it can deal only with requests submitted to it. The bureau, if established,
            would be able to survey the whole industrial field and prove to the board that whilst a
            proposed duty might be beneficial to one industry, it might injuriously affect others of
            equal, if not of greater importance. Whether the results obtained by such a bureau would
            be worth the expenditure incurred, is entirely another matter. In my opinion they seldom
            are. At present the Government has delegated its powers to numbers of expensive boards,
            but we do not seem to be getting any further forward. The Tariff Board itself in a
            recent report drew attention to the fact that our protective system had reached such an
            impossible position that we could not carry on much longer in the present way. 

 Senator Duncan referred to the importance of
            Australian manufactures and the value of the home market. I assure the honorable senator
            that the representatives of the primary industries do not under-value the home market.
            We appreciate its value, and are not unmindful of its worth to the primary producer. Is
               Senator Duncan  of the opinion that the primary
            producers of Australia wish to turn this great continent into sheep walks or wheat
            farms, and sweep away all manufactories? 
That is not the policy of the party to which I have the honour to belong. Our
                contention is that, in comparison with other sections of the community, we are
                placed at a disadvantage, and I do not think that 

 Senator Duncan will deny that. The fact that it has
            been necessary to pay bounties on certain primary production, is sufficient to prove
            that an undue burden has been placed upon primary producers. I ask those who believe
            that Australian manufactures are more important, than primary products, how much of our
            overseas commitments are paid for with manufactured goods. 
As  Senator Greene  said, we are entitled to
                draw our own deductions. If I am permitted, sir, I should like to refer to a
                circular issued by the Country party. 
The <inline font-weight="bold">PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John
              Newlands).</inline> - As the circular to which the honorable senator refers has
            nothing to do with the bill under discussion, he will not be in order in discussing it. 
I intended to bring it forward because it had already been introduced into the
                debate, without any objection from the Chair. I shall, however, deal with it on a
                future occasion. In passing, I should like to say that attacks on the Country party
                by honorable senators who are closely associated with it in this Parliament, are
                quite uncalled for, and cannot lead to any good result. They are bound to have a bad
                effect ou the people outside. 
It has been said that agricultural machinery is dearer in free trade countries than
            in protective Australia, and New Zealand has been mentioned as one country in which it
            is dearer. There can be no comparison between the class of machinery used in New Zealand
            and that which is used in Australia. The drill used in New Zealand is a heavier and a
            much costlier machine to manufacture than the drill used in Australia, yet those who
            make these comparisons would lead us to believe that the two implements are identical.
            Again, there can be no comparison between Australian machines and American or Canadian.
            I learned, recently, that the drills used in Canada have only one set of machinery in
            them : that used for sowing seed. They are not equipped as the Australian drills are
            with double machines for sowing seed with superphosphates. 
No ; but when I was at Winnipeg, I saw six Australian drills which had been
                imported for copying purposes by the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, because some
                Canadian farmers are now contemplating the use of superphosphates. 
Quite so. I have never run the Australian industry down. 
Yes; and, as I have emphasized before, they have been invented by Australian
                farmers and not by Australian manufacturers. 
If a witness makes an application to have the evidence he is giving before the
            tariff board taken in secret, the board may accede to his request. There may be good
            reasons for this, but I claim that those who think that the duties in Australia are, in
            some cases, too high, should have equal opportunities to those which are afforded to
            applicants for increased duties. If the evidence given by the applicant is heard in
            secret the opponents of the application are placed at a tremendous disadvantage in
            seeking to prove that an increased duty is not warranted. They are not aware of the
            nature of the evidence given by the other side and they are expected to give their own
            evidence in public. The two parties are not on an equal footing. 
The strongest argument that can be advanced in asking for an increased duty is
                that the existing rate is not sufficient to enable the manufacturer to compete with
                imported goods. When applicants for increases are asked to show that they are not
                getting a sufficient reward from their industries, they claim that they cannot give
                their figures in public and they are permitted to tender that portion of their
                evidence in secret. But if I offer to give evidence as one who may be affected by an
                increase in duty, I must say what I have to say in public without knowing what has
                been submitted to the board in secret. I have been placed in that position when
                appearing before the board as a representative of the primary producers of Western
                Australia. I support the bill and I shall deal with the further legislation
                foreshadowed in clause 7 when it comes before the Senate. 
I feel somewhat relieved on this the first occasion on which I have
              represented the Minister for Trade and Customs in this chamber that it is not a debate
              on a tariff schedule because, judging by the vigor of the exchanges between honorable
              senators, I can imagine the conflicting points of view that would be taken if a tariff
              schedule were under discussion. The method of remunerating the members of the Tariff
              Board has been criticized by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  but it is the method adopted in past legislation and is,
              I think, the only possible one in the circumstances. The chairman of the board is, and
              will continue, so far as Ministers can see ai present, to be an officer of the Trade
              and Customs Department. His remuneration is to be increased by £200. Although the
              other members of the board are to have an increased fee for each day of sitting, it
              will not give them any additional remuneration over the twelve months. They are
              limited to £1,500 a year. I think it would be very unwise to make the members of
              the Tariff Board permanent officers of the Government. We occasionally need fresh
              blood, men who are familiar with the ever-changing conditions of trade and commerce
              and manufacture all over Australia. If we were to standardize the work of the board,
              making it a sort of bureaucracy, I think it would be detrimental to the proper
              administration of the act. To shut out men who are interested in current affairs would
              be to deprive us of the class of persons we need - men who are capable of dealing with
              commercial questions. 
I welcome the encomium passed by the Leader of the Opposition on the members of the
            Tariff Board when he said that they were beyond reproach or suspicion. The Government is
            fully sensible of the immense and valuable work done by the board during the past few
            years. It has rigidly adhered to the parliamentary direction that none of its members
            shall have a voice in a matter in which he is personally or pecuniarily interested. If
            the board is to function as Parliament hopes it will, hours of sitting should not count.
            No judge finishes his day's work when he steps off the bench. Then comes the time
            for reflection, consideration and weighing of evidence, and it is these things, which
            cannot be done until the judge does step off the bench, that turn his hair grey. It is
            wrong to suggest that the members of the Tariff Board are over paid. We could not do
            less than we are doing. I almost think that our duty demands that we should do more. I
            am satisfied that those who are vitally interested in the tariff would rather have their
            cases determined by competent men than by those who would accept positions on the Tariff
            Board merely for the remuneration provided. The scheme outlined in 1921 and endorsed
            when the act was amended in 1924, is the most effective for dealing with tariff problems
            that has occurred to any one in Australia up to date. 
When the Leader of the Opposition was speaking, I made it clear that inquiries are
            not conducted in private and that it is only when confidential information is sought
            from witnesses that they are heard  in camera.  It
            was provided in the amending bill of 1924 that when the board considers it desirable in
            the public interest that certain evidence should not be disclosed, it may be kept
            secret. I am informed that only once in one period of nine months, during which one
            officer of the department filled the position of the Chairman of the Tariff Board, was
            there an instance of a witness having the same experience as  Senator Carroll.  Several honorable senators have suggested that insufficient
            opportunity is afforded third parties to make themselves heard before the Tariff Board.
            Ample provision was made in the bill of 1924 for broadcasting the time and place of
            sittings of the board. Advertisements have to be inserted in two newspapers circulating
            in the place where an inquiry is to be held. Reasonable notice is given of the intention
            of the board to hold an inquiry, of the subjects to be investigated and of the times and
            places of meetings. Ample opportunity is afforded to <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Lynch's</inline> friends, the Housewives' Association, or any other estimable
            association of citizens, to appear before the board. Honorable senators have accepted
            the basic principle underlying this measure, although they may wish that something more
            should be done. The proposals of the Government, if agreed to, will result in a
            considerable saving of time, so that the arrears should speedily be overtaken. 
Practically the only other matter that calls for discussion is clause 7. We have
            prided ourselves that in 1921 this Parliament displayed great wisdom when it appointed a
            Tariff Board. In the United States of America, a country which has made great progress
            under protection, the Tariff Board does not rely upon spasmodic assistance from
            untrained sources. Instead, it calls to its aid men trained in the particular subjects
            with which it has to deal from time to time. On its own staff there are 27 trained
            economists. In Australia, on the other hand, the Tariff Board has no one to whom it can
            appeal for an authoritative opinion as to the effect of certain duties. Unfortunately,
            little or no research work in the field of economics is undertaken in Australia, either
            by the Commonwealth or State Governments, or the universities. On the evidence placed
            before the Tariff Board it is difficult for one not trained in economics to say what is
            right in certain circumstances. 
Newspaper economists might satisfy some people; but the Government feels that
                if the policy of protection is to be worthy of respect and is to operate in the
                interest of Australia, it must be thoroughly investigated from the economic
                standpoint. We ought to know the effect of the imposition of certain duties, or of
                the refusal to impose them. Australia is passing through a period of economic
                depression. There must be some cause for the unemployment which is rife. The Tariff
                Board is doing the best it can - and, generally, it is doing remarkably well - but
                it has insufficient information at its disposal. As in the various spheres of
                industry it is useless to go for advice to men not trained in the industry, so in
                tariff matters we should seek the advice of trained economists. 

 Senator Kingsmill referred to reports of the Tariff
            Board which are not made available to Parliament. For not acting upon recommendation of
            the board, the Government must accept full responsibility. It would be extremely unwise
            to make public the contents of reports which have not been acted upon by the Government.
            Men in the business world are astute, and the publication of such information would
            probably lead to undesirable results. 
Their publication would open the way for persons who desired to do so, to take
                advantage of the information they contained. SenatorKingsmill mentioned particularly
                the report of the Tariff Board on peppermint oil, and asked that it be laid on the
                table. The report of the Tariff Board on peppermint oil was laid on the table on the
                2nd December, 1927. 
That is so, But the Government did not see fit to give effect to that
                recommendation. 
It was never intended that either the Government or Parliament should
                necessarily accept the recommendations of the Tariff Board. The Government accepts
                the responsibility for accepting or refusing its recommendations. I commend the bill
                to the Senate. 

<graphic href="120332192903156_19_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192903156_19_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="120332192903156_19_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee - 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 - 
Section 8 of the principal act is repealed and the following section inserted in
              its stead : - . 2.Each of the other members shall receive an allowance of six guineas
              per sitting, with a maximum in any one year of fifteen hundred pounds. 
Amendment (by  Senator Needham)  proposed - 
That the word "six," sub-section 2, proposed new section 8, be left out,
              with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " five." 
Question put. The committee divided - 
Ayes...... 7 
Noes...... 19 
Majority . . . . 12 
Question so resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Sittings of the board). 
I shall not move an amendment to this clause, but I take the opportunity to
              repeat what I said in my second-reading speech, that the sittings of the board are
              being reduced from 6 to 5 days a week. The Minister in charge of the bill,  Senator McLachlan,  asked me to point out where that was
              stated. I now direct his attention to a speech made in another place by the Minister
              for Trade and Customs, in which he said - 
It is now proposed to pay the chairman £1,600 a year. The lay members have
              been in receipt of a fee of five guineas a sitting. They have been sitting practically
              six days a week all the year round, and have averaged about 300 sitting days a year.
              ... Up to date the amount paid to each of those lay members has been about
              £1,1500 a year. It is now proposed to increase the fees from five guineas to six
              guineas a day, and to limit the days of sitting from 6 to 5 a week, and thus cut out
              meetings on Saturday mornings. 
Is  Senator McLachlan  prepared to
            accept the statement of the Minister for Trade and Customs and myself? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Appointment of committee). 
I believe that this clause is intended to increase the activities of the board
              by having more inquiries held within a specified time. If this is so I welcome the
              innovation. The people of Central Queensland have waited for a long time for a
              decision of the Tariff Board in connexion with the cotton industry, and an inquiry
              also has been sought in reference to marble, about which nothing has yet been learned.
              I trust that this provision will have the effect of expediting and finalizing
              inquiries. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Board to confer with Director of Economic Research). 
I think that this clause should not be allowed to remain in the bill. The
              Tariff Board is quite competent to obtain all the information that is required despite
              the statement of  Senator McLachlan  that it is
              necessary for them to consult with an economic expert. That could be done without
              incorporating this provision in the bill. The Opposition will oppose its insertion.
            
[3.31]. -  (By leave.)  - Because of
              the vicissitudes of political warfare and the Constitution under which we are working,
              certain honorable senators will not be members of this chamber when it reassembles in
              July next. The remarks which I intend to make now would have been postponed until next
              week, but for the fact that  Senator Needham  and
                 Senator Graham,  two of our retiring members, are
              leaving this afternoon and will not be with us next week. Senators P. P. Abbott,
              Findley, Graham, Needham and Thomas, having been defeated at the election in December
              last, will not be members of the Senate after the end of June; and Senator R. H. S. Abbott, who was chosen by the
              Parliament of Victoria to fill a casual vacancy in the representation of that State
              will also retire then. It is pleasing to reflect that if political warfare is
              conducted as it should be it is possible for all who take part in it to retain their
              personal friendships. Both parties are represented in the list of defeated candidates
              which I have just read, and I feel sure that I am voicing the feelings of all
              honorable senators when I say that whilst we all have done our best to bring about the
              downfall of political opponents, we deeply regret the severance, for a time at all
              events, of personal friendships. Some honorable senators who are about to leave us,
              have had a long career in federal politics. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
                Thomas</inline> has been a member of the Federal Parliament for many years. He has
              been a member of both Houses, and has rendered useful service to this country, both as
              a Minister of the Crown and also as a private member. We all regret that he is leaving
              us, but we wish him good fortune in the future. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
                Needham</inline> has been a member of this chamber for over twenty years, and for a
              considerable portion of that time he has been Leader of the Opposition. We all have
              admired his industry, his pertinacity and his conscientiousness in the discharge of
              his duties. As a critic he has never spared the Government or its measures, if they
              have not met with his approval, and at all times, he has shown an industry which, I
              feel certain, his successor will find it hard to emulate. But while we have admired
              his industry and his pertinacity we have appreciated, perhaps, more highly his
              qualities as a manly fighter. In all his criticisms of the Government and its
              proposals he has never been personal and never hit below the belt. And so we have
              learned to respect and honour him. There is a wellknown saying, that you cannot keep a
              good man down, and since the honorable senator is still comparatively young, I have a
              feeling that we are not now signing his requiem, but that we shall soon hear of him
              again. All honorable senators will join with me in the sincere wish that his
              indisposition is but temporary, and that he will soon be completely restored to good
              health.  Senator Graham  in his capacity of
              Opposition Whip has shown the possession of a quality which must particularly commend
              itself to a Minister, and that is his unswerving obedience to his leader. 1 have often
              admired the way in which the honorable senator has carried out  Senator Needham's  instructions in the conduct of the
              debates. We all like him personally, and as in the case of  Senator Needham,  we wish him well in the future. Of  Senator Findley,  I can say that he is a political
              fighter of no mean order. The honorable senator has the saving grace of humour which
              is the spice of politics. He is, I believe, the champion " leg puller " of the
              Senate. This is a quality which we all appreciate, when it is not used against us, but
              the honorable senator has developed the wicked habit of directing his shafts mainly at
              the Government with the result that on many occasions we have suffered from his
              facetiousness. But with it all,  Senator Findley 
              never became personal, and his shafts of witticism left no sting. He is, personally,
              well liked by all honorable senators, and I am sure we hope that he will enjoy good
              health and success in the future.  Senator P.  P.
              Abbott has been a member of the Senate for only one term, but we have learned to
              respect and like him, and we are confident that he is by no means at the end of his
              political life. We trust that he, too, will meet with success in the future. As for
                Senator R. H. S. Abbott, I have no doubt that he
              has enjoyed his brief stay in this chamber. We regret to part with him, but wish him
              good luck. We are parting with the retiring senators with a feeling of regret for the
              severance of our personal friendships, but we sincerely wish them all health and
              success in the future. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
.- It is my privilege to add a few words to those uttered by the Leader of the
              Senate. I endorse all that the right honorable gentleman has said. In political
              warfare, we have our ups and downs; but some honorable senators are more fortunate
              than others in that they never seem to have any " downs ". My experience has
              been such that my sympathy goes out to the man who is down. I have been there myself.
              I am sincerely sorry that these honorable senators are about to leave us.  Senator Needham  is a very old personal and political
              friend. I have not known  Senator Graham  so long,
              but I love him none the less. I have known  Senator 
Thomas, who is not here to-day, longer, perhaps, than any other
            honorable senator. As a matter of fact, I am egotistical enough to claim that I was
            responsible for putting him into the Federal Parliament - many years ago. I am sorry
            that the other honorable senators also arc leaving us, because, while we have our
            political fights in this chamber, there are in most of us generous impulses and
            something that appeals. Although in the heat of debate we may give expression to bitter
            thoughts, it is good to know that even in the worst of our political enemies there is
            something that we can like. And so we regret to part with them. I am sorry indeed, that
            an occasion like this arises. It would be much better if, when we were -elected to a
            place like this, we had no need to worry about the future. If only we could rest assured
            that we should be here for the rest of our lives we could wax fat in great content. I
            confess it is somewhat difficult - and also unusual - for me to sit on a rail and make a
            speech to suit honorable senators on both sides of this chamber; but I can honestly say
            that I regret the occasion to say good-bye to those who are leaving us. I hope, however,
            that when the next political fight takes place in the country, the Ministry and its
            followers will need more stretcher-bearers than we on this side will require. I hope
            there will be more casualties in the ranks of our opponents than in our own, and that we
            shall come back to power. If we do, the Senate may rest assured that the members of our
            party will sympathize with the poor fellows who may have fallen in the struggle. 
I thank the Leader of the Senate <inline font-weight="bold">(Senator
                Pearce)</inline> and honorable senators generally, for their kindly wishes to me on
              this occasion. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate has mentioned members of
              his own party who, like myself, are leaving this Parliament for a while, and it is
              evident that in the last political battle the casualties were not all on the one side.
              1 re-echo the sentiments expressed by him that it would be a poor world £f our
              political beliefs interfered with our personal friendships. As far as 
I am concerned, they never have and 1 hope they never will. Public life would not bc
            worth living if we could not treat each other as nien and still hold our own opinions. 
I desire to thank you,  Mr. President,  for the
            kindness and courtesy that you have always extended to me- during the time I have had
            the honour to lead the Opposition in this chamber. I extend, also, my thanks to the
            chairman of the committee  (Senator Plain),  who has
            always been kind and considerate towards me, and to the Clerk of the Senate and Clerk
            Assistant. I also wish particularly to thank the  Hansard  staff. During my twenty years' membership of this Parliament, I
            have never met better men, and for their assistance, courtesy mid kindness, I thank
            them. During the time I have been here, every officer of this Parliament has always met
            me as a man, a: id I, in return, have treated them in The same way. Yesterday, I had the
            honour of a visit from a gentleman representing the press in the gallery, who called to
            express their regret on my leaving the Senate. I thank those gentlemen for the kind
            message they sent me. Above all, I have to express my sincere appreciation of the
            capable assistance rendered to (me by my secretary, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
              Tonkin.</inline> The right honorable the Leader of the Senate was good enough to say
            that I had been industrious and assiduous in the performance of my work as Leader of the
            Opposition. I have always realized my responsibilities and recognized my limitations,
            and in whatever I have done in handling the various measures that have come before us, I
            have been, greatly assisted by my secretary, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr.
              Tonkin,</inline> who is an able and reliable man. I fully appreciate all he has done
            for me. 
If I have nothing else, I have this faculty: I have never been unduly elated by
            success nor depressed by adversity. I am not yet a very old man, and although the ballot
            registered my political defeat in Western Australia in December last, my political
            epitaph has yet to be written. I leave this Parliament confident of the fact and happy
            in the knowledge that I have the respect of honorable senators opposite with whom I have
            worked. 
Hois ok able Senators. - Hear, hear. 
I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate for his kindness in saying
                that during our controversies, which have been many, I have never hit below the
                belt. I can also say the same of honorable senators opposite, who have always
                treated me fairly. There are some honorable senators who, until recently, wore
                strangers to me, but I hope I leave them as friends. I thank honorable senators for
                the good wishes they have expressed to me personally concerning my future. I shall
                not attempt at this stage to lift the veil that hides the future, but whatever it
                holds in store, I shall always be proud of the fact that I have had the privilege of
                being a member of the National Parliament, and have in some humble way assisted in
                guiding and shaping the destinies of this great Australian nation. 
I wish to thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and other honorable senators
              who have personally conveyed to me their kind wishes and appreciation of my
              companionship during the period it has been my privilege to be a member of the
              National Parliament of Australia. Like the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  I have endeavoured to be fair, and I
              think I can say that I am leaving this Parliament to-day without an enemy. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
I have at all times tried to be courteous to all; that is part of my make-up.
                Like my colleague,  Senator Needham,  I am not yet
                over 80, and still have a chance of being in another political " rough-up."
                Very likely, after the next political battle, I shall be as  Senator Barnes  suggests, not one of those brought in
                by a stretcherbearer; but among those rendering first aid to the fallen. I am
                delighted that I have had the honour of representing the people of Western
                Australia, and to assist to the best of my ability in legislating on their behalf. I
                have done my best; I could do no more. Although defeated, like the Australian
                soldier I am not downhearted, and I trust I am leaving this Parliament for a time
                with the respect and goodwill of honorable senators, irrespective of party. If I
                have the good fortune to again be returned to this Parliament, I trust I shall have
                the opportunity of renewing acquaintances with all those honorable senators who are
                now here. I am now going out into the world to fight life's battles in another
                sphere and I do not know what my lot will be. I wish to thank you,  Mr. President,  for the courtesy you have always
                extended to mp, particularly when T was u new member of this chamber. Old
                campaigners such as the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Pearce,  have long since served their
                apprenticeship; but the new members have to be trained. At times I came into
                conflict with your predecessor, the late <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
                  Givens;</inline> but I have been told that the only way in which to learn the
                rules of procedure is to break them. I have never laid myself out to do that; hut
                have always endeavoured to keep within the four corners of the Standing Orders. I
                thank all the officers of this Parliament, including the  Hansard  staff, for the consideration they have shown me, and also you,
                   Mr. President,  the Chairman of Committees, and
                honorable senators generally for the kind remarks made in regard to my colleague and
                myself. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  able to  Bay  when the Government will be able to make a pronouncement regarding the recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission in relation to the gold-mining industry of Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Is it correct that stock routes from North Australia into Queensland have been closed; if so, how many, by whom, and for what purpose? 
If it is correct that stock routes have been closed, and that cattle-owners in North Australia will, consequently, be prevented from marketing their stock through Queensland, will the Minister state what action the Government proposes to take to overcome this difficulty? 
The inauguration of the discussion on this side of the chamber by me has been rendered necessary by the unfortunate indisposition of the Leader of the Opposition  ("Senator Needham).  I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage of the sitting. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The wine industry, which this bill is to assist, is of great importance, not only to South Australia, but to certain other States, and any action which this Parliament can take to assist it should receive the support of honorable senators. Prior to the war, approximately 50,000 acres of land in Australia were planted with vines, the product of which was used in the manufacture of wine and kindred beverages, but owing to the activities of State Governments in placing returned soldiers upon land suitable for the cultivation of wine grapes, that area has now been more than doubled. According to the latest and most reliable figures that I can procure, there is now an area of approximately 112,000 acres under wine-grape cultivation in Australia. The increase in the acreage, with its consequent increase in the volume of wine and spirit produced, is the chief reason for the introduction of this bill, which is brought down in the endeavour to overcome existing marketing difficulties. 
The following figures indicate how our wine production has increased in recent years :  - 

<graphic href="120332192903193_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The production hadstill further increased in 1924, and it continued to do so until it reached its peak, in 1927, when the vintage for the season was 20,433,410 gallons. Due to the adverse climatic conditions which existed last year in some of the best viticultural districts of South Australia, the volume of production was reduced to 17,321,796 gallons. It is probable that this year, despite the dryness of last season, the vintage will be almost as great as that produced in the record year 1927. The Commonwealth Government secures a very substantial revenue from the wine industry, as is shown by the following figures as to the revenue derived from fortified spirit used for winemaking purposes, and from the excise on brandy for the period 1922- 23-1927-28. 

<graphic href="120332192903193_2_1.jpg"></graphic>

That, of course, was not all net revenue, as there was a drawback on the spirit used for fortifying wines exported under the provisions of the Bounty Bill passed in 1924. Of all our primary industries, the wine-grape growing industry affords one of the most prolific sources of employment. This is apparent to one who travels through the various viticultural districts of Australia and observes the towns that have sprung up, the large number of homesteads that are concentrated in a small territory, and the number of people employed. The value of the industry must be appreciated, and we must be seized with the necessity to do all that is possible to assist it over the crisis through which it is at present passing, and to place it on a more stable footing. 
It is my opinion that this bill is overdue. I regret that it was not introduced simultaneously with the original Wine Bounty Bill, in 1924. Had that been done a measure of control would have been exercised over the wine exported, to the great benefit of the industry. The application of the bounty principle brought about a great increase in the quantity of wine exported by Australia. For the year previous to the introduction of the bounty Australia exported over 800,000 gallons. That quantity has increased yearly as the result of the application of the bounty until in 1928 it reached a total of 3,770,000 gallons. A number of weaknesses existed in the original bounty provisions and the system of export that was then countenanced, one of the greatest of which was the absence of control over the quality of the article exported. We are told by those engaged in the industry, both in this country and abroad, that considerable harm was done to the Australian industry, and that the fair name of our product was blackened in no inconsiderable degree by the rapacity of some exporters, who sent out of Australia liquid  masquerading as wine merely to secure the benefits of the bounty and the provisions of the legislation passed in 1924. Had a bill similar to that which we are now considering then been passed, and a measure of control exercised such as is proposed in this measure, those reprehensible practices would have been prevented, as it would have been the duty of the hoard to control the export of wine and to see that the proper standard wa3 maintained. 
Another weakness shown to exist in the provisions of the bounty, is that growers do not  in all cases  reap  the full benefit which the Government of the day sought to confer upon them. On the 4th January last, a conference was held in Adelaide of wine grape growers representative of all the districts of South Australia. The report of that conference, which appeared in -the Adelaide  Register  of the 5th January, discloses some startling facts as to the position of wine grape growers under the bounty system. Here is an extract: - 
A delegate created surprise by saying that when the bounty rate had been 4s. a gallon, he knew of an instance where the maker received 3s. lOd. and the grower 2d. out of it. Another delegate remarked, in the presence of legislators, that he had heard of a company exporting 40,000 gallons of sweet wine. They received 4s. bounty, amounting to £8,000. The wine came back from London at a cost in freight of about Cd. a gallon, leaving over £7,000 in pocket. Then they undersold the other makers on the Australian market. 
So far as J. know those statements have not been contradicted. One may therefore assume that they are substantially correct. They certainly bear out the contention that control is necessary in order to safeguard the interests of those engaged in the industry. The bounty principle has been subjected to very considerable criticism. Some aver that the Government was not sufficiently generous, and others that it was too generous. I venture to say that if the Government erred it was not on the side of generosity. That opinion is borne out by the fact that the Government has derived an ever increasing revenue from the industry, since it has been stimulated by the payment of a bounty. From the commencement of the bounty to the end of the last financial year, the net amount of bounty paid was £843,850. The drawback of excise on spirit used to fortify wine exported amounted to £415,955, so that the total amount returned to the industry by the Government in that period was £1,259,805. During the same period, as a result of the increase in production in Australia, the revenue derived from excise duties increased by £875,176, leaving a net debit balance of £3S4,629. That was the amount lost to the Government in respect of payment of bounty and the drawback of excise, as against the amount which it received from increased revenue, in the form of excise. As a set off against that expenditure we must consider the immense benefits that have been derived by the community as a whole. The payment of the bounty not only averted a crisis in the wine-making industry in 1924, but it increased the price per ton of Doradillo grapes, the class of grapes grown on 'the repatriation areas, by as much as 120 per cent. 
During the war, as honorable senators will remember the industry was in a  floushing  state, and this gave the established viticultural districts an opportunity to build up reserves against the slump which took place in 1923. The returned soldier settlers, the most deserving section of the industry, and others in the newer districts were not in this fortunate position. Their land was placed under vines at considerable expenditure in the boom period of land settlement following the war, and when their grapes came into bearing a few years later there was a slump in prices. Then came the wine bounty legislation of 1924, to relieve the position of those growers who had little or no market for their production. It has been stated authoritatively that taking the whole period from the inception of the bounty to 1928, the growers have benefited to the extent of £1,000,000, and in addition the bounty has benefited substantially the dried fruits industry. Because of the improved prices ruling for wine grapes the bounty diverted to the vats fruit which otherwise would have been processed and sold as dried fruits. 
British preference came later, and as we know, it resulted in a reduction of the bounty paid by the Commonwealth Government with, I venture to say, rather disastrous results up to the present. 
Consequent on the reduction in the bounty last year the viticultural industry is now in a serious state. This is borne out by information which I have received from growers in many districts in South Australia. At the conference to which I have referred  Mr. Wakefield,  a grower in one of the southern districts, stated that the wine makers were now ignoring the bounty, and were fixing their own prices for grapes in the open market. 
That is so. Growers in districts north of Adelaide have advised me of the correctness of  Mr. Wakefield's  statement, so that the winemakers in South Australia, at least, are ignoring the prices fixed by the Government under the Bounty Act. Apparently they do not propose to claim the bounty. They prefer to purchase grapes at their own price, which, of course, will be very much below the price necessary to put the industry on a profitable basis. I have received a number of circulars dealing with this matter, but as they are all couched in similar terms I shall quote only one, which was issued by one of the largest firms of wine-makers in South Australia to its customers. It is as follows : - 1st February, 1929. 
Dear  Sir, 
A  serious  position has developed in the viticultural industry which makes it difficult to arrange the necessary finances to purchase the coming crop, but we have decided to protect those growers who have regularly delivered their grapes ito us. 
We therefore enclose a form which please fill out and return to us immediately. It is essential, however_ to at once advise us of the quantity you have to offer, as no guarantee can be given to take delivery of any grapes not. included in the estimate. 
Arrangements for payment of grapes pur. chased will have to be made at a later date. 
Accompanying the circular is the usual form setting out, as in other years, the various types of grapes which the firm is prepared to purchase. It is a fac simile of the circular usually issued, with the exception that no price is quoted for the various types of grapes. 
It will be seen, therefore, that the growers in South Australia and, I presume, in the wine-growing districts of other States also, will this year be at the tender mercy of the wine-makers. This is causing the growers in South Australia considerable concern. It is obvious that the Government has made up its mind not to increase the bounty, or to do anything that would overcome this temporary difficulty. It prefers to rely upon this measure. I suggest that the Government should increase the bounty by at least 9d. a gallon, the amount by which it was reduced last year, to cover the output of this season's vintage. This would tide the growers over their present difficulties and give this measure an opportunity to function. Possibly, if that is done, the industry will be on a sound basis before the next season's vintage is ready to be harvested. I hope that the Government will accede to this request, which I know has been made by the various growers' organizations throughout Australia and by those with whom I have been in contact in South Australia. 
Another serious effect of the reduction in the bounty is seen in the prices received by those engaged in the dried fruits section of the industry. Last year the price paid for currants was £35 or £36 a ton, according to quality. About a week ago I received information that the price this year will be about £11 a ton less than was realized for the same quality of currants last year. It will be seen, therefore, that the reduction in the bounty has affected, not only those growers who rely entirely on the processing of their grapes for wine purposes, but also those who turn their product into dried fruit. I trust that the requests of the growers for an increase in the bounty will receive sympathetic consideration at an early date. 
I agree with the general principles of the bill. Honorable members of the party to which I belong may, I think, be regarded as pioneers in the advocacy of legislation along these lines. I remember the time, twelve or fifteen years ago,  when  Labour members first advocated pooling arrangements and co-operative schemes for our primary producers. The suggestions made then did not receive the measure of support and sympathy now accorded  to them.  I venture to say that as time goes on the efficacy of the principle which we are seeking to incorporate in this measure will be proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, and instead of restricting its operations, steps will be taken to extend them. 
One of the weaknesses of the bill, in my opinion, is that it seeks to control only the product to be exported. One has only to consider the potentialities of the home market to realize that the local field might profitably be brought under control in the interests of the producer. I do not agree with those who declare that wine should not be drunk by our people. I contend that, in a climate such as we enjoy in Australia, there should be a greater consumption by our people of certain types of wine as a beverage, in preference to imported spirits and other concoctions. As one travels around Australia and partakes of hospitality in those places that cater for travellers, commercial and otherwise, one is forced to conclude, from the beverages that are available, that there is very little inducement to patronize the Australian viticultural industry. A person who goes into the average licensed house and asks for a glass of wine is generally offered the cheapest product obtainable, for which he has to pay the highest price the vendor dares to ask. That is an aspect of the industry with which this measure might well deal. There are great opportunities to increase the home market for wines and dried fruits. We should aim at reducing the margin between what the producer receives and the price paid by the consumer. How great that margin is " will be seen from the following quotation from a speech made by  Colonel Francis,  a well-known vigneron of South Australia, who has taken a great interest in the wine industry, at a conference held in Adelaide on the 4th January last - 
Tn the past it had been a great thought to exalt the position in respect to the export trade in comparison with the amount consumed in the home trade. The export trade was a mere fraction of what was produced and consumed in Australia, and wine makers had consistently drawn a red herring across the trail of export in relation to the bounty, covering up very systematically and successfully the huge profits they had made on the wines consumed by the "Dinkum Aussie." A grower received approximately £7 10s. for a ton of grapes. The Government received £50 in excise. The maker got £20 for the same ton, while the poor consumer had to pay at the rate of £90. An industry that could support that was on the wrong lines. 
There is something wrong when the producer receives only £7 10s. for a commodity for which the consumer is asked to pay £96. 
The bill seeks to set up a marketing organization to deal with our exportable surplus of wine. It proposes the establishment of a board of eight - one to be representative of the Government, two representatives of South Australia, one representative each of the States of Western Australia and Victoria, one representative for New South Wales and Queensland, and two representatives of the co-operative processing organizations. The growers are entitled to more direct representation on a board which is to exercise such a vital influence upon the industry in which they are engaged. In his second-reading speech the Minister pointed out that the cooperative organizations had been given two representatives so that the growers would indirectly have some control. According to the best information I can obtain, the five recognized co-operative organizations in the Commonwealth represent approximately 1,000 grower members. There are, however, over 7,000 growers' engaged in the industry in different parts of Australia. Assuming that the two representatives of the co-operative distilleries will effectively represent the growers connected with them, there will still be 6,000 growers not affiliated with co-operative distilleries who will be without representation on the board. It may be said that the interests of all growers are substantially the same, but it is not always so. 
This measure will apply particularly to South Australia, where it would be difficult for the growers to organize a system of cooperative processing in face of the opposition which would be forthcoming from old established concerns. South Australia lias some of the oldest, as well as the largest, wineries and distilleries in the Southern Hemisphere. The owners of those establishments are not only processors; they are also very large growers; and because of the long period during which they have been in business they are now firmly established. Any co-operative organization seeking to compete with them would be faced with strong opposition. Indeed, the two cooperative distilleries at Renmark and Berri - the latter of which was established during the war period to deal principally with the doradillo grapes grown by returned soldiers - are in a much worse position because of the slump in the industry than are the older distilleries in South Australia, because they did not participate in the profits made during boom periods. While there may be difficulties in the way of amending the measure, some direct representation should be given to the growers, to ensure that they will receive fair treatment. The bill really provides for pooling the exportable surplus of wine. The whole of the wine to be exported, subject to certain provisions relating to existing contracts, and to meet contingencies, will be under the control of the board, which, I assume, will act as a selling agent on behalf of. those wine-makers who will export their wine through it, in much the same way that our wheat, wool and dried fruit pools have operated. 
We have heard a good deal recently about licences. Under this bill the board will issue licences to exporters of wine. Those who operate without a licence will be liable to certain penalties. While I do not agree with the licensing system as applied to certain workers in a measure which was recently before us, I am in full accord with the system of licensing proposed in this measure, because it will establish an effective control and prevent the abuses which during recent years have crept into the wine export business and damaged, in the eyes of the world, the reputation of our excellent products. I emphasize that the power proposed to be vested in a board controlled by wine-makers is altogether too great. Even if we admit that the two representatives of the co-operative distilleries will effectively represent all the growers, the growers will still not have a- fair share of representation. I take it that the Government nominee will be strictly neutral, his duty being to maintain contact between the Government and the organization, and to see that the desire of Parliament in passing this legislation is carried out. The growers should have direct representation on the board, although there is something to be said in favour of the makers of wine having a preponderance of the representation. The industry has been built up as a result of years of experimenting and organizing on their part, and the expenditure of hundreds of thousands of pounds of their capital. They have more at stake as individuals than have the growers. I think that the makers are entitled to control the board, because  Ave  are taking from them the responsibility they have hitherto exercised, that of marketing the product. We think that it will be in the best interests of all to have the control of marketing vested in an export control board representative of every interest concerned; but I repeat that the growers should have direct representation on that board. I support the bill because I believe it will prove beneficial to the viticultural industry of Australia, and make possible the proper organized marketing of our surplus product of wine. If the control board functions as I think it will, it will do away with the crisis through which the wine industry is now passing, enable the industry to expand, give more and more employment to the people of Australia, and add to the wealth of the Commonwealth. 
I support this bill because I recognize in it an effort on the part of the Government to stabilize the wine industry, which must have a beneficial effect on the wine-makers and winegrowers. Of course, I realize that it places the control of the industry in the hands of the wine-makers, whose first consideration will naturally be the interests of the makers of wine; but if it is found that the growers are not getting a fair deal, this Parliament can, at any time, review the position and take steps to properly safeguard their particular interests. When the Government reduced the bounty by 9d. a gallon, I spoke at length in this chamber, and said that our exportable surplus wines would not be got away. About the same time the Prime Minister told a deputation from South Australia that he had been advised that the surplus could be exported even under the reduced bounty, but events have proved that he was wrongly advised. Some of the largest wine-makers in South Australia tell me that they cannot buy grapes at the fixed price and export the wine made from them except at a loss. Most of the sweet wine that is now going away is being exported because the banks and financial institutions are forcing the wine-makers to dispose of their stocks in order that their overdrafts may be reduced. The reduction of 9d. a gallon in the bounty has made all the difference between success and failure. It will readily be seen that if Australian wine could be offered on the British market at 9d. a gallon less than has to be asked, a great deal more of it could be sold. 
I do not altogether blame the Government for the position of the wine industry to-day. On the contrary I give it a great deal of credit for the amount of good it has done to the industry- The bounty -it paid saved the situation. The trouble was originally brought about by the determination of the State Governments to place returned soldiers on the land and force them to plant grape-vines. The effect of this was to so increase the production of wine that a surplus was created. The Federal Government came to the rescue of the growers with a bounty of 4s. a gallon on exported wine. I admit that when that bounty was first paid, exporters made handsome profits, and that when it was reduced by ls. they were still doing fairly well, but it was the last reduction by 9d. a gallon which caused all the trouble. 
At this stage I should like to call attention to the fact that duty has to be paid on Australian-made wine casks when they are returned to Australia. A statement has appeared in the  Viticultural Journal  that this duty has been removed ; other statements have been made to the effect that the Government has promised to remove it. I should like the Minister when he replies to tell us what the exact position is in regard to this particular impost. Personally, I think the removal of the duty, which course I so strongly advocated in the Senate some time ago, would do something towards alleviating the position of the wine industry. 
Like other Australian primary industries whose surplus has to be sold on the world's markets, the wine industry is a  affected  by the economic position in Australia. The cost of production is so high that there is great difficulty in placing our exportable surplus on the world's markets. The cost of production has been so increased by arbitration awards, tariff schedules, and other artificial means that our primary industries are in a tangle owing to high costs of production, and if we in turn do not bolster them up, the millions will not come to this country from purchasers of our produce in other parts of the world. Dealing with the high cost of production which is militating against the sale of our wine in London, the British Economic Commission reported : - 
But oil measures designed for the increase of Australia's wealth production and power of absorbing new population tend to be defeated if there are strong forces within her which "operate so to raise her costs of production that she cannot sell her products in the markets of the world, and is restricted within the limitations of her own home market. Here we approach the most vexed, and the most important of all Australian questions, that of the combined effects of the protective customs tariff and of the legislative enactments, both of the Commonwealth and of the States, for the fixing of wages and conditions "of labour, which we will call, for brevity, the Arbitration Acts. 
We could not fail to be impressed, throughout our travels in Australia, with the fact of which we were continually reminded, that, notwithstanding the magnitude of the interest on her external debt and of her imports for which payment can only be made in goods or services or, temporarily, by fresh borrowing, Australia exports only an almost negligible quantity of the products of manufacture, unless we include therein minerals such as lead, silver and zinc; while, broadly speaking, the only primary products which she exports in important quantities and which are not directly assisted by tariffs or bounties, though they may be assisted indirectly by Government expenditure from taxation on roads, railways, water schemes, and tho like, are wool, hides and skins, meat and tallow, wheat and timber. 
The report proceeds to say that these costs may be raised to a level which will bring disaster in respect to the export of our primary products. That is the position of the Australian wine industry to-day. A serious calamity awaits it unless something practical is done to prevent it. Not long ago I took a trip through the Tanunda district. I saw a vineyard here and an orchard there, where every acre could have been under fruit trees or grape vines. That country should be carrying tens of thousands of people, and the export of the produce grown upon it should be bringing millions of pounds into Australia; but owing to the high cost of production, instead of that valuable land being covered with orchards and vineyards, much of it is given over to bullocks. There should be a family on every 20 acres, and tens of thousands of workers should be employed upon it, while in Adelaide and the country towns tens of thousands of others should be engaged in sending them goods and marketing their produce. 
Owing to the high and inflated cost of production it is exceedingly difficult to place Australian wine on the world's market without Government assistance. The wine industry of Australia is the only industry competing with world's products which has to pay an excise duty. The wine products of such countries as Spain and Portugal, where cheap labour is available do not have to bear an excise impost.  Senator O'Halloran,  who referred to the payment of excise did not give the total amounts collected and for the information of the Senate I shall give the figures supplied to me in answer to a question, as I should like them placed on record. They are: 1918-19, £188,634; 1919-20, £182,624, 1920-21, £211,180; 1921-22, £238,125; 1922-23, £255,302; 1923-24, £282,323; 1924-25, £333,729; 1925-26, £428,115; 1926-27, £435,135; 1927-28, £340,800. For the seven months of 1928-29, £83,112 has been collected. 
No, it is a charge on the whole production and in addition, as  Senator O'Halloran  said, excise amounting to £2,000,000 is paid on grape brandy. The amount of deferred excise due on the 30th June, 1928, amounted to £230,472. A total of £3,209,551 has been paid by this industry in the form of excise, on fortifying spirit for wine. At present about one-third of the Australian production of wine has to be exported to the London market. If it is not disposed of in that way the industry will be faced with disaster, as large quantities will be thrown upon the local market, where the demand is insufficient to cope with the supply. I have shown that the amount collected in the form of excise is approximately £3,209,551, whilst the amounts paid in bounties to assist the industry, totals only £1,210,188. 
Yes, but not when we remember that over £3,200,000, in addition to charges similar to those borne by other industries which also have difficulty in placing their products on the world's markets, is paid in excise. The amounts paid by way of wine bounty were in 1924-25, £28,417; 1925-26, £217,108; 1926-27, £442,410; 1927-28, £482,843; and to 9th February, 1929, £39,410, a total of £1,210,188. 
The payment of a bounty on the export of wine has increased the production and consequently the amount of excise collected by the Government. For the four years prior to the payment of a bounty the revenue from excise on fortifying spirit was £986,929, and during the four years in which the bounty was paid it was £1,862,105, or an increase of £875,176. As the net amount of the bounty and drawback on " bounty " wine totalled £1,259,805, less the increase in revenue of £875,176, the bounty has actually cost the Government only £384,629. 
This measure provides a system of organized marketing to enable grape-growers and wine-producers to dispose of their surplus stocks. As approximately £20,000,000 has been invested in bringing the viticultural industry to its present state in Australia, and it requires over £1,000,000 annually to maintain and develop it, whilst it contributes about £800,000 a year to the consolidated revenue in the form of excise it should be assisted. The working cost of the area under wine grapes amounts to between £600,000 to £700,000 a year of which labour is the most important item. The figures I have given represent only vineyard costs, and do not include those incurred in the wineries and distilleries. I have shown that allowing for the increase in excise the actual amount of bounty paid has been about £384,629 for the whole time the bounty system has been in operation. The manufacturing industries in the cities which receive substantial help in the form of customs duty are responsible for the imposition of an indirect tax upon the people of approximately £30,000,000 every year. 
Customs duties are certainly paid by the people on imported goods to help manufacturing interests. The bounties paid to other industries have been for cotton, for one year, £30,000; iron and steel products, for year ending 30th June, 1927, £256,853; and on sulphur, for one year, £34,339. The Government has also proposed the payment of an export bounty on coal which if given effect to will amount to some £400,000. In order to encourage the sugar industry an embargo has been placed upon the importation of foreign grown sugar and this is costing Australian consumers a very large sum. The butter stabilization scheme is also being contributed to by consumers of butter. Frequent reference has been made to the amounts that have been paid in wine bounties, but they are small when compared with the amount paid to other industries receiving Government assistance. Apart altogether from other considerations we have to remember that there are from 2,000 to 3,000 soldier settlers engaged in the grape growing and wine producing industries, many of whom have been financed up to the hilt by the State governments with money advanced by the Commonwealth Government. If the exportable surplus of our Australian wine becomes a drug on the Australian market, and prices collapse, those engaged in the industry will be compelled to leave their vineyards and wineries and the consequent financial burden will then be very much more than the amount of the bounty at present being paid. 
I know that. I have told the Minister that I am afraid the assistance offered will not be sufficient. In 1927-28 Australia exported £829,799 worth of wine and in 1928 £1,062,408 worth, so that a large sum annually is brought to Australia by means of this industry. I think I have said sufficient to convince honorable senators that this is a vital industry to Australia, and one of some magnitude. If we allow the industry to get into such a state that it cannot dispose of the exportable surplus the situation will be difficult to overcome. Last year our receipts from wheat sales were considerably lower than in previous years and every one felt the pinch; but if the returns from other industries also diminish, the position will be still more serious. In 1915-16 our total exports were valued at £74,778,321 and in 1926-27 at £144,895,183, practically all of which consisted of primary products. The total exports of manufactures in 1915 were valued at £3,417,021 and in 1927 at £4,026,491, so that during that period our exports of manufactures were practically stationary. If the export of primary produce diminishes it will not be long before the position of Australia will become desperate. 
Two factors are largely responsible for the reduction in the sale of Australian wine overseas. Some time ago Great Britain granted a preference of 4s. a gallon on Australian wine. The rates were - 
Strength n.e. 42 per cent., p.s. Foreign, 8s. per gallon. 
Strength n.e. 42 per cent., p.s. Empire 4s. per gallon. 
Strength n.e. 25 per cent., p.s. Foreign 3s. per gallon. 
Strength n.e. 27 per cent., p.s. Empire 2s.  per gallon. 
Strength n.e. 27 per cent., p.s. British ls. per gallon. 
This helped the industry, but the effect of that preference has been destroyed by the blending of wines in Great Britain. When the reduction of the bounty was under consideration the Minister in charge of the measure said that the effect of blended wines upon the Australian product would be negligible. The Minister for Markets and Transport  (Mr. Paterson)  made a similar statement at a meeting of those engaged in the industry, but  Mr. Gramp,  who recently returned from overseas, said that blending is being undertaken in Great Britain to a large extent.  Mr. Gramp  states - 
The cheap sweet wines from Spain and Portugal are also strong competitors, and they are being sold considerably cheaper than what our Australian sweet wines can he landed at in London. The  Tarrogona  and Lisbon wines are imported at two different strengths, the duty on foreign wine N.B. 25 per cent, is 3s. per gallon, and that on N.B. 42 per cent. Ss. A very large trade is done by blending three pipes of 25 per cent, together with one pipe of 42 per cent. This gives an average strength of 28-29 per cent., and the duty is only 4s. 3d. per gallon, which is only 3d. more than the duty on Australian, and the cost of these wines is only a few pence more than the cost of our casks and freight alone. Some shippers of Tarragona sweet wines have succeeded in keeping their wines by distributing them at a strength of N.E. 25 per cent., and the duty on same is only 3s. per gallon. The  Douro  Ports pay the full rate of duty of 8s. per gallon, as these are only shipped at a high strength. 
Although the industry is supposed to receive an effective preference of 4s. it is really receiving a preference of only 3d. 
They are not as good wines, but by blending in this way, traders are able to overcome the duty, to the prejudice of our wines. 
The worst phase is that the British preference is being evaded by the sale of so-called British wines which are being made from foreign concentrated grape- juice. The grape-juice is imported from Spain, Portugal, Prance and Greece, An excise duty of only ls. 6d. per gallon is paid upon it as against the 4s. duty paid on Australian wine. The London  Times  of the 7 th March, 1928, contained the following very significant paragraph upon the operations of one of these British wine companies, taken from the chairman's half-yearly report to the shareholders - 
I hope you will consider that events have justified my optimism, and that our £170,000 profit for 1927 is more than satisfactory, especially if you will take into consideration  THAT  this profit has been effected with the contribution of a portion only of the profits we anticipated to derive from our Colonial business. ... 
The increase in stock from £75,G60 as at December 21, 192C, as against £138,993 at the close of the year under review, is caused by our very largely increased turnover, as  u  result of which it is necessary for us to hold much larger stocks, which may be still larger in the future. This extra trade is also responsible for the increase in our sundry debtors from £79,138 at December 31, 1926, to £143,355 at December, 1927. . . . 
Our. trading profit, after charging all expenses, is £172,025, as against £102,850 last year. 
Turning to the director's report, you will observe that of the balance of profit available, after deducting the dividend on the preference shares and the interim dividend on the ordinary shares, there remains £125,174 13s. lid. The directors propose to pay a final dividend on the ordinary shares at a rate of 35 per cent, per annum, making a total dividend of 30 per cent, for the year, which will absorb £61,250. 
That will make it clear what tremendous profits those companies are making. Since the report was published a number of other wine companies have been formed in Great Britain to market cheap foreign must under the guise of British wine. Australia grants Great Britain an annual preference of approximately £8,000,000, as against a reciprocal tariff of £1,000,000. It was the intention of Great Britain that our wine industry should benefit to the extent of a 4s. per gallon preference, but that is beingevaded by blending and by the importation of cheap foreign must. 
This Government appears to be disinclined to press the British Government for an effective preference upon our wine, and I urge it to reconsider the matter. The Viticultural Council and grapegrowers join with me in making strong representations to the Government to urge the British Government to make the preference an effective one. The position of the growers is very serious indeed, as they are not being paid the fixed price for their grapes. It must be realized that a buyer is not compelled to pay that fixed price if the grapes are intended for wine for local consumption. At present the wine manufacturers are not paying the fixed price for grapes, as it would nor, now pay them to buy grapes at that rate to make wine for export purposes. Consequently, there is practically no export of 
Australian wine, and the burden falls principally upon the grower, who has to accept much under the fixed prices for his product. I shall quote several letters and telegrams on the subject, the first of which is from the Adelaide Plains GrapeGrowers Association, as follows: - 
After making careful inquiries both in our own district and from the Northern Growers' Association  (Mr. Gursansky)  and the Southern Growers  (Mr. Bruce),  my association feels justified in stating definitely that prices arc being offered for grapes far below those fixed by Government, namely £3 for Doradillas at 12 degreesbeaume with penalty of 10s. per degree under 12 degrees; £4 for Muscatelles with same terms. Also it has been brought to the association's notice that best varieties of grapes are not being purchased by some makers as such, but growers can deliver them and call them mixed for which they only receive £5 per ton as 12 degrees beaume. The wine-makers terms of purchase being mostly for four equal quarterly payments without interest. There are several growers who have been completely turned down, principally brought about by the fact that only a limited number of wine-makers are operating. Is the Government going to stand by and witness this disaster which some of the best sons of Australia are faced with. Or will the Government devise a scheme to enable the fixed prices to be received. 
I am 
Yours faithfully, 
Keith L. Rainsford, 
President. 
I wish to point out to honorable senators that these growers are offered £3 for doradillos, whereas the fixed price in 1927 was £6 10s., and in 1928 £5 15s. a ton. 
I also have the following letter from the Grape-growers' Association of South Australia, which represents the northern districts :  - 
I beg to advise you that the prices being offered for grapes this vintage are on various scales. 
To-day I interviewed two wine-makers, who informedme that they intend paying for grapes the prices fixed by the Government. Then when I got to Penfolds' Wines Limited, a list of which I enclose a copy, is seen posted up on their window. This for regular customers only, others will be obliged to accept loss again, and these are a few figures that were supplied to me - Frontignac, £6; Grenache, £4; Madeira, £4; Sercial, £3; Shiraz, £7; Sweetwater, £3. 
The growers are being offered £6 for Frontignac, and the fixed price for 1928 is £9 10s., whilst the fixed price for 1927 was £10 10s. They are offered £4 for 
Grenache, although the fixed price for 1928 is £8 5s. The letter continues - 
Glancing over the whole list of prices one can see nothing but disaster staring at him, and if we ask who is to- blame for it we are fully convinced that the Government is not moving in order to assist the grower. After discussing the matter at length with several makers we are convinced that the only solution is the re-instatement of the bounty. We are fully aware of the fact that this request has time and again been refused us and the last time by the Minister of Markets at the Melbourne conference on9th January last. Notwithstanding all these rebuffs we again - both makers and growers - respectfully ask you ' to press the matter in the House. We have the definite promise from the Prime Minister himself that he would not let the grower go under, and we urge the Government to move in that direction if they are at all concerned about saving the industry. 
I am also sending a copy of Penfolds' price list to each the Prime Minister, the Minister for Markets and the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
Yours faithfully, 
Gersch, 
Secretary. 
All of the prices mentioned are below those fixed by the Government. I have with me Penfold's price list for the whole range of grapes, and not one quotation in the list comes up to the fixed price. The following telegram was received from the Southern growers: - 
Sales have been made here as follow: - Grenache, four pounds; doradillo, three pounds; currants, six pounds five. 
Bruce, Southern Grapegrowers. 
The price fixed last year was Grenache £8 5s., and for the previous year £9 10s. a ton. Those fixed prices were regarded as being the lowest upon which the growers could exist. Consequently those growers, whose number includes some 2,000 to 3,000 returned soldiers, are in a deplorable plight, and it is imperative that something should be done to assist the industry. From the Clare district, an important area which has hundreds of vineyards, I received a communication indicating that the Stanley "Wine Company, in that district, was crushing only its own grapes for the present. It adds " Whether they will take grapes from growers later, at the prices, is something for the future." Lastly, I have a' private letter, extracts from which read - 
I hereby wish to draw your very urgent attention "to the position of the grape industry and to ask you to do your utmost to get the Government to help the growers. . . . One class is buying at the fixed price, but they are only buying about two-thirds of the estimate sent in by the growers, and one firm is only buying the white, or cheaper grape in particular. The other class are buying all they can get hold of at a reduction of £2 and over per ton, to customers, and a further reduction of £2 for all other grapes that are not taken by other wineries. The third class is not buying at all, as this is, in our area, a new establishment that could cope with a great portion of the crop, but owing to what I can understand, the reduction of the bounty and the unsatisfactory position of the export trade, they are crippled to such an extent that they cannot operate. The question is where is it going to end. We do not know yet if all our grapes will be taken. Who is going to help the growers meet their liabilities if this should be the case on top of the reduced price which is not in any way covering the cost of production. 
Those communications indicate the seriousness of the position. The right honorable the Prime Minister recently received a deputation of South Australian grape-growers, and informed them that if it were found that our surplus wine could not be disposed of, and there was chaos in the industry, the Government would have to consider seriously what steps it should take to protect the growers. I believe that the Prime Minister at that. time was seriously concerned about the position of the growers, and I think I have said enough this afternoon to indicate that it is now most precarious. If the Government declines to reinstate the extra 9d. a gallon bounty, and refund some of the excise duty collected, and if it is impossible to induce the British Government to alter the incidence of its preferential duties, I fear that a considerable number of our growers will be forced off their holdings. The wine-makers are now buying wine grapes at several pounds a ton less than they paid for the same type of grapes last year. Doubtless they were making a fair profit on locallyconsumed wine at last year's prices; but they are now buying at very reduced prices. If they sell their wine in Australia at previous prices they will make much larger profits, whilst the grapegrowers are faced with ruin. One suggested remedy is the introduction of a scheme on similar lines to the Paterson butter scheme, under which a levy could be imposed on wine produced for home consumption in order to create a fund for the export of the surplus. 
I appreciate all that the Government is doing, but I ask the Ministry to do more; I suggest that steps be taken to increase the bounty by 9d. a gallon until the position becomes normal. The reduction agreed to last year was, I believe, fatal to the industry. The Government should give careful consideration to the position of our growers. 
That is impossible at this juncture. Wine-making is a specialized industry, and 1 should be exceedingly sorry if any action were taken to interfere with it or impair its efficiency. I can assure the Government that country storekeepers, bankers, and commercial men are regarding the position of our growers with alarm. There are millions of pounds of public money invested in the various soldier settlement schemes, and I am afraid that much of it will be lost unless practical measures are taken to put the industry on a sound basis. The outlook in South Australia particularly is very grave, and demands immediate attention. 
I feel it is my duty to say a few words on this bill, for the reason that unless an honorable senator from a State other than South Australia takes part in the debate, the impression might be created that South Australia is the only wine-producing State in the Commonwealth. New South Wales grows large quantities of wine grapes and the wine industry in that State is an important one. I listened attentively to the remarks of Senators O'Halloran and Chapman. I congratulate  Senator O'Halloran  upon his speech, which was reasonable and fair. It is obvious that the honorable senator has made a thorough study of the industry.  Senator Chapman  has addressed himself frequently to this subject in the Senate, and while listening to him this afternoon, I could not help feeling that if Tom Hood were alive to-day and had heard  Senator Chapman  speaking about the state of the wine industry in South Australia, he could have written something infinitely more touching and effective about the troubles of the winegrowers, than he did about the seamstress whose calling he immortalized in " The Song of the Shirt." Three things seem to be clear from the speech given by  Senator Chapman.  The first is that nothing can be done to save the industry in South Australia. 
The second is that the wine-makers generally are scoundrels of the deepest dye! 
I am afraid the honorable senator is taking my facetiousness rather seriously; but I can assure him that the impression which he gave me was that nothing could be done to save the industry. That was a fair deduction to make from his remarks. He clearly indicated that in his view the wine-makers were not dealing fairly and honestly by the growers, and he referred at great length to the fact that this year they were buying grapes at pounds a ton less than the price fixed by the Government. 
The third deduction I made from the honorable senator's speech was that England was not playing the game with the Australian winemaker, because, so he told us, English wine-makers are importing must from Greece and other countries, and turning out a product which is being sold in the British market as British wine. 
Naturally manufacturers do that with all classes of commodities, and although the action of the British wine-makers may be disadvantageous to Australian growers of wine grapes, as a commercial proposition what they are doing is fair and reasonable enough. We have a similar experience in connexion with Australian wool, which British manufacturers make into woollen goods and sell as a British product.  Senator Chapman  has told us that the one thing necessary to save the industry is to restore the 9d. a gallon by which the bounty was reduced, and place the burden on the shoulders of the people of Australia. 
That, too, is the view of the Government, if one may judge by the provisions of this bill, which goes * much further than any similar measure submitted to this chamber. The Government, realizing the seriousness of the position of the wine industry, and also its importance to Australia, has embodied in this measure certain provisions, which, in its opinion, will help the industry. I agree that it is of the greatest importance, not only to South Australia, but the Commonwealth as a whole. In 1926-27 we exported 3,077,588 gallons of wine, valued at £829,799. As we all know, the industry gives employment to a large number of persons apart altogether from the number of growers engaged in it, and  to  help the industry, the Government proposes to appoint a wine overseas marketing board. Speaking generally, I am reluctant to support proposals for the appointment of more boards. The Government has appointed many boards in recent years, and I think there is  growing  up among the people a feeling that the constitution of so many of these bodies is a negation of the principle of responsible government - of a government responsible to the people through its Ministers and heads of departments. It is true that the Minister in charge of the department under which the bill will be administered, will be responsible to Parliament; but the board will be vested Avith such wide powers that it will be almost impossible to fix responsibility on the Minister for its actions. It should be possible to attain the desired end without the appointment of a board. I suggest that what the board is to do might well be entrusted to a  Government  department already in existence, and, in England, to the High Commissioner's office. Surely it should be possible to do through existing agencies, what is sought to be done by the appointment of this board, namely, to evolve a reasonable marketing scheme for Australian wine, both in Australia and in England. The Government, however, has decided upon the creation of a board. Let us consider what it will be called upon to do. 
The particular powers to be vested in it are set out in clause 20 - 
The board shall, with respect to any wine placed under its control, have full authority to make such arrangements and give such directions as it thinks  fit  for the following matters :  - 
the handling, marketing and storage of the wine; 
the shipment of the wine on such terms and in such quantities as it thinks fit: 
) the sale and disposal of wine on such terms as it thinks fit: 
the insurance against loss of any such wine, either in the Commonwealth or in transit from the Commonwealth, and until disposed of: and 
all such matters as are necessary for the duo discharge of its functions in handling, distributing and disposing of the wine 
Not only the wine to be placed under the control of the board, but the whole of the wine produced in Australia will be affected, because a board which controls the export of winewill also control the local market. 
The manner in which the board exercises its powers to sell the wine or to withhold it from sale, will determine the quantity to be placed on the Australian market, and, consequently, the price to be paid for grapes. That clause refers only to wine placed under the control of the board, but clause 28 goes further. It provides that - 
Nothing in this act shall be construed to limit the power of the board to exercise, without the authority of the owner of any wine, any power with respect to such wine, which is expressly or by implication conferred on the board by or under this act. 
Honorable senators will see how wide is the control which the board will exercise. I agree with the honorable senator opposite who described this measure as an instalment of socialism. If not actually socialism, it is as near to socialism as it is possible to get. 
SenatorDUNCAN. - That will probably be the result. It will not even be necessary for the board to have the authority of the owner of the wine to dispose of it. The board may take the wine at any time, and sell it to whom it pleases, and for whatever price it chooses to accept, without first obtaining the consent of the owner. It may be that that power is necessary. I take it that the Government has made inquiries, and that, on the information obtained, it has deemed it wise to vest in some body the authority to deal with the wine as it thinks best to meet the exigencies of the market and to obtain the best results. I do not say that the bill should not contain a provision giving the board these powers; I have referred to them merely to show the far-reaching nature of the measure and that it embodies a new principle. When it becomes law the growers of the grapes and the owners of the wine will no longer retain control of their own industry. Should the board consist of men of the best type, and function properly, no harm may come to the industry; but we have had experience of boards which have not functioned as Parliament expected they would. Should the board to be constituted under this measure not fulfil our expectations, the wine industry may be placed in an even worse position than it is in to-day. Nevertheless, I feel that some good may result from the establishment of the board, and that this measure will assist an industry which sadly needs assistance. In the hope that the bill will fulfil the Government's expectations, I shall vote for the second reading. 
With most of the provisions of this measure I agree. The Government might have gone a step further and made it a. little more democratic by giving the grape-growers direct representation onthe board. It has been contended that the two members to represent the co-operative wineries and distilleries will, in fact, represent all the grape-growers. There are, however, not a great number of cooperative wineries and distilleries in Australia, so that there will be a great number of growers of grapes not represented on the board. Should the measure cause growers to organize to form cooperative distilleries it will accomplish some good, for then the growers, as in the case of the distillery at Berri, would export their own product, but until they  so organize  they  should have some direct representation on the board. Those growers who are, as yet,  unassociated  with any co-operative wineries or distilleries can scarcely be other than disappointed with this measure. It is not too late for the Government, even now,, to rectify what I consider to be its chief defect and give them representation. 
It would appear cither that the Government has not heeded their representations or that it has not yet fully considered them. The large quantity of wine exported last year caused a glut of Australian wine on the London market. For that glut succeeding governments in South Australia have been largely responsible, for they forced returned soldier settlers to plant doradillo grapes on their holdings. The result was that whereas in 1919 grapes brought £19 a ton, in 1920 they were sold at £8 a ton; in 1921 at £5 a ton; with a further reduction to £3 in 1922. That, however, was not nearly as low as the price of grapes in 1904, when they were sold for as little as 30s. a ton. These low prices have meant that many growers have received less than the basic wage. 
That may be so, but the policy of forcing returned soldiers to plant doradillo vines inevitably led to overproduction, with the result that the price of grapes was so reduced as to make the industry unprofitable. When the Government decided to grant a bounty on wine exported many growers of grapes suitable for drying took them to the wineries and distilleries and had them made into wine, thus defeating the Government's object. If in addition to a bounty on exported wine the Government had given a bounty of £10 a ton on exported dried fruits, that quantity of grapes which brought the present surplus of 3,000,000 gallons of Australian wine on the London market would not have gone to the distilleries. 
The  grape  growers recognize, as everyone does in Australia, that no government can continue paying a bounty for all time, and that there must come a time when it should stand on its own feet or be blotted out. Some of the growers I have questioned say, unhesitatingly, that they will be able to stand on their own feet in a few years. 
When they get a grip on the London market. They hope that within a few years they will be able to hold their own on that market. The immense good that has been done to the industry by the payment of the bounty is shown by some figures I shall quote as to our exports. Before the bounty was paid our export of wine was approximately 800,000 gallons a year, but thereafter the export for the respective years was - 

<graphic href="120332192903193_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

There has been a decreased export since the bounty has been reduced. I think it would be a good policy to restore the 9d. a gallon for three years. If at the end of that time the industry was found to be unable to hold its own in the markets of the world, the Government would be justified in making a reduction of the bounty. Sooner or later there must come a time when a bounty has to be reduced. The idea of giving one is to help an industry for a few years until it has gained a footing. 
I was speaking of the thousands of tons of grapes that were diverted from the dried fruits industry to the distilleries. In two years the quantity was 46,000 tons, which produced 3,680,000 gallons of fortified wine on which the bounty payable at the rate of 4s. a gallon was £736,000. If we deduct the excise collected which amounted to £230,000, it leaves a net Government payment of £506,000 on the product of that 46,000 tons of grapes. If the Government had given a bounty of £10 on the export of dried fruits, and if this 46,000 tons of grapes had not been diverted to the distilleries, it would have meant a saving of £130,000 to the taxpayers of Australia ; the grape growers would have continued producing grapes for dried fruits instead of taking this portion of their produce to the distilleries, and the enormous surplus of 3,000,000 gallons of Australian wine we have on the London market to-day would not exist. 
We should continue to give encouragement to the grape-growers and winemakers until we can see clearly whether they are likely to succeed without the payment of a bounty. Of course, if they cannot do so, other means of helping them must be devised, or the industry must cease. It seems hard that people who have put their life's work and all their savings into an industry, should be deprived of their means of existence. I do not know how long they expect the Commonwealth Government to continue paying a bounty. From what I can gather, many of them are under the impression that in three or four years' time they will be able to get along without assistance. If they are correct in their forecast, I think the Government should put forth every effort to help them in the meantime. 
Any one who wants to get an idea of what the grape-growing industry means to Australia, should take a trip through South Australia, which, I suppose, produces more grapes than all the other States put together. The people of South Australia anticipate a considerable development in the dried fruits industry. The late Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. H. E. Pratten)  frequently told us that there was a market in Great Britain for all our dried fruits, but, in my opinion, we must advertise. I do not think we are doing sufficient in that direction. As a result of an advertising campaign the Victorian Railways Commissioners have succeeded in increasing the sale of fresh fruit by about £1,000,000 a year. The slogan " Eat more fruit " is seen everywhere in Victoria,. I think we should do something on the same lines to promote the sale of our wines and dried fruits in Great Britain. Until 

 Senator O'Halloran mentioned the fact, I did not know that unscrupulous exporters had sent inferior wines from Australia so that they might collect bounty on them. People who do that kind of thing ought to be prosecuted and compelled to pay the penalty of their dishonesty. The proposed control board should bring about more honesty in the export trade. I think the idea of having a control board is an excellent one.  Senator Duncan  has described it as a socialistic step. Whether it is or not I do not know, but it is certainly a democratic step which I commend. I hope the Government will make the control board more democratic by giving the well-deserving growers direct representation on it. 
I can inform  Senator Chapman  that the duty on returned casks has been removed. I thank honorable senators for the way in which they have received the measure. Most of the criticism of the bill has hinged upon the payment of the bounty on exported wine, but as that matter is not dealt with in this bill, I do not propose to refer to it.  Senator O'Halloran  says that the wine-makers are refusing to pay the fixed price for grapes bought under the bounty. When I was moving the second reading, I said, in reply to an interjection, that the levy imposed under clause 21 would be paid by the grape-growers. I should have said that the makers will be responsible' for payment of it. If the makers do not wish to collect the bounty, the growers will have to take the best price offered for their grapes, and consequently cannot be protected; but if the wine-maker wishes to take advantage of the bounty he must pay the fixed price for grapes. I remind  Senator O'Halloran, Senator Hoare,  and some other honorable senators, who said that the growers should be represented on the board of control that the Government is giving them considerable representation through the co-operative wineries and distilleries, with which a good many of the growers are already associated. 
In any case it appears to me that the grape-grower is not interested to the same extent as the wine-maker, because after he has sold his grapes his responsibility ceases. The Government has gone as far as it should by giving representation to the growers through the co-operative wineries and distilleries. 
The bill provides for the appointment of a board of control consisting of eight representatives and not seven, as I mentioned in my second-reading speech. The first draft of the bill provided that South Australia and Western Australia should share a representation of two but it has since been thought desirable to give Western Australia a special representative on the board, thus increasing the personnel to eight.  Senator O'Halloran  suggested that the board should control local sales, but that involves a constitutional question on which I am not prepared to express an opinion. The organization of the local market is a matter for the State governments to consider. The federal effort in the direction of controlling primary products has always been confined to exports; that is as far as the federal authority can go. 

 Senator Duncan rather deprecated the appointment of further boards and inferred that the appointment of this body would involve the Government in additional financial responsibility. That is not so. The board will be appointed by those directly concerned in the industry and the Government will not be involved in any expense.  Senator Duncan  also referred to clause 20 of the bill which provides that the board shall, with respect to any wine placed under its control, have full authority to make such arrangements and give such directions as it thinks fit in connexion with the matters set out in the clause. That clause merely gives the board control of wine voluntarily placed in its hands. If honorable senators refer to clause 17, they will see that the board may accept control of any wine placed in its hands for the purposes of this act. It is to deal with the organization of the overseas market and have power to appoint a London agency to conduct an advertising and sales campaign. Clause 17 gives it the power to become a marketing board. If a grower places a quantity of wine directly under the control of the board, it must have full power and authority to handle it. 
This measure is an honest attempt to assist the industry. As the Minister for Markets and Transport  (Mr. Paterson)  said in another place, we believe that if such a board had been brought into operation some years ago, when it was offered, the wine industry would be in a better position than it is to-day. If by such an effort as this it is possible to establish the industry on a firm and satisfactory basis, it is much better than granting some form of artificial assistance. I trust that, as a result of this bill, which I hope the Senate will unanimously support, the grape-growing and wine-making industries will be placed on a more satisfactory basis, and that those concerned will experience a greater era of prosperity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
The board shall consist of . . . 
This clause provides for the constitution of a board of control. During my second-reading speech I said that there should not be any great difficulty in allowing the grape-growers to have at least one direct representative on the board. I, therefore, move - 
That at the end of sub-clause 2 the following new paragraph be added: - 
One member, appointed by the Governor- 
General, who shall be nominated by the Wine Grape Growers' Organization of Australia. 
Such a member would represent all the grape-growers and would assist in protecting their interests. The grape-growers have recently formed a federal body, comprising the respective State organizations. In South Australia we have five district organizations; one representing the growers on the River Murray, another representing the growers in the south - the Southern Grape-growers Association, one in the midlands, which includes growers on the Adelaide plains and in the foothills, another in the 
Barossa valley, and a northern organization which includes the growers at Clare and its environs. Some time ago these five organizations commenced an agitation for an Australian "Wine Grape-growers Council, and this was formed at a conference held in Melbourne in January of this year. If the Minister will agree to the amendment I have moved, that council will nominate a person to represent the growers on the board of control. As there is a good deal of suspicion in the minds of the growers, who do not think that they received a fair deal from the wine-makers prior to, and during the period in which the bounty was paid, I commend the amendment to the favorable consideration of the Minister. The growers will view with a good deal of suspicion the operations of a board upon which they have no representation. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Ogden)  urged that the co-operative organizations which he said embraced the growers, would be represented by two members on the board. lu South Australia there are two of the largest cooperative distilleries in Australia - one at Berri and another at Renmark. The Berri distillery is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere, but handles, almost entirely, doradillo grapes, and is engaged in the production of a spirit used in the manufacture of brandy and for fortifying purposes. The interests of the doradillo grape-growers, who control the Berri distillery, differ from those of the growers of other types of grapes, which number about 24, and which are used in the production of wines and kindred products. Further, it is impossible for the growers in the old-established districts at McLaren Yale or McLaren Flat, in the south ; in Adelaide or the foothills ; in tho Barossa Valley, or at Clare, to join up with the co-operative concerns at Renmark or Berri, because of the distance which separates them and the difference in the commodity which they are producing. I hope the amendment will be agreed to. 
 I have much pleasure in seconding the amendment. The Minister in charge of the bill declares that the growers will have representation on the board by virtue of their being members of a cooperative distillery; but some of the South Australian growers are over 300 miles away from a co-operative distillery, and they would reap no benefit. Thousands of grape-growers will be left without representation on the board, so I urge the Minister to recognize the fairness of the amendment and to accept it. That would bring about general satisfaction to those interested in the industry. Coonawarra, in South Australia, produces some of the best grapes in the world - grapes which are peculiar in that they obviate the necessity for artificially blending brandy. With their aid that district manufactures as fine a brandy as can be produced anywhere. All the growers in that and other areas will be without representation if the Minister refuses to accept the amendment. Its acceptance would impose no hardship upon the wine-makers, but would lead the wine grape-growers of Australia to believe that the Government had dealt fairly by them. I fail to see any reason why the Government should withhold the privilege sought by these men. 
 If honorable senators who support the amendment closely examined the position, they would realize that there is no justification for giving wine grape-growers representation other than that already provided in the bill. If it were a matter that concerned the marketing of grapes the claim would be unanswerable. As soon, however, as the grower sells his grapes to the wineries he is not further concerned as to their disposal, and it would be manifestly unfair to give him any voice in the control of the products of his grapes. There is every justification for giving representation to growers w ho are members of co-operative wineries, as they are concerned in the marketing of the wine. This bill is the result of a conference between the Minister and representatives of both growers and winemakers. 
All these points were discussed, and the bill as now drafted was the outcome of the deliberations. I am sorry that I cannot accept tLo amendment. The Government can  go no  further than to give representation  ro  co-operative institutions. I therefore urge honorable senators to vote against the amendment. 
 I arn rather surprised at the arguments advanced by the Minister. He stated that the interests of the growers are not directly concerned. 
 Their interests are directly and vitally concerned. I believe that the Government has introduced this bill to benefit the wine grape-growers and not the wine-makers. It is true that the grower's interest in his grapes ceases when lie delivers them at the winery or distillery, but the whole purpose of the bill is to build up an organization whereby the grower  Will  re  ceive  a higher price for his grapes. It must be obvious that the wine-maker should pay to the grower a price in accordance with that which he receives for the product which he makes from the grapes. I fail to sec how the interests of the two sections engaged in the industry can bc separated.  Senator Ogden  stated that it should be to the interests of the wine-makers to obtain higher prices. Conversely, it should also be to their interests to pay the grower the lowest possible price for his grapes. Winemakers, like all others engaged in manufacturing, are not philanthropists. 
It seeks to control the export of our surplus wine production, and I can visualize circumstances arising when the interests of the wine-makers may be different from those of the wine-growers. I can see no objection to giving the growers one representative on the board. There would be  no  danger of the solitary representative outvoting the other representatives, but his presence on the board would give the growers that confidence in  it  which is  so  necessary  if  the bill  is  to succeed. It would also give greater stability to the board. It is because I wish to see the bill succeed, and because I believe that the board will operate in the interests of the industry generally, that I press my amendment. 
, - The Minister appears to have regard only for the wine-makers. The grape-growers should also receive consideration. They are the stragglers. That wine-makers arc a wealthy section of the community is plainly evidenced by their palatial residences in South Australia. They have made an immense amount of profit out of the grape-growers, and that is why I am chiefly concerned about the latter. I am fighting for the bottom dog, the struggler who, as in this instance, frequently finds that he receives less than the basic wage when he balances at the end of the year. The growers are really entitled to two representatives, and there, can be no justification for a refusal to grunt them one representative. The presence of such a representative on the board would not imperil its operations. He could place before the board the grievances of the people whom he represents, who are the  one3  really concerned. I believe that the bill is intended to help the grower, but the Government has not gone far enough. It should study the man who needs representation, the primary producer. If the primary producer is forced out of existence the wine industry, too. must go. The growers should receive more consideration than the winemakers, as they provide the material with which to make the wine. 
 Senator O'Halloran's  amendment is so eminently sane that I cannot understand the objection raised by the Government. I take it that the purpose of the bill is to place the industry on a sound basis. If this is the desire of the Government surely it cannot ignore the foundation stone of the industry, the producer of the raw product? I am interested in the fruit industry of Australia to the extent that I have had to bring cases before our industrial courts on behalf of workers engaged in that industry. Invariably the plea of the growers to the court has been that they are compelled to fight the demands made upon them because they cannot obtain the price to which they are entitled. They always plead poverty.  I  believe there is some justification for their plea. But their position is largely the result of their own folly, as they do  not  organize as they should to get their fruit  to the consumer - in this case the winemaker. I have personal knowledge of the fact that they, like growers of other fruits, are at the mercy of the middleman. Between the grower and the consumer there exists a gulf which can he bridged only by organization. I remember the time when an Arbitration Court judge, during the hearing of a case which I presented, went down the street to ascertain what was being done in regard to the marketing of fruit. He purchased apples, oranges and other fruit, and compared the price which he had to pay with that received by the grower. Afterwards he admitted that something should be done to relieve the grower of the disability under which he was suffering. The need of the grower is organization. The Government is now establishing a machine that will benefit the winegrowing industry of Australia, but it is neglecting the primary producer. Conflicting commercial interests are involved. We may be sure that the wine merchant will not display much sympathy for the growers. He will follow the universal practice of commercialism and, to increase his own profits, will force the grower to accept the lowest possible price. It is wrong to introduce legislation to protect only one wing of the industry. The Government proposes to give protection to the wine-maker by the appointment of a board, which will arrange for the marketing of the product in Great Britain, and yet it contemplates leaving the grower with absolutely no protection. 
I am aware of that, but it does seek to secure the price for the wine-maker. 
I know it has not, but the grape-grower is interested because the price obtained for the wine must indirectly, at all events, govern the price of the grapes. The wine-maker is to have an organization for the marketing of his product, but the grower is to be left at the mercy of the wine-maker. The amendment is so sane that I cannot understand why the Government is not prepared to accept it. The growers should have representation on a board that will control the destinies of a product in which they are interested. 
I suggest that the Minister should postpone consideration of the clause until after the dinner adjournment, during which he might consult with his colleagues and possibly see his way clear, when we resume, to accept the amendment moved by  Senator O'Halloran. 
This measure has been fully discussed by all the parties interested. The object of the bill is to assist the growers. 
When the grower has sold his produce to the winery it is then the business of the wine-maker to market his product. The provisions of the bill will assist to that end. The point raised by honorable senators opposite was not mentioned in another place, because it was realized that the bill had been drafted in accordance with resolutions agreed to at a conference of representatives of co-operative and privatelyowned distilleries, wine-makers and growers, who were unanimous concerning its provisions. 
That is not so, as the recommendation of the conference was for only one representative of cooperative wineries and the Government is providing for two. I fail to see how the growers will suffer through not having direct representation. They will have representation through their co-operative institutions. 
As a member of a co-operative institution the grower is interested in following the wine to its destination, but the man who simply sells his produce to a winery disposes of his interest, and it is then the business of the maker to market the product.  Senator Barnes  seems to think that if growers had direct representation on the board they would have some control over the price to be paid for the grapes. That would not be the effect. The bill is designed to assist the growers, and I hope that the amendment will not be accepted. 
All honorable senators must agree that the Government's legislative programme is indeed disappointing. What do we find on a perusal of the GovernorGeneral's speech? First, there is a reference to the Financial Agreement Validation Bill, a measure which, unfortunately, has been placed on the statute-book of the Commonwealth. I suggest that that measure should never have been passed by this Parliament, because in a few years it will result in serious financial embarrassment to the States. It will accentuate whatever financial difficulties the States now have to face; it will increase unemployment and render more complex the problems of development resulting in the Commonwealth being faced with greater problems because of the necessity of assisting the States. The Premier of South Australia now realizes that when he affixed his signature to the agreement he made a mistake. 
No. The Senate was asked to ratify an agreement which had been entered into between the Commonwealth and the States. It merely purported to give effect to the voice of the people expressed at the recent referendum. No blame is attachable to the Senate in the matter of the signing of the agreement. The fault, so far as South Australia is concerned, lies entirely with the Premier of that State in having consented to the terms of the agreement. In the Melbourne  Age.  of 18th March, the following appeared - 
Surprise! was expressed by  Mr. Butler,  Premier, at the statement made by  Senator Pearce  that no provision had been made in the Federal Budget this year for a grant to South Australia, and that the Government would consider the matter in the Budget for 1930-31. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has explained that he meant the year 1929-30. The statement in the  Age  continues - 
The Premier said he was surprised in view of the fact that the special grant asked for was for this financial year, and was referred to in his budget. The statement made by  Senator Pearce  was extraordinary, in view of the fact that the report of the commission and its recommendations had not yet been received. Although no provision was made on the federal estimates for the payment of a special grant, he said, that did not prevent the Commonwealth Parliament by legislation making the payment retrospective, and if the commission recommended that a grant should be paid, that should certainly be done. 
With those sentiments I agree. The commission was appointed to deal with the financial position of South Australia and to enable the Government to decide whether that State should receive assistance. If provision for some assistance has not been made on this year's estimates, I suggest that attention be given to it next year and that it be made retrospective. The statement continues - 
It should not be overlooked that no provision had been made for the payment of a bounty on coal, yet  Mr. Bruce  had agreed, subject to certain conditions, that money would be available to meet that liability. 
South Australia was told that one of the reasons why financial assistance could not be given to that State was that provision had not been made in the estimates. Yet here we have the Premier of South Australia directing attention to a proposal of  Mr. Bruce  to grant a bounty on coal for which no provision had been made. The report continues - 
The Premier added that it was no fault of the South Australian Government that the inquiries of the commission were not completed earlier. The report of the South Australian committee on the disabilities arising out of federation was completed on 12th December, .1927, and forwarded to the Prime Minister on 14th 'December, 1927. It was not until approximately .six months later that the Commonwealth Government appointed a royal commission to inquire into the matter.  That  commission  began  its work in South Australia in August, 1928, and completed taking evidence at the end of November, 1928. 
No report has yet been furnished by it, although nearly four months have passed. Although under the agreement South Australia transferred a good deal to the Commonwealth in the belief that the Commonwealth would render her financial assistance, that assistance will not be given this year, -and she only " may :' receive it next year. 
The Disabilities Commission has not yet presented its report, and the people of South Australia are becoming suspicions. I hope that the Leader of the Senate will act upon thu suggestion of the Premier of South Australia and recommend that the payment to South Australia bc made retrospective. 
Next in the Governor-General's speech is a reference to the National Insurance Bill, to which I shall devote some remarks later. There is also a reference to the Government's intention to repeal the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act. Apart from those proposals, and a few others of a minor character, the Speech contains nothing but vague statements regarding inquiries proposed to be made into various matters. A careful perusal of the speech reveals nothing definite in the way of assisting the progress and development of the Commonwealth. The people of this country want a government that will talk less and do more. Ever since the present Government has been in office, speech after speech has been made by its members as to what should be done to improve our financial position, increase production, develop our overseas trade, and bring about industrial peace. They have given expression to stereotyped phrases concerning maximum production, the elimination of waste, national efficiency, and increased production, but they have done little to bring  about  the results of which they have spoken. 
Recently honorable senators listened to an illuminating address by  Senator Lynch  regarding the economic position of our rural industries. The Government never ceases to remind us that Australia is a primary producing country, whose prosperity depends on increased production. But what is the position in Australia to-day, compared with that of a few years ago ? In 1915- 16 the area under crop was 18,528,000 acres; in 1926-27, it was 17,772,000 acres. In 1915-16, the area under crop per 1,000 of the population was 3,16S acres; it had fallen to 2,908 acres in 1926-27. In 1915-16, 110,771 persons were engaged in rural occupations. Thar number increased later to 121,490, but the latest figures show a decrease to 5S,628, despite the fact that between 1915-16, and 1927-28 the population of Australia increased by 2,000,000. 
During that period the Labour party has been in a minority in the Senate. 
Now I can understand where the Government gets its support from. It is interesting to hear an honorable senator say that there is not the samo necessity to-day for large numbers of men on the laud as there was in 1915-16. We have better means of husbanding our products, but have we yet rilled the  last  acre upon which it is possible to grow wheat? Is it not possible to break up some of our large estates and settle, more people on the land? 
The Labour party adopted an effective method of breaking up large estates when it taxed them. 
The Minister knows that  Sir Sidney  Kidman, one of the biggest landholders in Australia, received considerable taxation concession. If the Commonwealth Government decided that the big estates were to be subdivided, it could bring that about. It has the power to do so most effectively. 
I suggest that sonic of the " dummied " land in the SouthEastern districts of South Australia is suitable for closer settlement. 
The 30 farms near Kapunda would support a large number of families; but they are not doing so.  Sir Sidney  Kidman also has farms in other parts of South Australia. If  Senator Crawford  would make himself acquainted with the conditions operating in the south-east of South Australia, where there is one of the richest agricultural belts in the State, he would find that a considerable area of land is locked up. He would be convinced that the Commonwealth should use its best endeavours, either by co-operation with the States, or by using its own powers of taxation, to have those lands unlocked. The States undoubtedly have the best means of breaking up large estates; but if they decline to become instruments for securing greater production within Australia, the Commonwealth Parliament, should not hesitate to make use of the means at its command to force their hands. But can honorable senators opposite point to one attempt which has been made by the Commonwealth Government to induce the States to break up these large holdings? 
And I understand that Queensland has made greater progress than any other State in the matter of production. 
If Queensland is not playing its part in increasing production, what has the Commonwealth Government done to induce it to do so? As a matter of fact, it has done nothing practical, either by co-operation with the States, or by using its own powers to bring about greater production. What the States need is practical assistance, and not theoretical advice. It is useless to bring an economic mission from Great Britain to go all over Australia and give out high  falutin'  phrases about something that we all knew beforehand, unless at the same time the Government is prepared to come down with a legislative programme of practical assistance to those who need it. 
If it is necessary to interfere with what the honorable senator regards as State rights in order to bring about greater production in our rural industries, I am prepared to do so. With me Australia always comes first. The time has come for deeds, and not words. 
I would suggest a general election if it were practicable. I remind honorable senators that the day of reckoning is coming when we shall all have to give an account of our stewardship. 
The people outside are getting tired of the present Government. For some years it has had substantial majorities in both chambers. Three years ago it was returned on a false cry of law and order and made all sorts of promises ; and when it came before the people on the last occasion to give an account of its stewardship it raised the same cry. When the election was over we had the Treasurer saying that he was pleased that the people had " so unmistakably endorsed again their confidence in the present Government. " Let us see if it is an occasion for gratification or alarm on the part of honorable senators opposite. In 1925, on the Senate figures, the Labour forces were defeated by a majority of 279,000. In 1928 that majority was reduced to 27,000. There were 100,000 more formal votes cast in 1928 than in 1925, yet Labour reduced the anti-Labour majority by a quarter of a million votes in a poll of 2,905,000 formal votes. It increased its votes in 1928 by 181,000 over its 1925 poll, and at the same time the anti-Labour votes decreased by approximately 70,000. In New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia the Labour votes increased considerably. Furthermore, Labour gained eight seats in another place. It is true that after the 30th June next its ranks in this chamber will be depleted, but the seven honorable senators who will be in opposition will represent 49 per cent, of the electors of the Commonwealth. 
For some considerable time past, we have read statements in the press, financial and otherwise, that the financial position of the Commonwealth is far from satisfactory. I shall have another opportunity of discussing this, but I propose now to refer briefly to the deficit, which was £2,628,743 last year, and this year promises to be augmented by another £1,000.000. The Treasurer was quite unperturbed by last year's deficit and he stated that he would make it up out of the following year's surplus. But so far this year we have the huge deficit of £1,000,000. The Treasurer has hopes of this being wiped out by increased customs revenue towards the end of the financial year and in the meantime makes no effort to curtail expenditure. 
I was expecting that interjection. Instead of treating a special grant to South Australia as Commonwealth expenditure, it should be regarded as a good investment. I do not complain about any expenditure which is incurred on productive work. My complaint is that the greater part of the deficit has been brought about by careless expenditure. The money has been poured down a sink. I contend that it is the Treasurer's duty to endeavour to balance the ledger by the end of the financial year instead of trusting to luck and expecting it to automatically adjust itself. There are certain honorable senators opposite who regard themselves as capable business men; and who, if they had a man controlling their private affairs in the manner in which those of the Commonwealth are being controlled to-day, would sack him. Notwithstanding the way in which our finances are being handled we are asked to retain the services of a person who controls the finances of the Commonwealth as the Treasurer does. 
Yes, some of them have been compelled to do that in consequence of the muddled condition in which the States' finances have been left by their predecessors. Labour was placed in power in Tasmania to right the affairs of that little island, and it did it most effectively. 
The anti-Labour forces in that State handed over the reins of government because they realized that there were only two means of salvation, one of which was the election of  Senator Ogden  to this Parliament and the other was to place a Labour government in power in that State. 
The criticism of the policy of the present Treasurer is not confined to members of the Opposition, in both chambers. One supporter of the Government, in another place, was so outspoken in his denunciation of the way in which the Commonwealth finances had been controlled that the Prime Minister muzzled him by giving him a portfolio. The position is serious and the Treasurer must cease his extravagance. During the period he has been in office expenditure has increased by £16,500,000 and our overseas borrowing by over £80,000,000 sterling. If the Treasurer continues at that rate what will our position be in a few years ? For some years past we have enjoyed prosperity, due chiefly to our exports of wool, wheat and meat, and as a result of this the Government has gone on squandering millions without giving any thought to reverses which must eventually come. If, by any misfortune, our wool clip should decrease, or the prices of that commodity should decline to any considerable extent, our predicament would be too serious to contemplate. Prior to the Treasurer taking office he was a great advocate of economy, and time and again told the then Treasurer that he should cut his garment according to his cloth. That is the advice which we are tendering to the Treasurer to-day. 
I shall, very shortly, deal with one important item in connexion with which economy could be effected. Recently the British Economic Delegation, in a long report, commented upon the general economic conditions in Australia. The delegation stated that whilst the financial position of Australia was sound, it was of the opinion that the Commonwealth was borrowing too freely, and that we would do well to restrict our loan expenditure to certain developmental works. 
We all realize that a young country must borrow in order to carry out developmental works. This Government claims that the money it has borrowed has all been spent on reproductive works. 
It will be when it is completed. Can the Government say that it has obtained satisfactory results from the money it has expended? 
The Queensland people are saying that a Commonwealth "sitting room" has been established in Canberra. 
I know that a majority of the Labour party at that time was in favour of a national capital, but some of them have since joined the party with which honorable senators opposite are now associated. 
Some of those who strongly advocated the establishment of a national capital some years ago are not so keen about it to-day. 
I now come to defence, in respect of  which  I suggest there is evidence of waste. It is not my intention to discuss the subject at length. No less than £58,000,000 has been spent on defence since this Government has been in power. What have we to show for that expenditure ? 
We have two cruisers, two submarines and an aeroplane carrier. Is that an up-to-date fleet? We know where the Oodnadatta to Alice Springs railway will be, but we do not know where the submarines are. 
When speaking on the defence question in 1925, ex-Senator Drake-Brockman said that we were not getting full value for the money we were expending. During the period the present Treasurer has held office the revenue has increased annually until last year the receipts were £10,000,000 more than when  he assumed office. Instead of adopting a sound financial policy under which the money would be spent in the best interests of the country, he has adopted a policy of drift. 
The expenditure in that direction is not responsible for all the heavy increase. 
A large portion of that amount has been collected in the form of a petrol tax. By adopting a foolhardy policy the Government is not deriving the best advantage from the. expenditure of money on road construction. As the result of one of the conditions imposed, South Australia has been compelled to sell portion of an up-to-date bituminous road construction plant. Under the present system the work has to be done by contract, instead of the Government competing with private contractors and giving the work to the lowest tenderer. The South Australian authorities know the local conditions better than the Federal Government. The Federal Government ought to be satisfied with mileage and construction details. The local authorities should be able to decide whether the work should be done by day labour or by contract. 
In 1925, the Prime Minister definitely promised a scheme of national insurance against unemployment. By its failure to place this item on its legislative programme the Government has shown its hypocrisy and its indifference to the interests of the workers. The Prime Minister, in 1925, endeavoured to place himself upon a pedestal by saying in his policy speech that one of the main causes of industrial unrest was the ever-present dread that haunts the worker of the miseries that will be brought upon his dependants in the event of sickness or unemployment. He further said that there was no doubt that the economic conditions in most industries were such that they could not pay a wage that would enable the worker to make adequate provision against unemployment. The right honorable gentleman stated that as soon as the report of the Royal Commission on 
National Insurance and Unemployment was received, the Government would legislate on such lines as to enable the workers to be insured against this deadly cause of anxiety and unrest. He made a definite promise which should have been honored. This subject was referred to on practically every election platform by supporters of the pact and used as a bait to secure the votes of the workers. The matter has, however, been left in abeyance.- The Government has always been seeking an excuse for dodging its obligations. 
I have been suggesting that expenditure should be incurred in the right way. Nothing was heard of the national insurance scheme against unemployment until prior to  the  1928 elections, when, as honorable senators know, the National Insurance Bill was introduced but it did not contain any provision for insurance against unemployment. In excusing his attitude, the Prime Minister, in his policy speech, in opening the 1928 election campaign pointed out that the royal commission which inquired into this subject found it impossible to prepare such a scheme owing to the absence of reliable statistics and data. It also found it impossible to make an accurate estimate of the cost of such a scheme. The right honorable gentleman further stated that the commission reported that a scheme of insurance against unemployment was impracticable until employment bureaux were established throughout Australia. As a further way out of the difficulty, the Prime Minister referred the matter to the Development and Migration Commission, which confirmed the views of the royal commission. After making further vague promise's concerning unemployment insurance, the Prime Minister calmly placed the burden upon the shoulders of the States. It will be admitted by honorable senators opposite that if we are to have a scheme of insurance against unemployment it must be national in character. It can  be  legislated for only by  the  Commonwealth if it is to be effective. It must be ineffective if it is left to  the  States. 
No. It is not necessary for them to do so. I suggest that national insurance against unemployment rests in the same category as child endowment, old-age and invalid pensions, and maternity allowances. None of those schemes could have been effective had they been mere State measures. It was realized that legislation was necessary to deal with big national problems, and this Commonwealth Government shouldered its responsibility so far as those matters were concerned. The only legislation which could give effect- to a scheme of national insurance against unemployment would be that passed by the Federal Parliament. 
It is, and the Prime Minister regarded it as such in 1925. He did not for a moment suggest that it was a burden which should be borne by the States. He told the people of Austraila that the lack of it was one of the great causes of industrial unrest. It is also the reason why men rebel against the prevailing system of society. 
 Senator Ogden  knows that the scheme would have to be a contributory one. I am endeavouring to find the reason for the changed attitude of the Prime Minister. In 1925 it was a national question. In 1928, when the right honorable gentleman was able to shelter behind the boards which he had appointed, he calmly told us that it was a matter which could not be dealt with effectively by the Commonwealth ; that it must be attended to by the States. Speaking in 1925, this self-same leader, behind whom honorable senators opposite range themselves, said - 
For any national loader to-day to deceive the people by promises which either for financial or constitutional reasons, he could never redeem, would constitute a betrayal of the objectives and duties resting upon him which would never be forgotten. 
In 1928, the right honorable gentleman made a similar statement, as follows: - 
Any one who endeavoured to mislead the people to obtain a political or party advantage would be recreant to the great responsibilities of his position, and would be justly condemned as one who had failed in a great and sacred trust. 
What lofty sentiments! Honorable senators opposite cheered the Prime Minister when he gave utterance to them. I wonder what they will say when they realize how he has failed to live up to them. No matter how honorable senators opposite twist those statements, the fact remains that, in 1925, the Prime Minister considered that unemployment insurance was a national and practicable question, and he told the people clearly and unequivocally that he would introduce legislation to deal with it. 
Honorable senators must realize that unemployment is a very serious problem. It was originally the belief of this Government that it could be partially alleviated by the introduction of a scheme of this description. A commission was appointed which, in effect, declared that it was not competent to deal with the matter, as it could not obtain the necessary statistical data. Instead of the Government probing the matter further, it simply evaded the issue. It is unnecessary for me to remind honorable senators that thousands and thousands of unemployed are walking the streets of our various capital cities to-day. 
That section represents a very small minority, and plays a negligible part in the real unemployment trouble that is in our midst to-day. The honorable senator knows that the immigration policy of this Government affords one of the reasons why we have so much unemployment in Australia today. 
The honorable senator cannot demonstrate that it is possible to take more out of a vessel than one can put into it. 
No, but there is a good deal of difference between the policy of the Labour party in regard to migration and that of the Government. 
The Labour party is not opposed to immigration. It would bring to Australia 5, 10, aye, 50 million migrants if we could provide work for them. But it is not prepared to bring migrants into this country merely to allow them to starve or to push a decent Australian out of his job and leave him and his family to starve. 
That is an inaccurate statement. The honorable senator realizes, too, that there are very few State Labour governments in power in Australia. Assuming, for the sake of argument, that the States decided that immigrants should be brought to Australia, is not the Commonwealth Government charged with the duty of inquiring from the States what they intend to do with those immigrants when they arrive? 
I can take the honorable senator to the city of Adelaide and show him many hundreds of migrants walking the streets looking for work, and the position is the same in other States. Until Australia is able to absorb immigrants it is a foolhardy policy, destined to create hardship and privation, to bring them here. 
If the honorable senator were honest he would admit that ho believes in a policy of immigration merely because it tends to keep the supply of labour in excess of the demand, so that wages and conditions may be kept at a low  standard. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order!  Senator Crawford  will have an opportunity to talk upon the subject later. 
I cannot explain  Senator Crawford's  attitude on any other hypothesis. Now we como to the vexed question of the board. This Government is controlling the country by appointing a board practically every month. Ever since the Bruce-Page Government has been in office it has had a mania for appointing boards and commissions, and by so doing has reduced administration by delegation to a fine art. 
It may be so, but it will bear repetition. 
That is so. The Government still continues to appoint boards of inquiry, and it has a very happy knack of getting out of awkward positions. I should like the Leader of the Senate to justify the appointment during the six-year Bruce-Page regime of 58 boards, at a cost of more than £440,000. 
There is no need to do that. Honorable senators are paid £1,000 a year to do their job, and they should be prepared to do it. It is possible to pass legislation in this Parliament which would enable us to discover the existence of dummying. We have means whereby we could discover the extent of a man's income and property, and could very soon find out what dummying existed. No doubt if a board were appointed to investigate the matter, it would be unable to present a report because of the lack of statistical data. Honorable senators on this side are not the only people who complain about such appointments and extravagance, and .we urge the Government to alter its policy. We appeal to the Country party section which is sitting behind the Government to repudiate its latest decision, in which it encourages the appointment of boards to inquire into all and sundry matters. It is the opinion of this party that such matters can be properly dealt with in this chamber. The necessary administrative staffs are available, and any  data  could  be collected by them. After it was collected we could come to a decision on the matter just as easily as the boards to which the Government pays so much hard cash. [ understand that this is the last week of the session. I hope that honorable senators opposite will resume work with their minds refreshed, prepared to regard these problems not from a narrow party point of view, but with the knowledge that they are representing in this chamber 51 per cent, of the population, while honorable senators on this side are, temporarily, representing but 49 per cent. If the combined brains were applied to the task, I see no reason why we could not solve the grave problems which confront Australia. They will certainly never be solved by political bickerings and recriminations. 
If I were guilty to the extent that the present Government is, I would admit that any censure was deserved. It cannot be claimed that, because a father castigates his son for doing something wrong, the father is out to create dissension in the home. He would merely be doing his duty. I am the Acting Leader of the Opposition, and it is my duty, when certain complaints are levelled against the Government, to ventilate them before this chamber to the best of my ability. 
My party has never asked me to do anything wrong. 
I have been here long enough to know that if honorable senators who are supporting me had their just reward, they would to-day be sitting on the ministerial bench. If we were in power, and if the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, as Leader of the Opposition had castigated the Government for its shortcomings - if it had any - we should not treat his criticism as being personal or take umbrage at his remarks. I hope that after the recess honorable senators supporting the Government will be prepared to listen carefully to our representations and suggestions for the solution of the many problems that confront us. 
It would, I think, be a reflection upon the Senate if the debate on the first reading of this bill were allowed to pass with only two speeches, one by the Leader of the Senate in introducing it, and the other from  Senator Daly,  as Leader of the Opposition. 
I understood, from the way in which the debate was going, that an arrangement had been arrived at between the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition to debate the bill on the motion for the first reading. 
That being so, I shall reserve my remarks until that stage of the bill is reached. 
.- There are one or two matters to which I desire to direct the attention of the Ministry and I consider this is an opportune time to do so. In the first place I "wish to complain of the delay that has taken place in considering the application for registration, made towards the end of last year by the Australian Seamen's Union to the Registrar of the Arbitration Court. As honorable senators are aware the Seamen's Union of Australia lost its registration as a result of its foolish action some years ago. Many members of that organization sincerely regretted the cancellation of registration. For some time there has been a cleavage in the ranks of the seamen serving on the Australian coast, but a substantial majority of the men are now in favour of again seeking registration with the court. This matter concerns all honorable senators, and especially Government supporters who are the real champions of arbitration in this branch of the legislature. One honorable senator who will take his seat on the 1st July next, I refer to  Senator Rae,  has expressed himself as definitely opposed to arbitration. All honorable senators on this side are sincerely anxious that the employees iu Australia should be encouraged to work contentedly under awards of the Federal or State Arbitration Courts. 
Towards the end of last year an industrial organization known as the Australian Seamen's Union, lodged an application for registration with  Mr. Stewart,  the registrar of the court. In the ordinary course the application should have been dealt with before the end of the year, but immediately it was made another section of seamen formed themselves into an organization and they, too, applied for registration, their object, apparently, being to frustrate the efforts of the seamen who had lodged the first application. 1 have no wish to criticize unduly the action of the Registrar, but for some reasons best known to himself, instead of dealing with the first application with reasonable promptitude, he waited for the expiration of the time allowed for objections in regard to the second application, his intention, probably, being to consider both at the same time. I know of no reason why the applications should be treated in that way. The Australian Seamen's Union represents the majority, and comprises the very best elements of seamen serving on the Australian coast. They have furnished the court with the rules of their organization and have given an undertaking that, if granted registration, they will loyally abide by the court's decisions. The delay in dealing with that application is doing serious harm, because opponents of arbitration will use it as an argument why the court should not be availed of to its fullest extent. They will be able to point out that although the Australian Seamen's Union made application for registration as far back as November last, the application has not yet been dealt with. Some members of the organization have already been victimized by the " red " element of the old seamen's union, who are opposed to arbitration, and whose application for registration was lodged for the purpose of delaying the registration of the bona fide organization. The extreme section of seamen is associated with the Australa sian Council of Trade Unions, which has definitely dissociated itself from all proceedings before the Arbitration Court and which body is also repudiated by the Australian Workers Union. All genuine industrial organizations that seek registration in the Arbitration Court should be encouraged, and in the case of this seamen's union, the hearing of its application for registration should be expedited. As large numbers of plaints for variations of existing awards or for new awards are lodged with the court, it follows that, in fairness to all concerned, they should be considered in rotation ; but this application by the Austraiian Seamen's Union for registration is in a different category, and it should not have been delayed. It is difficult for the Senate to inform the Registrar that he should expedite the hearing of the application, but I trust that the publicity which is now being given to the matter will result iu the machinery of the court being set in motion for the hearing of the application without further delay. The seamen belonging to the organization mentioned earnestly desire to carry on their industry in peace, and they are becoming restive at the delay. 
There is one other matter to which I desire to direct attention. As honorable senators know, I asked recently a series of questions relating to the application of the Commonwealth housing scheme to Queensland. Almost every day I am in receipt of letters from people in that State inquiring when the Commonwealth scheme, which is being operated in every other State, will be available to the citizens of Queensland. I may add that  Mr. McCormack,  the State Premier, besides failing to take advantage of the Commonwealth's scheme, has closed down on the State home building activities, with the result that the people of Queensland are unable to get assistance for home building. It is to be deplored that owing to an oversight, or because of the stupid action taken by the Premier, they should be the only people in Australia who are debarred from the benefits of the Commonwealth housing scheme. The ' War Service Homes Commission is working satisfactorily in Queensland and the Commonwealth Bank has branches throughout that State. 
Yes, but it has been suspended for want of funds. One would think that, in the circumstances, the Government of Queensland would be glad to take advantage of the Commonwealth housing scheme. I hope that before long the machinery of the War Service Homes Department or of the Commonwealth Bank, will be set in motion to operate the Commonwealth Housing Act so that the people of Queensland who desire homes may be able to get them. Fortunately, a State election will be held on the 11th May, when I predict that the Labour Government will be defeated. It would rake me all night to tell of the many misdeeds of that Government; but I feel that its reign is nearing the end, and that after the election, the new Premier,  Mr. Moore,  will not be so short-sighted as the present Premier, but will avail himself, on behalf of the people of this State of the generous offer of the Commonwealth to assist the people of Australia to obtain homes. Should the jerrymandering of electorates, or the sniffing of the rolls keep the present Labour Government in office in Queensland, I trust that efforts will nevertheless be made to make the Commonwealth housing scheme applicable to that State. 
 A matter which has been discussed on many occasions, both in this chamber and in another place, is the necessity for improved shipping services between Tasmania and the mainland. In his policy speech, the Prime Minister announced the Government's intention in this connexion. He said that the Government proposed to call for tenders for an improved service along the lines outlined by the Public Accounts Committee. That has been done, but I understand that the Government considers the tender price for the proposed services to be too high. I am unable to say whether or not that is so. I only know that some action should be taken to improve the services between Tasmania and the mainland. Within a few weeks passenger communication between Sydney and Hobart will cease, in which case, the only services will be those between Launceston and Melbourne and between North- 
Western Tasmanian ports and Melbourne. There is a difference of opinion in relation to the shipping service between Launceston and Melbourne, because of the desire of the Postmaster-General's Department that ships shall run to a timetable and that mails shall be delivered when the tide is unsuitable for vessels to negotiate the upper reaches of the river Tamar. The people of Tasmania are becoming impatient regarding the promise of a better shipping service. They appreciate what the Commonwealth Government has done to encourage development, but they realize that all its efforts will avail nothing unless proper communications are provided. It is essential to Tasmanian interests that these services be improved. I should like the Leader of the Senate when replying, to indicate the Government's intention in this matter. When the vote for the PostmasterGeneral's Department is before us, I hope to have an opportunity to refer to the proposed mail contract. 
.- 1 listened with a great deal of attention to the criticisms levelled at the Government by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly).  One statement he made, if not contradicted, might convey a false impression outside this chamber. The honorable senator said that during the present Treasurer's term of office, the expenditure of the Commonwealth had increased by £16,500,000 per annum, and he asked what we had to show for that expenditure. I have obtained the financial papers for 1921-22, the first year of the present Treasurer's term of office, and I find that the total expenditure from revenue in that year was £65,106,949. The estimate for 1927- 2S was £62,725,000, but the actual expenditure was a little over £63,000,000. Even then it was less than it was in 1921-22. I suggest that  Senator Daly  should be more careful in presenting figures to the Senate. I hold no brief for the Government, but I support it and in many directions it has done well by Australia. It is true that, like every other government, it has made mistakes, but, considering the extent of its operations, no honorable senator can blame himself for supporting it. 
We Lave heard from  Senator Daly  a good deal about the failure of the Government to promote land settlement. I come from Tasmania, the smallest State in the Commonwealth, and I know what has been accomplished there in the way of closer settlement. The people of South Australia should look to their own affairs. If there are lands in that State which are not being put to their best use, it certainly is not to the credit of those in power that steps have not been taken to put them to better use. That is a matter for the State authorities, although I admit that the Commonwealth is indirectly concerned because the Commonwealth is interested in the development of all the States. Yet, if it attempted to interfere in the domestic policy of any State, all political parties would rightly resent its interference. I suggest that during the forthcoming recess  Senator Daly  and his colleagues should endeavour to awaken public opinion in matters of land settlement. If they do so, they may achieve their desire, and effect the sub-division of estates which are capable of maintaining a much larger population. 
The Government has been criticized in connexion with its expenditure on defence. It has been asked what it has to show for the £58,000,000 spent. There is a good deal to show for that expenditure, although it must be remembered that defence equipment often speedily becomes obsolete. Honorable senators in discussing defence expenditure should not lose sight of that fact. Our expenditure on defence has been kept as low as possible consistent with our own security and our obligations to the rest of the Empire. We should be recreant to our trust if we did not do our fair share towards the defence of the Empire of which we form a part. 

 Senator Daly also criticized the immigration policy of the Government. I believe that an immigration policy is essential to the best interests of any community, provided that it is reasonably administered. I do not agree that the Government's immigration policy has, to a great extent, been responsible for the present unemployment in Australia. My knowledge of the immigrants who have come to Australia leads me to the conclusion that their coming here has not con- tributed  largely to the unemployment problem. Many things have contributed to Australia's existing unemployment problem; but there are two primary causes. The first is the increased cost of production brought about by the imposition of high rates of duty. I am a protectionist; but I claim to be a sane protectionist. During the last few years we have sought to encourage the establishment of industries by the imposition of duties almost on the prohibitive line; but some of those industries have failed, and their failure has brought in its train a condition of unemployment. The other primary cause of unemployment here is the constant dislocation of trade brought about by the failure of those engaged in industry to observe the arbitration laws of the country. For example, the timber workers' strike, which directly affects a comparatively few thousand of workers, has, unfortunately, caused loss of employment to a great many others. The ranks of the cabinet-makers, carpenters, polishers, and upholsterers in employment have been seriously depleted. Many of the men engaged in these callings arc walking about the streets anxiously awaits ing the day when they can be re-engaged. Last week-end in Sydney I met many of them in the streets. The staffs of furniture warehouses and retail establishments have been reduced, because supplies of materials cannot be obtained. Quite recently I heard some of the speeches in the Sydney Domain, and noted that an effort was being made to accentuate the present trouble by advocating that other trades which may have some connexion with the timber trade should be declared "black." Dislocation of trade by industrial disputes has a great effect on our unemployment problem. Some time ago I said that I thought that our present difficulties would prove a lesson to the workers. To-day I express the belief that many of the men are ready to throw off the thraldom to which they have been subjected for so long in Australia. 
I trust * that the majority of them will realize the folly of bowing to the dictates of a few, whose chief purpose seems to be to bring about strife and trouble in industry. When we overcome that difficulty, we shall go a long way towards solving our unemployment problem. But, even with its present difficulties, there is no country in the world that gives its people such favor able conditions as Australia. I could understand dissatisfaction among the workers if they were living in a country where the conditions are intolerable; but any one who has visited other countries must know how blessed we Australians are in the comforts we enjoy. 
The trade union movement of years ago may have done so; but it has not the same objectives to-day. It has now abandoned most of its principles - the big things that lifted the workers to a higher level have been discarded and paltry things, calculated to bring the good workman down to the level of the inferior workman, have obtained pre-eminence. 
I want to supplement the remarks made by  Senator Herbert  Hays about the absolute need for at once improving the unsatisfactory means of communication between the mainland and Tasmania. The people of Tasmania have suffered for many years a very unsuitable and inadequate means of communication. Although the State is a small one, it is capable of great development, and, as a matter of fact, is in a far better position to-day than might reasonably have been expected of it, handicapped as it has been during the last fifteen or twenty years. Last year the Public Accounts Committee, after a close and complete investigation of the means of communication with Tasmania, recommended an improved steamship service between the island and Melbourne, and the Government subsequently promised that that improved service would be provided. But many months have elapsed and the service is still the same. I say without hesitation that it is the duty of the Government to see that the improved service recommended by the Public Accounts Committee, and promised by the Prime Minister, is provided at the earliest possible moment. I know that the steamship company has demanded a very much increased subsidy for an improved service, but if in the opinion of the Government the subsidy asked for is too high, I trust that no stone will be left unturned to approach the company with a view to inducing it to accept a reasonable subsidy. Of course I am not in a position to say what the amount should be - that is a matter which rests with the Government - but I claim that Tasmania can no longer be permitted to be as heavily handicapped as it has been by the retention of a service which is inadequate, and particularly so in the case of one port. It is obsolete and unsuited for present day traffic. I am aware that the steamship company is doing the best it can with the vessels at its disposal, but the recommendation of the Public Accounts Committee was that a better type of steamer should be secured so that the public might travel between the mainland and the island in real comfort. Tasmania offers an opportunity to avoid the intense heat of the summer months in other parts of the Commonwealth, and if a reasonable service is provided the tourist traffic, which is very important to the people of the State, may easily be quadrupled within a few years. 
.- I do not know whether the position of Australia in regard to unemployment is worse than it is in other countries, but it is certainly very bad. Hitherto we have been able to keep our people fairly well employed at decent rates of pay, and under decent conditions of labour. It has been left to the present Government to so mismanage affairs, that we are now practically in the position of older countries that have all the bad old traditions associated with legislation passed by those who are accustomed to dominating the real wealth producers. But that the Commonwealth Government has been influenced by elements outside Australia, we should not have had to face a similar condition of affairs which is being brought about here. It is useless for honorable senators opposite to interject, as they have done tonight, that no migrant is brought by the Commonwealth Government to Australia except at the request of a State Government. Even if that be the case the Commonwealth Government has the means of creating employment which were used by Labour when it was governing Australia. At that time there was a huge influx of migrants, but there was no unemployment. Australia could absorb the migrants as fast as they came. Avenues of employment were created in the only possible way. There are thousands of young trained Australians who are looking for land, and they have not had the means of getting it. Large areas of the valuable lauds of Australia have been taken up by persons who are holding them to the detriment of the progress and prosperity of the general community. I cannot see any justification for the policy under which a person is allowed to hold an area of, say, 5,000 acres and not put it to its full use when 1,000 acres are sufficient to enable him to make a really good living. Many land-holders, controlling areas largely in excess of what they are able to properly handle, expect men to be hanging over their gates during the few weeks of the year in which they employ labour and grumble if that labour is not available, lt is the duty of ihe Government to introduce a policy under which the land would be put to its best possible use. In that way it would assist to provide employment for thousands of deserving men who are walking the streets today. 
The Labour Government imposed a land tax which had the effect of breaking up many large estates; but the most effective provision in the act under which that tax was imposed, has been so amended by subsequent administrations that it is not now effective in that respect. The majority of migrants coming to Australia are not familiar with Australian methods of agriculture and so are not qualified to settle upon the land and work it with the best results to themselves and to the country. On the other hand, thousands of men in Australia, who have had considerable experience in rural pursuits are anxiously waiting for land on which to commence operations on their own account. 
The Labour party's attitude towards immigration has been misrepresented to the country. It has been said that the members of our party do not wish migrants to come to Australia; but I should not care twopence if the 2,000,000 Britishers alleged to be out of work in Great Britain were dumped in Australia to-morrow, provided that work was available for them. They are of the same stock as those who came here in the pioneering days, and if given similar opportunities would meet with the same success as our forefathers. 
Surely  Senator Thompson  does not subscribe to a policy under which people are induced to come to a country under false conditions? I have seen pamphlets distributed by immigration agents containing absolutely false information concerning the opportunities for employment here. Many British migrants, on finding what the conditions actually are in Australia, prefer to return to the Old Country, where, we are told, there are 2,000,000 unemployed, rather than endeavour to establish themselves in a strange land. These arc facts which no one can truthfully deny. 
It is said by supporters of the Government that the industrial unrest, which has been prevalent in Australia during recent months, has been caused by agitators. I suppose I have had as much training and experience in the industrial field as any man in Australia, and my opinion is that those who are alleged to be the cause of industrial unrest - I refer to the paid organizers - are really those who are most anxious to avoid it. Disputes in industry give the paid officials of trade union organizations a tremendous amount of worry, and it is not pleasing to them to realize that they are receiving their salaries whilst those whom they are advising are not drawing their pay. During industrial disputes it is the custom of paid officials to dip very deeply into their own pockets to assist their fellow workers ; whereas that is unnecessary when the men are at work. 
Because the circumstance justified it. Are the workers expected to sit down and take the lash every time? 
Yes, and the circumstances justified it. I know why the timber workers went on strike. 
No, they are stout-hearted nien, and can always put up a fight when the circumstances warrant, it. Notwithstanding my advocacy of and belief iri arbitration, there are times when, even under an arbitration system, men are justified in doing almost anything. lt is time honorable senators opposite realized the actual situation. An award of the Arbitration Court which is most unjust cannot be accepted by the mcn. Are the workers - the wealth producers of this country - always to be punished ? 
The award in the timber workers' case is the most objectionable imaginable. Perhaps honorable senators opposite are not aware that, in addition to the hours of the timber workers being increased from 44 to 48 their wages were reduced by from 18s. to 20s. a week, and in the case of boys under 21, by 26s. a week. Men would be les3 than human if they accepted such conditions without a murmur. 
I have said that circumstances justified it. Men whose wages have been reduced to the extent I have mentioned must be expected to strike. The Government is responsible for all the trouble by appointing utterly incompetent persons to positions of authority and of great power. Notwithstanding this, honorable senators opposite refrain from making any attempt to improve the situation. 
No ; but the men cannot be expected to take all the kicks and cuffs. The Government possesses the power, but has not the courage to use it. There is not an honorable senator opposite who can justify the reduction in wages made in the Lukin award. Big business men and capitalists in other countries are endeavouring to influence the authorities in Australia to assist in a reduction of wages and to interfere with the standard of living here, which, they say, are too high, and are affecting the industrial position of other countries. It is interesting to note that in two different Arbitration Court awards made within a month of each other, the basic wage in one instance was fixed at £4 9s. 6d. and in another at £3 14s., or a difference of 15s. 6d. a week. Honorable members opposite are continuously complaining of the industrial unrest in Australia; but they do not consider the cause of all the trouble or endeavour to assist the men who have been unfairly treated. Notwithstanding my objections to the weapon of the strike, which in my opinion is the last weapon that workers should use, I am fully convinced that men should not submit to gross injustice such as many have had to do during recent months. It is the duty of the Government to remove the cause of the trouble and thus enable industry to carry on under peaceful conditions. 
There are many troubles for which the Government is responsible. Considerable dissatisfaction has been expressed with the electoral laws of the Commonwealth. It would seem that they are capable of being gravely misused, to the hurt of the people. We have recently had some little trouble which has resulted in a great number of men and women of Australia being disfranchised. It would appear that certain persons in responsible positions have grossly misused their power to the detriment of people who have a right to be represented in this Parliament. A large number of electors clearly indicated the manner in which they desired to record their votes at the last election, but as the result of the decision of an individual, a large number of electors have been most unfairly treated. 
I think that the circumstances suggest it. At any rate, I do not think that any lawyer in Australia could be found to agree with him, or that even honorable senators opposite agree with him. 
I do not think that. On one occasion this learned judge gave excellent information to Parliament, upon which it based an amendment of the law. 
Some one must have the courage to drag these matters into the limelight. That would never be done if honorable senators on this side went about with their eyes shut, like  Senator Payne. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. Sir John Newlands).  - Order!  Senator Payne  has already addressed the Senate, and I request him to allow  Senator Barnes  to make his speech in his own way. He must desist from interjecting. 
It is necessary for some one to drag these matters into the open and have them righted, if possible. I am not an aggressive person, and I dislike being nasty to anybody, but the time comes when even a worm will turn, and when this worm turns he is not very particular about whom he talks. A member of Parliament is granted immunity when speaking on the floor of the House, and the history of the British Empire shows the necessity for the practice, and the great advantages which have accrued from it. Parliament is a place where a man cannot be gagged or threatened with law proceedings by those who desire thathis mouth shall be kept closed. Some may, if they desire, call it a coward's castle, but I do not view it in that light. Honorable senators are elected by the people of Australia, and are here to act in their welfare. Every time that we hear of what we believe to be an injury that has been done, whether by a judge of the Arbitration Court, a judge of the High Court, or anybody else, it is our duty to ventilate the matter, and expose the person responsible. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in criticizing the judiciary. 
I call upon  Senator Payne  to withdraw that observation. 
I ask the honorable senator to withdraw his observation unconditionally. 
Order ! The honorable member has not withdrawn his observation to my satisfaction, and I ask him to do so. 
The honorable senator has reflected on me in my capacity as  president  by suggesting that I have allowed  Senator Barnes  to say something that is contrary to the Standing Orders, and I ask him to withdraw that observation. 
Order ! I have already called the honorable senator's attention to the fact that he is not permitted to criticize the judiciary. He has referred to an incident which occurred recently in Victoria and has reflected upon the judge or judges who heard the case. I ask him not to proceed further along those lines. 
SenatorBARNES. - I have been leading up to what I believe to be a grave necessity, the amendment of the Electoral Act. It is at present capable of a construction that few people imagine to be possible. When it is found that the act has flaws in it, Parliament should get busy and pass the necessary amendments, in order to prevent a recurrence of recent happenings. 
Reverting to the matter of unemployment, I believe that, even during the coming recess, the Government will have at its disposal the means whereby it can relieve the existing situation. Winter is approaching, and soon many thousands of people, particularly in the thicklypopulated centres, will be in a most serious position. This Government could use its influence at least with one instrument that it controls, the Development and Migration Commission, to perform a great service to Australia by relieving the distress that will exist. We know that during the summer months employment is usually plentiful and comparatively few are out of work. But the winter months are approaching and unemployment will then be greater than ever. Honorable senators realize what it is to be unemployed and I urge those who hold responsible positions to exhaust every possible avenue in the endeavour to relieve the distress that must almost inevitably prevail in Australia during the coming winter months. 
.- While I appreciate the utterances of  Senator Barnes,  I believe that, on reflection, he will realize that his diagnosis of the present condition of industry in Australia is not exactly a correct one. So far as I can gather, he believes the reason for existing unemployment and loss of industry in this country to be that certain awards have gone, in his view, in the wrong direction. 
That charge has been formulated before. Whenever an Arbitration Court judge has given an award that provided for the reduction of the reward of labour, and the lengthening of the hours of labour, there has been a decided protest from the worker.  Per contra,  when the court has decreed a reduction of the hours of labour and an increase of the reward of labour it is declared to have done the right thing. It is certainly novel to me if arbitration is to be right only when it leans to one side at the expense of the other. Even if the head of the Australian Workers Union,  Senator Barnes,  referred a case to the Arbitration Court in which I was concerned, he would not expect the arbitrator to be biased in my favour, irrespective of the merits of the case. All that can be done by applicants to the court is to surrender their interest in the matter and allow the judge to decide it upon its merits, untrammelled and uninfluenced by either side. 
For ten years the awards went in one direction, and they met with the approval of the workers. I have no complaint to find with that. Now the trend of affairs has altered, and much perturbation exists amongst the unions. As one who pays his quota towards the increased burden which has been imposed on industry by improved working conditions, I reserve the right to express my opinion upon the subject. 
On one occasion I hazarded my political career by advising men to return to work and accept an award that was decidedly against them. As a result I was blamed by my coworkers and even by the editor of the Western Australian  Labour Daily  (Mr. Stewart),  who called me a " traitor " to Labour. I was told that my political career was ruined, but my experience has been that I held my own, and eventually my attitude was commended by some of the very men who condemned it. I had ]11 V vindication. 
I suggest that it is the duty of others to take a like attitude when dealing with the unions of Australia. That would make for a happier condition of affairs. When the timber workers were granted an award which was highly satisfactory to them everything was well, hut when the economic laws of the country necessitated a reduction of their wages, they protested and went out on strike. Many forget that other sections of the community arc entitled to consideration. The wheat-growers of Australia are this year suffering a reduction of 25 per cent, in their wages in the price realized for their product. They have to work, not 44 hours, but 54 hours and more each week, and they get no sympathy from  Senator Barnes  and his friends in the Labour movement. Let us consider, also, the position of our fruit-growers. Does  Senator Barnes  know that the grower of peaches in Victoria can get only £5 a ton, and out of that sum he has to pay £4 10s. a ton to the pickers, leaving only 10s. a ton to cover interest on his capital, the reward for his own labour, and the support of his family? 
That is another matter altogether. Despite the influence which he wields in the trade union movement,  Senator Barnes  and his Labour friends should be given to understand that they are not the cream of society. They should be told plainly that their duty is to tighten up the discipline in the industrial movement in the direction of requiring obedience to awards of the Arbitration Court. Is it not about time that trade unionists were made to realize that fellow Australians not in the same political organizations are of the same flesh and blood, have the same feelings, the same common outlook and expect to share the same destiny, and that the industrialists should have some sympathy for less fortunate fellow Australians, particularly our primary producers, who have to labour long hours to wrest a grudging living from the soil? It is high time that the industrial organizations eased their pressure upon the other sections of society, and adopted a reasonable policy by means of which the wheels of industry might be kept going. 
What is the position of our wheat-farmers? I say, advisedly, that in order to keep industry going in this country they have to make slaves of themselves. What of the dairyfarmer? We have the evidence of  Mr. Mcinnes,  an impartial witness in New South Wales, that the dairymen of Australia are broken financially, and, what is worse, broken in spirit. Can they make a living out of that industry on a 44- hour week? Not a bit of it. They are obliged to work 54 hours, or 64 hours a week. Indeed, in many cases they work all the hours that God sends. Clocks and watches were not made for them. Their chief consideration is not how long they must work, but how long their physical strength will stand the strain. Thus we find that fellow Australians, who a*re engaged in the three leading lines of primary production, are in. an infinitely worse position than are the men employed in industrial concerns. Surely it is time that some sympathy was extended to these people who have to battle against extraordinary, almost insuperable, difficulties in production, and have to sell their product in the world's market, where there is no sympathy, sentiment or consideration of any kind. The buyer operating in that market takes no account of the costs of production, or whether wheat is produced by black, brown or brindle labour.  His  one concern is to buy in the cheapest market. 
Those who give thought to the industrial outlook of Australia must be alarmed at recent happenings, particularly on our waterfront, where, in the last few years, there has been strike after strike. Because of this dislocation of trade, brought about by the tactics of less than 2 per cent, of the trade unionists of Australia no business nian, great or small, in this country knows whore he stands. He does not know what to do or what to expect. This miserable callous-hearted remnant of trade unionists - I refer to those 1S,000 wharf labourers who have been responsible for so much trouble lately - have been the cause of most of our industrial disturbances in the last ten years, and they have been directly responsible for untold privation and suffering on the part of thousands of innocent people. To see, as I have seen, or anybody else could have seen, the perishable products representing the sweat and toil of hard-working people rotting and streaming out of cases on the wharfs is enough to make one's blood boil. They violate the arbitration laws of this country with impunity because they have behind them the solid support of the latter day Labour leaders. If only these so-called leaders would denounce the malcontents in real earnest they would serve some useful purpose. Why do not they take a definite stand in the interests of 98 pei' cent, of trade unionists who are mostly law abiding citizens and who have no sympathy with the remnant of law breakers?  Senator Barnes  and his colleagues should open their eyes to what is happening. The honorable senator must know that there is something radically wrong with the industrial movement in the Commonwealth when these things happen. 
Let honorable senators consider the unsatisfactory position of our State railway systems. Statistical returns show that they are going to the bad every year. But side by side with this record we should place the latest figures relating to the Midland Railway Company of Western Australia. That i3 only a small concern, but it is making ends meet. It is observing Arbitration Court awards and in addition it is clearing off some of its capital liabilities. The State-owned railways in the several States, on the other hand, are not by any means in that enviable position. They cannot hold their own against modern motor traffic. It has been demonstrated that an owner of a motor truck, notwithstanding its high price due to customs duties and the high cost of fuel, can transport wool by road up to 200 miles to the nearest port at a cost below the most favorable railway charges in every State of the Commonwealth. There must be something wrong with the management of our railways when it is nor possible to meet this road competition. Industrial leaders should make it plain to the rank and file that they must help to make those State enterprises pay. It stands to reason that the economic position must be adjusted or else an even heavier tribute will have to be levied upon the unlucky primary producer. Something also must be done to improve the relations between employer and employee, and action taken to check the lawlessness of wharf labourers and others rebelliously inclined, who have been the fruitful cause of so many of our troubles. 
In the last tcn years, according to the labour report, the loss to trade unionism alone through the industrial disputes has been about £25,000,000. It is difficult to estimate the loss to the community, but it must have been considerably more than £25,000,000. Indeed, it has been estimated that the combined loss is in the neighbourhood of £100,000,000. Now, what country can stand this? There can only be either hopeless stagnation or national bankruptcy. This industrial turmoil, unhappily, is reflected in Australia's position in the money markets of the world. An examination of the financial situation will show that Commonwealth stocks cannot compare with New Zealand issues, and, indeed, are regarded as inferior even to South African bonds. Our credit on the London marker is not what it should be. Remember how our loans have been left on the underwriters' hands, when the money market would not touch them even on specially attractive terms. We should, therefore, submit our industrial relations to the searchlight of introspection and endeavour to find out what is wrong. We must get down to bedrock and sternly reprimand that miserable section of our  industrialists which has been responsible for so much of our trouble in the past. Credit is governed by conduct. If I neglected my opportunities and otherwise misbehaved, would I have the same financial standing in the eyes of my banker? Would he not consider it to be his first duty to examine my character to see if I were doing my  work,  minding my own business, and worthy of his confidence? The same principles apply to the community as a whole. Australia for some years has not been behaving itself. It has not been displaying that industrial activity which is expected of every young nation and, as I have shown, its reputation is suffering. Both South Africa and New Zealand can get better terms on the London or other markets than we can. Recent quotations for our stock on Wall-street have been so unsatisfactory that every good Australian must have felt ashamed. Our troubles in the main have been due to the failure of our industrial leaders to tell the lawbreakers definitely that they must stick to work and loyally abide by the awards of the arbitration courts, so that there may be some semblance of amity in the relations of employer and employee. What we want in this country more than anything else is more honest work and less talk. 
We hear a great deal about the capitalists and capitalism. We are told that capitalists, in making huge profits, are crushing the life out of the country. Yet what did the Queensland Labour Government do when it entered into the ranks of the "beef barons," and bought station after station? Unlike the capitalists, it made a loss of about £1,250,000 on them. Again, let us see what happened in the Commonwealth sphere. The ship-owner is generally depicted as a man with a gold watch chain spanning his expansive chest. The Commonwealth Government, seeking to emulate him, made a loss of £8,000,000 on its line of steamers, and the taxpayers of the country had to make good that loss. When we consider the many directions in which governments have failed when they have entered into business, we should regard the capitalist, not as an enemy, but as one of the best friends of the country. If the Government were to enter into every line of business in which the capitalists are now engaged, this country would become insolvent almost immediately, judging by everyday experience. 
[10.33].  -  If I failed to reply to some of the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  I might be accused of discourtesy. The honorable senator referred to a remark alleged to have been made a day or two ago by  Mr. Butler,  the Premier of South Australia, in regard to financial assistance for that State.  I  am somewhat sceptical regarding the statement alleged to have been made by him, for I can scarcely conceive of  Mr. Butler  expressing surprise that there was no provision in this year's federal budget to meet any claim by South Australia for financial assistance, seeing that that budget was presented to Parliament in August last, before the royal commission to inquire into South Australia's disabilities had been appointed.  Mr. Butler  is the Treasurer of South Australia as well as its Premier, and he should know that it would be impossible for the Commonwealth Treasurer to see into the future, and to say that a commission would be appointed to inquire into the financial position of South Australia and that it would report along certain lines. In the circumstances, honorable senators will see that it would have been ridiculous to make provision in this year's budget to meet South Australia's claims. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE' PEARCE.The honorable senator attacked the Government for not having made provision in this year's budget to meet the claim of South Australia, although the inquiry had not commenced when the budget was framed. I suggest that the honorable senator's speech to-night is somewhat belated, for some time ago the AddressinReply debate terminated. In connexion with that debate, most of the items to which he has referred to-night were discussed. I have already replied to the questions then raised and I shall therefore not traverse the same ground tonight. 
Reference has been made to the problem of unemployment confronting the Commonwealth. Honorable senators opposite know well that strikes are the chief cause of unemployment, but they have not the courage to say so. They remind me of a story that is told of a clergyman who went to a fashionable district in London to relieve a fellow clergyman who was about to go for a holiday. Before commencing his new duties he sought guidance from the departing clergyman as to various subjects to which he should or should not refer. He was informed that it would be just as well not to be too decisive on the temperance question, because there were several large brewers in the congregation who subscribed liberally to the church funds. It was also suggested that it would be somewhat unwise to condemn horse racing, because other prominent members of the congregation were keen racegoers. The advice continued in a similar strain until the relieving clergyman asked what, evils remained for him to denounce. He was told that he would be perfectly safe in denouncing the Turks for their treatment of the Armenians, for there were no Turks in the congregation. Honorable senators opposite are prepared to denounce the Government and every one else except the people, actually responsible for unemployment in Australia - the promoters of strikes, and that in a country in which strikes should not only be impossible, but unthinkable. I suggest that they should leave the " Turks " alone for a while and devote their attention to the " brewers " and " racegoers " in the community. 
Since 1916 the Labour party has been opposed to immigration, even during periods when there has been practically no unemployment. In the hope that constant repetition will lead the people to believe the statement, they keep on repeating that the Commonwealth Government brings immigrants to this country. That is not so. Before he proceeds further with his duties as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Daly  would do well to study the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, when he would find that it is therein provided that the Commonwealth shall not bring immigrants into this country without the approval of the States. The only immigrants who may come here are those either nominated by the States, or endorsed by the States if nominated by private persons. lt may also be news to  Senator Daly  that the only governments now nominating immigrants are the Labour Governments of Western Australia and Queensland. It is to their credit that they are doing so. Practically the only assisted immigrants coming to Australia are domestic servants and boys. Will any honorable senator say where in Australia, there are any domestic servants out of employment? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Or will honorable senators say that the Dreadnought boys or the Little Brothers who are coming here are throwing big men out of employment in the timber industry? I suggest that before  Senator Daly  speaks again on the immigration question, he takes the trouble to understand it. 
The present Government has been responsible for checking the immigration of Southern Europeans. If the honorable senator has any doubt as to the accuracy of that statement, let him inquire from  Mr. Wickens,  the Commonwealth Statistician, who keeps a record of all migrants. Statistics show that the action taken by the present Government has had the effect of reducing by practically twothirds the number of Southern Europeans immigrants. 

 Senator Foll referred to the delay in hearing the application of the Seamen's Union to the Arbitration Court for registration. I shall see that his remarks are brought under the notice of the AttorneyGeneral. 
The honorable senator's remarks as to the application of the Commonwealth housing scheme to Queensland is a matter for the people of that State. They will soon have the opportunity, subject to the difficulties caused by the jerrymandering of electorates, to put into office another government which will co-operate with the Commonwealth Government in providing homes for the people. 

 Senator Herbert Hays and  Senator Payne  referred to the necessity for improved steamer services to Tasmania. The Government is desirous of improving those services, and has done its best in that direction, but the taxpayers of Australia would have something to say if an altogether excessive tender were accepted. The Government is not prepared to improve the steamship services to Tasmania, irrespective of cost. I point out that an obligation rests on the Government of Tasmania in relation to the navigation of the river Tamar. In this connexion, I refer honorable senators to pages 52 and 53 of the report by the Development and Migration Commission on internal transport in Tasmania. The matter was also dealt with by the Public Accounts Committee. 
The difficulty is that no steamship company will submit a tender which the Government is prepared to accept. Surely the honorable senator does not suggest that the tender of £96,000 should he accepted for work which previously cost only £36,000? 
That is the price asked for the services to Tasmania. I imagine that if the Government provided a service only to the north-western ports of Tasmania, and did not include Launceston, the people of Tasmania would have something to say. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.In committee the Minister representing the Postmaster-General will be able to supplement what I have said, but from what I know of the matter the Government has done its best to secure tenders for an improved service. It has received one tender only, and the price demanded is one which it considers excessive, and which it would not be justified in accepting. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.If that were done Tasmania would not have a service. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.If by that remark the honorable senator means a Government service should be established, I point out that he must be aware that the Tasmanian Government found such an experiment unsatisfactory. The Commonwealth has also found a State-owned steamship line unsatisfactory. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. The Government has explored other avenues, and will continue to do so. The repeal of the coasting trade provisions of the Navigation Act will probably bring about a condition of competition that does not exist to-day. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I was somewhat astounded to hear  Senator Barnes's  cure for industrial trouble. It is a very simple one. What it amounts to is that if a judge gives an award that is displeasing to the unions, he should be discharged. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable senator had better ask  Senator Barnes  for a proof of his speech and see what he did say. The remedy might be simple, and after applying it we might have industrial peace for a little while, but it would eventually lead to industrial death; it would mean a death blow to Australian industries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has he seen it reported in the  Canberra Times  of the 7th February, that the  President  of the United States of America had made a statement to the effect that vast quantities of American goods had found their way through 
Canadian ports, and by that means were reaping the benefit of preferential rates obtaining amongst British Dominions? 
If such statement is correct, has it been discovered that any of these goods have found their way to this country? 
If so, with what result! 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has furnished the following reply: - 
Yes. 2 and 3. There is no reason to think that the statement is correct, and it seems most improbable that the  President  made such a statement. 
I am unable to supply that information at present. A levy of 5s. a ton on grapes repreesnts about½d. a gallon on dry wine and about  ¾d.  a gallon on sweet wine. As in a normal season about 120,000 tons of grapes are manufactured into wine, the maximum levy would represent a total income of about £30,000 per annum. The money so collected will be paid into a fund to be used by the board in advertising Australian wine and to meet the general administrative costs connected with its marketing. Any further information sought by honorable members will be furnished when the bill reaches the committee stage. 
The Minister has already pointed out that this bill is necessary to give effect to legislation passed yesterday. The Opposition does not propose to oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended and bill passed throughits remaining stages. 
[3.13]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
My object in moving this motion is to enable the second reading of this bill to be moved to-day. I do not propose to proceed now beyond the first-reading stage, but should the debate on the Supply Bill finish early I desire to move the second reading of this bill at a later hour. In the circumstances, I feel sure that honorable senators will agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to appropriate sufficient revenue for the services of the Commonwealth during the first two months of the next financial year. It is anticipated that Parliament will adjourn shortly and will not resume until the beginning of the new financial  year.  In the meantime, it is necessary to make provision for the services of government to be carried on after 1st July next. The amount which Parliament is asked to appropriate is £5,705,573, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="120332192903204_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The items making up these sums are based on the present year's Estimates, and provision is made to meet the first pay-day in September. No new proposal is included. In addition, the usual provision is made for - 

<graphic href="120332192903204_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

The total to be appropriated is therefore £5,705,573. 
It is not intended to submit a loan bill for next year until the budget has been presented to Parliament, but in order to enable loan works and services in progress on 30th June, 1929, to be continued, funds will be made available from the Treasurer's advance. The sum of £1,650,000 which Parliament is asked to appropriate for " Advance to the Treasurer," will be temporarily used for loan services as already indicated ; to carry on works and services provided for during the current year under " Additions, new works, &amp;c, payable from revenue," and to meet miscellaneous and unforeseen expenditure. The relative sums involved are estimated thus - 

<graphic href="120332192903204_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

When the Estimates for 1929-30 are brought down, Parliament will be asked to make specific appropriations for the services involved. 
Immediately Parliament resumes after the adjournment, the usual financial statement will be submitted for consideration. In the meantime, it is fitting that some indication should be given' of the results to date in the present financial year. As honorable senators are aware, the financial position of the revenue account of the Commonwealth is largely governed by customs and excise receipts. In 1926-27 the receipts from this source amounted to £43,552,000 ; in 1927-28 the receipts were £41,446,000, or a decline of £2,106,000. This decline was almost wholly due to the reduced purchases of luxuries, brought about by the unfavorable seasonal conditions and the resultant temporary depression. In the budget for the current year, it was estimated that the revenue from customs and excise would bo £43,300,000; and in arriving at this estimate, the Treasurer was influenced by past experiences, which showed that, after a period of depression, there was an immediate and full recovery in the customs and excise revenue. Guided by those experiences and with the prospect of a good harvest and an increased wool clip, justification was found for the estimated revenue of £43,300,000, which was £252,000 less than the actual collections for 1926-27, notwithstanding that in the meantime additional duties, estimated to yield £500,000, had been imposed on motor chassis. For the first three months of the present financial year, the collections amounted to £9,503,000. Compared with the collections for the previous year, this represented a decline of £1,763,000, which was mainly due to unfavorable seasonal conditions and shipping difficulties. Since October, however, there has been a marked improvement, and the receipts for the eight months ended 28th February amount to £27,850,000. Compared with the  pro rata  budget estimate, this represents a shortage of approximately £1,000,000. 
It is not possible to forecast with reliability what the receipts will be for the remainder of the financial year, but the general trading position is now much more favorable than it was during the first three months of the year, and it is quite possible that a good deal of the leeway will be made up. It is estimated that other transactions, taken as a whole, will produce a result approximately equal to the budget estimates. The result for the year will, therefore, be almost wholly governed by the customs and excise collections during the last four months of the financial year. 
In framing the budget for the present year, the Government fully appreciated the need for economy, and it will continue to exercise a policy of prudent finance. 
I avail myself of this opportunity to refer briefly to the commendable step the Government has taken in appointing a commercial representative in Canada. In this connexion I have received two letters from Mr.F. Maclure Sclanders, F.R.G.S., Commissioner of the Saint John Board of Trade, New Brunswick. The first letter is dated 11th January, 1929, and contains the following :  - 
Since our Australian friends visited here, I have devoted considerable thought to lines along which trade between our two great countries might be stimulated and expanded. We would like to buy much more from Australia; but the tendency is to talk raisins and dried fruits, and forget that there are other lines which we might buy from you to mutual advantage. 
With regard to raisins, however, I understand that you have not yet developed the seedless raisins, and, of course, as the main urge of these times is to proceed along the line of least resistance, the housewife naturally buys seedless raisins. If these can he produced satisfactorily and profitably in California, why should not our brethren in Australia respond to the housewife's demand for the line of least resistance by also producing the seedless raisin? It seems to me that the secret of export success is to give foreign markets just what they demand. 
My feeling is that there ought to be a much larger demand in Canada for your beautiful wines. I do not know whether you have any proper representation of this line in Canada; but I do believe that, even if you have, there is a far bigger field awaiting you, and that will certainly respond to energetic up-to-date salesmanship. 
There is perhaps no aspect of life that  has  been more definitely affected by the present craving for the line of least resistance than food products. Nowadays, the ambition is to reduce domestic cooking to an absolute minimum. As  a  result, the demands for the readytoeat foods in various forms is increasing by leaps and bounds. Nor is this demand confined merely to canned fruits, vegetables, and soups; it also extends to fish and meat products, and it is inevitably destined to keep on expanding in a very marked measure. 
I just learned, with some considerable pleasure, that a certain brand of Australian canned peaches is considered to bc the best that comes to this market, and I am striving to interest local wholesale grocers and brokers in your canned fruits. 
So far as citrus fruits are concerned, I do not just know what the position would be, or how your Australian fruit could compete with the Californian and Florida products; but if you care to send mc any figures, I shall be glad to go thoroughly into the matter and let you know. 
Is there any reason why Australia should not manufacture marmalade for export? Long ago, I remember eating Australian honey, which was of wonderful quality. Within the past year our Canadian farmers, particularly in the west, have become very much interested in honey production and have gone into it quite largely. They find it an easy and profitable adjunct; and I believe that their market is largely in the Old Country. Might we not do something with you in honey? 
Then, what about jams and jellies ? Is your labour too costly to admit of successful competition with Old Country producers: or might the larger crop yield on your land offset your dearer labour charges? 
The second communication is exceedingly pertinent It is dated 14th January, 1929, and says: - 
It seems to mc that in order to keep your finger on the pulse of your Canadian trade potentialities, it might bc a productive move to appoint an Australian government representative on this side. The familiarity of such an official with products of your great country would place him in a good position to carry on productive activities. My own respectful conviction is that the development of  inter-empire  trade demands as a first essential step an interchange of commercial representatives by the countries composing the Empire. Such representation would seem all the more necessary in the case of two great countries such as ours, whose present trade relations arc so much smaller than they should lie. It is a simple business proposition; and I am satisfied that the development of much larger Canadian buying from Australia is a problem quite capable of solution, if approached by thoughtful business men in a thoroughly business-like way. 
I shall be pleased to inform  Mr.  Sclanders  that the appointment has been made, and I do not think it would be amiss if 
I placed these letters at the disposal of our Trade Commissioner to Canada. But in my opinion a further step should be taken, not altogether by the Government which has already taken action by appointing a trade commissioner, but by the manufacturers and producers of Australia. I was very much struck recently by the advice given by the Prince of Wales that it was highly desirable that a salesmanship campaign should be commenced throughout the Empire.  His  Royal Highness sounded the note that it would be so much better if the bosses themselves could go abroad and introduce their products. It seems to me now that the Commonwealth Government has taken the forward step of appointing a trade commissioner to Canada, it would be fitting if our manufacturers and producers could, themselves, visit Canada or send good commercial representatives over there to increase the trade that Australia ought to be doing with that dominion. 
This is a suitable occasion to consider the position into which, in the opinion of quite a number of people, Australia is drifting financially, and to urge upon the Government and Parliament the necessity for endeavouring to do something to place our finances on a safer footing than they are to-day. In his Inst Budget speech the Treasurer announced that the deficit amounted to £2,628,000. Already this year we are, approximately, £1,000,000 short of what he estimated the revenue would be at this period of the year, and at the end of the year the current deficit will probably be as great as that of last year. We must realize that we are building up a lot of trouble for ourselves in the near future. The essence of good government, in my opinion, is the ability to manage the finances in such a way as to provide for .all reasonable services and balance the national ledger. A substantial surplus is not necessarily evidence of careful administration. On the contrary, it indicates that the Treasurer is taking out of the pockets of the taxpayers large sums of money which should remain with the people for investment in commercial and other enterprises calculated to develop this country. On the other hand, substantial deficits such as that which we had last year, and which, it is feared, will be our experience this year, can only result in serious financial disorganization, and eventually must mean an increase in taxation on an already overburdened community. Proposals to increase taxation cause deep resentment, but I am afraid that as events are trending we are approaching the time when the Treasurer will find it necessary to take this unpopular step. If this should become necessary the Government and its supporters will have an unpleasant task to justify the administration of our finances. I should like to see this difficult situation obviated. I had hoped that the Government would be able to keep down public expenditure in accordance with the promise given by the Treasurer, and in fulfilment of our election pledges, that the affairs of this country would be so conducted by a sound business government that it would be impossible for critics with justice to make any charge against the administration. 
I am aware, of course, that one of the privileges of the Opposition is to direct the searchlight of criticism upon the shortcomings of the Government ; and I regret, therefore, that the Government has not been able to reduce public expenditure, a course to which it was more or less committed. So far from this, Government services have expanded in many directions, with the result that to-day we find ourselves committed to expenditures which many people are beginning to think are beyond the capacity of the Commonwealth to meet. Let me give one illustration of this steady increase in departmental expenditure. Honorable senators will find all the details in the fifth report of the Commonwealth Public Service Board, presented to the Senate on the Sth February of this year. That document shows that there has been a substantial growth of the permanent, exempt and temporary staffs of the Public Service since 1924. The figures relating to the permanent staff only are as follow : - 

<graphic href="120332192903204_4_4.jpg"></graphic>

The average salary paid to these permanent officers in 1924 was £252, and the average salary paid in 1928 was £280. A further examination of the figures shows that the total number of Commonwealth public servants - permanent, exempt and temporary officers - in 1928 was 47,878, and that the total of salaries paid was £11,214,669. These figures are somewhat alarming when compared with the population, and the financial resources of the Commonwealth. The Leader of the Senate in his second-reading speech today gave the estimated customs and excise receipts at £43,000,000, so it will be seen that the total salaries paid to our public servants is just about one-fourth of the amount received by way of collections from the customs. When we remember that the Commonwealth depends largely upon customs receipts for the carrying on of its various services, we must confess that our position is far from satisfactory. 
It has been estimated that one out of every 125 persons in Australia is a Commonwealth public servant. If we take into account the number of public servants employed by the State Governments, together with their families, we find that one out of every seven persons in the Commonwealth is either a Government employee or the dependant of a Government servant. I wish it to be clearly understood that in these observations I am not casting any reflection upon our Commonwealth public servants. They have been invited to enter the employ of the various Governments by guarantees of permanent positions, and I have no doubt that they are discharging their duties to the entire satisfaction of the heads of their various departments; but we must ask ourselves if the time has not arrived when, in view of our difficult financial position and the urgent need foi increasing production, the Commonwealth is not able to carry such a load. It seems to me that it would be wise to encourage more of our people to enter into one of the many avenues of production open to them. The Government, from time to time, passes legislation which I am afraid aggravates the trouble to which I am directing attention. Nearly every measure passed by this Parliament adds in some way or other to the number of public servants employed in either a temporary or permanent capacity. Should not we, as taxpayers, apart from our position as representatives of the people in this chamber, consider whether it is not possible to carry on some of these new governmental activities without adding to the existing personnel of the public service? 
I am not suggesting anything of the kind. I believe that the average public servant has quite enough to do; but it seems to me that the public service is being overloaded. It has been said by critics of governmental activities that if a public servant is placed in an office in charge of any responsible work it is not long before he gathers a staff around him, and very soon he finds himself head of a department. 
It can be prevented only by the exercise of the most careful supervision by the Government and Parliament. Unless this growth in our public service is checked I am afraid the day will come when, because of our financial obligations, a Government, to give effect to an insistent demand for economy will be compelled to order the wholesale dismissal of permanent employees. We saw it happen in Australia in the old days. When the crash came after the boom in Victoria, civil servants were discharged in great numbers, and were sent walking about the streets seeking employment. I would rather see the governmental activities extended more gradually, putting the extra work, as far as possible, upon the departments already in existence, and upon the officers already in employment there. It should be possible to expand the activities of a department without greatly increasing its staff, or overloading the officers. This sort of thing is frequently done in ordinary commercial concerns. When a firm finds that it is faced with the necessity of expanding its business to meet some growing demand, it does not create a new set of departments; it simply re-organizes its staff, which is the common-sense way of doing it. Then, when the demand has been met, the business is not faced with the responsibility of providing for an inflated staff whose service may not be required. 
Of course it is expanding, but that should not necessarily involve increasing the staff of the Public Service. A teller in a bank may ordinarily take so much money a day. Even if that amount is doubled, it may not be necessary to put on another teller. There has been a considerable increase in the staff of the Customs Department. The Minister has been careful to explain why the revenue of this department has fallen off, but he has not explained why, although the business has decreased, the staff has been added to. 
There is much food for thought in this report of the Commonwealth Public Service Commissioners. Sooner or later the people of this country will want to know why we have allowed such abuses to creep in. It is better that the Government should grapple with the position now than leave it until they are forced by an indignant public to take some action. The taxpayers of Australia are becoming restless. For years past, they have been led to expect a decrease in taxation. Notwithstanding what hour or able senators opposite may say, many of those who pay taxes are no better off after they have been paid than those who are not called upon to pay anything. The taxpayers are beginning to feel the pinch of mounting costs, and ever-increasing burdens. Eventually they must show the resentment which, so far, they have been slow to express. This point of view is worthy of consideration, more especially as those parties who support the Government have given pledges to the electors that they will exercise economy in government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
In connexion with the proposed vote for the Prime Minister's Department, I wish to make reference 'o the fact that last year, when I was in London, I noticed that an uncalled-for attack had been made by an honorable member of another place on an officer employed in the High Commissioner's office. I had the good fortune to meet this man, who is known as the social officer, and am convinced that he is well fitted to occupy his position. The principal charge against him seemed to be that he is not an Australian. It is true, I believe, that he was not born in Australia, but he was brought out here by his parents when a child, and educated at St. Peter's College, Adelaide. Therefore, to all intents and purposes he is an Australian. He was also charged with the offence of wearing an eyeglass. I believe that he does wear a monocle, but very able men, such men as  Sir Joseph  Chamberlain, his son,  Sir Austen  Chamberlain, and even a number of Australians, have also worn them. This officer was also charged that, although very obsequious and attentive to any one who happened to occupy a prominent position, he was just the reverse to those unfortunate Australians who asked his assistance when they had nothing in particular to recommend them. Those, it was alleged, he treated very cavalierly, indeed. From my own observation, I can say that he was ju3t as attentive to those who came to him with no distinction whatever as he was to the most important visitors. I have in mind a couple who called upon him, having only just arrived in London from Western Australia, where they had been farming for many years. The man occupied no official position, and had no one to recommend him, but through the good offices of the social officer the couple received an invitation to a garden party at Buckingham Palace. It hurt me to see the work of this officer spoken of so disparagingly, when he was unable to defend himself, or get any one to defend him. 
I do not know. Possibly the person who made it may have had some grounds. I can speak of the man only as I found him. Speaking generally, the officers employed in the High Commissioner's Office in London carry out their duties in a way which should make Australia proud of that office. 
.- I wish to pay a tribute to the work being done by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in connexion with the eradication of prickly pear in Queensland and elsewhere. I have been interested in this problem for many years, and, as a result of the work being done by the council, headway is at last being made against the pest. During the last election campaign I travelled through large areas of the pear country, and I was astonished to see the ravages made on the pear by the cactoblastis. The cochineal insect is also doing its work, but more slowly. The cactoblastis was working like the communists, who are white-anting the trade unions of Australia. So much damage to the prickly pear has been done by it that in some parts the dead pear has been burnt off, and families are now settled on the land, growing wheat. If the present expenditure had been doubled, or even trebled, we should have been amply repaid by the results which have so far been achieved. 
.- I am pleased that  Senator Carroll  has brought under the notice of the committee the disparaging nature of the remarks made in another place concerning an official in the High Commissioner's Office in London. Last year I had an opportunity of witnessing the attention and courtesy shown to visitors by the staff at Australia House. Possibly I had a better opportunity than  Senator Carroll  of judging the work of this office, as I was attached to a party of 640 Australians, whose individual desires had to be considered. I was brought into close contact with the official referred to, and all the members of the party to which I was attached expressed their gratitude and appreciation of the great kindness and courtesy shown them by him and other officials at Australia House. All the officials there are actuated by a desire to make Australia House what it should be to the Australian people. The reception officer, who was in the library room when I was in London, and who has unfortunately since passed away, was the embodiment of courtesy and kindness, and his knowledge of British and continental affairs was always at the disposal of those seeking information. I regret that an aspersion has been cast on the officer referred to by  Senator Carroll,  as I know from personal experience that he carries out his duties in a highly efficient manner. 
In connexion with the proposed vote for the Department of Health, I wish to bring under the notice of the Minister, a request made to me some time ago by the Launceston Hospital authorities in connexion with the supply of radium. On my return from abroad I received a letter from the hospital to the effect that, whilst they were grateful for the radium loaned, the quantity was insufficient for their needs. I communicated with the Prime Minister's Department on the matter, and later I received from the hospital authorities a copy of a communication in reply to their request, a portion of which reads - 
I have to add that all the radium purchased lias huon allocated and that it will not be possible to consider any further distribution until sufficient experience has been gained to justify a reasoned opinion as to the value nf this method of treatment, and as to the necessity for the purchase of any further supplies of radium. 
The letter I received from the secretary of the Launceston Hospital, dated 11th December, reads - 
I have to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 1st instant, addressed to the  chairman,  with thanks. In reply, I am directed to enclose herewith for your perusal a copy of a letter received from the secretary to the Prime Minister. I am also directed to add that the amount of radium loaned to this hospital, viz. - 20 milligrams, is altogether inadequate, and in the opinion of my committee, a proper portion has not been  alloted to Tasmania; yon will gather from the very large number of hospitals that are served by the Launceston Public Hospital, that this is so. 
The hospital authorities deeply appreciate  the  opportunities afforded them to treat patients with radium, and I hope their request will receive the consideration of the Minister. If this method of treatment is found satisfactory, I trust the Launceston Hospital and other similar institutions in need of radium will receive supplies as speedily as possible. As  1  he preservation of human life is of greater importance than any thing else, I  arn  sure that, if experience during the past few months has been satisfactory, the Government will supplement the supply of radium  to  this hospital. 
The observations of  Senator Payne  concerning a supply of radium for the Launceston Hospital will be brought under the notice of the Minister for Health, and will, no doubt, receive his early and sympathetic attention. 
.- I should like to obtain some information from the Minister in regard to item No. 1 of Division 120 of War Services, which reads - " Graves of soldiers - contribution to Graves Commission for Commonwealth share of cost of care and maintenance, £16,400." According to last year's financial papers, the expenditure in this connexion was £94,950. Some doubt exists concerning the method by which this money is allocated. The impression prevails that a large sum of money to which Australia has contributed has been funded and that the return from this will always be sufficient to carry on the work of the Graves Commission, which is of the greatest interest to the Australian people. The use of the words " care and maintenance " suggests that this is an annually recurring item. I should like to take this opportunity to make a brief reference to the work which has been, and is still, being carried out in Europe by the War Graves Commission. When I learned that the bulk of construction work had been completed, and the staff was to be materially reduced, I thought it desirable and in keeping with the sentiments of the Australian people to see if an Australian could not be retained on the attenuated staff. I met several Australians employed by the Commission, and made some inquiries concerning the calibre of the officers in its employ. I was informed that one of the officers possessing, an excellent character, and whose work had been most highly spoken of at headquarters, was able and willing to remain if his services could be retained. On my return to Australia I communicated with the Prime Minister's department urging the retention of the services of this officer, who is now in England, and was informed that that could not be arranged. I wish to pay a tribute not only to the officers, but to every unit of the War Graves Commission, for the excellent work they have preformed in 
France and in Belgium. One cannot adequately describe the magnificence of the work. The cemeteries are laid out with such care, that instead of being unattractive spots on the landscape, they are as beautiful as cemeteries can be made. Particular attention has been given by the gardeners to each individual grave. In visiting many of the cemeteries I found that the attendants were so keen in their work that they were removing plants showing signs of decay in order that the floral beauty of the plots should be preserved. The lawns are beautifully kept; there is no rubbish or weeds to mar their beauty. I trust that these remarks will give some little comfort to the thousands of people in Australia who have loved ones lying in these cemeteries, but are unable to visit their graves. 1 trust that the Minister will be able to give the information I seek regarding the manner in which the upkeep of these cemeteries is financed. 
The amount set out in this bill for the upkeep of soldiers' graves is a portion of Australia's annual contribution of £94,950. That is 6.33 per cent, of the total British contribution of £1,500,000. The contribution is to be paid annually for six and a half years, as from 1925-26. The sum thus provided will cover the cost of completion of cemeteries, and provide an endowment fund of £5,000,000, the interest on which will be sufficient to maintain the cemeteries in good condition for all time. I was pleased to hear from  Senator Payne  that the cemeteries on the various battlefields of France are so well kept.  His  report supplements statements made from time to time by relatives and friends of deceased soldiers who have visited the cemeteries, and have expressed their appreciation of the work done by the War Graves Commission. Early this year the Defence Department received from Australia House some photographs of cemeteries on the battlefields, which I wish the relatives of fallen soldiers could see, for they would then realize what care and attention is devoted to the graves. I desire also to refer to the excellent work done by architects and others who have designed gates and buildings for erection in the cemeteries. These buildings and gates are indeed things of beauty. We should be grateful to the War Graves Commission for the excellent work it has done and is doing. 
I wish to impress on the Government the desirability of reestablishing a train service between Sydney and Brisbane on each day of the week, including Sunday. At one time there was a daily service, but some years ago an alteration was made and the daily train has not since been reinstated. There is daily communication by train between Sydney and Melbourne and between Melbourne and Adelaide. We can scarcely expect a similar service between Adelaide and Perth for some time, but there is no reason why there should not be a train each day between Sydney and Brisbane. In the hope that the Postmaster-General could assist in establishing a daily service, I recently had a question placed on the notice-paper, but the reply was rather unsatisfactory. I realize that the Postmaster-General cannot bring much pressure to bear on the Governments of Queensland and New South Wales at the present time. I understand that the New South Wales Government is prepared to re-establish a daily service, but that the Queensland Government is not at present willing to do so. I suggest that when the Kyogle to South Brisbane line is opened an opportunity will be given the Government to insist on a daily train between Sydney and Brisbane, and I hope that that opportunity will not be lost sight of. 
I understand that the Postmaster-General has done his utmost to secure a daily mail service between Sydney and ' Brisbane, but that his efforts, so far, have been without success. I am grateful to  Senator Thompson  for the suggestion that the matter should be considered when the new line from Kyogle to South Brisbane is available for traffic. The Government will keep his suggestion in mind. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended, and bill passed through its remaining stages. 
 It is provided in this clause that the appointment shall be for  a  term of not more than seven years. As I indicated in my second-reading speech, I think that we ought to make the position of this functionary as secure as we can by act of Parliament. It is already a. recognized maxim of British law that judges should be made so secure in their positions that they can be removed only by a joint resolution of both Houses of Parliament. That is so that they may be placed beyond the range of party fire, so that no party spleen or feeling may affect them in their judgments. This is one of the most important appointments the Government can make, since the director must be the grand adviser to Australia on many serious public issues. 
It might, perhaps, be wrong, but it might also cut across the political prejudices of the party in power, and in that way arouse its wrath. Just as we take care to place our judges in such a position that they may give fair and impartial judgments, so we must place this director beyond the range of party and political gun-fire. 
I do not know that I should not. 
The members of the Tariff Board are small fish compared to what this man will be. I suggest that we should assure him a term of appointment of not less than seven years instead of " not more " than seven years, as the clause provides. In that way we might attract to the position a person of worth. 
 Suppose an unsuitable man should be appointed? 
[9.22].- The Government has given a great deal of con sideration to this clause, and to the term of appointment,  whether it  should be fixed at more or less than seven years. It must be remembered that the number of persons capable of filling this position is not very great ; but, from inquiries we have made, we do not think there will be any great difficulty in procuring the services of a suitable man if the term is fixed at not more than seven years. We have already tried this form of engagement with considerable success. I may mention the Development and Migration Commission, for which  the  longest period of appointment is seven years, and whose chief executive officer is  Mr. Gepp,  the  chairman, who.  in the opinion of the Government, is a very valuable man. The members of the Federal Capital Commission are appointed for a term of years. On the Tariff Board, the longest term of appointment is three years. On the Public Service Commission the longest term is five years, and the shortest three years. The Commonwealth Railways Commissioner is appointed for five years. When  Mr. Bell's  term expired he  Avas  reappointed, and by a different government from  that  which  had  first appointed him. The Government feels that it is better to fix a term during which the person apj&gt;ointed as director can be tried out, and, if he is found to be a valuable officer, there is  power  to re-appoint him. It is wiser, I think, to keep to the shorter term. I ask  Senator Lynch,  therefore, to allow the clause to stand as it is. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Suspension of Director). 
 This clause provides that the Minister may, at any time, suspend the director for the reasons set out. It is quite right that the Minister should have that  power,  but, if it is subsequently found that the suspension is faulty or unjust, the only remedy the officer will have is to adopt the long and circuitous expedient of invoking the aid of both Houses of Parliament before he can be restored to his position. I suggest that, after the word "behaviour," the following  words  should be inserted: - 
But such suspension can only take effect and be confirmed with the approval of both Houses of Parliament. 
My purpose is to make the position of director as secure as the Government can make it. 
I agree that subclause 2 affords some relief; but my amendment would place on Parliament the onus of taking action before the suspension became permanently operative. The suspension could be effected only if Parliament approved of it. 
He would be out of his position. 
That is so; but the object of my proposed amendment is to make the Minister consider carefully before he takes the serious step of suspending this officer. This can be achieved by ensuring that Parliament must review the Minister's decision at once. Certainly, provision is already made for Parliament to review the Minister's decision; but it only becomes operative after a roundabout procedure, whereas Parliament ment should step in immediately the suspension takes place, and clear his character or confirm his suspension. The  Deputy  Loader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  referred to placing the onus of proof upon the accuser. The onus of proof should be thrown on the accuser, which in this case will be the Minister responsible for his suspension. If the director is suspended lie will, so to speak, be swinging in midair until Parliament assumes responsibility. The onus of proof of guilt should rest upon Parliament, which should immediately discharge its duty in that respect. 
If  Senator P.  P. Abbott will study the wording of subclauses 2 and 3 he will see that it might be two or three months before the direc-  tor could obtain a verdict. I want to provide that Parliament shall act promptly. 
That need not necessarily follow. Immediately suspension occurs Parliament should act, instead of following the tortuous process provided in the clause. 
If that is the intention we shall never obtain the services of a suitable man. If it is the desire of the committee to make the suspension easy, it is unnecessary to seek a good man. The committee should recognize that the duties of this official will bring him into close contact with both political parties. He will have to report upon the condition of different - industries, their relation to each other and to all Australian industries. That being the case, the director should have some fixity of tenure, otherwise we shall not be able to obtain the services of the type of man we desire. I ask the committee to stand up to its duty, because if the director is suspended Parliament will be invoked, and it is better to invoke Parliament at once than in the manner provided in the clause. 
[9.34]. - The suspension of an officer as provided in this clause would be a serious act on the part of the Minister, and the power would be exercised only in the most extreme cases. A Minister would be loth to suspend an officer knowing that Parliament would have the power to review such suspension. In the first place, the Minister would not act unless he had the full approval of the Government. I could not imagine a Minister suspending a prominent official until the matter had been fully discussed by Cabinet. A Minister would not suspend an officer without good reason. He would not act unless there was every justification; but if the suggested amendment were made the officer concerned might provide that justification just after Parliament had risen, and would then have to continue in office, although responsible for some act which in the opinion of the Minister he should not have committed, until the next meeting of Parliament. He could not be dealt with in any other way. That would not be desirable. I remind the committee that there is very little likelihood of this power being used. A similar provision in regard to the Commonwealth Public Service Board exists. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Public Service Board comes in very close contact with Parliament and the Public Service. Its actions are criticized and attacked, but no Minister would think of suspending a member of the Public Service Board unless he could justify his action before Parliament. As a similar provision exists in other statutes, and has never been abused, I ask  Senator Lynch  to allow the clause to pass in its present form. There is always the power of Parliament over the Minister, who would not suspend the officer unless there was good cause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses8 and 9 agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Director to devote whole time to duty.) 
.- The clause reads- 
The director shall, except to the extent (if any) to which the Minister otherwise allows, devote the whole of his time to the performance of his duties under this act. . . . 
I should like the Minister to explain the meaning of the words " except to the extent (if any) to which the Minister otherwise allows." The clause appears to mean that apart from the director's statutory duties there are other duties which the Minister in the exercise of his powers may direct this official to perform. That would be a clear interference with the director. I do not know the intention, but the use of these words appears to have a sinister significance. The clause suggests that the Minister may order the director to undertake work altogether apart from the duties provided in the bill. 
Will it not give the Minister power to direct this official to do duties other than those provided in the bill? If the director carries out his duties fearlessly and in an independent manner, it is conceivable that he may collide with some Minister, who in the exercise of his powers under this provision may direct him to do certain work foreign to his office. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [9.38]. - These words have been deliberately included in the clause, because we believe that the services of the director may at times be of use to the State Governments. A State Government might ask for an examination into some subject which could be efficiently conducted by this officer. This clause will give the Minister power to allow that to be done. Similar action has already been taken in connexion with the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. On one occasion the Tasmanian Government asked for the services of certain officers of the Development and Migration Commission, and these were made available. In another instance the services of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research were made available to State authorities. As it is thought that similar requests may be made under this measure, the clause has been drafted to give the Minister power to permit the director to undertake such work. 
Is it not possible for this power to be abused? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 13 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.28]. -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The passing of this measure will not mean the setting up of an elaborate department, nor will it involve the appointment of many additional officers. It is proposed to establish a Bureau of Economic Research, and to appoint a Director, but a great deal of work which he will supervise - the dissection of data and statistics - will be collected through the Statistician's Department, the machinery of which will be made available to him. Although the bureau will not require a large clerical staff, there can be no doubt as to the necessity for the bureau itself. Life is becoming more complex every day, and owing to that net-work of complications which we call modern business or modern commerce, it is very difficult to take any political action without, as the result of thorough research, knowing exactly what is likely to be its repercussion. Examples have come under the attention of the Government and, I am sure, of Parliament, of many well-meant efforts that have gone astray. Our difficulty in Australia is that we are developing a new country where the conditions are in every respect different from those which obtain in other countries. In many cases, we have no precedent to guide us. Causes produce like effects where the conditions are alike, but because the conditions in Australia are not similar to those in older countries, what may be good for an older country may have a harmful and not a beneficial effect upon Australia. There are, however, certain scientific principles that apply in all circumstances just as there are certain welldefined natural laws. Political economy is a well recognized science. It is recognized that scientific methods may be applied to political activities as in other walks of life. Every up-to-date university has a. Chair of Economics, and many scientists devote their lives to economic research. 
I want now to give one or two illustrations of what the Government has in mind in establishing a Bureau of Eco nomic Research. Some time ago it set up what is known as the Development and Migration Commission to advise the Commonwealth and the States in connexion with various developmental schemes that were to be submitted by the States under the  £34,000,000  Migration Agreement. The investigation of these schemes very often necessitates a review of other developmental schemes already in hand. For instance, proposals which have recently been put forward for the extension of development within the river Murray valley have necessitated not only an inquiry into the possibility of the economic utilization of further lands in the valley, but also a review of the economic position of industries already established in the valley. This review has revealed the fact that when the States first embarked on a policy of developing irrigation areas along the river Murray, they made no economic research into the possibilities of the future. Like Topsy, the whole thing just grew. They commenced with irrigation settlements here and there, but no long-sighted view was taken of the production to be aimed at or of the possibility first of marketing the output at a price that would pay, and secondly of the product being able to maintain its place in the markets of Australia, and when it had reached the saturation point in those markets, in the markets of the world. The success that was achieved in the early irrigation settlements of Victoria prompted New South Wales and South Australia , to establish similar settlements. The people of South Australia, seeing that Mildura was growing lemons and oranges profitably, planted orchards of lemon and orange trees without first inquiring whether there was likely to be a market for the increased yield. Very soon, of course, they found themselves in difficulties and in some cases they had to root out their lemon and orange trees and set out on other forms of fruit production. Then it was thought that the canned fruit industry would be a profitable one. Peaches and apricots were planted, but again without any thorough research into the possibility of marketing the fruit, or of the payable character of the product. Again there was a rooting up of trees. The third stage came with the planting of grape  vines with,  a view to producing raisins and currants, and again, to some extent, disaster was met with owing to taking too short-sighted a view. Itsoon became obvious to the Development and Migration Commission that there must be co-ordination among the three State Governments concerned, and the Commonwealth, which, at a later stage, had become a partner in the development of the River Murray Valley. An agreement has now been reached by which, before additional land is brought into use, there must be an inquiry as to the kind of production that should be encouraged on it, whether there is a market for the product, and whether that market is likely to prove payable. In that way it is hoped there will be, in future, proper co-ordination in respect to the development of our lands. 
Let me now give an illustration of how a serious mistake was avoided as a result of an investigation by the Development and Migration Commission. At Leeton, in New South Wales, the settlers had demonstrated that, by the use of machinery and modern methods, rice of an excellent quality could be successfully grown in Australia. The Australian market being open to the Leeton settlers, they were able to make rice-growing pay. Spurred by the success achieved at Leeton, Victoria proposed to devote irrigated areas to rice cultivation, but the Development and Migration Commission was easily able to demonstrate that if this additional area was devoted to rice, more would be produced than Australia could consume. An inquiry is now being made into the possibility of this country being able to export rice and sell it profitably in the markets of the world. 
But California has cheaper labour than we have. I am informed that a large proportion of the labour employed there is Chinese or Japanese. At any rate, this inquiry is now being made and Victoria has agreed not to devote any land to ricegrowing until the point has been cleared up. Under a haphazard system it would undoubtedly have put the extra area under rice and rice would probably have been in the same position as sugar and some of our other products. 
In making these investigations the Development and Migration Commission has to consider a number of questions which really can only be answered as the result of economic research. For instance, in an investigation of the dried fruits industry, consideration has to be given to sale prices, freights, and insurance rates, as well as a number of other matters. It is true that a tremendous quantity of data on these points is already available, but it has never been properly collated or dissected by Commonwealth or State departments. Consequently, the Development and Migration Commission has been obliged to devote a great deal of its time to what is really the task of a specialist in economic research. If a Bureau of Economic Research existed, the commission could refer these phases of its inquiries to it, and the director of the bureau, utilizing the machinery at his command, could make available to the commission the result of his research work. The members of the commission would thus be able to devote the whole of their energies to a consideration of the major issues, that is to say, the desirability, feasibility and practicability of the various developmental schemes put forward by the State Governments. 
There is another phase of work which a Director of Economic Research could undertake. The regulation of wages by arbitration involves a study of economic conditions. In order to arrive at a wise determination in respect of the economic effects of an award upon a particular industry, a great deal of economic research has to be undertaken. The Arbitration Court has thus to devote a considerable portion of its time to a task for which it is not particularly adapted, principally because it has not the requisite machinery to undertake it. If a Bureau of Economic. Research were in existence, the Arbitration Court could call upon it to dissect for it the information available in the Statistician's office, or obtainable elsewhere. Before an Arbitration Court can give a determination, it has to take into consideration such questions as profits, costs, and competition. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes; the capital of the companies involved, whether it is legitimate capital or watered, and what should he regarded as a fair return on the capital invested are readily subjects for dissection and examination. 
Australia has declared for a protectionist tariff, but the most ardent protectionist does not desire protection to be used as a shield for inefficiency.We want our industries to be efficient. We do not want to shelter inefficiency on the part of either the employer or the employee by means of high protective duties. The Tariff Board, in the many inquiries which it has conducted preparatory to the presentation of reports, has been failed upon to do a vast amount of economic research in relation to the industries concerned. The Government also felt the need for expert assistance in connexion with an investigation that was made into the cotton industry. When I was Minister for Home and Territories, now designated the Department of Home Affairs, I administered the cotton bounty, and from time to time I attended conferences with representatives of the cotton growers and cotton users to consider what would be a fair measure of assistance to give to the growers. I have a vivid recollection of the enormous amount of work which the various sub-committees had to do in the course of that inquiry. If we could have had assistance from a Bureau of Economic Research, such as is now contemplated, we could have obtained data scientifically arranged and thoroughly dissected, and would have been relieved of an enormous amount of difficult work. Later the Tariff Board inquired into the condition of the cotton industry, and made a recommendation to the Government. 
Yes. The work of the Tariff Board will be materially helped by investigations that will be carried out by the proposed bureau, and the information available from time to time will enable the board to discharge its duties more efficiently.  Senator Elliott  has asked me if similar institutions have been established in other countries. In the United 
States of Amerca there has been in existence for many years an organization comprising 27 trained economists specially charged with the investigation of the economic effects of all proposals made for the revision of the tariff. In addition, there are three organizations dealing with similar matters - the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, the National Research Council, and the National Industrial Conference Board. Owing to its vast population and the magnitude of its problems, the United States of America has all these organizations dealing with questions of economic research. We do not propose to carry out investigations on such an extensive scale as that. It is not necessary, and with our limited requirements, it would not be advisable to do so. The subject is also attracting much attention in the United Kingdom, where for some years the need for scientific investigation into the economic effects of public policy has been recognized. Remarkable progress has, in fact, been made in Great Britain in investigating various problems, and Australia is co-operating in that work through the Empire Marketing Board. I understand that several universities in the Mother Country now have chairs of economics. In a recent publication, entitled,  Britain's Industrial Future,  published by the Liberal party in Great Britain, there appears an interesting article dealing with this important subject. The following is an extract from it:- 
We propose, therefore, as an essential instrument of better and wiser government, the creation of what, following  Sir William  Beveridge, we may call an Economical General Staff with duties in general terms as follows :  - 
To engage in continuous study of current economic problems affecting national policy and the development of industry and commerce; 
To co-ordinate and, where necessary, to complete statistical and other information required by the Government and by Parliament. 
To act on its own initiative in calling the attention of the Cabinet (or the Committee of Economic Policy suggested below) to important tendencies and changes at home or abroad ; 
To suggest to the Government plans for solving fundamental economic difficulties such, for instance, as measures for stabilizing trade conditions, avoiding unemployment, and developing national resources. 
It is suggested in another publication that action is being taken in Great Britain, apart altogether from party political organizations, to encourage similar investigations in thevarious branches of industry, and it is stated that certain industrial groups are coordinating their activities for the more efficient carrying out of economic research. Similar bodies have been established in both Canada and India. 
I also direct the attention of honorable senators to an inquiry made recently by the Commonwealth royal commission into the subject of child endowment and family allowances. That commission came right up against problems involved in our wages system, our standard of living, the basic wage, unemployment and a number of other subjects inseparable from industrial life in the Commonwealth. The minority report, signed by  Mrs. Mildred  Muscio and  Mr. John  Curtin, a member of the House of Representatives, and a member of the Labour party in that chamber, contains the following interesting statement in paragraph 119, page 
121:- 
We wish strongly to recommend that the Federal Government establish some organization for the study of social and economic conditions in Australia, so that accurate and intelligently compiled information may he obtainable by governments to guide them in introducing measures for social reform. A large quantity of interesting data in the statistician's office is not worked up, and other data could be obtained. As members of the commission, we felt strongly the lack of expert investigation into many of the questions which came up in the course of the inquiry and in the absence of such impartial expert research a good deal of the evidence tended to be mere opinion. Every social reform is an experiment, and intelligent observation should accompany all experiments. This applies not only to social reforms, but to developments of economic policy, also. The industrial and social legislation of Australia offers a rich field for research. The returns made under the Family Endowment Act of New South Wales, to take a recent and closely relevant example, must be bringing into existence a body of information making possible a survey of the problems facing families on low incomes in our community. Amongst other things, such a survey would help to throw light on the incidence of unemployment and its effects in family life. The time has arrived when a bureau of social and economic research should be set up in Australia, and we would recommend that this be done. Even one trained economist with an adequate cleri cal staff attached to the statistician's office or to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research could render valuable service, though the establishment of an independent bureau would be better. 
That is practically what the Government is proposing to do. 
Such a bureau would co-ordinate and evaluate not only information obtained through the census and other official returns, but also the data obtainable through social workers whether government officials or otherwise.. Wider economic questions, too, such as the relation of economic policy to national prosperity, to amount and distribution of income, to cost of living, to unemployment and so on, would be material for research by such a bureau. The advice of a body such as this would be invaluable in helping the Government to decide in what way to amend or enlarge any preliminary scheme of family allowances after it had been in operation some time. 
In their final recommendation, to be found on page 125, they recommend - 
That the Federal Government establisha bureau of social and economic research either asin independent organization or attached to some existing department. 
From time to time the Government is criticized for having appointed a number of boards or commissions of inquiry to carry out certain investigations. Of course, I know that some honorable senators, in a spirit of mischief, pretend that the Ministry does this rather as a habit and because it likes to appoint boards and commissions. All I need to say in reply to any such suggestion is that no government would be so foolish as to invite criticism and attack for wasteful expenditure of public money on boards and commissions, unless it felt that it could justify the appointments. We contend that our action in this direction can be fully justified. It has been said that the proposal to create a Bureau of Economic Research, with a director at its head, is merely an attempt on the part of the Government to evade its responsibility to decide questions of policy. That, of course, is quite without foundation. No government or minister has the time, even if it or he possessed the qualifications, to conduct the inquiries which it is proposed shall be made by the trained scientists who will be appointed to the Bureau of Economic Research. I remind honorable senators also that the tendency in all commercial and industrial organizations is to refer to trained experts questions of policy for scientific examination. That is what the Government proposes to do in establishing the proposed Bureau of Economic Research. 
I do not know. The honorable senator must speak for himself. Personally, I am unable to find time for relaxation, or, as the honorable senator puts it, laziness. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE That, I think, is very largely the case because the Minister controlling the department is not familiar with the conduct of the particular business enterprise in which the State may be involved, and the department itself is not fitted for the purpose. This is one of the weaknesses of State socialism. It is because they lack knowledge as to the effect of policies that governments throughout the Empire are more and more seeking the advice of economic experts. It is highly desirable that when dealing with the many problems that confront us, the Government should be able to utilize the services of trained economists who will furnish ministers with digested results of their examination of data obtained from the Statistician's branch. At present if one needs information on a subject, one applies to the Statistician's branch for it, but the duty of that office is simply to collect statistics. The office will furnish the inquirer with the statistics, but he himself has to dissect them, and discover what portion bears upon the subject with which he is concerned. This work could be done much quicker and more scientifically by the bureau. It is done to-day by the existing departmental staffs, but very frequently by rule of thumb. Not only will the bureau be of value to the Government, but it will be useful also to private members of Parliament. If the Government has found it difficult in the past to get the right sort of information, how much more difficult must it have been for private members? Speaking for my own experience, I should say that private members use the Statistician's Department more frequently than any other in the course of their work. If there were a director of economic research, private members, in seeking information could apply to him, instead of wading through vast masses of statistics, and winnowing the chaff from the wheat. The director would collect the relative facts, and present them in the form in which the member wanted. This bill is overdue ; we should have had it many years ago. 
It is proposed to establish a Bureau of Economic Research, consisting of a Director of Economic Research, and such officers as are necessary for the purposes of the act. The director will be appointed for a period not exceeding seven years, and will be eligible for re-appointment. He will receive salary at a rate to be fixed by the Governor-General and will be entitled to travelling expenses. He must devote the whole of his time to his duties. Officers appointed under the measure will be subject to the Public Service Act, except where professional or technical qualifications are necessary, when they may be appointed on such terms and conditions as are prescribed. The powers and functions of the bureau will be as follow :  - 
to carry out economic research in respect of - 
Primary industries; 
Secondary industries; 
Marketing; 
Transport; 
Customs and Excise Tariffs; 
vi ) Bounties ; 
Industrial matters; 
Taxation; 
Finance and Currency; and 
Such other matters as are prescribed. 
to investigate and report to the Minister on - 
The granting of assistance for the promotion of economic research; 
Co-operation in economic research with academic and other bodies in Australia and elsewhere; and 
the establishing and awarding of economic research studentships and fellowships; and 
to publish from time to time results of economic investigations carried out by the bureau. 
It will pay the Government in more prosperous times to spend money on the establishment of research scholarships. 
The spending of a comparatively small sum of money in this direction has already given very valuable results. Some time ago Parliament voted £100,000 to assist the education of young Australians in scientific research work. The. money was invested, and the revenue has been used during the last three or four years in paying for the education abroad of young Australians whose parents have not been able to do it themselves. We have experienced great difficulty in the past in getting scientific men to undertake research work into such things as plant and animal diseases. Now, as a result of spending this money the first crop of young Australian research students is coming back to Australia with the best education the world can provide in their particular lines. Earlier in the evening honorable senators were discussing the prickly pear problem. Some of these students are giving their attention to that with complete success, and quite a number of other problems are on the verge of being solved in the same way. Now, instead of having to search the world for trained men, Australia herself will be able to supply the scientists we need. Later, I hope that we shall be able to induce some of our young Australians to take up the study of the economic questions which will be the particular field of inquiry for this bureau. In this way we shall be able to solve more quickly and effectively the problems with which we are confronted than has been possible under the rule-of-thumb methods followed in the past. 
During this time of financial stringency, it is necessary that we should consider any proposal of this kind in the light of what it will cost. Of course, if it could be guaranteed that the bureau would do all that the Leader of the Senate suggests, the necessary expenditure would bejustified even at the present time. Before committing ourselves, however, we should consider what are the ills which this bureau will seek to remedy, what remedies it is proposed to apply, whether those remedies are the most appropriate or effective possible, and what will be the cost. No one will deny that many of the matters mentioned in clause 1 1 of the bill call for urgent treatment. 
There are problems which must be solved if Australia is to take that place among the nations of the world which, I am sure, honorable senators desire her to take. Up to that point, I can agree with the Leader of the Senate, but I cannot see eye to eye with him when he says that this bill, if passed, will assist in overcoming Australia's difficulties. 
The bill provides for the establishment of a bureau, also for the granting of certain scholarships. So far as the scholarships are concerned, honorable senators will agree that no legislative sanction is required to do that. The bureau is to be created for the purpose, among other things, of carrying out economic research in respect of primary industry and marketing. It is admitted by the Leader of the Senate that the Development and Migration Commission has power to make investigations, and to collect data. He says, however, that while the commission can collect facts, it cannot apply to their consideration what is called the political economic mind, which is what Australia needs to-day. He admits that we have a Commonwealth Statistician's Department which collects facts, but neither can it, apparently, apply the scientific mind to Australia's problems. I remind the Leader of the Senate that there is no unanimity among political economists to-day. I have heard a political economist, who was formerly on the actuarial staff in the South Australian Public Service, and who now occupies a professorial chair in one of our universities, advocate the adoption of the malthusian theory as the only way in which Australia could solve the problems of a high standard of wages and high cost of living. Let us assume that this director has been appointed, and that he is called upon to conduct an economic investigation into an industry, or a series of industries. There are some economists who advocate that there is no hope for secondary industries in Australia while the Arbitration Court persists in prescribing what they consider to be an unreal wage; while it persists in compelling industry to provide, as they say, for children who do not, in fact, exist. These economists say that the only solution is for the Arbitration Court to fix a wage for an adult male, on the assumption that he is a married man without a  family. Then the man who has a family could be assisted to support it by the Government, which would impose taxation for the purpose. When the director is called upon to find a remedy for Australia's troubles, his recommendation will depend upon the particular school of economic thought to which he happens to belong. The Tariff Board may recommend that, in the interests of a particular industry, protection should be granted to it. The political economist, who is Pi rector of Economic Research, may believe in new protection. He may believe in the Labour party's policy of new protection, or he may even believe in the Country party's protection policy. 
I could have defined if; before it joined up with the Nationalists, but I cannot do so now. 
Yes; the party supports protection, but its members allege that they are freetraders. The nature of the report which the director would present on any given question would depend, to a large extent, on the private beliefs which he happened to hold. 
Let us deal now with what will be the most important activity of the bureau so far as the workers are concerned, namely arbitration. The director of an economic bureau would collect statistical data, draw his own conclusions, and present his report by which the Arbitration Court would virtually be bound. Under our present system of industrial arbitration, the advocate of the workers presents his case and the defence of what is known as  non possimus  rests with the employer. Prima facie, a man is entitled to receive a wage that will dove-tail in with the general scheme of wages. It is then the responsibility of the employer to set up reasons for an exception to the general rule. The employer submits his balancesheets, which are considered by the court, and if they are of sufficient importance, are taken into account. The political economists may study the balance-sheets and, in effect, say, " Your business is not badly managed. I do not know anything about machinery, but your plant appears to be up to date. Your real trouble appears to be that you are paying to your workmen money to support women and children whom they are not actually supporting." He would then make a report to the Arbitration Court that the economic position of the industry was such that the basic principle upon which wages are based could be departed from. Against this report the workers' advocate would protest. The judge would thereupon inform the advocate for the employees that (be court was not a legislative body. He would say that the legislature had established a Bureau of Economic Research under which the inquiry had been made. He would say that until the legislature decreed otherwisehe was virtually bound to accept the director's finding. The director of the bureau would be given the rightto expound to the court his theories on economics, which might not be those supported by a majority of the Australian people. 
Further, I would remind honorable senators that this measure, which I suppose will be passed, embodies an experiment and provides another instance of Parliament tinkering with symptoms. We have been informed that the bureau will not cost very much, but the salary of the director is not mentioned in the bill. As  Senator Duncan  stated to-day, immediately we establish a bureau, the director will require a staff, and consequently its cost will immediately commence to increase. If certain work is to be taken from the Development and Migration Commission, the Department of Census and Statistics and the Tariff Board, this will eventually be one of the biggest statistical branches controlled by the Commonwealth. I presume the Government realizes that, if the work of this bureau is to be carried out effectively, it will be necessary to establish State bureaux. The problems that affect Queensland do not concern South Australia, and those of vital interest to Victoria are probably of no consequence to the people of New South Wales. The problems to be studied assume different proportions and require different treatment in the various States, and if this proposal is in the nature of an experiment, State bureaux will have to be established. 
Further, I cannot see how it is possible for a director who subscribes to certain political, economics to solve all the problems which under this bill he will have to handle. 
If one expert is to be employed in connexion with the eradication of prickly pear, I suppose another will have to grapple with " Salvation Jane." I do not think for a moment that the Minister expects to obtain the services of a person who is an expert on all the subjects mentioned in this bill. The director will require to have a complete knowledge of our protectionist policy, and its effect upon industry. He must also be capable of exhaustively examining the subject of home and overseas marketing, and of inquiring into our secondary industries, transport facilities, bounties, industrial matters, taxation and finance. 
Possibly that is so; but if the bureau is established it will not be long before the services of a large number of scientists will be necessary. There is no need to establish a Bureau of Economic Research merely to obtain the opinions of scientists on such problems as the blowfly pest. 
What problems will the director solve in the matter of marketing ? 
What data not already available can he obtain. Instead of relying upon theoretical advice we should devise some practical scheme. 
The members of the British Economic Mission did not tell us anything that we do not already know. 
This bureau, if established, will simply be another piece of furniture in our glorified " sitting room." The financial position of Australia is such that we should not waste money upon sitting rooms. If the Government gave full effect to the request in the motion submitted by  Senator Lynch  the primary producers would receive much more benefit than they possibly could from the efforts of a Bureau of Economic Research. We do not need the services of an economist to tell us that there are thousands of acres of land awaiting cultivation, and that large areas that are at present unoccupied should be carrying sheep. We should use the money which it is proposed to expend on this useless bureau in encouraging intense cultivation and increased production. 
Can a political economist tell us how to improve our marketing system? The Government appointed  Mr. Gepp, Mr. Gunn  and others as commissioner's .to inquire into the system of marketing. 
There is no need to duplicate the work. 
It does not require a political economist to determine the cost of production in any industry. It seems that the Government is using a sledgehammer to kill a blowfly.  Mr. Gunn,  a member of the Developmental and Migration Commission, who inquired into the cost of producing dried fruit, could tell us the costs of production in that industry. 
A political economist would have to devote the same time and incur the same expense. He will have to travel throughout the Commonwealth and inquire into the conditions of growing, transport, and marketing, the difference between various arbitration awards, and generally to conduct the same investigations as were undertaken by  Mr. Gunn,  For the reasons I have mentioned I move - 
That all the words after "That" be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following words, " in view of the meagre information available as to the nature and extent of the investigations to be made and the financial obligations that would be involved, and, further, in view of the heavy and  increasing  cost of existing boards and bureaux, the bill to establish a Bureau of 
Economic  Research should not be proceeded with." 
.- While I realize that there is some necessity for a bureau of economic research, I am not prepared to give an unqualified "yes" to this measure. We are living in an age in which success to a great extent depends on following the advice of experts. If, in the management of a country, we ignore the advice of experts we depart from the tendency of the times and, indeed, from every-day practice. There is such a thing as personal economy. A wise parent will tell his offspring how to behave himself in his early years, through the period of adolescence, and until he reaches manhood. The child's tutor is his prudent parent. Then we have household economy. I venture to say that there are many books in the homes of our people which have been written by men and women who have collected and collated information as to the best means of managing a household. If personal and household economy are good things, why should we not go a step further and have national economy? If we say that in the affairs of the nation there is no need to regard economics, and deliberately turn aside the expert evidence which might be made available to us, we are inconsistent. I realize the difficulty which confronts the Government in get ting the right type of man to advise it. Yet everything will depend on the human element. It is the man behind the gun who counts. 
I agree with  .Senator Daly  that it is difficult to get political economists to reconcile their views. Moreover, some of their matured views have been falsified by current history. I well remember, in my younger and more industrious days, reading about political economists who differed amongst themselves, comparing themselves to a number of brawling women in a market place. That great economist, Adam Smith, predicted the time when the nations of theworld, if they continued borrowing as they were then doing, would become hopelessly bankrupt. Another economist was Karl Marx, a gentleman whose political economy has been put into operation in Russia with disastrous results. He stated that under the capitalist regime the rich men grew richer and the poor poorer and less able to share the reward of their toil. Now the exact opposite is taking place in the progressive countries of the world. If we hope for the reconciliation of the views of different political economists, I am afraid that we are doomed to bitterdisappointment. If this country is to prosper, the principles that we apply to* our personal lives and to our domestic affairs must also be applied to our national life. We must do as a nation what we would do as individuals to overcome those things which handicap and beset us. 

 Senator Daly is a lawyer, but if he became sick in body to-morrow he would not seek advice from a member of his own profession. Instead, he would put aside his legal lore and knowledgeand seek a man skilled in treating the diseases of the body;- and, moreover, he would abide by that gentleman's advice. On the other hand, awise doctor, who found himself the victim of an unjust onslaught by a fellow citizen, who, perhaps, had stolen his goods or besmirched his character, would not go to a fellow practitioner for assistance, but to a member of the legal profession ; and so on right over the whole gamut of professional life and civil relationship. In our troubles, we go* to&gt; those who know most about them and are, therefore, the best fitted to bring us out of them. We can take the same reasoning into the field of industry. There, also, we should go for assistance to men who know most about the troubles which beset us, for they are best equipped to offer us sound advice. The same principle should be applied to our national life. Can we, as a nation, continue in the haphazard way in which we are going? The control of the  affair3  of this country is vested in the members of this Senate and of another place. 1  1  may be that in the multitude of counsellors there is safety, but no honorable senator will go as far as to say that the legislative chambers of this country are the repositories of all wisdom. We in this Parliament have been drafted from different walks of life, and few of us have made a study of political economy; much less have we the time to do it. It may be that some honorable senators have devoted some of their time to it, but they have not devoted their whole energies to it as  Senator Daly  devoted his energies to the study of the law before he was called to the bar. Political economists year in and year out devote their energies to a study of political economy, and therefore should know something about the matter, whereas the best of us can only hope to have a smattering of knowledge concerning it. 
However competent the director of the bureau may be he will need to be given security, because his pronouncements will certainly impinge upon the policies of political parties. He will have to be prepared for the consequences of treading on many political corns. He can scarcely expect to be a general favorite. He should be removed from any possibility of reprisals by a political party with whose objective his advice is at variance. Perhaps it would be too much to place him in the almost impregnable position in which our judges are, but if he is to feel free to express the truth as he knows it, without incurring the risk of victimization, his position must be made secure. 
A political economist appointed to advise the Government would need to have regard to things as they are and things as they have been, as well as to future propects. He would have to regard Australia as a huge tract of land only partially occupied, and devote his energies to showing how, under both present and prospective positions, the greatest progress could be made, and the utmost benefit taken out of this country for all concerned. The political economy suitable to one nation might be totally unsuitable to another. For many generations the British Isles have been really the work-shop of the world, although today manufacturers there are wrestling hard to compete with nations which only recently have become competitors. A policy suitable to the Old Country many years ago would not suit it to-day. Nor can we expect that a policy which is satisfactory under present-day conditions will suffice for all time. Again, a policy suitable to the Old Country might not be applicable to Australia. For instance, political economists in Great Britain must have regard to a maintenance of food supplies for the 40,000,000 people to whom they are responsible, whereas in Australia food supplies are assured. Belgium is only a fractional part of the size of Tasmania, but it has a population of S,000,000. A system of political economy suitable to Belgium would not suit Australia. The Director of the Bureau of Economic Research in Australia would find his duties vastly different from those which he would have to undertake were he appointed to a similar position in Holland, Belgium or Great Britain. The United States of America is in the proud position of being able to decline additions to its population, and in the happy position of being able to throw down all tariff barriers and allow the countries of the world to send it all the manufactured goods they please. America knows that no protective tariff is necessary to protect the brains of its directors and workmen. As a matter of fact, Americans with their own manufactured goods can hold their own in the markets of the world, and challenge allcomers. The point I wish to make is that while a study of political economy may be beneficial to this country, I know of no other country we can adopt as a pattern. What . may be suitable to the United States of America, Canada or any European country is not applicable to Australia. 
The Director of Economic Research will have to address himself to his subject as if lie owned Australia. With the limitations that will be severely imposed on him he will need to study how best he can make it prosperous, develop its resources, and increase its population. The first limitation he will need to observe will be the necessity to maintain a. White Australia and keep our race pure. That limitation will be strictly imposed upon any advice he fenders. Another limitation will be the necessity to see that every citizen in this country lives under what I may term livable conditions. No one wants to see his fellow Australian living in anything but reasonable comfort, or, at any rate, according to the standard laid down by the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins. No one aiming to govern this country or seeking advice from a political economist would neglect the fundamental requirement that Australians must live under reasonable conditions. 
I realize that, but I am pointing out that these things cannot be done by the mere waving of a magic wand. I am mentioning some of the difficulties that would beset a Director of Economic Research or any person saddled with the responsibility of advising the Government on economic matters. It would not be child's play. The director would need to take into account conditions elsewhere. He would need to have his eyes and his ears open for what was happening in other parts of the world. He would need to be a man of commanding ability, who would enter upon the discharge of his duties with a clear and penetrating mind that would enable him to collect and collate information from all over the world. He would need to be thoroughly acquainted t with the conditions under which industry was carried on in different countries, how industries were related to one another, and what had proved to be of advantage in one country and a discouragement in another. It is quite within the bounds of possibility that already schemes have been hatched to undermine the wool industry of Australia by the production of fabrics that will come into competition with our pure merino wool. To counter the effect of such discoveries or other changes will be his highly important task. The man we require as Director of Economic Research must be of a type that, so to speak, does not grow on every bush. He must be securely entrenched in his position so that he will not be the victim of any party and so that he may, above all things, give independent advice. 
Conditions are constantly changing. We live in an age of change. There is nothing in a  mandane  sense so unchangeable as change. If the devices of those people who are endeavouring to produce some substitute for wool come to fruition away will go, at one stroke, the mainstay of Australia. And it is very doubtful if ever again we could revive our wool industry, which now brings to Australia some £60,000,000 a year. If that happened, we should have to consider anew the purposes to which we could devote those vast areas of country that are now our mainstay and the main providers of our bread and butter. We realize that we need not have the same fear in regard to our food products because people must eat. Wool, however, is required for clothing, and fashions change. Our food products will still continue to bring us in a fair return, but, nevertheless, they are liable to be affected by something that is happening in other countries. 
For instance, the United States of America can hold its own in the markets of the world in this respect, and we cannot meet its competition. We want the Director of Economic Research to tell us the reason for this. Ours is a new country and we produce under conditions which are much more favorable than those of America, mainly because our land is cheap. But there are other conditions which so put us out of court that what we produce cannot be sold at a profit unless it is of superfine quality, or its output is limited. If we could, hy improved methods, place, say, apples on the London market at 8s. a case instead of the 12s. or 15s. now required to produce a profit, something would be gained and something won. If we could only command an ever-widening area of consumption by reason of the lower prices fit which we sold our produce; if we could only do in this direction what Americans have been able to do for many years past, a great advance would be made. I remember the barrels of American apples that were brought into the British Isles when I was a child and the bacon that could be sold at 3d. per lb. But that was only possible because of the wonderful improvements that had been effected in the transport of perishable produce. A brother of mine went to America 55 years ago and the first job his uncle, who lived in Michigan, gave him was to take an axe and kill so many calves. ' My brother wrote to his folk in Ireland describing what he had done and saying that it was the most sorry day he had ever lived that he had to kill calves, which in Ireland at that time would sell for 30s. a head. Fifteen years later he wrote recalling his earlier experience, and saying that things were vastly different - that everything in the shape of a fourfooted beast was now reared and tended with the utmost care. The reason for this was the change which had been brought about in the transport of perishable products across the Atlantic. When the adoption of freezing and chilling process permitted the export of American beef and other perishable products to the British Isles and western Europe, the pastoralists and agriculturists in those countries were almost put out of action. That is why I say that it will be necessary for the Director of Economic Research to keep his eyes steadfastly on those developments elsewhere which are likely to cause a set-back in Australia. One needs to make the people realize that things cannot be done by the mere waving of a magic wand. As a result of the competition from America the agricultural industry in the British Isles suffered such a severe depression that the clash between the landlord and tenant became intensely acute. The outlook was completely changed. The influx of American products in almost unlimited quantities so affected the price of produce that British farm labourers were obliged to emigrate and the farmers themselves had a most desperate time until conditions adjusted themselves, mainly by a reduction of rents and an improvement of processes. 
The Director of Economic Research will have to be the eyes and ears of the Government. He will need to view things, so to speak, from a high mountain, taking into account developments here and developments there, the relationship of one industry to another and how they interact one on the other. If, as a result of his inquiries, he found that industries in other countries, or their mode of control, either in combination or singly, had proved injurious to industries in Australia, it would be his bounden duty to recommend means for counteracting the danger. 
One difficulty with which he will have to contend is the divided parties in this country. I have no desire to attributeunworthy motives, but at every turn of the wheel the Labour party is seeking; to enlarge the sphere of State activities and to extend its collectivist ideas at the expense of the individualist. On theother hand, we have the Ministerial party flatly opposed- to the collectivist ideas. If ever those ideas are applied toAustralia it will, in my opinion, become a sleepy, hopeless, sluggish land. An economist with that possibility in front of him will not have too rosy a time. It  will,  therefore, be necessary to entrench him very firmly in his position, as I have said, and put it beyond the possibility of any party to influence him. 
On the general question I believe that the proposed experiment is well worth trying, because, as I said at the outset of my remarks, we live in an. age of experts. Take even the farm. We know that in days gone by it was the practice to give the brightest boys of the family a profession or trade, while tho least intellectual member of the  family  remained at home to carry on the farm. 
-- Order! 
I approve of the scheme to establish a Bureau of Economic Research, but I believe it will have to be greatly extended. The scheme outlined by the Minister is somewhat meagre. It is of the highest importance that we should gather together a band of trained  men,  skilled in the science of economics, and drawn, I hope, from the best of our universities, or elsewhere if necessary, to advise the Tariff Board, and through the board, the Government concerning the economic effect of tariff charges. The conclusions of these economic experts will be available to the Government and this Parliament. Not all people return a sane verdict from the evidence placed before them. We all have met the man who returns a verdict absolutely at variance with the weight of evidence before him; but what we should aim at is to secure absolutely unimpeachable information as to how this or that industry is progressing, how the Commonwealth is developing or, if progress is stationary, for what reason. All these lessons, E imagine, will be presented to us in due course by the experts to be appointed. It does not follow that the advice will be accepted, but their conclusions will be, at least, a starting point for us. The information which they will furnish will be tested and examined just as diamonds, the most beautiful of our precious stones, are tested for lustre and value, and shine the better by comparison with the paste imitation. We shall then be in a position to say whether or not the advice should be accepted. 
I have no fear for the future of this young department. I believe it ought to be established if only to arm us with the most reliable information from all quarters of the globe concerning our many industrial problems. Assuredly we stand in great need of such advice. Knowledge is divided into many sections and sub-sections. Political economy is one, and not the least im portant section of the science. In fact, Professor McLeod, the father of British currency and exchange, said it was the highest science of all. It is true that differences of opinion occur among leaders of economic thought, just as there are differences of  opinoin  among lawyers, doctors, artists, architects and others, and, in fact, men in every walk of life. If, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested, we delayed the establishment of this proposed bureau until we had unanimity among our political economists, I am afraid we should have to wait until the crack of doom. It is of the first importance that we should have made available to us the services of these scientific gentlemen, even if they differ in their conclusions. Because members of the legal fraternity differ very widely sometimes in their reading of the law, we do not, for that reason, decline to avail ourselves of their services whenever the need arises. Doctors also differ; but that does not prevent us from consulting them. We appeal to lawyers in times of difficulty over legal issues, because we consider that they are the only persons in the community in a position to tender advice of any value. For the same reason we consult members of the other professions as to what line of action should be taken in a given set of circumstances. Hitherto, there has been a vast amount of blind stabbing in the running of this country. I believe I am uttering a truism when I say that in this department of statecraft, we have been progressing more or less blindfolded, especially as regards the effect of tariff duties on industry, and the spending of public money without proper warrant. I imagine that honorable senators will say that they have heard this before. 
.- It is desirable that the proposed bureau should be established as soon as possible to assist us in solving problems, which on our present information, appear to be insoluble. The bill is an experiment, but it is well worthy of support. The proposed bureau will inquire into the many problems connected with our primary and secondary industries, markets, transport, customs and excise tariff; taxation, finance, industrial legislation, and other subjects. Unhappily Australia is suffering from a depression that is comparable only to the 1893 crisis, but the cause is not the same. For some years, the Arbitration Court has been fixing the wages and hours of labour in industry, which, naturally, affect the cost of production, and owing to various causes, the outlook to-day is far from reassuring. No one desires to interfere with the present standard of wages in Australia, but the people of this country are demanding a better relationship between employer and employee, and they will welcome the appointment of an independent economic tribunal to examine the effects of public policy. It is as well to reiterate that the standard of living is determined not so much by the amount of wages paid, as by the purchasing power of wages. The decline in the purchasing power of money has been so marked in recent years, that real wages are but slightly above actual wages paid, 40 or 50 years ago, and the lot of the average working man is not much better than it was many years ago. Certainly the workers to-day are not contented and there is not the same spirit of comradeship abroad. 
I am surprised that  Senator Daly  should have submitted his amendment. Evidently he views the Government's proposal with suspicion, because his amendment is similar to that which was moved in another place. I hope I am not misjudging the honorable gentleman, but it seems to me that he is opposing the bill because he is afraid that, if a Bureau of Economic Research is established, the conclusions which will be drawn by trained economic students from the data available may not be favorable to Labour's policy. The director will be faced with a most difficult task. It will be his duty to ascertain the economic effect of Arbitration Court awards and other phases of Government policy on the industrial life of the Commonwealth. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

In the statement which  Senator Daly  made about wages, he showed what I might describe as the cloven hoof, so far as his views on this matter are concerned. He had a great deal to say about what views a political economist might hold on the subject of wages, but there is nothing in this bill, about a political economist, who is a man concerned with theories and abstract studies. The work to be done by the Director of Economic Research needs a practical economist, one who understands the industrial and commercial life of Australia. He will have to deal, not with theories, but with the actual facts of life.  Senator Daly  said that the Director of Economic Research might recommend a reduction of wages to men without family responsibilities. 
Well, the honorable senator certainly inferred it. 
Australia will have to face this question of a proper basic wage. At present a wage is fixed on the basis of providing a proper standard of living for a nian with a wife and three children. The problem must be considered without sentiment or prejudice. Nobody wishes to see the standard of comfort lowered, but, as I said before, that standard ia not fixed by the amount of wages paid, hut by what those wages will purchase. W e now are in a vicious circle in which a rise in wages is followed inevitably by an increase in the cost of living, and we are no further forward than we were years ago. 
I am not blaming any one. I am considering the matter as a citizen of Australia, one who has spent Iris life in the study of social questions, in which I am as interested now as ever I was. While we have an Arbitration Court fixing wages and hours, we are creating false conditions, and we must consider whither we are going. All our work in fixing wages and hours, and raising the standard of comfort helps only those who happen to be in employment. What I want to know is, what is going to become of the thousands of unemployed in Australia to-day? In spite of the Arbitration Court and the Tariff Board, there is more unemployment in Australia now than there lias ever been before. Honorable senators opposite are inclined to look at these matters from their own peculiar class point of view. We  must  look at them from a national point of view, and consider whether the country can carry on as it is doing; whether, in fact the present standard of comfort can be maintained. It certainly cannot be maintained if the number of unemployed remains as great as now.  Thousands  of men with families are out of work to-day, they are getting into debt, and their standard of living will be reduced for, perhaps, years to come. The Director of Economic Research will have to consider whether Australia can keep on paying the present rate of wages, and compete in the markets of the world. Another aspect of the same problem is seasonal employment, which is an evil affecting a large section of workers engaged in the pastoral and sugar industries. The present cost of producing a pound of wool is approximately ls. Practically all the authorities who have gone into the matter fix the cost of production at between lOd. and ls. a pound. On a good station, well watered, and easy of access, the cost will be something less than ls. Production costs are made up of the cost of running the station, wages paid, cartage, taxation, and insurance. If it takes ls. to produce a pound of wool, it is evident that the pastoral industry is rapidly approaching the point when it will hardly pay to produce wool at all. Pastoralists have to face very serious risks, and we know that in Queensland some of them have experienced a drought lasting over four years. They will be crippled for a long time paying back interest on their overdrafts. There is a profit of only about 10 per cent, on the production of wool, and that is not large enough in view of the risks which have to be borne. Yet the shearers receive £2 5s. a 100, and they do not earn it. High wages paid to the shearers affect the price of clothes, and in that way, the cost of living. We are told that shearers' wages are so high because theirs is a seasonal employment, and they do nothing else. If they followed other occupations after the shearing season was finished, it would not be necessary to pay them £2 5s. a 100 for five months of the year so that they may loaf in the towns for the remaining months. 
In the same way, the wages fixed for seasonal workers in the sugar industry are very high, taking into consideration the nature of the work, which requires no very high mental qualifications. What should be considered in fixing wages is the service which the worker renders to the community, whether it be in the pastoral industry, the sugar industry, or any other. The high wages now paid in seasonal industries are a serious tax on the community. Years ago the workers in those industries did not cease work altogether at the end of the season. In the back country then, the men used to shear during the season, and go fencing, dam sinking, scrub cutting or gold fossicking afterwards. They never thought of working for only a few months, and loafing for the rest of the year. They belonged to the bush, and lived in and by the bush. The economist whom Ave appoint to this bureau must consider the question of seasonal employment. He must consider the wages paid in the light of the service rendered to the community. The workers in the industries I have mentioned do not receive the present high wages because they earn them, but because of the seasonal nature of their occupation. 
Nobody wishes to interfere with the present basic wage, but we must consider whether it is possible to keep it at its present level. The country produces only a certain amount of wealth, and if one section of the community is paid more than it earns, the money must be taken from somebody else. These things are all tied up with the present unemployment situation. Despite the legislation passed by this Parliament during recent years with the object of improving the conditions of not only the workers, but other sections of the community, there are, unfortunately, thousands of unemployed in Australia to-day. Although I am a protectionist I believe certain customs duties have had a detrimental effect upon some of our primary industries, causing an increase in the cost of primary production. A full inquiry should be made into the efficiency of some industries in order to ascertain to what extent they are bolstered up by our present protective system. As the community provides the support afforded under a protective policy, it should be informed of the benefits it receives under such a system. Reliable information on such subjects could be obtained by a Bureau of Economic Research, which would be of great value not only to the Parliament when considering proposed legislation, but also to the people. A thorough investigation should be made into the efficiency of certain industries, and the service they are rendering to the community, as under tariffs and other imposts the consumers who have to foot the bill are usually forgotten. 
The recent dispute in the coalmining industry has directed public attention to the wages paid and the cost of production in that industry. In conversation with some of those closely connected with the coal business I have been informed that in some instances coal which can be produced at the pit mouth at from 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. a ton, is sold in 
Sydney at from 27s. to37s. a ton. It would be interesting to know how the difference is accounted for. A regular supply of coal is vital to the continuance of many industries, and a thorough investigation might show that the cost of production is such that either the wages paid are not unreasonable, or that the profits made are excessive. The subject of piece-work is also of great importance to Australian industry, and an effort should be made to ascertain how far the application of that system could be extended. It is at present adopted in many industries to the advantage of both the employer and employee; the workmen are afforded full protection under Arbitration Court awards. Some years ago, strong objection was taken to the system because it was adopted by unscrupulous employers in an endeavour to crush the workers ; but as it has now been placed on a proper basis, its application to other industries might he considered. Other industries also depend upon a continuous supply of timber, but there seems to be difficulty in accurately determining the wages which should be paid to the timber-getter, the return which should be received by the saw-miller, and the prices paid by the builder or contractor. Thorough inquiry into this industry would perhaps clear the atmosphere and result in operations being carried on uninterruptedly. We have now reached a point where the representatives of certain industries approach the Arbitration Court, which, after considering all the information at its disposal - and it may sometimes be inadequate - reduces wages. If the court were in a position to study the claims made from every angle and also utilize the information supplied by a Bureau of Economic Research, the awards would be such that we should possibly have peace in industry, which is so essential to the progress and prosperity of the Commonwealth. While we continue to work on an insecure foundation, we must not be surprised if there is industrial unrest. I support the bill because I believe that the Bureau of Economic Research to be established will be able to supply information which will assist Parliament and bodies established under its authority to work more effectively in the interests of the Australian people. 
. ~ I fully anticipated that this measure would have received the whole-hearted support of honorable senators in opposition, because only the other day they denounced the Government for what they termed its ineffective control of national affairs. An honorable senator opposite said that although the Government had been in power for six years, it had not done anything to help Australia out of its present difficulties. This measure has been introduced by the Government after very careful consideration, and any one studying its provisions, disinterestedly and dispassionately, must admit that it is an honest attempt to get. at the root cause of most of our troubles. Notwithstanding the desire of the Government in that respect, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  is opposing the measure. I ask honorable senators opposite if they will not reconsider the decision which they have apparently reached. We have a comparatively small population and are now confronted with financial and industrial difficulties. We have had periods of prosperity, but as the tide has now turned it is the duty of the Government to do its best to ascertain the cause. 
We are not doing that. For the last six years we have been carrying out a policy which the majority of the people believe to be in the best interests of Australia, but we now realize that our financial and industrial position should be better than it is. The bill provides for the establishment of a Bureau of Economic .Research, the powers and functions of which are clearly defined. The bureau will be empowered to carry out economic research with respect to primary and secondary industries, marketing, transport, customs and excise tariffs, bounties, industrial matters, taxation, finance, and currency. The legislation we have passed affects all these subjects and must have had an important bearing on our present position. It behoves us to employ the best agents procurable to assist us as legislators in repairing the damage that has been done. It may mean that a complete investigation will result in a revision of our tariff, or in the partial revision of our industrial legislation. It may even mean, as one honorable senator has suggested, a reduction in wages. But what will it matter if, after a full inquiry, these things are found desirable so long as we ensure the prosperity of the Commonwealth and its people? The wages a man receives are not necessarily an indication of the standard of comfort he may enjoy. We have to consider, not only the wages a man receives, but also their purchasing power. If a man receiving £6 a week cannot live in that degree of comfort that we all desire him to enjoy, but under altered conditions could have more comfort on a salary of £4 a week, he would be better off at the lower salary under the altered conditions- 
There is power in it to institute an investigation into the subjects set out in clause  11.  The fullest investigation should be made in order that we may be able to repair the damage already done. It is deplorable that in a country with such wonderful possibilities of development we cannot do better than we are doing. Australia has suffered a reverse which ought not to have occurred. Possibly if our legislation were based on sound principles it could have been avoided. In dealing with a matter of this kind it would be most injudicious to legislate in the interests of any one section of the community. We ought to know that if one section is injured all other sections suffer. The efforts of the director of the bureau should not be directed towards finding a panacea for the ills affecting only one section of the community, for by healing them  Ave  might bring disaster to other sections, so that our last state would be worse than the first. Advice, to be worth following, must benefit the whole community. One of the main reasons why Australia is not so prosperous to-day as in years that have passed is that far too great a proportion of the population is found in the cities. We have paid too much attention to building up small secondary industries, and have neglected the primary industries upon which we ought more to rely. I believe that the Government has been actuated by the best of motives in introducing this measure. I support it as a step towards the removal of our difficulties by conducting scientific investigations into their root causes. 
I feel sure that the motives actuating the Government in introducing this measure are entirely praiseworthy and spring from a growing recognition of the fact that knowledge must be made the hand-maiden of industry, if, in the race for survival of the fittest, our industries are to succeed. The Government appears to have realized that the problems confronting Australia are entirely different from those which any other country has to face. In dealing with some matters we are able to look to older countries for guidance, but in other respects our conditions are so entirely different, that we must find out for ourselves the proper course to follow. Australia's fauna, flora, and natural conditions generally are different from those of other countries. Some of the newer countries of the world have problems similar to ours, but they, like us, have not yet devoted their energies to finding a solution of them. In some respects South Africa, the Argentine Republic, and other countries are similar to Australia; nevertheless each has problems which it must settle for itself. Investigations must be made on the spot if we are to overcome the difficulties that beset us. Originally Australia was almost entirely free from pests. In that respect this country was, perhaps, the cleanest in the world. But people came here from other countries, and knowing nothing of natural conditions in Australia, they brought with them some old-world associations. And so Australia to-day has foxes, rabbits, starlings, sparrows, and other pests. Had an inquiry been conducted by competent persons as to the possible effects of liberating those birds and animals in Australia, it is possible that their entry would have been prohibited, and this country saved hundreds of millions of pounds. 
The Government has deemed it wise to establish a Bureau of Economic Research in the belief that it will be in the best interests of the country. I remind the Senate that this is not the first attempt of its kind in Australia, for some of the States already have in existence organizations which are carrying out similar work to that to which the staff of the bureau will devote their attention. For instance, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is doing work which is closely allied with that which will be undertaken by the Bureau of Economic Research. Attached to the University of Adelaide is the Waite Agricultural Research Institute, under the directorship of  Dr. A.  E. V. Richardson. I doubt whether better work could be done by the new bureau proposed in this bill than is being carried out by the Waite Institute. 
It is good to have that assurance from the Minister. The last journal of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research contains an article by Professor Goddard, of the University of Queensland, relating to " bunchy top " in bananas. The subjects dealt with by these State authorities impinge directly on some of the functions this bureau will be authorized to perforin. For instance, it will carry out economic research in respect of primary industries. In both the instances I have mentioned State bodies are engaged in carrying out economic research in respect of primary industries. 
It is difficult to differentiate between the economic side of an industry and the other side which is being handled by these gentlemen in the States. The science of economics treats of the laws that regulate the production and distribution of wealth and the relations of capital and labour. It will be difficult for this bureau to limit its functions to one side whilst bodies already in existence in the State take cognizance of the other side. But there is no reason why there should not be a conference between the Director of Economic Research, and the bodies already in existence, so that a line of demarcation may he  laid down. The two bodies, Commonwealth and State, may thus be able to help each other without any duplication of work. 
I can easily see that there is a field not touched by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research or any State authority, and that so long as there is a proper understanding between the various bodies the Bureau of Economic Research may be able to do good work in its own field. Indeed, when one looks at the bill and sees what its powers and functions will be, one realizes that it will have an enormous task to perform, one that in the opinion of some honorable senators, and in my opinion will be found to be too great for it. The bureau will be authorized to carry out economic research in respect of " primary industries, secondary industries, marketing, transport, customs and excise tariff, bounties, industrial matters, taxation, finance and currency and such other matters as are prescribed." 
In regard to secondary industries, marketing, taxation, finance and currency there is already a more or less effective inquiry going on continuously in this country either through organizations created for the purpose, or through public departments, Commonwealth and State. For instance, secondary industries come directly within the purview of the Tariff Board. The marketing problem is of such great importance to the Commonwealth that a Minister for Markets has been given a place in the Commonwealth Cabinet. The Bureau of Economic Research might be able to carry out certain investigations in regard to marketing in Australia that do not come directly within the authority of that Minister, but in regard to the establishment and maintenance of markets abroad, which is the sole responsibility of the Commonwealth, the bureau would find itself enormously hampered in making its investigations, because of the necessity for having to accept second-hand the information it must get before it could arrive at any conclusion. It would be in exactly the same position as the Minister for Markets and Transport, who receives reports from his officers in the various countries in which we may desire to establish markets for the sale of our products, and acts upon them. A Director of Economic Research would be entirely dependent on the reports of officers appointed by him to investigate matters overseas. When we come to consider the very wide chasm between marketing and taxation, and between taxation and finance and currency, we must realise the big task a Director of Economic Research would have. Surely in this country we are not prepared to admit that our knowledge of taxation is limited. Many people feel that already we know too much about it, and that the time has come when we ought to inform ourselves as to how we can get rid of some of it rather than consider how we can impose more taxation. A Director of Economic Research would not be likely to have the knowledge of finance and currency that is possessed by bankers and other men in our community who are dealing with those matters daily. He would be dependent for his information from an economic standpoint on those financial experts whose profession it is to handle finance and currency. Many of the functions which the Bureau of Economic Research would perform are already receiving close and effective attention by existing organizations. In other words, this bill superimposes on existing organizations a new authority that will cost a great deal of money. Besides secondary industries, such subjects as the customs and excise tariff and bounties fall within the ambit of the Tariff Board, and that body has considered them from an economic standpoint. 
That may be so, but sitting as it does day after day, week after week, month after month, and year after year, it must gain a comprehensive knowledge of the economics of industry in Australia, a greater knowledge of them than could be gained by any other body of individuals in Australia, certainly greater than we could expect a Director of Economic Research or his  officers to obtain. The Tariff Board has special facilities for acquiring knowledge. It hears evidence on oath, and when it makes a report, it knows that it has learned everything that is possible to be learned about the subject. It would be impossible for a Director of Economic Research to fully inform his mind on such subjects as secondary industries, customs and excise tariffs and bounties, without making investigations similar to those which are made by the Tariff Board. This bureau, therefore, will be superimposed on the energies and functions of the Tariff Board. Of course, I understand that it will cover a wider field than is touched by the Tariff Board. 
Parliament has instructed the Tariff Board to consider the economic effect of the tariff. 
The probability is that it will undertake the investigation. At any rate, it must do so at some time if it is to carry out its functions in a proper way. 
Generally speaking, this bill superimposes on existing authorities a new authority that will cost a great deal of money. I cannot see how it can carry on without the employment of a big staff if its work is to be done properly. No single set of officers can be expected to devote their energies to a survey of the whole field covered by the bill. It will certainly be most valuable to this country to have the fullest knowledge on the subjects which are to be investigated, but it will mean the employment of a great many officers who must be highly paid. I doubt whether, in the present state of the country's development, our finances will stand the expenditure that will be involved; but it will depend on the administration. The present Government would keep a check on the director, but with the powers given under this bill, I can picture what might happen with a change in Government. Other Governments could make the pace a " welter." I know what has happened in Queensland where there is a government which is not too careful about its appointments or their cost to the State. With a hill like this, God help the Commonwealth if we have a Government like that in office. I felt it to be my duty to point to the possibility of the Commonwealth being involved in heavy financial obligations. However, this must be the responsibility of the Government, and I am prepared to trust it. I shall vote for the second reading of the bill. 
 I congratulate the Government upon having introduced the bill. The establishment of a Bureau of Economic Research should make it possible to consider public policy and developmental schemes in an orderly manner. Hitherto, we have been entirely in the dark. One of the first duties of the bureau, if it is to carry out its investigations in the order set out in the bill, will be to make economic research in respect of our primary industries. This investigation, I assume, will include the effect of tariff duties. While on this matter, and speaking as a member of my party, I should like it to be clear that we have never claimed to be freetraders. We have, however, contended that the primary industries have never had a fair deal from the Governments of Australia; or at all events that they have not received as much consideration as has been shown to our secondary industries. If the bureau functions as we all hope it will, it should be in a position to furnish us with information so complete in every respect that every section of the community will know where it stands. If its investigation into the position of the primary industries discloses that our producers have been receiving fair treatment, we shall be quite satisfied, but I shall be very much surprised if the bureau reaches that eonelusion.  Senator Duncan  suggested that it would duplicate a certain amount of work that is being done by existing institutions. Time alone will prove whether the honorable senator's predictions are correct. The Tariff Board was appointed to consider applications for tariff protection or some other form of assistance, and also to hear objections from those who were opposed to the applications. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  Sir  John  Newlands). - The honorable senator must not enter upon a general tariff debate in the discussion on this bill. 
I have no desire to do that,  Mr. President.  I merely wish to point out that it will be the duty of the bureau to examine the economic effects of customs and excise duties, and that this investigation will not duplicate the work of the Tariff Board. Up to now, the board has not had the information which we hope the bureau will place before that body to assist it in framing its recommendations. This is one reason why I intend to support the bill through all its stages. If it functions as we expect it will, the bureau should be of great value to the members of the Tariff Board. Whether it will fulfil the highest expectations of its sponsors, it is impossible to say at this stage; but the Government at least deserves credit for having submitted this measure. I do not doubt that a certain amount of expense will be involved; but it should be money well spent, and it is conceivable that its work may result in considerable economies. I have in mind at the moment the huge expenditures on land settlement schemes undertaken without adequate inquiry by the various States, and I know that the capital cost will have to to be written down by several millions - by as much as £8,000,000 according to one estimate. If the Development and Migration Commission had been in existence before those schemes were launched, it probably would have disapproved of some, and an expenditure of several millions of pounds would have been saved. Though the bureau may involve a certain amount of expenditure, I have no doubt about the wisdom of the Government's proposal. 
[9.42]. -  (By leave.)  - The Government, after consideration of the recommendations of the Development and Migration Commission in regard to financial assistance to the gold-mining industry in its developmental aspects, has decided to make available an amount of £25,000. This sum will be disbursed through the Prime Minister's Department. Grants for developmental purposes will he made from such vote in particular cases which are recommended from time to time by the Development and Migration Commission after consideration of the applications made for assistance. The conditions governing such assistance will be - 
That the development proposed has some prospect of finding employment for large numbers of people. 
That there is a reasonable prospect of continuance for a substantial period of time in the life of the mine. 
That the proposals for development are on a sound economic and efficient basis. 
That the company has shown a reasonable disposition to obtain as much of the plant required as can be economically produced in Australia. 
Companies making applications for assistance to supply full statements of their proposals, of plant already obtained or to be obtained, and whether purchased or to be purchased in Australia or abroad. 
[9.44]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the hill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
No new principle is embodied in this measure, which merely provides a means of overcoming certain disabilities in connexion with the estates of deceased persons in the Federal Capital Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow) read a first time. 
[9.45]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
For some years the Supreme Court of New South Wales has been exercising jurisdiction in relation to the grant of probate and letters of administration in respect of the estates of deceased persons in the Territory for the Seat of Government. Section 8 of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909, however, appears to vest this jurisdiction in the High Court, and doubts have recently been raised as to the validity of the grants made by the Supreme Court. The object of the present bill is to remove these doubts by validating all grants made by the Supreme Court of New South Wales prior to the date on which the bill comes into force, namely, a date to be fixed by the Governor-General by proclamation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[9.49]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
The Opposition has intimated that it does not desire to delay this measure, but other honorable senators may desire an adjournment. I want them to understand that the Government will not object to the debate being adjourned after the Minister's second-reading speech has been delivered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator McLachlan)  read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It is proposed by this bill to make effective the amendment of sub-section 1 of section 21 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1922-27, which was made by the amending act of 1928. The legislation of last year was designed to protect the revenue from the heavy loss which threatened it as a result of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Victoria in the appeal  Kellow-Falkiner Pty. Co. Ltd.  v.  The Commissioner of Taxation.  That judgment declared that the law as it then stood required the Commissioner to ascertain whether a company had, during a Commonwealth financial year in which the company derived its taxable income, distributed at least two-thirds of that taxable income among its members or shareholders. If the company had not made such a distribution during that year, the Commissioner could call upon it to pay additional tax at shareholders' rates upon the difference between the actual distribution, if any, made by it during that year out of the taxable income mentioned and two-thirds of that taxable income. That judgment prevented the Commissioner from substituting a company's own accounting period for a Commonwealth financial year where the two years differed, or from taking into consideration any distributions which the company might have made out of the income after the close of its own income year, or after the close of a Commonwealth financial year where the company's year ended on the 30th June. The practice of the Commissioner had been to take into consideration all distributions made by a company out of its taxable income, whether made during or subsequent to the close of the company's income year up to the date when the Commissioner determined to apply section 21 to the company's case. Very few companies are in a position to make a distribution during an income year out of the profits of that year. As a general rule, a company waits until the close of its income year before ascertaining its profits and before deciding how much of the profits shall be distributed. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Victoria already referred to had the effect of invalidating all previous determinations by the Commissioner under section 21 and all consequential assessments, because the Commissioner had not in any case applied his mind to ascertain whether or not during a Commonwealth financial year the company had made any distributions of the profits derived in that year. The 1928 act provided that the existing subsection 1 of section 21 should be replaced by a new provision which should be deemed to have retrospective operation to the date of commencement of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1922, namely, the 18th October, 1922. The 19.28 act provided that where a company has not before such date prior to the making of the Commissioner's determination as is fixed by the Commissioner, distributed among its members or shareholders at least twothirds of its taxable income, the company will be liable to pay the additional tax provided by the section. The retrospective operation of this provision made it necessary for the Commissioner to have fixed such a date in connexion with all past determinations. This had not, however, been done and could not be done  ex post facto.  The 1928 act did not contain any provision definitely validating  all  past determinations and consequential assessments, so that the department was not able to take any action to claim additional tax by making assessments upon existing determinations where assessments had not already been made. The additional revenue which -it was intended should be collected in such cases, could not legally be collected. The authority of Parliament is now being sought to enable the Commissioner to make assessments and collect tax in such cases. This bill will validate all past assessments, notwithstanding that no date had been fixed, and all assessments which have been made, notwithstanding that the company's trading year did not coincide with the Commonwealth financial year. 
Only as far as was intended in the act passed last year. I commend the measure to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[10.0]. - I cannot see how the matter can be discussed except on the motion for adjournment. But I remind the honorable senator that this is only one phase of the assistance given by the Commonwealth Government to the State of Western Australia. The State already holds in suspense £200,000, part of a grant made by the Commonwealth some two or three years ago. The grant which I have mentioned to-night is for the current financial year, and is made in the special circumstances outlined in the conditionsI mentioned. 
To the Government of Western Australia. It is held in a suspense account for the use of the gold-mining industry. I believe it was part of a special grant of £350,000, of which £200,000 still remains unused in the hands of the State Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.2 p.m. 
I ask the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Pearce)  if the report of the South Australian Disabilities Commission has been received, and, if so, when it will be made available to honorable senators? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs if it is a fact that, notwithstanding the definite promise made to those engaged in the cotton industry, that action would be taken by the Government early this year to deal with the report of the Tariff Board, the Government has announced in another place that it isnot proposed to act until Parliament re-assembles? 
I shall endeavour to obtain an answer to the honorable senator's question before the Senate rises to-night. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What accumulated sum remains to the credit of the vote for prospecting for oil and precious metals? 
Is the Government aware that the Commonwealth Government Geologist,  Dr. Stillman,  has expressed the view that the country west and south of the Golden Mile in Western Australia is an encouraging field for deep prospecting? 
In the event of there being an unspent balance of the vote above referred to,_ would the Government entertain a proposal' for a joint endeavour on behalf of itself and the State Government of Western Australia to finance the work of testing the places indicated at greater depths than has been done hitherto? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.;The answers are ; 
?73,287 15s. 8d. remains unexpended out of the appropriations for prospecting for oil and ?30,154 (is. in the case of precious metals. 2 and 3. Inquiries are being made in regard to these matters, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short measure consisting of nine clauses, most of which relate to formal matters. Its main object is to make the conditions of those occupying or wishing to acquire war service homes more liberal than at present. It will permit of the transfer of a war service home from an ex-soldier to a civilian on terms to he fixed by the "War Service Homes Commission. Under the existing law that cannot be done unless cash is paid to the department, but this bill provides that a home may be sold to a civilian under certain terms and conditions of transfer, although these will not, of course, be as liberal as those available to ex-soldiers. Another amendment relates to the requirement that a home shall be kept in repair, and substitutes for the word  "tenantable"  the words " good order and condition. " An alteration of policy is involved in a further amendment adopted yesterday in another place. Under the existing act the maximum advance for a home is ?800, which in special circumstances, may be increased to ?950. It is now considered desirable that the higher amount should be raised to the limit allowed under the Commonwealth Housing Act, namely ?1,800. Honorable senators are aware that the Commonwealth Housing Act, passed last year, provides for advances for the construction of homes, but as the Commonwealth did not wish to set up its own machinery, to carry out such work, it was provided in the act that the money could be advanced through the Commonwealth Bank to certain prescribed authorities, who would be responsible for its expenditure. It is now proposed to constitute the War Service 
Homes Commission a prescribed authority under the Commonwealth Housing Act, and a returned soldier applicant who so desires may obtain the full amount of ?1,800; but interest on the difference between the ?800 or .?950 and the ?1,800, which can now he made available, will be at a higher rate. Interest on the ?800 or ?950 as the case may be, will be 5 per cent, as in the past, but on any higher amount it will be 5 <inline font-style="italic"></inline> per cent., 6 per cent., or 6^ per cent., according to the ruling rate, at the time the advance is made. 
Yes. The rate of interest on the additional amount will be governed by the ruling rate. 
The Queensland State authorities have refused to fall in with the Commonwealth housing scheme. I am not able to say at the moment exactly what course will be followed, but the responsibility appears to rest with the Queensland Government. 
The War Service Homes Commission will be the only authority with which the applicant has to deal and it will be responsible for the collection of interest and repayments of principle. 
Application would have to be made to the War Service Homes Commission. I do not know if there will be many applications for the higher amount; but the main object of the measure is to make conditions better for returned soldiers who are occupying or who wish to acquire or dispose of war service homes. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Daly)  adjourned. 
. I move - 
That the  bill be  now  read a second time. 
This is a purely formal measure.  It  provides that the levies to be collected under the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act may be paid to the Markets and Transport Department instead of to the Customs Department. When that legislation was enacted the former department had no facilities for collecting the levies. 
They were, therefore, collected by the Customs Department, and later transferred to the Markets and Transport Department. The Customs Department desires to be relieved of the responsibility of collecting these levies, and as the Markets and Transport Department is now in a position to collect them, the bill has been introduced to enable that to be clone. 
There will merely be a transfer from one department to another. The bill also contains a provision that small quantities of dried fruits which do not involve a levy of more than 2s. shall be exempt. The object of that provision is to allow ships' stores to be taken on board without the payment of a levy, because the cost of collecting the levy would be greater than the amount collected. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
It is not the intention of the Opposition to oppose the passage of this measure, and I should not have risen but for the fact that we need some information from the Minister regarding proposed new section 39, and sub-section 2 of proposed new section 50c. The Treasurer in his budget speech delivered on the 30th August last said - 
The Government considers the time has arrived when the interest and rent on war service homes should properly be credited to revenue and set off against the interest payable by the Commonwealth on loans raised for war service homes purposes. 
I should like to know the reason for that change of policy. I understand that that question was raised in another place, but, unfortunately, proofs of the speeches that were then delivered are not yet available to honorable senators. I ask the Minister to explain why the moneys mentioned in this amending bill are to be paid into Consolidated Revenue instead of into a separate trust fund, as hitherto. Probably good reasons exist for the change, but the Minister did not explain the matter when moving the second reading of the bill. Subject to that information being satisfactory, the Opposition see no reason why the measure should not be accepted in its entirety. 
.- I had intended to wait until the bill reached the committee stage in order to obtain some information from the Minister in regard to proposed section 50c, but I. bring the matter up now to give the honorable senator an opportunity to investigate it. I believe that honorable senators are heartily in accord with the principles of the bill. It has been apparent for a long time that many returned soldiers would have availed themselves of the provisions of the War Service Homes Act, had it not been for the fact that the amount granted was insufficient to enable them to erect a dwelling adequate for the needs of themselves and their families. The amending provision which makes available the sum of £1800 will surmount that difficulty, and will be ap preciated and availed of by many returned soldiers. It reads - 50c. - (1.) The Governor-General may make regulations providing for the constitution of the commissioner as an authority under the Commonwealth Housing Act 1927-1928 and for the modification of the provisions of the Commonwealth Housing Act 1927-1928 to enable the commissioner to act as an authority thereunder : 
Section 4 of the Commonwealth Housing Act defines " Authority " as - 
A prescribed Commonwealth, Territorial, State or Municipal Authority which administers a scheme for providing or assisting in providing dwelling houses. 
Up to the present no State or municipal authorities have taken advantage of the provisions of the act. 
I understand proposed new section 50c to mean that any applicant to a State or municipal authority may obtain the benefits provided under the Commonwealth Housing Act. Am I correct in that assumption ? 
Different people have inquired of me what they are to do in order to obtain the advantages of its provisions. They have referred to the State and municipal authorities and have been informed that there is " nothing doing." 
I welcome this bill because it clears away those difficulties. 
I do not see how that can be read into the measure. I take it that any qualified resident of Australia may make application for an advance up to £1,800. If the Commissioner is made an authority under the War Service Homes Act, I assume it is with the object of enabling returned soldiers to reap the advantage of an act which it was intended to apply to the people generally. I hope that the Minister will be able to make the position absolutely clear. 
.- The Minister, in reply to an interjection, informed us that despite the refusal of the Queensland State Government to operate the provisions of the Commonwealth Housing Act, returned soldiers in that State will be able to obtain advances under the Housing Act through the War Service Homes Commissioner. I know of no reason why the Queensland Government should have refused to operate the Commonwealth Housing Act, but I should like to have an assurance from the Minister that returned soldiers in Queensland will not be denied privileges which are enjoyed by returned soldiers in other States. I understand that since Hie War Service Homes Commissioner is to be made an authority under the Commonwealth Housing Act returned soldiers in Queensland may apply for loans in excess of the £800 or £950 allowed under the War Service Homes Act. 
That is quite satisfactory from the point of view of the returned soldiers in Queensland, but other citizens in that State, because of the refusal of the Queensland Government to accept the Commonwealth housing scheme, will not be in the same position. There is another point. Under the War Service Homes Act the rate of interest on advances is fixed at 5 per cent. If returned soldiers apply for and are granted advances up to £1,800, will the interest charge be 5 per cent, on the total, or 5 per cent, on the original amount, and 6 per cent, or 6£ per cent, on the difference between that sum, and the amount obtained under the Housing Act? In the majority of cases advances under the Housing Act will be for the purpose of adding to or altering existing homes. 
 Senator Daly  asked why the interest and rents received under this scheme will be paid to the Consolidated Revenue instead of to a separate fund. The Treasurer has always made available a certain amount of loan money for the construction of war service homes, and hitherto the rents collected and interest payments have been paid to a separate fund which now amounts to about £4,000,000; but the Treasurer has not received interest upon the loan money advanced. This year, it is proposed to charge all works against loans, and interest and rents received will be a set-off against the interest charged on the total amount of loan money advanced. Last year, the provision from loan was £1,000,000, and £800,000 was obtained by the War Service Homes Commission from the fund mentioned. It is not proposed to interfere with that fund, but it is intended to pay interest and rents to the Consolidated Revenue for the purpose indicated. 
The honorable senator need not have any fear on that score. I can assure  Senator Payne  that proposed new section 50c is pretty definite. No civilian will be able to obtain concessions under this bill. It is intended to apply only to returned soldiers. The proviso to the proposed new section states that the regulations will not empower the Commissioner to advance more than the difference between the amount which may be advanced under the War Service Homes Act and £1,800, the maximum advance allowed under the Commonwealth Housing Act. In reply to  Senator  Hoare's  question, I can inform him that South Australia has accepted the Commonwealth housing scheme. 
Question resolved in tho affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Regulations constituting the Commissioner as authority under Commonwealth Housing Act 1927-28). 
I have to thank the Minister for his reply to the point which I raised  during the second-reading debate on this bill; but I should like more information about this clause. It is difficult to understand why it has been deemed necessary to appoint the "War Service Homes Commissioner an authority under the Commonwealth Housing Act, in view of the fact that citizens who are entitled to the benefits of that law are not to be allowed to make application to him. He will have no authority to make advances to other than returned soldiers. However, the Minister has given an explanation and we must accept it. Under the Housing Act advances are authorized up to £1,800. Possibly this is one reason why the provisions of that act are to be operated by the War Service Homes Commission. Obviously it would be useless to provide for advances unless the money were available. I assume, therefore, that the Government proposes to utilize the funds raised under the Housing Act to enable the War Service Homes Commissioner to makeadvances in excess of the amount authorized under the War Service Homes Act. 
 This bill is for returned soldiers only, and the purpose of the new section is to constitute the War Service Homes Commissioner an authority under the Commonwealth Housing Act. The Government thinks it is no longer necessary for the War Service Homes Commissioner to make these increased advances to returned soldiers for housing purposes, now that the Housing Act provides for advances to be made to any constituted authority. This bill, dealing as it does with returned soldiers only, will not permit of advances being made under it to any other than returned soldiers. 
.- I want it to be understood that I heartily approve of returned soldiers securing larger advances for the building of homes. My objection has always been to the limitation on the advance that may be made for that purpose. What I want to know now is whether the general public may, through the War Service Homes Commissioner, secure advances under the Commonwealth Housing Act in States where the local authorities have refused to take advantage of the provisions of that act? 
Senatorogden.  -  The benefits of this bill will be confined to returned soldiers. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.7]. - As the Senate has outpaced another place in dealing with the legislation available for consideration, and as it is evident that no further bills will be received from another place until to-morrow, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
The measures still to be dealt with are the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Bill, which constitutes a war pensions appeal board, and a small bill amending the National Debt Sinking Fund Act. I do not know of any other measures that are likely to come forward. If there are any, they will not be of much importance. 
Since  Senator Greene  asked me certain questions this afternoon relating to the report of the Tariff Board on cotton, I have had an opportunity to make a hurried perusal of the statement made on this subject in another place at an early hour this morning by the Minister for Trade and Customs. It appears that some time in May last the late Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. H. E. Pratten),  pursuant to a promise made by him, referred the matter of cottongrowing and cotton manufactures to the Tariff Board for consideration and report. The application submitted to the board was three-barrelled - a request for a bounty on seed cotton, a request for a bounty on yarn, and a request for a customs duty on imported yarn. The report of the board, which has just been received by the present Minister for Trade and Customs, is exceedingly voluminous  and complex, but the Minister assured another place that he would give it immediate consideration with a view to submitting certain recommendations to Cabinet. He elaborated the complexity of the position, and apparently he finds that the difficulties confronting him demand from him the closest and most careful consideration, not only of the recommendations of the Tariff Board, but also of the evidence it took. I can only repeat his promise, that a statement of the Government's intentions with regard to the recommendations made by the Tariff Board on cotton will be made at an early date. If any further information on the subject comes to hand by tomorrow I shall make it available to the honorable senator. 
In order that the work of the Senate may be facilitated to-morrow, I suggest that  Hansen d  proofs of the debate, which is now taking place in another place, be made available in the party rooms. [n the South Australian Parliament each morning uncorrected proofs of the speeches made in both Houses on the preceding day are placed in the party rooms, and members of the Opposition are thus afforded an opportunity to follow the replies given by Ministers to queries raised during the course of debate in either House.  If  honorable senators could read the replies given by Ministers to-day to questions raised in another place by members of the Opposition, it would, possibly, prevent them from taking up the time of the Senate to-morrow by raising the same queries. Otherwise we will be in the position I was in this afternoon when I was endeavouring to obtain from the Ministers in charge of the War Service Homes Bill information in relation to a certain provision in the measure. 
I can only express my keen disappointment at the statement which has just been made by  Senator McLachlan,  because there is a great deal more involved in the subject than he apparently understands or knows. In the first place he made no answer to one part of the question I addressed to him earlier in the afternoon relating to a concrete promise or pledge that on the eve of the election was given by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government, and was reiterated throughout the length and breadth of Queensland. It was, in effect, that the Government would ask Parliament to deal with the report of the Tariff Board on cotton as soon as the report was received very early in the new year. That promise was made as a result of representations to the Prime Minister and the Government by all interests concerned, and their ramifications are very extensive, that something should be done to enable arrangements to be made for the coming season so that growers of cotton would get the benefit of this year's marketing in Australia. It is utterly impossible for that to happen now, because once this Parliament rises the position will be left exactly as it was, and once more practically the whole of the Australian cotton crop will have to be sent overseas. A definite promise was obtained f rom the Prime Minister to prevent the local growers from losing the benefit of the local market and local prices; but that cannot now be avoided. As one who, in consequence of my business associations, acts as a pivot on which this industry revolves, I was asked by manufacturers and those engaged in the production of cotton if the promise of the Prime Minister could be relied upon. I said, "Absolutely. You can take the word of the Government that it will do what it says." Where do we stand now? Surely when a definite promise was made to representatives of an important industry by the head of the Government in specific and unequivocal terms, we had a right to believe that the promise could be relied upon. The harm that has now bee, done will affect not only this year's operations, but also militate against work that otherwise would possibly have been undertaken next year. Those interested in the industry have been pressing for some alteration in the assistance rendered in order to obtain a better return to the growers and thus induce them to continue planting. One of the difficulties associated with this industry from its inception has been the uncertainty concerning the action which the Government proposed to take. We have always been in doubt and the result has been that the area under cotton has not increased. This year the growers will not receive an increase in price, and they do not know what is likely to happen next year. Parliament will not meet before the planting season commences, so that in any case the growers cannot obtain any benefits from Government action before the planting season commences. Surely we are entitled to the fulfilment of a definite promise? I could say a good deal more on this important subject, but I do not know that any good purpose would he served by doing so. I do not think those responsible for postponing a decision understand the trouble that will be occasioned in business circles. It is almost impossible to carry on when -we do not know what may happen from day to day. The report of the Tariff Board has been in the hands of the Government for the last fortnight, and I venture to say that, notwithstanding the importance and ramifications of the cotton industry, a decision could be reached after two days' solid consideration of its recommendations. The Tariff Board has, I understand, made concrete recommendations, although I do not know what they are. Surely the Government can make up its mind, but nothing of any use nan be done without the approval of Parliament. Assuming for the sake of argument, that the Tariff Board recommends the imposition of a higher duty on cotton yarn or other cotton products, the Government cannot act without the authority of Parliament. It would be fatal and stupid of the Government to intimate that it intended to impose a higher duty when Parliament was not in session. If, on the other hand, the Government intends to increase the bounty, it cannot act without the authority of Parliament. The whole situation is most unsatisfactory, and very disappointing, and it is beyond my comprehension that, in view of the definite promise given by the Prime Minister by word of mouth and in writing, the industry should be confronted with such a position. I cannot make myself believe that there has been insufficient time. There has been ample time. There is an old saying that " where there is a will there is a way." 
 I feel keenly disappointed with the announcement of the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  in connexion with the cotton industry. It has a more personal application in my case than in the case of  Senator Green  because I am shortly returning to the district  where  most of the cotton is grown, and of whichRockhampton is the centre. I shall be taxed on every band with the sins of the Government in this respect, and I shall not have a satisfactory answer to give. I am not a sufficiently experienced politician to know whether there is a way out of the present difficulty, but perhaps the Government will give the subject immediate consideration after the House rises and intimate that it intends to increase the bounty. That would induce the growers to put larger areas under cotton during the coming season. I agree with  Senator Greene  that it is, of course, impracticable whilst Parliament is in recess to intimate that it is proposed to increase the duty on cotton yarn; but possibly the Government could announce that, on the re-assembling of Parliament, it proposed to increase the bounty. Ifsuch a pronouncement were made the growers would be encouraged to place additional areas under cotton. So far as I can see, that is the only way out of the difficulty. It is practically impssible to bring down a measure embracing the three important headings at this stage of the session; but in order to keep faith with the growers in central Queensland, I suggest that perhaps assistance may be rendered in the form of an increased bounty announcement at the earliest possible date. 
[4.23].  -  In regard to  Senator Daly's  suggestion that it would facilitate business if uncorrected proofs of the speeches delivered in this chamber and another place were made available each morning to members of both Houses to assist them in dealing with the measures brought before Parliament, I think the honorable senator would find that there would be strong objection to such a proposal. Owing to a printer's error or the inability  of  Hansard  sometimes to hear exactly what was said, I am afraid that all sorts of interminable disputes might arise if honorable senators were to quote from unrevised proofs. Such a request is not within the power of the Government to grant; but I remind  Senator Daly  that an honorable senator can, with the consent of the person delivering the speech, obtain an uncorrected proof. It is only a matter of asking the Minister or honorable senator concerned if he has an objection to an uncorrected proof being supplied. 
In regard to the point raised by  Senator Greene  regarding the report of the Tariff Board on the cotton industry, I can only say that the Government regrets very much the position which has arisen in connexion with this most important industry. I think I am correct in saying that I first saw the report of the Tariff Board only ten days ago. As I was the Minister for Home and Territories who drafted the original legislation under which the Commonwealth assisted the cotton industry, I have always taken more than an ordinary interest in its welfare. Owing to the numerous matters that have had to be considered' during the last fortnight, I have not had time to do more than cursorily glance through the report, which involves questions of' great magnitude. The recommendations of the board could not be dealt with lightly, or with very great despatch. They involve matters requiring considerable study, and are of such a nature that no Government would have been justified in dealing with them hastily in the short period that has elapsed since the report was received. It is regrettable; but it would be more regrettable if, because of the promise made by the Prime Minister - the nature of which, or the circumstances in which it was made I am not acquainted with - the Government altered itspresent policy, without full consideration. I remind honorable senators that there is already on the statute-book legislation which will remain in operation for the purpose of assisting the cotton industry. The question now is what amendments, if any, should be made. I think  Senator Greene  will admit that if the legislation were amended without full considera tion of the whole circumstances, the result might be more detrimental to the industry than that of allowing the present conditions to continue. The Government deeply regrets that insufficient time has been available to properly consider this most important matter; proper consideration should be given to all phases of the industry before any drastic alteration is made. All we can do is to make it a subject for the earliest possible consideration after Parliament has risen, and then decide whether any announcement can be made that will re-assure those who feel that their interests are being jeopardized at present. That will depend, as  Senator Greene  said, on the nature of the proposals. If they are in the form of higher duties on cotton yarn no announcement could, of course, be made. But if it should be a matter of adjusting the bounty, possibly at an early date some intimation could be made which would re-assure the various interests involved. Such a pronouncement would have to be subject to Parliamentary ratification when we re-assembled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On the 14th March,  Senator Foll  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General to inquire into the cause of the delay in the hearing, by the Industrial Registrar, of the application by the Australian Seamen's Union for registration as an organization under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and I promised to do so. I have ascertained that the facts are as follow: - 
The application of the Australian Seamen's Union was lodged on the 7th November last. Before the application was dealt with the Seamen's Union of Australia lodged an application for registration. In view of the provisions of section 59 of the Act, the Registrar informed the parties that he would deal with the two applications at the same time. The Commonwealth Shipowners' Association obtained an extension of time to lodge objections until March 14th, and the applicants have 14 days in which to file answering affidavits. It is understood that the answering affidavits will be filed in time to enable the matter to be listed for hearing on 27th March. 
I direct the attention ofthe Leader of the Senate to the difficulties experienced by members of Parliament in getting in touch with officials of  the  various Commonwealth departments in Canberra. This morning, wishing to interview an officer of a department, I went first to No. 2 Secretariat, and then to No. 1 Secretariat; finally I discovered that the official I wished to see was in offices at Civic Centre. I hope that, during the recess, the Minister will see if some arrangements can be made to assist members of Parliament who wish to attend at the various departments in the discharge of their public duties. Perhaps it will be possible to place a car at their disposal. 
In view of the present industrial unrest, and the prospect of a fairly long vacation, will the Leader of the Senate give honorable senators an assurance, that, during the recess the Government will refrain from mediation to bring about a settlement, and, also, will Ministers bear in mind that the gratuitious interference by a previous Commonwealth Government in an industrial dispute, was responsible for the resignation of the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins as the  President  of the Arbitration Court? 
 Mr. Justice  Higgins said that he resented such interference. If the Government does propose to mediate in the present dispute, will it please remember that it was through similar action on the part of a previous Government that the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins resigned, and said so? 
The honorable senator must not make statements when asking a question. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The attitude of the Government was definitely indicated by the Prime Minister, when suggestions were made during the waterside workers' strike, that the Government should constitute itself a conciliation committee. He then stated that it would do nothing of the kind. He also pointed out that there was a properly-constituted body for the settlement of industrial disputes, and said that the Government did not intend to intervene between the tribunal and the disputants. 
-Will the Leader of the Senate indicate what properlyconstituted authority is in a position to mediate in the present industrial dispute, or could have acted as mediator in the waterside workers' dispute? 
Is it not a fact that the court has laid it down that it will not mediate while industrial disputes are in progress? 
Then does the Leader of the Senate still say that the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration is the one constitued authority to mediate in the present industrial dispute? 
On the 7th March, I. asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs if consideration had been given to the request of the Tasmania n Apple Evaporators' Association for a bounty on evaporated apples exported, and, if so, with what results I further asked that if the matter had not been considered, would it receive attention at once, so that, if a bounty were granted, it would be available for this season's export. Is the Minister in a position to give me a definite reply to-day? 
The matter has been brought under the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs, but he is not yet in a position to furnish a reply. 
asked the Min ister representing the Minister for Works, u  pon notice - 
What quantities of cement were purchased by the Works and Railways Department for use in South Australia during the past twelve months? 
What amount was purchased from firms manufacturing in South Australia? 
What amount was purchased from firms manufacturing outside South Australia? 4.If cement for use in South Australia has been purchased from firms other than those manufacturing in that State, will the Minister give the reason why that was done? 
What price was paid for supplies indicated under questions Nos. 2 and 3? 
The Minister for Works has advised that the information will be obtained and furnished to the honorable senator at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Transport,  uponnotice - 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the report of the parliamentary debutes of the British House of Commons of 13th 
November, 1928, to the effect that bread is being retailed in England at 7½d. per 4-lb. loaf? 
Is it a fact that the price of a similar loaf in the capital cities of Australia is11d? 
Is it a fact that the price of wheat is approximately1s. 3d. per bushel higher in England than it is in Australia? 
Can he advance any reason for the apparent discrepancy between the amount the consumer pays and that which the producer receives in Australia us compared to the position in England? 
The Minister for Markets and Transport has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions - 
No. 2, 3, and 4. This information is not readily obtainable, but it will be procured and furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
[11.10].  - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
There are one or two small measures to come from another place, but this is the only hill with which we can deal at the presenttime.ThisiswhyIproposeto suspendtheStandingOrders. 
 I protest on behalf of the Oppositi on against the suspension of the Standing Orders to allow the Senate to proceed at once with the discussion on this important bill. Surely, honorable senators realize the difficult position in which I, as the Deputy-Leader of the Opposition, and all members on this side are placed. The bill is intended to give considerable relief to returned soldiers, and it is highly technical. It was only placed in my hands this morning. I have not had time to study it. At the moment my secretary is engaged in research work on the measure with the idea of preparing a numberof amendments which, in our view, will more fully give effect to the Government's promises to the returned soldiers. If the second-reading debate is taken now, I shall have to remain in the chamber to listen to the speech of the Leader of the Senate and I shall not have an opportunity to consult with my colleagues concerning the many intricate provisions of the bill. This haste is unfair to the Opposition, and unfair to the returnedsoldiers. I sincerely hope that the motion will not be carried, even if it means that honorable senators will suffer a certain amount of inconvenience through having to return to Canberra next week to consider the bill. 
[11.18] -  I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I am sure that honorable senators will give this bill their serious and sympathetic consideration. It was circulated some days ago, and if any honorable senator did not receive a copy of it, something must have gone wrong with his correspondence. Not only was the bill itself circulated, but also the amendments which honorable members in another place proposed to move. The bill before the Senate this morning is, of course, as amended in another place. 
The object of the bill is to give effect to the promise of the Government to provide a means by which appeals may be made against the decisions of the Repatriation Commission, both in respect of entitlement to pensions and assessment of war disability. Seeing that the bill provides a new method of dealing with claims, or rather superimposes an additional procedure upon that now operating, perhaps it would be advisable that I should refer briefly to the course  adopted under the existing legislation. The present act is administered by a Repatriation Commission, consisting of three ex-soldiers, one of whom is the nominee of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers League of Australia. A board similarly composed operates in each State. When a claim for a pension is made, all the relevant papers are referred to the State Repatriation Board, which may grant the claim, reject it, or refer it to the commission. If a claimant appeals against the rejection of his claim by the State board his case is submitted to the commission. The commission fully considers all claims submitted to it, and if in doubt after obtaining the advice of its own medical officers, submits the case to the Medical Advisory Board which consists of four of the most eminent medical practitioners in Australia who have the additional qualification that they have had military experience overseas. I should like here to pay a tribute to the excellent services rendered by the members of this advisory board; they are  Sir George  Syme,  Sir Henry  Maudsley,  Dr. Stawell,  and  Dr. Webb.  These gentlemen give up much of their valuable time twice a week going through the claims submitted, and advising the commission upon the evidence tendered. Since January, 1925, the soldier has in reality had a further appeal to the Minister in Charge of Repatriation  (Sir Neville Howse, than whom there is probably no one in Australia better qualified to speak on matters concerning war pensions. Sir Neville Howse stands very high in the medical profession, and, in addition, occupied overseas during the war, the position of Director of Medical Service to the Australian Imperial Force, thus gaining a first-hand knowledge of the conditions under which the soldiers served. 
It will, therefore, be seen that a very thorough system of dealing with pension claims is already in operation, and I might mention that  Sir Neville  Howse, when speaking in another place, stated definitely that although the Repatriation Commission had been charged with being harsh and unsympathetic, after a close association with its work for a period of over four years he had no hesitation in saying that the charge was absolutely unwarranted. This is borne out by the records of the department, which show that during the four years ended 30th June, 1928, the number of ex-soldier pensioners increased by 439, notwithstanding that during that period 2,866 ex-soldiers unfortunately had died. Last year - ten years after the cessation of hostilities - new pensions were granted to 891 exsoldiers. The total number of new pensions granted last year, including ;hose in respect of wives, children and other dependants, was 13,547. Although no amendment of the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act, under which war pensions are paid, has been made for several years - in fact, not since 1922 - the War Pensions bill has increased considerably, to a great extent on acount of the liberal and sympathetic manner in which the act has been administered. For the year ended 30th June, 1924, war pensions cost £7,090,815; four years later the cost was £7,690,890, an increase of £600,075. That increase occurred despite the deaths of pensioners, the re-marriage of widows and the adolescence of dependent children. 
The bill now before the Senate provides for the appointment of two types of tribunal - entitlement tribunals, and assessment tribunals. A new principle is established by this bill in that it provides for separate tribunals to deal with appeals in regard to (1) entitlement to pension and (2) assessment of the rate of pension. Canada has an entitlement appeal board but no assessment appeal board. In New Zealand and Great Britain and most other countries, the appeal boards which are in existence deal with both classes of cases. The entitlement tribunal will consist of three members, a  chairman  who may be a returned soldier, and two members who, it is provided, shall be returned soldiers. The  chairman  will be a person who has been admitted to practise as a barrister or solicitor of the High Court, or of the Supreme Court of a State. The  chairman  and one member will be Government nominees; the other member will be selected from nominations submited  by organizations of returned soldiers. 
The bill provides that if any new evidence having a substantial bearing on a claim is submitted to the entitlement tribunal, the case shall be referred back to the Repatriation Commission, and, if rejected by that body, it will later be determined by the tribunal. Moreover, should fresh evidence bc submitted within twelve months of the Entitlement Tribunals decision, the Repatriation Commission will reconsider the case. Should the claim be rejected by the Repatriation Commission, the appellant may again appeal to the tribunal. A claimant appearing before the tribunal may claim travelling expenses. 
Complaint has frequently been made that soldiers have no knowledge of the contents of their files on which their claims have been decided. In that connexion, let me draw attention to proposed new clause 45z, which reads - 
An appeal tribunal, and an assessment tribunal, shall, so far as it is consistent with the interests of the appellant, and with any obligation to respect information given to the commission upon a confidential basis, make available to the appellant or his representative information contained in the records relating to his case, provided that information given to the commission on a confidential basis may be disclosed to the appellant or his representative in any case, if the person who has provided the information consents in writing. 
The Government proposes that there shall be a different constitution for the assessment tribunal. It is proposed that the  chairman  be selected from a list of returned soldiers who have been admitted to practise as barristers or solicitors of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State, submitted in the manner provided for the appointment of a nominee of returned soldiers' organizations for membership of the Entitlement Tribunal. To assist him it is proposed to appoint two medical practitioners selected from lists of medical practitioners approved by the Minister. The medical members of this board will be selected on account of their special knowledge of the disabilities from which the appellant is suffering. This provision will be of great advantage to appellants, particularly in. cases of special diseases. Two members of the Entitlement Tribunal -will form a quorum, but the three members of the Assessment Tribunal must be present to give a decision. No medical man who is an officer of the Repatriation Depart- ment, or who has given a previous decision on the case, will be a member of the Assessment Board in respect of that case. 
It is specially provided in the bill that the tribunals shall not be bound by any rules of evidence, but shall act in accordance with substantial justice, and the merits of the case, and that they shall give the appellant the benefit of the doubt. The appellant may appear in person before the tribunal, or may be represented by any person other than a legal practitioner. This bill has been drawn up as a result of experience gained in the administration of the Repatriation Department during the last ten years. Regard has also been given to the advice received from other countries where appeal courts are in being, and to that tendered, after long consideration of the matter, by the executive of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers League. It was  dealt  with at the last conference of the league, when there was drawn up a list of recommendations, all of which, with the exception of a few minor points, have been incorporated in this bill. 
In conclusion, I should like to touch briefly on the subject of repatriation generally. Honorable senators who have been members of the Senate since the end of the v/ar, will remember the great difficulty which faced the Government in repatriating a large number of soldiers, and of honoring the promises made to the soldiers before they went away. The Minister who was charged with that duty was at that time the Leader of the Government in this chamber. All honorable senators who knew him will admit that he brought to the task confronting him all his energy and his great ability. If he were now alive no one would bc more pleased than he to see the manner in which the promises then made to the soldiers have been kept. It is true that many mistakes have been made, but it must be remembered that the difficulties were great, and the problems many. All will agree that a faithful effort has been made to fulfil the promises made. I feel sure that I am voicing the opinions of all honorable senators when I express appreciation of the great work done by the late  Senator E.  D. Millen in laying the foundation upon which has beer: built our repatriation and war pensions legislation. I confidently submit the bill to the Senate. 

 Senator DALY (South Australia) [11.32.J - Without entering into the highly controversial subject of the promises made to our soldiers when they enlisted and the extent to which they have been honored, I intimate i hat the Opposition is entirely in agreement with the Government on the main principles of this measure. That the bill is long overdue does not detract from our pleasure that at last it has been introduced. Anyone who has had experience of the treatment meted out to our returned soldiers will agree that an appeal tribunal is essential if they are to receive a substantial measure of justice. The Minister said that the bill, together with a number of proposed amendments, had been in the hands of honorable senators for some days. The amendments are the most important parts of the measure from the returned soldiers' stand-point, because they are connected with the question of proof  - what the soldier has to establish before he is entitled to the benefits which the bill purports to give to him.  Only  this morning was I shown an amendment made to the measure in another place late last night. In committee, I propose to ask the Senate to consider whether that  amendment  gives to the returned soldiers fair treatment in the matter of proving their right to the benefits conferred by the bill. 
The returned soldiers' organization drafted a number of clauses, all of which have been incorporated in the bill. 
Subject  to this act an appeal tribunal and an assessment appeal tribunal shall not, in the hen ring of appeals, be bound bv any rules of evidence, hut shall act according to substantial justice and the merits of the case and sim 11 give to an appellant the benefit of the doubt. 
Then follows the proviso. What is the nature of the doubt of which the appellant shall be given the benefit? We know what a reasonable doubt is; but what is meant by giving the appellant the benefit of the doubt will be left to the tribunal to determine. The proviso inserted in another place reads - 
Provided, too, that if the appellant or a representative of the appellant should make out a prima facie case in support of his claim that the incapacity from which lie is suffering or from which he has died was caused or aggravated by war service, the onus of proof that such incapacity was not in fact so caused or aggravated shall lie with the commission. 
In the first place, there was no need to insert that proviso at all.  Senator McLachlan  will agree that, once a party makes out a prima facie case, the onus of proof automatically shifts. It would appear that in another place the Minister, placed in a predicament, saw an opportunity to " pull somebody's leg," and therefore accepted an amendment which he knew was worth nothing. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland - Minister for Defence) [11.40]. - I am pleased that, generally, the bill meets with the approval of honorable senators. I have not yet had an opportunity to study the amendment proposed to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  ; but no doubt he will explain it fully in committee. The proviso to proposed new section 45w to which the honorable senator referred was inserted in another place at the instigation  of  the ex-Prime Minister,  Mr. Hughes.  The honorable senator admitted thatthe proviso would not prevent a returned soldier from putting forward his claim. 
The proviso appears to be harmless. It may not help the returned soldier; but it will not prevent him from making his claim. 
The proviso, as I understand it, appears to be harmless. In committee, however, that matter can be dealt with. I expected that the Opposition would give its general support to the measure, and am pleased that it has done so. 
Question resolved inthe affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee. 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to - 
Clause6 - 
After section forty-five of the Principal Act the following divisions and sections are inserted in part III.: -  45w - 
Provided too that if the appellant or a representative of the appellant shall make out a prima facie case in support of his claim thatthe incapacity from which he is suffering or from which he has died was caused or aggravated by war service, the onus of proof thatsuch incapacity was not in fact so caused or aggravated shall lie with the commission. 
.- I move- 
That the proviso be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereofthe following proviso : - 
Provided that without limitation of the rights in this act otherwise arising where it is proved by or on behalf of the appellant, or a dependant of the appellant, that the member of the forces had served as such member for such period and in such circumstances us might reasonably be expected to be injurious to health, and was on the date of the application for a pension either deceased or suffering such incapacity as would, if death or incapacity had in fact resulted from any occurrence happening during the period he was a member of the forces, have entitled such member or his dependant to a pension, the appellant or dependant of the appellant shall be deemed in the absence of evidence to the contrary to have established his claim to a pension. 
A similar amendment was submittedin another place, and its object is to place beyond any shadow of doubt that, if  a  returned soldier is suffering from a disability which, had it affected him at the time that he was a member of the Australian Imperial Force, would have entitled him to a pension, he shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, have established his right to a pension. 
No. Suppose that on his return to Australia in 1918, an ex-member of the Australian Imperial Forces made an application for a pension. He would have to establish certain facts in order to entitle him to that pension. First of all he would have to prove that the disability from which he was suffering resulted from war service. This amendment seeks to provide that in circumstances where the tribunal is satisfied that he would be entitled to a pension, if a member of the Australian Imperial Force at the time, he shall receive that pension, unless the department can prove otherwise to the satisfaction of the tribunal. 
I am unable to understand that interjection. Why is it impossible? Suppose that in 1918 a man returned from the war suffering from the effects of gas. Ten years later tuberculosis develops. One doctor might be prepared to connect the later disability with the man's war service, while other doctors might expound contrary theories.  Senator Ogden  declares that if this amendment were incorporated in the bill it would be impossible for the tribunal to disprove liability. I submit that, in the converse case, it would be impossible for the soldier to establish his rights. 
The point is that a man may be gassed, but not to an extent to incapacitate him at the time of his return. That would not entitle him to a pension. But supposing that ten years later tuberculosis manifested itself, while some medical practitioners, on examination, might declare that it was due to the effect of war service, it is probable that others would refute that diagnosis. They might claim that the man's antecedents justified the opinion that the complaint was hereditary, and in no way connected with war service. It is our contention that if a man returns from the war suffering from tuberculosis, whether declared hereditary or not, he should receive a pension. 
I do not think it would. Probably the pension would be granted if the case were decided in this chamber or if we could definitely ascertain the meaning of "substantial justice and the merits of the case." My question is, what onus is to be placed on the soldier? 
Senatorfoll. - The honorable senator is endeavouring to place on the soldier the onus of establishing a prima facie case. 
I am not trying to do anything of the sort. I throw on him the responsibility to prove certain facts, but I am not placing the onus of proof on him when he comes before a court of appeal. I submit that the best way in which we can mete out justice to our returned soldiers is by incorporating my amendment in the bill. 
I am not concerned whether the examination is made before or after the appeal. 
It does; but an examination has to be made under the provision as it stands. 
I believe that the proviso as it stands presses too heavily on the soldier. My amendment seeks to lighten his burden, and at the same time to protect the community. I hope that it will be accepted. 
Any amendment may be made to any part ofthe bill, provided the same be relevant to the subject-matter of the bill, and be otherwise in conformity with the rules and orders of the Senate. 
To find the subject-matter of the bill, we must turn to its title. It reads - 
A bill for an act relating to the establishment of appeal tribunals to deal with appeals relating to war pensions. 
For a description of war pension, we must turn to section 23 of the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act and that reads - 
Upon the death or incapacity - 
of any person, to whom paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of "Member of the Forces " applies, whose death or incapacity - 
These are the important words - 
results or has resulted from any occurrence happening during the period be was a member of the Forces; 
does not arise from intentionally selfinflicted injuries; and 
does not arise from, or from any occurrence happening duringthe cessation of, any breach of discipline by the member, and 
of any person to whom paragraph (c) of the definition of " Member of the Forces " applies, whose death or incapacity results or has resulted from his employment' in connexion with naval or military preparations or operations. 
The provisos which follow are not pertinent. The important part is that the pension is payable to every pensioner or his dependants whose death or incapacity results or has resulted from his employment in connexion with naval or military preparations or operations. Leave was given in another place to amend the principal act only in that connexion, whereas the amendment contemplates the granting of pensions to persons who have not the right to them under the principal act. Some of  Senator Daly's  replies to interjections would lead honorable senators to believe that his amendment deals only with the question of onus of proof. It has nothing to do with that. Its effect would be to establish a new class of pensions in respect of diseases, incapacity or death not arising from war service. 
Provided that without limitation of the rights in this act otherwise arising where it is proved by or on behalf of the appellant, or a dependant of the appellant, that the member of the forces had served as such member for such period and in such circumstances- 
I direct attention to the following words; they are most important : - as might reasonably be expected to bo injurious to health - 
Those words embrace every member of the Australian Imperial Forces because every member of the Australian Imperial Forces served in circumstances that "might reasonably be expected to be injurious to health." It does not follow that the health of everymember of the forces was injured by reason of his service, but every member of the forces who served either for one day or for the whole period of the war, served in circumstances which. "might reasonably be expected to be injurious to health." That risk is not peculiar to members of the Australian 
Imperial Forces. The ordinary citizen in his everyday life runs it; but because every member of the forces from the time he enlisted until he was discharged was liable to incapacity or injury to his health, the honorable senator's amendment would cover every member of the Australian Imperial Forces. The proviso proceeds - and was on the date of the application for a pension either deceased or suffering such incapacity as would, if death or incapacity had in fact resulted from any occurrence happening during the periodhe was a member of the forces, have entitled such member or his dependant to a pension, the appellant or dependant of the appellant shall be deemed in the absence of evidence to the contrary to have established bis claim to a pension. 
That is to say, if a soldier, after his discharge from the forces, has contracted a disease or has suffered some incapacity which would have entitled him to a pension if he had contracted the disease or suffered the incapacity either during his service with the forces or as a result of his war service he would be entitled to a pension although his disease or incapacity had no relation whatsoever to his service in the Australian Imperial Forces. The amendment would, therefore, establish a new class of pension benefits beyond that contemplated or made possible under the original act. That is my point of order. If the amendment were agreed to, provision would be made for two classes of pensioners - pensions granted in consequence of death, incapacity, or disease, resulting from service during the war and pensions granted because of some disease, incapacity or death occurring after discharge from the forces, but not resulting from war service. Every member of the Australian Imperial Forces would thus be entitled to a pension for any incapacity, disease or death, no matter whether it had relation to war service or not. The amendment is neither relevant to the bill nor to the act which the bill purports to amend, and it is certainly not covered by the title of the bill. The pension made available by it would not be a " war pension " since it would be payable to persons whose death, incapacity or disease had no relation whatever to the war beyond the fact that the pensioner served during the war. The parent act does not contemplate the payment of a pension on account of disease, incapacity or death, unless it has resulted from employment in connexion with naval or military preparations or operations, and I therefore take the point of order that the amendment is not relevant to the subject-matter of the bill. 
It is difficult to understand why the right honorable senator has raised this point of order, because the proviso I seek to have inserted would be an addendum to a particular section of the act and according to  Craise,  a most eminent authority on statute law - 
Thu effect of an excepting or qualifying proviso, according to the ordinary rules of construction, is to except out of the preceding portion of the enactment, or to qualify something enacted therein, which but for the proviso would be within it; and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it cun bo fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that  effect. 
Our Standing Order says that an amendment must be relevant to the subject-matter of the bill which it is proposed to' amend. The right honorable senator has suggested that by means of this amendment I am attempting to create a new class of pensions not authorized under the principal act, but the proviso does nothing of the sort. It simply does what I have just read to honorable senators - it qualifies the preceding provision. The right honorable senator has also claimed that the amendment has nothing whatever to do with onus of proof, but the provision to which the proviso would be attached deals with that, and if my amendment were carried, it would merely create an exception to that section. The purposes of the act are not enlarged by the amendment. The proviso simply qualifies the proposed new section and not the act itself. I submit, therefore, that my amendment is in order. 
Not exactly. In certain instances it would relieve men already covered by the act from having to furnish strict proof. 
Possibly, but they do not go as far as  Senator Pearce  has said they go. For instance, the amendment would not include men who have not been on active service. 
The honorable senator said that it would include any member of the Australian Imperial Force. Nor could it extend the class of pensions covered by the principal act. 
It will do nothing of the sort. 
Nothing of the sort. If an appellant makes out a prima facie case, the department may discharge a certain onus and the tribunal will decide the appeal on the balance of probability. 
Of course not. 
This is the Labour party's proposal - not mine. 
The measure before the committee is entitled "A bill for an act relating to the establishment of Appeal Tribunals to deal with Appeals relating to War Pensions." Because of the highly technical nature of the bill, it is extremely difficult for a layman to determine the degree of relevancy of the amendment; but, in my opinion, it would create a new class of pensions, not contemplated by the bill or the act which it amends. I therefore rule that the amendment is irrelevant to the subject-matter of the bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[12.32]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to give the six States of the Commonwealth representation on the National Debt Commission. Until recently the sinking fund provisions dealt only with Commonwealth debts, but with the ratification of the financial agreement, the commission has now assumed control of sinking funds for State debts. The States naturally desire to have representation on the Sinking Fund Commission, and at the last meeting of the Loan Council, the following resolution was passed - 
That the Commonwealth be asked to make provision for the appointment on the National Debt Commission of a representative of the States to be approved by a majority of the States, the appointment to continue so long as remaining approved by a majority of the States. 
The financial agreement, having now been validated, the Commonwealth desires to meet the wishes of the States in this matter as soon as possible. The present members of the commission are the 
Treasurer of the Commonwealth, the Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank, the Secretary to the Treasury, and the Solicitor-General. The States will agree among themselves as to their nominee, and he will then be appointed a member of the commission. 
I suppose the State to which the right honorable Leader of the Senate and I belong, is likely to be most affected by this provision, as it is the only one which has kept intact a really good sinking fund. This fund, the management of which has for many years been in the hands of a committee, has served a useful purpose in keeping the credit of the State at a high level on the London market. I should like to know what will be the position of that committee, comprising able men who have wisely invested the accumulations of the sinking fund, when this provision becomes effective. Will the committee go out of existence, or will it continue to manage that portion of the sinking fund which was in existence before the signing of the Financial Agreement? This is an important point, and I should like the Leader of the Senate to clear it up. 
That is so, but I do not know how the fund will stand in relation to past debts. If the National Debt Commission does its work as well as this committee has done in the past, it will be a good thing for Australia. 
I should like to know what would happen in the event of new States being created? We have passed a Financial Agreement Validation Bill which ratifies an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and State Governments. Suppose new States were to be created in the Northern Territory, Western Australia or Queensland. Would there need to be an amendment, of this bill, or of the act ratifying the Financial Agreement, before provision could be made for them on the National Debt Commission ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the point raised by  Senator Lynch,  no provision is made in this bill for dealing with the situation arising out of the creation of new States. Nor is there any provision in the Financial Agreement Validation Bill, except that the agreement may be varied by the consent of all the parties. If a new State were formed, and it had constituted part of an existing State, it would be necessary to arrive at some arrangement as to how the debts of that State should be shared between the parties to the agreement. 
Would that require an amendment of the Constitution? 
Where the conditions relating to sinking funds, redemption funds, and funds of a like nature as aforesaid held by a State on trust or by trustees under statutory or contractual obligations preclude the transfer of those funds to the National Debt Commission, such funds shall remain under the control of the Slate or those trustees, and the National Debt Commission will cither directly or through the State concerned make all future payments to the State or to those trustees from the sinking fund. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a purely formal measure and is similar in every respect to the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, which has already been passed by the Senate. It merely provides that the levies shall be collected by the Department of Markets and Transport, instead of by the Department of Trade and Customs. 
 As the Honorary Minister has assured us that this measure is similar in every respect to the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, which merely provides for an alteration in connexion with the collection of levies, and as I understand that no alteration in principle is involved, I offer no objection to its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages, without requests or debate. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As this measure is similar to those relating to dairy produce and dried fruits, to which the Senate has already agreed, there is no necessity for me to explain its provisions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 

 Sitting suspended from 2.24 to 2.33 p.m. 

[2.35].  -  In moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire on behalf of the Government to thank honorable senators for the consideration they have extended to the Government and for the assistance they have given it in passing the measures that have come before the Senate. I trust that the recess which is now before honorable senators will refresh them and enable them to come back to their labours well and fit. 
It is not anticipated that the method of summoning members outlined in the motion to which the Senate agreed a few moments ago will be adopted on this occasion. It is anticipated that Parliament will be prorogued and called together in the ordinary way through the Governor-General. 
.- I take this opportunity to voice my dissatisfaction and disappointment at the unnecessary delay on the part of the Government in dealing with the request made to it by the Tasmanian Evaporated Apples Association for some assistance in the shape of a bounty, in order that the evaporated apples industry may be carried on. Honorable senators will recollect that when I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs whether any decision had yet been reached in regard to this matter his reply was that no definite decision had been arrived at. I want to impress on the Government the effect its delay will have. The decision of the Government, even if it proved unsatisfactory, would have to be accepted, but it is extremely  upsetting to the Evaporated Apples Association to realize that the Government has not yet arrived at a decision. It seems strange to those connected with the industry and to the people of Tasmania generally that the evaporated apples processers have not had extended to them the favorable treatment in the shape of a bounty that the canned fruits industry lias enjoyed for some years. It is some time since the attention of the Government was directed to the fact that if the evaporated apples industry was to carry on successfully some form of Government assistance must be given to it. 
Unfortunately it cannot now be sold with success in Great Britain or on the continent because of competition from America, but everyone fays that  Tasmanian  evaporated apples are absolutely first class, and about the finest produced in the world. The industry is asking for a bounty of 2d. per lb. on evaporated apples. When I referred to this matter on the 7th inst., the Honorary Minister,  Senator McLachlan,  in the course of his remarks, said - 
I understand from the honorable senator that a bounty of 2d. per lb. would yield a profit of Id. per lb. to the grower; but it strikes mc that it might be better to consider the advisability of giving the growers Id. per lb., and leave the apples where they are. 
Apparently the Minister does not understand the position. As it takes 8 lb. of green apples to make 1 lb. of evaporated apples, the Minister's suggested grant of Id. per lb. in the case of green apples would be equal to a bounty of 3s. 4d. a bushel on apples, whereas the Evaporated Apples Association is asking for a maximum of 2d. per lb. on evaporated apples, which is equal to only lOd. a bushel on green apples. Although the industry is small, approximately £70,000 has been invested in factories for evaporating apples. Last year the capacity of the existing plants was not utilized to the fullest. Another 100,000 bushels of apples could have been processed, which would have meant the distribution of an additional £10,000 to the orchardists and £6,000 to the factory operatives. Owing to the large crop of apples in Tasmania last year, the absence of a bounty and thu consequent impossibility of placing evaporated apples on the British market, over 1,000,000 bushels of apples went to waste. It seems to me that the payment of a bounty which, while not amounting to more than £4,000 a year, would prevent good foodstuffs from going to waste, is a policy that should commend itself to any government. I speak on this matter, knowing well that anything I say will have no effect on this year's output, because, even if a bounty were made available, by the time Parliament next met the season would then be practically over. Nevertheless, I feel it my duty to call attention to this food now going to waste each year which could be evaporated and turned into a wholesome and readily marketable product, if only the Government would give this Tasmanian industry some small assistance. I am disappointed that Tasmania, which suffers so many disabilities on account of its geographical position, has not been able to keep this industry flourishing, so that it might be of real use to the community. I urge the Government to, even at this late hour, give the request favorable consideration. Although it may not be of much value to the industry this year, it certainly would encourage producers to carry on in the hope that their returns next year would be more satisfactory. 
There was for a time, but the exporters were unable without assistance to compete with the American evaporated apples. Consequently they have to rely on the Australian market almost entirely, though there might be an outlet for a certain quantity in Java and the Dutch East Indies. The apples used for the evaporation process are not commercially marketable in Australia because of defective shape or spotted skins; but they are quite as wholesome as the finest eating apples. If the Government can see its way clear to grant the request, the industry will provide a certain amount of employment, not only in the business of evaporation, but in the manufacture of export cases and in other directions. The industry is well worth encouraging. 
The facts of the industry are so patent that the course suggested by the honorable senator is not necessary. The canned fruits industry has received substantial encouragement and, as the result, a fair export tradeis being developed. Why should there be any differentiation, if the Government is satisfied that there is a market for evaporated apples at a price that will give the grower and the evaporaters a reasonable return? I hope that we shall have a favorable reply from the Government before Parliament goes into recess. 
 I rise to make a suggestion in connexion with a matter which I raised yesterday in relation to cotton. The Leader of the Senate, in reply, stated that he anticipated the Prime Minister would be able in the near future, to make an announcement as to the policy of the Government, short of a statement of the tariff policy. It seems to me that in view of the fact that Parliament may not he sitting when the Government is ready to make an announcement, it might be highly desirable once the Government has made up its mind what it proposes to do, to call together the various interests associated with the industry and tell them of the decision short of an announcement in regard to the tariff. I recognize that there are many difficulties associated with the industry, and it is quite possible that a decision which the Government might come to in all good faith would not fully meet the technical requirements of the industry. I think, therefore, that probably it would be wise if the Government paid heed to my suggestion. It is, I believe, one that will be approved of by those connected with the industry. I may add that I am making this suggestion entirely on my own responsibility. I have not had an opportunity to consultthe various interests concerned, but I throw out the suggestion in the best of good faith and with a genuine desire to help the Government in a matter which, I admit, is bristling with technical difficulties. I am quite sure it is the desire of the Government to help the industry, and I believe it would be well if, before finally committing itself to any scheme, the Ministry advised the people concerned. If they have any suggestions to meet the situation and at the same time give effect to the Government's policy, I feel sure that they will be most happy to tell the Government. 
I direct attention to the unsatisfactory position of the wool industry in Australia in the hope that something may be done without unnecessary delay in the way of scientific research to place it on a more satisfactory basis. It has been said that Australia is carried on the sheep's back. The truth of this is, I think, generally acknowledged, and  I  feel that unless something can be done to safeguard the industry, we may find it difficult to maintain the present standard of living in this country. I have here interesting figures, setting out the position, which I should like to place on record, and I hope that during the recess the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will devote its energies to an investigation of the several problems which are exercizing the minds of the various graziers' associations. The following figures relating to the production, value and average price of greasy wool, are, I think, impressive: - 

<graphic href="120332192903226_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is estimated that for this year, there will be a 20 per cent. decline in price. This is practically 4d. a lb. reduction in greasy wool. Students of these figures will realize their significance. A drop of 4d. a lb. for greasy wool will bring the price this year to 16½d. a lb., compared with 20½d. in 1926-27. 
I admit that Parliament is powerless. It may, however, be helpful if we consider certain factors which have a certain bearing on the price  realized for Australian wool. I refer particularly to the increasing competition of artificial wool and rayon. In 1924, the United States of America produced 36,000,000 lb. of rayon and artificial wool; in 1928 the production rose to 99,500,000 lb., and this year the estimated production is 135,000,000 lb. In Great Britain for the same years, the production was 24,500,000 lb., 50,000,000 lb. and 60,000,000 lb. respectively. The world's production in 1924 was 137,000,000 lb. and in 1928 323,500,000 lb. The figures for 1929 are of course not available yet. I suggest that these figures are somewhat alarming. The world's fashion seems to be in the direction of utilizing more and more of artificial wool and rayon. 
As showing the influence of this comparatively new industry on development, I may inform honorable senators that in the United States of America, Elizabethtown, a town in Tennessee, two years ago had a population of 2,400, and to-day its population is 12,000. During these two years the price of land rose to 50 times its former value. The reason for this was the introduction of German capital into the South-Eastern States of America. The American tariff prohibited the introduction of German artificial silk goods, so the mountain went to Mohamet, and German capital, to the extent of many millions of pounds, was laid out on plant and factories for the manufacture of artificial silk and rayon. When cotton is harvested and taken to the ginneries, the cotton itself is extracted from the seed, attached to which is a waste product from which, in the past, such material as surgical lint was made. A method has now been devised by which that waste product is utilized and sold in the market at1d. a lb. 
I am quoting from a recognized publication, and if my authority is wrong, I shall be pleased to he corrected. My information is that the waste products treated at Elizabethtown, which is the centre of the cotton industry there, is sold at 2 cents a lb. From this waste product, by means of up-to-date German machinery, is being made rayon and artificial silk, which has taken the place of wool for many of our requirements. 
Let me quote what has happened in connexion with the development of the cotton industry in England. 
A new romance in British industry recalling the introduction of rubber plantations into Malasia, is contained inan announcement appearing in the  Observer,  that between three and four million pounds of " artificial cotton " are now being grown in England and will be available in July for English cotton-spinners at a fixed price of 12 cents a pound against 20 cents for real cotton. 
This means a saving of8 cents on the present price of real cotton. Yet it is asserted that the new product meets everydemand of the " coarse count " required by the British cotton industry. 
The secret of the new product was told to British research workers literally by a little bird. Eight years ago this feathered artisan was seen in British Guiana building its nest with material which appeared to be cotton. Investigation showed that the bird was picking a certain plant and stripping and treating it. The seeds and roots of this plant were brought to England and have been grown on soil in Essex and Sussex counties that is of little use for anything else. The plant reaches a height of seven feet. 
Lancashire and Yorkshire cotton millowners, when shown the new product, readily agreed to accept it, and it is announced that in a few years it will be grown in sufficient quantity and quality to meet the demand for coarse count of the whole British cotton industry. 
This artificial cotton, it is maintained, can be treated by existing cotton machinery.Its yarn can be blended like cotton, with silk, artificial silk or wool, it is said, and it will takethe most delicate dyes, absorbinga third less dye than real cotton requires. 
I mention these matters in regard to wool and also to cotton, in which so many of our returned soldiers are interested, because we should be alive to the fact that science is being applied to them in other parts of the world. 
Unless we are prepared to do our part our wool trade will be in jeopardy, and the cotton-growers in Queensland will be threatened with disaster. Our Council for Scentific and IndustrialResearch is making inquiries into certain branches of primary industry but not much has yet been done in the direction of conducting investigation on a scientific basis into the wool industry. There is, in Adelaide, a laboratory under the control of Professor Robertson, which investigates certain diseases in sheep, and the Commonwealth Government has given £1,000 to the British Research Association which has established in New South Wales a laboratory to deal with the blowfly pest; but I fail to see that any thing has been done in the direction of actual scientific research into such problems as the standardization of wool. 
At any rate, the sheep men have given a lead to the Government in that they are endeavouring to raise a sum of £200,000 by means of a levy on wool, to enable them to investigate their problems scientifically. The wool industry in Australia is not in the sound position that many persons think. The wool producers have to combat such difficulties as rising land values, noxious weeds, increased taxation, high wages, the rabbit pest, parasites, blowflies, and, in some districts,the fluke. 
That is so; and since South Africa has been mentioned, it may be of interest to note the quantities of wool being produced in that and other countries. In 1927, the total number of sheep in the world was 627,000,000, while the wool production was 3,100,000,000 lb. Of this quantity, Australia produced855,000,000lb. from 103,000,000 sheep. New Zealand had 25,000,000, and produced 202,000,000 lb. weight of wool. China had 26,000,000 sheep, and produced 60,000,000 lb. of wool ; the Argentine had 36,000,000 sheep and produced 331,000,000 lb. of wool. The Union of South Africa to which  Senator Thompson  referred, had 18,000,000 sheep, and produced 251,000,000 lb. of wool. Russia, in spite of the unsettled conditions prevailing there, had 32,000,000 sheep, and produced 237,000,000 lb. of wool. Of the total quantity of wool produced in the world that year, more than half came from countries south of the Equator. Although wool production is carried on on a comparatively small scale in the United Statesof America, an enormous amount ofscientificresearchhas been made into matters relating to wool and sheep. 
They do not produce wool of such fineness or density as we do, but they still consider it worth while to probe into matters relating to the standardization of wool, improvement of pastures, and increasing the length of the staple. That being so, it is surely the duty of the Government in Australia to encourage scientific work here. We should not allow things to drift until our wool trade has been lost ; the time to act is now. I admit that within the last few months the British Government, through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, has sent out  Dr. Arnold  Theiler and  Dr. Orr,  who propose to visit all the dominions.  Dr. Arnold  Theiler is a professor from Leeds, England. 
But according to what I read he was visiting all the British Dominions. 
I understand they visited New Zealand and South Africa. 
No doubt their reports will throw some light upon this most important subject. As we have a Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and expert advisors in this important branch we ought to do more than we are at present. 
It may be asked why do we not introduce the rayon . business into Australia? I do not suggest that we should be able to successfully compete with other countries, but in these days it is useless to attempt to do so if we continue to pursue the course we have followed in recent years. If we are to get the best out of our production we should harness science to industry. I should like to quote what the Prime Minister of Great Britain  (Mr. Baldwin)  said in 1927. These were his words - 
No one will assert that British industry can be saved by science alone; but it is none the less true that until scientific men and scientific methods can take their place in industry and an equal place with the administrator and financier, British trade will never  be strong or resilient enough to meet  the  shocks which it is bound to meetas the years go by or to meet the sudden and unexpected changes which will always arise in international trade. . . . 
That is one of the most important links in a most important economic chain.I admitthat if we are to successfully compete with other countries, economic production is a most important factor. But even if we can produce economically our production, both as regards quantity and quality, could he improved by scientific aid. As science is playing such an important part in the development of industry it isthe duty of the Commonwealth Government in this regard to keep abreast of other nations, otherwise we shall be left behind. Scientific aid to industry has very far reaching effects, but up to the present very little has been done by Australia. It has been asked why the graziers do not do more to assist themselves. They are prepared to render financial assistance; butI think it is the duty of the Government tosee that scientists and others get to work immediately so that we shall always be able to market products equal to the world's requirements. Frequent reference is made to the quality of Australian wool. During the war period when the disposal of the product was controlled under the War Precautions Act or its regulations, the Australian clip comprised over 500 different classes, whilst the classifications in New Zealand totalled 700. We have been informed that by investigation and research Australia should and would be able to produce a standardized wool; that as the result of such investigation and research growers would know exactly what class to produce, and the buyers would know that they were getting the class they required. 
Certainly. During the war period 100 different classes of merino wool alone were handled by experts. 
During the war period, manufacturers used principally coarse wool and crossbred - second or third grade - for the manufacture of soldiers' blankets and tunics. At present the demand is for fine merino. There are so many classes and classifications that in order to standardize wool, an investigation should be undertaken by scientists to show the wool-growers of Australia how to produce an article which will meet the requirements of manufacturers.I leave it at that. I hope that in future more attention will be given to this important industry, and that during the next year or two, at least, greater support will be given by the Government, particularly to the pastoralists and sheep men generally. If an investigation were undertaken at once, I am sure the results would not only be of great assistance to our wool producers, but from a national viewpoint would have a wonderful effect upon the whole of the people of Australia. 
I assure  Senator Greene  that the suggestion which he has made in connexion with the cotton industry, and which appears to me to be reasonable, will be conveyed to the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Gulletl)  and will, I have no doubt, be acted upon. I am sure the honorable senator realizes the difficulties that may arise in one direction ; but apart from this, I see no reason why those engaged in the industry should not be consulted by the Minister. I shall convey the honorable senator's suggestion to the Minister. 
I endeavoured to make it plain to  Senator Payne  the other evening, when discussing the subject of evaporated apples, that, on his own statement, the payment of a bounty of 2d. a lb. would result in the factories making a profit of1d. a lb., and I ventured the personal opinion that it might be more profitable for those concerned to take someother action. I shall, however, see that the matter raised by the honorable senator is conveyed to the Minister for Trade and Customs. The work ofthe Tariff Board has been held in abeyance during the past fortnight owing to a change in its personnel, and it may therefore be some time before a definite report is obtained on the matter. 
SenatorMcLACHLAN. - As far as I urn aware that is not the case. I understand that some preliminary inquiries have been conducted, but that no definite recommendation has been made. 1 shall convey the honorable senator's remarks to the Minister, who will no doubt take them into consideration. 
[3.25].  -  We have all listened with great interest to the remarks of  Senator P.  P. Abbott in connexion withthe wool industry. I regret that he has not been altogether just to the Commonwealth, which through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has done much more for the industry than he has mentioned to-day. Had time permitted, I could have set out in detail the valuable work which has been and is being undertaken; but as at the Sydney Show, next week, the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  will deliver a speech, which will be largely an exposition of what the Government is doing in this and other directions, I do not know that I ought to steal his thunder. If  Senator P.  P. Abbott hears or reads that speech I am sure he will realize that the Commonwealth is devoting a good deal of attention and scientific effort towards assisting the woolgrowing industry of Australia. I am glad be mentioned that it was the intention of the wool-growers to help themselves. That is a praiseworthy effort. I am sorry, however, that in their attempt to collect £200,000 they have up to the present raised only £35,000, which is not a very large amount for such a wealthy industry. It is hoped that they will continue in their praiseworthy effort and raise the full amount they require. Realizing the value of this industry to Australia, the Government is seized with the importance of utilizing all the scientific intelligence available in Australia and in other countries to assist the industry. It is not being dealt with merely as an Australian problem. We are linking up our efforts and ability with the best brains of the Empire, and through the Empire Marketing Board are obtaining valuable assistance. The visits of  Sir Arnold  Theiler, a leading veterinarian, and probablyone of the world's leading scientists, and of  Dr. Orr  will establish co-operation between the Commonwealth and Great Britainin this regard. When honorable senators have read the speech which the Prime Minister is to deliver in Sydney next week, I am sure they will admit that the Government is endeavouring to do its duty in this regard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I beg to express my sense of appreciation of the honor proposed to be conferred on me, and to submit myself to the Senate. 

 Senator KINGSMILL  being the only honorable senator proposed as  President,  was conducted to the dais and said - 
It was no empty form of words that I employed just now when I expressed my high appreciation of the honor to be conferred upon me. The position of  President  of the Senate is a high, honorable and responsible one, and I approach it with a full sense of the responsibilities that attach to it. I hope that I may be able always to keep intact the rights and privileges of honorable senators and to preserve the dignity of the Chamber. I remind honorable senators, however, that these ideals are impossible of accomplishment without their assistance and I therefore pray their aid in my effort to achieve them. 
[3.22].- -On behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber, I desire, sir, to extend to you our congratulations on the honour that has been conferred upon you by the Senate in electing you as its  President.  The position, as you have said, is one of grave responsibility and great dignity. We recognize that it is our duty as senators to assist you to discharge the obligations of your position, and to uphold the dignity of the Senate by bowing to your decisions and by cooperating with you in the observance of the Standing Orders. I trust that during your term of office,  Mr. President,  you will have the help of every honorable senator, and feel sure that your interpretation of the Standing Orders will be conducive to the efficient discharge of public business. 
SenatorDALY (South Australia) [3.23] . -On behalf of the members of the Opposition I desire to convey to you,- sir, our congratulations upon your election to the presidential chair. I endorse everything that has been said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  but I feel that some explanation is necessary as to why there was no other nomination for the position. 
In the first place it is ' recognized that our numbers on this side of the chamber are small and for that reason we could not afford to nominate one of our members for the office of  President.  Another reason is that it was common knowledge that ministerial supporters had unanimously decided to support your election. Concerning that decision we have no complaint to make. There was no personal feeling in the minds of members of the Opposition concerning any of the three ministerial candidates for the position; any one of them would have been equally acceptable to us. We congratulate you, sir, on being the elect of your party. We recognize that on the floor of the chamber you were a faithful supporter of the Government, and for that support you were selected by your party for the very high and honorable position' to whichyou have just been elected by the Senate. I assure you that during your term of office the Opposition will do everything it can to enable you to achieve the ideals at which you aim. You will receive our loyal support and we feel confident that you will carry out your duties with absolute impartiality. On behalf of the Opposition I sincerely and heartily congratulate you on your election. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. W. Kingsmill)  [3.25]. - I thank honorable senators for their kind wishes and for the promises of support which I have been accorded. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.26]. - I desire to announce that  His Excellency  the  Deputy  of the Governor-General will be pleased to receive  Mr. President,  and such honorable senators as may wish to accompany him in the Parliamentary Library at 5 o'clock.  
-I shall suspend the sitting until 4.55 p.m., and will be glad if those honorable senators who wish to accompany me to the  Deputy  of the Governor-General will assemble at the time mentioned. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.86 to 4.55 p.m. 

I remind honorable senators that the time has now arrived when it is necessary topresent the newlyelected  President  to  His Excellency  the  Deputy  of the Governor-General. I ask, therefore, that as many honorable senators as wish to do so will accompany me to the Library, where the presentation will take place. I shall now leave the Chair until the presentation is over, which time will be notified by the ringing of the bells. 

 Sitting suspended at5 p.m. 

The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. W. Kingsmill)  took the Chair at 5.1 5 p.m. and read  prayers. 
I bring up the report of the Select Committee, together with minutes of proceedings and minutes of evidence, and move - 
That the report be printed. 
Motion agreed to. 
 (By leave)  - For the information of honorable senators I desire to intimate that I have been elected Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, that  Senator Dooley  has been elected as  Deputy  Leader, and that  Senator Dunn  has been elected Opposition Whip. 
[5.28]. - On behalf of honorable senators representing the Government I congratulate Senators Daly and Dooley upon their appointment as Leader and Deputy-Leader respectively of the Opposition in the Senate. With some trepidation, I venture to repeat the hoary chestnut that has been so frequently heard in various parliaments: that we trust that they may long continue to adorn those positions. In British Parliamentary procedure the Leader of the Opposition has a very important function to perform, and I am confident that  Senator Daly  will exercise his undoubted gifts in the performance of his duties. I trust that, in our respective capacities, we shall be successful in preserving the high standard of debate that has characterized the proceedings of the Senate in the past and that, in differing, we may do so impersonally. I assure  Senator Daly  that he will receive from the Government and its supporters that consideration which is the right of the Leader of the Opposition, even though he is representing a minority. The rights of minorities should be respected, and I hope that the time will never come when in a British Parliament a minority will be denied an opportunity to state its case. 
I have to inform the Senate that, in accordance with section 196 of the Electoral Act, the Principal Registrar of the High Court has forwarded to the  Clerk  of the. Senate a copy of the Order of the Court of Disputed Returns made on the 13th day of March, 1929, in the matter of the petitions filed respectively by Albert E. H. Blakey and Edward Findley, together with a copy of the reasons for judgment. 
The following letter was received by my predecessor from  Mrs. Fisher  in connexion with the resolution of sympathy passed on the occasion of the death of her Husband, the late Right Honorable Andrew Fisher: - 57, South Hill Park, Hampstead, N.W. 
DearSir John, - 
I should like to thank you for your kind thought insending me the bound copy which you signed and the six facsimiles of the resolution moved in the Senate by SirGeorge Pearce, and seconded by  Senator Needham.  We shall treasure them. 
Yours sincerely, (Signed) Margaret Fisher. 
THE LATE HONORABLEJ.H. McCOLL. 
I have also to announce that the following letter has been received from  Mrs. McColl  in response to the resolution - of sympathy passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of her husband, the late  Hon.  J. H. McColl 8 Second Avenue, East Kew, E4, 
March 21,1929. 

 Sir John Newlands,  President  of the Senate, (the Parliament of the Commonwealth), Canberra. 
Dear  Sir, - 
Would you kindly convey to the members of the Senate the grateful thanks of myself andmy family for the sympathy which they extended to us on the death of my husband. It was very fitting, and a great consolationto us all to know that a tribute to his public service was recorded in the Senate. I will be honoured to receive the bound copy of the resolution of the two Houses, as a lasting reminder of his service to the Commonwealth. 
Believe me, 
I am, 
Yours sincerely, (Signed) Sadie McColl. 
I have to announce that I have received a letter from  Senator Payne  tendering his resignation as a member of the Public Works Committee. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) - agreed to - 
That  Senator Payne  be discharged from attendance as a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) -  by leave  - agreed to - 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Public Works Committee Act 1913-21 the following senator be appointed to fill the vacancy on the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, namely,  Senator Sampson. 
I have to announce that I have received a letter from  Senator Kingsmill,  tendering his resignation as a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) -  by leave  - agreed to - 
That  Senator Kingsmill  be discharged from attendance as a . member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) -  by leave  - agreed to - 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Committee of Public Accounts Act 1913-20 the following senator be appointed to fill the vacancy on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, namely,  Senator Thompson. 
[5.39]. - I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until Wednesday next. 
My reason for moving this motion is that a motion of censure has been moved in another place. The usual parliamentary practice is for the Senate to adjourn while such a motion is under consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like the Leader of the Government to give honorable senators, if he can, an indication of the business that will be brought before them when they reassemble. If merely formal matters are to be submitted, it is questionable whether some honorable senators will think it necessary to make the journey to Canberra for that sitting. 
[5.41]. - The business will be the introductory steps that must be taken to place bills and other business on the notice-paper. These formal steps obviously have to be taken before we can deal with any business. I have to-day given notice of the introduction of the Life Insurance Rill. It will be brought down at our next sitting, and I hope that before the end of the week we shall be able to discuss it. Other business will also be introduced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.1].  -  The debate on the motion of want of confidence in another place not yet having, been concluded, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
 Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give us an indication of the business to be undertaken when the Senate next meets? There is a notice of motion on the business-paper relating to the introduction of a Life Assurance Bill. 
When the Senate last met, I was suffering a disability, and consequently did not have the opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr. President,  on your assumption of the high office that you now occupy. Had I been present I should, of course, have done so; but I cannot accommodate myself to the vicissitudes of fortune, and I therefore take this opportunity to congratulate you upon your election. The high office that you hold is the creation of the Senate, and that being so, the Senate looks upon it with jealous eyes and with a desire to preserve in all respects its rights and dignity. If I may say so, there is one direction in which I am sure you will exercise all your t.nlents in the future. There are in this country at present some who have no admiration for the Senate, and it will necessarily fall to your lot, sir, as its presiding officer, to take up the cudgels on its behalf, and, together with honorable senators generally, see that it does not suffer either in regard to its reputation or its work. It is within the knowledge of honorable senators that some time ago the power of the Senate was challenged, and that this . deliberative assembly, under its constitutional authority, threw down the gage of battle. The matter was brought before the electors, ft was then found that' those institutions that challenged the authority of this chamber were wrong and that the Senate was right. That fact alone is sufficient to embolden us in the belief that this chamber is still the true exponent of popular feeling in this country. It is foundedas firmly as the British House of Commons, and critics who so freely unthinkingly or unwittingly attack an institution like this, which is the people's own creation, had better be on their guard, since the Senate will always be ready with a reply to them. I feel that it is unnecessary for me to do more than mention this, as I am confident that while you occupy your present office you will always see that the good name and reputation of the Senate are jealously preserved. 

 Senator RAE (New South Wales) 
Executive Council  (Senator Pearce)  indicate when the Senate is likely to assemble for actual business? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.5]. - The question put by  Senator Rae  should more properly have been directed to his colleagues in another place. It is the hope and wish of the Government that we shall be able to proceed with business to-morrow. We are certainly making preparations in anticipation of being able to do so. 
Before putting the motion, I should like to thank  Senator Lynch  for his references to myself and to assure him that, should the emergency which he. contemplates ever arise, my best efforts will be put forward in defence of the Senate, the protection of whose rights and privileges I regard as one of my greatest responsibilities. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 3.7 p.m. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 28a, I hereby nominate  Senator H.  J. M. Payne and  Senator M.  R. O'Halloran to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 38,I hereby appoint  Senator J.  J. Daly to be a member of the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications to fill the vacancy existing on the committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has a request been received from the Mothers' Union of Australia that uniform laws be enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament relating to Marriage and Divorce? 
If so, has the Government given the matter consideration, and with what result? 
Yes. 
It is intended to give as early consideration as possible to the representations of the union. 
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
Has the Government arrived at a decision in connexion with the request from the Government of South Australia that, in view of disabilities created by federation, financial assistance be granted to that State? 
If so, have the amount and date of payment been decided? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.An announcement in regard to this matter will be made when the Budget is delivered. 
[3.12]. - I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the second reading of the bill being proceeded with without delay. 
My reasons for doing so is the state of public business and the nature of thebill, which is such that I feel honorable senators ought not tobe asked to proceed with its discussion to-morrow. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  has asked for a few days in which to study the measure - a perfectly reasonable request. 
It would not be fair to deal only with the formal stages to-day and tobring honorable senators back to-morrow to debate the second reading. I believe that it will suit the convenience of all honorablesenators and not encroach upon any of their privileges if the Minister in charge of the bill moves the second reading to-day. The Leader of the Opposition may then move the adjournment of the debate, and resume its discussion on Wednesday next. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator  the  Hon. 
Kingsmill). - There being an absolute majority present, and no dissentientvoice, I declare the motion carried. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
On behalf of the Government, I have now the honour to bring before Parliament a bill whose purpose is to regulate the conduct of life insurance business. It may be certainly said of this bill, as was said of the kindred National Insurance Bill, that the subject is one of farreaching importance, not merely to any particular country, hut also to the civilized world. The magnitude of the interests involved in Australia may bedemonstrated by the fact that the assets under the control of the Australian life offices at the present time must substantially exceed £120,000,000. The nature of these accumulations is even more impressive than their amount. They are virtually trust funds, set aside by the more provident members of the community as some safeguard against the incidence of the major contingencies of. life. The fact that the payment of money up to certain limits for the maintenance of an assurance policy is recognized as a valid claim for a partial remission of income tax, is ample proof that the State recognizes the beneficient nature of life assurance, admits its great and steadying influence on public finance, and considers that its recognition and encouragement is eminently desirable in the public interest. 
There is every evidence that the f ramers of the Constitution recognized that legislation upon this subject would ultimately and inevitably be forced upon the Commonwealth Parliament. The fundamental and eternal principles of life assurance are not restricted by geographical boundaries, and for the sake of uniformity alone it is obviously advisable to have one law which should call for the same statistical returns and impose the same restrictions upon all life offices operating in the Commonwealth, irrespective of their State of incorporation. Section 51 (xiv) empowers the Commonwealth to legislate upon " insurance other than State insurance; also State insurance extending beyond the limits of the State concerned ". This provides the necessary constitutional authority for the bill which is now before the Senate. That the bill is certainly called for at the present stage, and is in fact seriously overdue, will not, I think, be disputed by any of those who have followed the course of life assurance finance during the last decade. 
The introduction of this bill constitutes the fulfilment of a promise given during the last elections that the subject of Federal life assurance legislation would be brought before the Senate at the earliest possible opportunity. Whilst the conduct of Australian life assurance business has a deservedly high reputation, it cannot be denied that there are certain irregularities which have crept in  o  it of recent years, and which call for some measure of legislative restraint. A careful study has been made of the particular problems which confront the practical reformer in Australia, and the present bill embodies the methods proposed for their solution. The divisions and clauses will be brought before the attention of the Senate seriatim at a later stage, but before this is done I propose to pass in review before honorable senators, a brief account of the history of life assurance legislation in the United Kingdom. The short amount of time involved in this will be well spent. The problems which had to be faced in Great Britain were very similar to those which now confront us in Australia, the ingenious methods adopted for their solution furnish a most fruitful subject for study, and it will be found that a large portion of the present bill derives its inspiration from principles which have been embodied in British legislation - actual and projected - and which have in the main proved their efficacy under the severest possible test, and of practical application. 
 It may well be conceded then that the present is a very fitting opportunity for recounting the steps which originally led to the adoption in Great Britain of legislation affecting life offices, the form that legislation first took, the problems that arose at a later stage, and the consequential modifications which were introduced subsequently. A century ago Great Britain was passing through a period of unrestrained speculation in joint stock companies. Life assurance companies in particular sprang up in large numbers; the year 1824 alone saw the foundation of 18 new life offices. The features of life assurance business which lent themselves to exploitation by the company promoter are only too obvious. They have been well stated by  Mr. Besant,  past  President  of the Institute of Actuaries, as follows: - 
He (the promoter) knew that he could rely on collecting premiums for a good many years before claims would begin to emerge in any large numbers, and that during this period he could spend whatever he wished upon expenses without supervision or outside control. As soon as difficulties began to become acute, the remedy of amalgamation was open to him, and the same procedure could then be continued for a further period before the inevitable day of reckoning arrived. 
In twenty years' time the day of reckoning had arrived for a great number of these life assurance companies, and Parliamentary attention was drawn to the subject. In 1844 the Joint Stock Companies Act was made to apply to all life assurance companies not incorporated by statute or charter. This act, however, proved no protection to life offices, owing to the facility with which its provisions were evaded, and in 1853 a select committee of the House of Commons recommended that its sections should be repealed as far as they related to life assurance societies. The  committte  also made other recommendations which are worthy of most careful attention on account of their influence on subsequent legislation. They were substantially as follows: One general system of registration to include all existing and new companies, a deposit of £10,000 from new companies, a searching investigation into the affairs of every company at intervals of not more than five years, and annual statistical returns giving certain prescribed information in detail. 
For seventeen years no action was taken. In 1868 it was stated in the House of Commons that, out of a total of 285 life offices established since 1824, no less than 174 had ceased to exist. It began to be evident that the recommendations of 1853 would not be carried into effect except under the compelling spur of a serious financial disaster. That disaster was not far distant. It came with dramatic suddenness. In 1869 occurred the failure of the Albert Life Assurance Company, and the complete collapse almost immediately afterwards of the European Life Assurance Company. Each of these companies had carried out a large number of amalgamations prior to insolvency, so that it may be said that 1869 witnessed the almost simultaneous failures of 57 life offices. This cataclysm awoke the government of the day to the imperative necessity of dealing with the matter, and, after long delay, of introducing legislation which would bring into effect the important proposals of the committee of 1853. 
The result was that  Mr. Cave,  VicePresident of the Board of Trade, introduced a bill, which ultimately passed as " The Life Assurance Companies Act of 1870." This act is one of the foundations of life assurance in the British Empire. It served as the model for a great deal of subsequent legislation, and, in particular, the acts of the five Australian States which the present bill is designed to supersede, were founded almost entirely upon it.  Mr. Cave  was advised by two of the leading British actuaries of the day, who drafted the accompanying schedules, and the result was a piece of legislation which lasted without modification for nearly 40 years, which entirely transformed the conduct of British life assurance, and which secured the assent and approval of all the reputable life offices. The two guiding principles underlying the act have been happily described in the phrase "Freedom and 
Publicity." The main detailed provisions of the act were taken from the recommendations of the committee of 1853, and included the following: - 
Recognition of the deposit principle as regards new companies, and also as regards other companies commencing business in the United Kingdom after the date of the passing of the act. 
The separation of the life and annuity funds in the case of companies transacting other types of business also. 
The submission to the Board of Trade of annual returns to be made in a prescribed manner, and of periodical valuation returns. 
The obligation upon the Board of Trade to lay such returns annually before Parliament, together with any correspondence which may have resulted therefrom. 
Provision was also made for the disclosure of the terms of any amalgamation or transfer, and for the winding up of insolvent life assurance companies. 
It is impossible to study this outstanding act without being struck by one thing which is of extreme importance in the light of recent events. That is the limitation, and the conscious limitation, of the powers of the Board of Trade. As these powers have not been materially extended by subsequent legislation, and as it is now proposed to increase them, it will be useful to set out exactly what the Board of Trade can do in the present conditions of the law.  Mr. Besant,  to whom reference has already been made, comments as follows upon the situation: - 
First as regards the question of enforcing the deposit, the powers of the board are absolute and have never been challenged. Conversely, if a deposit is tendered, the board has no power to refuse to. accept it. As regards power to enforce adequate and complete returns, either of annual business or periodical valuations, the board is fatally handicapped. If a company does not send in any returns at all, the board can impose financial penalties; but, if returns be submitted, however incomplete or misleading, the board has no power whatever to compel the company to amend them. All that the board can do is to engage in correspondence with the company upon the points at issue - a correspondence which may extend itself over years - then to lay this correspondence before Parliament, and eventually to include both the ineffective returns and the lengthy correspondence in a belated, and, in these latter days, a highly costly blue-book. 
No further reference will be made at present to the powers of the Board of Trade; but the subject is a most important one, and I shall refer to it at a later stage, when the provisions of the present bill are being expounded in detail. 
One third of a century elapsed before anything further of real importance happened. Then, in 1906, public anxiety as to the position of British policy-holders in foreign companies, particularly American, led to the appointment of a select committee of the House of Lords to devise measures for their protection. Their deliberations provided the framework upon which the Assurance Companies Act 1909 was framed. This act repealed the act of 1870. 
I do not propose to give any very detailed account of the act of 1909, since, while it extended the act of 1870 in details, it embodied no important differences of principle. It called for fuller details regarding the assets of life offices and the methods employed in valuing them ; also in regard to separating in the revenue account business within and without the United Kingdom. Greater promptitude in furnishing the returns was also demanded. But in regard to larger matters the act jealously safeguarded the principles of " Freedom and Publicity," particularly the former. Moreover, nothing was done to increase the scanty powers of the Board of Trade. This is the act which at present controls the conduct of " ordinary " life assurance business in Great Britain. It has not influenced Australian legislation in any way, the State Governments apparently being guided by the belief - now justified - that the subject would ultimately fall to be dealt with by the Commonwealth legislature.  
The next event of importance which rails for attention is the appointment by the Board of Trade in 1919 of a departmental committee to inquire into the conduct of industrial insurance by industrial life offices and collecting societies. Although largely carried on by life offices, the nature of industrial insurance makes it rather more akin to friendly societies in that the policies are for small amounts and purchasable by small payments at short intervals. The great volume of business transacted shows certainly that industrial insurance meets a real need; but certain characteristics of the class for whom it caters must be borne in mind. In the main it is not a welltodo class or a financially well-educated class. Its members would find it difficult to combine together for mutual support, and would not be able to interpret aright the signs of coming disaster, as set out in the annual returns of companies in which they were financially interested. 
All this tends to suggest that more protection is called for in the case of the industrial policy holder than in that of his more fortunate brother insured in the ordinary department. This feeling undoubtedly actuated the members of Lord  Parmoor's  Committee of 1919. In the course of their investigations certain irregularities were disclosed of which they took a serious view. The result of their deliberations was embodied in the Industrial Assurance Act 1923. This act carried British legislation to lengths hitherto unimagined in the United Kingdom. It constituted industrial insurance business a separate class for the purposes of the Assurance Companies Act 1909, so that a separate deposit became necessary. It provided that the valuation should be made by an actuary on lines " which shall be such as to place a proper value upon the liabilities." But the most radical departure from tradition lay in the fact that companies transacting industrial insurance business came, as far as that class of business is concerned, under the control of the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies. That official was given the title of " Industrial Assurance Commissioner," and acts thus in a dual capacity and with greatly extended powers. 
The nature of these powers may be briefly outlined. The Commissioner has the right to refuse to accept the deposit of any company if he considers it inadvisable in the public interest that the company should continue to carry on industrial insurance. He has the right to reject any return or balance sheet which after reference to the issuing company appears to him to be misleading or incorrect. He has the right to reject a valuation or to direct such alterations as may be necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of the act. He may even, if he thinks, after due investigation that the circumstances demand it, present a petition to the court for the winding up of an industrial insurance company. These are very wide powers with which to invest an individual ; much wider than any, as yet, conferred upon the Board of Trade. They are, however, robbed of what might appear to be their arbitrary nature by the fact that in almost every case just cited the company has the right of appeal to the High Court. That they were necessary in certain cases is established by the fact that they were made operative on the passing of the act, and exercised by the Commissioner in the case of some societies whose suppression was considered necessary in the public interest. 
It is only fair to add that the leading industrial insurance offices acquiesced wholeheartedly in the working of the act, restrictive though it undoubtedly is. They probably realized that abuses certainly existed, that the act as a whole was" well designed to meet them, and that the large powers conferred upon the Commissioner would almost certainly be exercised with tact and discretion, as in fact they have been. The fair-minded attitude of the larger offices will receive its reward in the fact that the standards of liberality and integrity which they have maintained in the past will now be made compulsory on all. 
Whilst the Industrial Assurance Act was under discussion, an event occurred which drew public attention once more to the " ordinary " department of life insurance. This was the collapse of the City Equitable Insurance Company, followed not long after by the compulsory liquidation of the National Benefit Assurance Company, and of the City Life Assurance Company. These successive disasters threw into strong relief the impotence of the Board of Trade, as the result of the deliberate limitation of its powers. If it had possessed anything like the powers conferred upon the Industrial Commissioner, there is no doubt that these companies would have been stopped in their career long before the final catastrophe, and many people saved from financial loss. These successive disasters crystallized public opinion in much the same way that the failures of the Albert and the European had done half a century before. There were certain points on which expert opinion was practically unanimous. It was universally admitted that a crisis had arisen in which the act of 1909 had proved powerless; that the recent failure had tended to shake public confidence in the conduct of British life assurance ; that some restraint must be exercised in such matters as the manipulation of assets; and that the Board of Trade should be vested with powers which would enable it to prevent any company known to be in difficulties from continuing to transact new business. At the same time the feeling was strongly held that these objects should be attained with the smallest possible curtailment of the British principle of " Freedom and Publicity." 
It was at this stage that the Board of Trade appointed, in 1924, a departmental committee " to enquire and report what amendments are desirable in the Assurance Companies Act 1909 ". The committee, itself a highly expert body, made an exhaustive study of the question, and took evidence from every vested interest or professional association which was concerned in the matter. In February, 1927, it issued its report accompanied by a draft bill embodying its conclusions. This draft bill is of such importance and has so profoundly influenced the bill now before this House that some reference to its main provisions is unavoidable. 
Perhaps the most important single change which is now proposed lies in the direction of separation of assets. Existing British legislation calls for separation of funds, but it is expressly stated in both the act of 1909 and the act of 1923, that there is no compulsion to keep the investments of each fund separate. The failures of 1922 and 1923, and the evidence they afforded of the manipulation of assets to the detriment of policy-holders of the life branch, compelled the departmental committee to review the situation. As the result of this, we find that clause 4 of the British draft bill provides that the investments of a statutory fund are to be kept distinct and separate from any other assets of the insurer, and that the assets of any statutory fund shall not, without the sanction of the court, be invested directly or indirectly "in any share or interest in any insurance business. It is even provided that this separation shall extend so far as to differentiate between " ordinary " and " industrial " business. In this respect the committee seems to have gone a little ahead of public opinion. It may be mentioned in this connexion that the recommendation of many of the official witnesses at the inquiry was that separation of assets as between the two departments might well be made optional. 
Some alterations have been suggested to the provisions of the 1909 act relating to amalgamation and transfer. It has been found that the existing regulations have been evaded by a simple purchase of shares, or by one party going into liquidation. The new proposals aim to defeat this by providing that any amalgamation or transfer affecting a statutory fund shall require the sanction of the court. Furthermore, the sanction of the court is required in all cases of purchase of shares in an insurance undertaking by the assets of a statutory fund. Lastly, in the event of amalgamation or transfer, full documentary details must be furnished to the Board of Trade within ten days of the completion of the transaction. At the same time the clauses relating to winding up were amended. It is now sought to preserve the full interest of policy-holders in any statutory fund, irrespective of what may happen to other funds. This is a recognition of the essential difference between a fiducial and permanent policy contract on the one hand, and a renewable contract on the other. Under the new regulations it will be impossible to have further insolvencies arising under the circumstances of 1922 and 1923. Lastly, provision was made for stricter regulation so that in future the Board of Trade should have powers somewhat akin to those conferred upon the Industrial Assurance Commissioner. Power is now given for a company to be wound up, upon application of the Attorney-General, upon the grounds of insolvency or default in complying with the act. It is also proposed to give the court power to authorize an inspection of the affairs of any company by an officer of the Board of Trade; and this can be done if the board can establish not merely that an offence against the act has been committed, but that one is likely to be committed. The departmental committee evidently anticipated that this might not be entirely palatable to the life offices, for in its report it says - 
While some witnesses hare expressed some apprehension at an increase of official power in the hands of the Board of Trade, the committee are satisfied that the ordinary restraints imposed by public opinion and by Parliamentary control will be amply sufficient to prevent any possibility of the Board of Trade taking unnecessary action; and it will be observed that the chief powers recommended are merely powers to set in motion machinery leading to a hearing in a court of law. 
This is the stage at which legislation has arrived in England. It has influenced Australia markedly up to a certain point. Five of the States have introduced legislation on the model of the act of 1870; but New South Wales has never done so, and insurance companies with head office in that State are only registered under a far from stringent company act. It is only natural that a State with such a small measure of restriction should be the home of newly established life offices, and it will be found that  most  of the companies founded in the past ten years are incorporated there. 
In 1908 the Government appointed a royal commission consisting of  Mr. Justice  Hood, and  Mr. Knibbs,  the Commonwealth Statistician, to investigate the whole conduct of insurance business in Australia. The commission published a most exhaustive report in 1910. The particular problems of the last ten years hardly existed then, at least not in an acute, form ; but the commission embodied its findings in a large number of recommendations covering such subjects as winding up, transfer, admission of age, protection of policyholders, appointment of a Government official to control the business, &amp;c. It may be said in general terms that the bill now before the House rests upon the Industrial Assurance Act of 1923, the Board of Trade report of 1927, and the report of the Australian Royal Commission of 1910. 
I shall now make a more detailed reference to the terms of the bill itself. The administration of the law will be entrusted to a Government ' officer with the title of Registrar of Life Insurance. 

 His duties are partly denned in clause 6, but it may be said in general terms that they are substantially akin to those of the British Industrial Commissioner. They exceed them in so far as the Australian official will exercise control over both branches of the life offices. He has very wide powers in connexion with registration, and will act as the adviser to the Government in such matters as amalgamation and winding up. With regard to the latter, he has apparently more powers than the British Industrial Commissioner, since he can initiate proceedings himself ; but in practice the two will probably be found to be equally strong, since it is provided that in practically every case, such as for example,- the cancellation of a licence, or the rejection of a valuation, where the interests of a company are seriously affected by the action of the registrar, the company has the right of appeal to the court. The Industrial Commissioner in Britain has carried out his duties without in any way antagonizing the well-managed life offices there, and there need be no doubt that the same thing will happen here. In view of the responsible and technical character of the work to be performed, it is provided that the registrar shall be an actuary, and this will be a further safeguard to ensure that nothing prejudicial to the interests of the well-established life offices will result from the vesting of such large powers in the hands of a single individual. 
Part II. deals with matters appertaining to companies. Firstly with regard to registration, application must be made within three months, but every company operating in the Commonwealth will be entitled to automatic registration. The deposit will be £20,000 for each class of business, foreign companies to pay the same; but a special concession is made in the case of small recently established companies who may meet the deposit by annual instalments. It has been suggested that a weak point in the custom of requiring a deposit is that the formation of a new mutual society is thereby rendered impossible. This is true. When it is remembered, however, that a large number of mutual societies of the highest standing are already operating in Australia, it will hardly be argued that the public interest is detrimentally affected. Provision is made that any deposit held by a State under any of the State acts can be made available if desired, as a deposit for the Commonwealth. 
An extremely  important division which next claims our attention is that relating to amalgamation and transfer - operations which have a strong local interest. The clauses have in the main been taken from the draft bill accompanying the departmental report of the Board of Trade. No transfer or amalgamation will be carried through in the future without the confirmation of the court. Before an application can be made to the court, full documentary detail must be furnished to the Registrar with all reports, including actuarial, upon which the scheme is based. The Registrar may, if directed by the court, cause a report on the scheme to be made by an independent actuary. After confirmation by the court, further documentary detail, including certified copies of the scheme and reports, must be furnished to the Registrar. Each step of the transaction will be watched by experts, and full provision made for publicity. In this way it is believed that no amalgamation can be carried into effect without full protection being afforded to the policy-holder, in whose interests the whole machinery has been devised. 
Part III. deals with clauses framed in the main for the protection of the policyholder. No further reference need be made here to the part relating to deposits. Division 2 relates to statutory funds, and is drawn in the main from the Board of Trade report. There is, however, one important exception. Following the English custom,  provision is made for . separate funds, but it is not required that the investments of the life insurance and industrial insurance statutory funds should be separated. It will be found on reference to the schedules that provision has been made by which life offices may present a combined balance-sheet or separate balance-sheets at their option. In that connexion honorable senators are also referred to clause 44 (1). It is worthy of note that, following the recommendations of the Board of Trade report, a distinct liability is fastened upon directors or managers in respect of misfeasance in relation to statutory funds. 
Division 3 relates fo accounts, returns, and valuations. Various accounts and statements are called for which must be lodged at periodical intervals with the Registrar. These are largely in accordance with the schedules, and need not detain us here. Probably the most important clause is 49, which is taken from the Industrial Assurance Act of 1923, and is here made applicable to both classes of the business. The most striking features are to be found in sub-clauses  e  and /. The former gives the Registrar power to reject a valuation in extreme cases, and the latter enables him to obtain the further particulars which would enable him, if he wished, to check the valuation particulars. These are extreme powers, and it is safe to say that only in rare cases would they come to be exercised. As a further protection against the improper use of this power we may note the wise proviso which permits the Registrar to hold his hand for five years, if he is satisfied that adequate steps are being taken to improve the financial status of the company whose stability is in question. 
Clause 54 again gives the Registrar powers which it is safe to say will only be used on rare occasions and in the interests of the public. The power of inspection thus given, which may never be used, is very different from the annual examination of a rather inquisitorial nature, carried out by the Insurance Commissioner in Canada. 
Division 4 is a miscellaneous division containing clauses dealing mainly with the relation existing between the companies and their policyholders. Some clauses dealing with industrial policies are taken from the Industrial Assurance Act of 1923, the rest are largely inspired by the report of the royal commission of 1910. As an example of the  former  may be mentioned clauses 69 and 70; as an example of the latter may be mentioned clauses dealing with deferred forfeiture, indefensibility, and admission of age. The principle of deferred forfeiture has been followed by most offices for many years. It has also been the custom to make payment on a policy in cases of suicide or capital punishment within thirteen months of issue of policy. These thingswhich have for long been the common practice of all the best-managed offices are now made binding on all. 
A more contentious point is involved in the admission of age. The exact age of the proponent, which is one of the material facts of the contract, is frequently not proved strictly until the policy becomes a claim. It is considered that it is advisable that it should be settled, if possible, by the end of the first year. In section 7S it is provided that if any premium in respect of the second year is accepted, this shall be construed as an automatic admission of age by the company. If the company is not satisfied with the proof of age furnished by the proponent, it can decline to accept further payment, cancel the policy, and retain the first year's premiums. It will be noted that Division 4 relates only to those policies which come into force after the passing of this act. 
Division 5 contains two clauses only, relating to the protection of life policies. Divisions 8 and 9 relate to assignment and mortgage. They are mainly composed of machinery clauses, taken mostly from the New Zealand act of 1884, and need no further reference. 
Division 10 relates to audit. The auditor, while not of course actually valuing the liabilities or assets, is expected to check the valuation of assets as well as to certify that the books of the company are kept with due regard to the principles of accountancy. Provision is made that he shall be elected by policyholders and shareholders. 
Part IV. deals with insurances on the lives of children. It is an incorporation of the act of 1905 which, as a separate act, is hereby repealed. 
Lastly comes the miscellaneous part, which contains isolated clauses that do not come under any of the preceding headings. No individual clause calls for further attention. The clauses relating to penalties and regulations come in this part. 
The bill may be said to have two objects: one to deal with life assurance companies as companies; the other to deal with the particular problems which arise from the nature of the business. The first object is sought to be obtained by such clauses as clause 15, which aim to restrict the activity of the companypromoter; and the provision which prohibits the expenditure from statutory funds to acquire a controlling interest in other companies. With regard to the other part, it is evident how much the bill before the Senate owes to the invaluable work of the highest experts in Great Britain ; and we trust that this part of the bill at least will be found to be free from serious defect. We have drawn upon the experience of 60 years, and the bill is, in consequence, of wide scope. It is impossible, under the circumstances, that every section of the work should escape criticism. But if there is any tendency on the part of those who will come under the operation of this bill to think that it leans too much to the side of undue control, it may be said in justification that its ideal is to bring the few weak societies to the high level of the many strong ones. The influence of the failure of a weak company is out of all proportion to the insignificance of the company itself. It may tend to strike a blow at the whole thrift movement which is so important in the public interest. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Daly)  adjourned. 
[3.55]  -by leave -  For the information of new senators, I wish to explain that in order to give the Senate an opportunity to debate the financial statement as presented by the Treasurer in another place, it is the practice to lay on the table of this chamber the Estimates and Budget Papers for the year and for a motion to be moved, " That the papers be printed." It would, however, be out of place for this to be done before the budget had actually been delivered in another place. The Treasurer is at this moment engaged in that task, and in order that he may complete it before I proceed to lay the Estimates and Budget Papers on the table of the Senate, I suggest that the sitting should be suspended from now until 5 p.m. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [5 p.m.]. - I lay upon the table of the Senate, by command - 
Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure, Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, &amp;c, and Estimates  of Expenditure from Loan Fund, for the year ending 30th June, 1930. 
The Budget, 1929-30 - Papers presented by the Right Honorable Earle Page, P.C., M.P., on the occasion of opening the Budget of 1929-30. 
I move - 
That the papersbe printed. 
The motion will give honorable senators an opportunty to debate the general principles of the financial statement submitted by the Government before the Appropriation Bill comes to the Senate for discussion. In accordance with the usual practice of Parliament the Appropriation Bill will probably not be before the Senate until late in the session, which would not give honorable senators much chance to debate the general principles of the financial statement. I, therefore, invite honorable senators who wish to do that to avail themselves of this motion which will remain on our business paper for some considerable time. 
In accordance with the usual custom,I propose to give the Senate a summary of the financial position disclosed, and the proposals for the coming year. 
Transactions of the Year, 1928-29. 
[5.34] - In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to intimate that the Government proposes to take as the first business of the Senate when it resumes the adjourned debate on the Life Insurance Bill. I hope that honorable senators willcome prepared to  discuss  that measure. Should there be any break in the debate, an opportunity will be given to discuss the general financial statement which has been submitted to-day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice -
Is it a fact that instructions have been issued at Duntroon Military College
                that the Australian game of football is not to be played? 
If so, by whom were these instructions issued, and why? 
Will the Minister give immediate instructions for the cancellation of this
                embargo on our national game? 
Rugby is played by all the schools in New South Wales with which Duntroon has for
            many years competed annually, and by the Royal Australian Naval College at Jervis Bay.
            These matches are annual fixtures, as is also the match between the combined colleges
            team and the combined Public Schools team in Sydney. 
The Minister does not propose to give any instructions that this practice be
                altered. 
asked the Minister for Defence, <inline font-style="italic">upon notice
              -</inline>
Whether the Government will consider the advisability of ascertaining the views of
              returned soldiers as to whether the construction of the National War Memorial at
              Canberra should be postponed, and the £250,000 proposed to be spent upon it used
              to continue works on which returned soldiers were employed, who, however, have now
              been dismissed? 
I feel that it is unnecessary for me to state that the ex-service men and women
              throughout Australia would greatly appreciate the early commencement of the
              construction of the memorial. 
The Government proposes to proceed with the erection of the Australian
            War Memorial. 
asked the Minister for Defence, <inline font-style="italic">upon notice
              -</inline>
Is it the intention of the Government to vacate the Victoria Barracks,
                Paddington, New South Wales? 
Does the Government propose to hand over the site and buildings to the
                Paddington Municipal Council for the purpose of erecting there workers' homes?
              

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW .The answers to the
            honorable senator's questions are: - 
No. 
No. 
asked the Minister for Defence, <inline font-style="italic">upon notice
              -</inline>
How long did the cruise of the H.M.A.S.  Albatross  to New Guinea last? 
What was the total amount of fuel used during such trip, and what was the cost
                of same ? 
What were the total number of officers and men on board and the total amount of
                wages paid during the cruise? 
What was the total value of victuals used throughout the cruise? 
How many flights did the seaplanes make, and what was the total expenditure in
                connexion with such flights? 
Thirty-five days. 
900 tons. £3,200. 
Navy- 28 officers, 369 men, £7,735. Air Force - 8 officers, 34 men,
                £972. 
£1,345. 
Forty-eight. £250. 
All this expenditure would have been incurred excepting (2), if the
            seaplane carrier had not gone to New Guinea. Thirty-five days' cost for oil when in
            harbour would amount to £735. As honorable senators are aware, New Guinea is
            governed by the Commonwealth under a mandate from the League of Nations. It seems
            fitting, therefore, that His Majesty's representative in Australia should visit the
            Territory. Beneficial results will accrue from the visit which, I feel certain, was not
            only appreciated by the white and native population of New Guinea, but also has the
            approval of the people of Australia. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate, <inline font-style="italic">upon
                notice -</inline>
Will the Minister furnish the Senate with a statement showing the different
              boards, commissions, tribunals, &amp;c., brought into existence by the Commonwealth
              Government, and which were in operation during the years 1927-28 and 1928-29, together
              with the annual cost of each board, &amp;c? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The information is being
            obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state the amount of bounty paid to each industry in the
              Commonwealth for the year 1928-29? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following information -
              ' 

<graphic href="121332192908286_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The subject of insurance might profitably be discussed at considerable length,
              but in this case honorable senators on this side feel that it is their duty simply to
              define the policy of the Opposition in regard to the bill and to indicate to the
              Minister in charge of it certain alterations which should, we consider, be embodied in
              it. I shall leave the discussion of those alterations until we reach the committee
              stage. If the title of the bill permitted, and members opposite were open to
              conviction, honorable senators of the Opposition would like to discuss the
              nationalization of insurance but, recognizing that the policy of the Government is in
              favour of private enterprise, we know that it would be futile to enter into such a
              debate. In our opinion the bill, in view of the policy of the Government, becomes a
              mere consolidating machinery measure to regulate the activities of private enterprise,
              and we realize that the best that we can do is to secure to members of the community
              the maximum protection in the circumstances. 
In order to give the Minister in charge some idea of what is in the minds of
            honorable senators on this side, and so that our opinions may receive that respect to
            which the right honorable the Leader of the Government admitted they were entitled, I
            shall briefly deal with some of the vital omissions from the measure. It will be
            admitted that members of the community are either policy-holders or potential
            policy-holders. One of the most vital omissions from the measure is provision for the
            protection of those potential policy holders against unscrupulous canvassers. The
            canvasser is the first person that the potential policy-holder meets in this matter.
            Whilst admitting that reputable insurance companies take every' precaution to see
            that they are represented only by the right type of man, who will not make
            representations inconsistent with the terms of the policy, and who recognizes that the
            representations he makes are not binding on the company, I point out that the only
            representations that are binding on the company are those contained in the policy. A
            highprincipled company employs representatives who are prepared to canvass for business
            only in strict conformity with the provisions of the policy. But there are other
            canvassers who have no such code of honour, and honorable senators of the Opposition
            have had their attention drawn to certain cases which should be considered by the
            Government and its supporters when dealing with this bill. Honorable senators will
            realize that the measure does not set out to alter the existing law so far as it
            concerns canvassing. The Government of South Australia found it necessary, in the
            interests of the community in that State, to protect reputable land firms, and companies
            who were honestly dealing with subdivisions, against unfair competition on the part of
            unscrupulous land-owners, by providing that all who wish to transact subdivisional sales
            shall first receive some authorization. That authorization is in the form of a public
            authority. The land salesman rnakes an application, which is submitted to the police,
            who go into his antecedents and satisfy themselves that he is a man who can be trusted
            to speak only the truth to potential buyers concerning the sales he endeavours to make.
            I suggest to the Minister and honorable senators opposite that it would be wise to
            incorporate a similar safeguarding provision in this bill, providing that insurance
            canvassers shall be trustworthy. 
No, to a system of authorization. Honorable senators of the Opposition are not
                enamoured of the term " licensing." Honorable Senators may ask what
                necessity there is for it. We can bring under notice a number of cases of this
                particular form of misrepresenta-tion, against which we are anxious to safeguard the
                public. I shall quote an example that is not an isolated one. There were two old-age
                pensioners - a brother and a sister - in a country town in South Australia. A
                collector came to the sister, and said, "You do not want your brother to be
                buried by the Government. For 6d. a week we will give you a policy that will provide
                for the payment of £12 10s. on the date of his death. Of course, if you died
                first your brother would not like to see you buried by the Government, and, for
                another 6d., at the date of your death your brother will receive £12 10s., and
                you will be able to be buried respectably." This old couple thought the matter
                over and took out policies accordingly. They paid premiums for five years, and at
                the end of that period the brother contracted cancer. Not very long after it had
                been discovered that his case was hopeless, this particular canvasser called at the
                home of the couple, and, with tears in his eyes, said to the woman, " Well, you
                know, you could not bury him to-day for £12 10s.; but you have been such a good
                payer that, if you cancel this policy, take out a fresh one, and pay an extra id. a
                week, we will pay you £15." She listened to this proposal, and cancelled
                the previous policy. The brother died, and the sister received five months'
                premiums at 7d. per week. I personally interviewed the manager 'of the company,
                who said, " Of course, there is the proposal. This man told us he was in good
                health. The proposal says, ' I am in sound health '." But the brother
                knew, and the canvasser knew, that he was in a hopeless state of cancer. Would such
                a case be probable if a better check were kept over that form of canvassing? The
                respectable insurance companies do not adopt that method of business; but it does
                obtain.  Senator Dunn  will tell of another case
                that occurred in his State, and it is a most glaring instance of what can be done
                and of the unfair competition between what we may call the doubtful company and the
                company that is trying to introduce high morals into insurance life. 
Another aspect of this matter to which we should give serious consideration in
            committee is that form of proposal which is signed by the potential policy-holder in
            good faith, and contains a statement to the effect that he is in good health. But no
            medical examination is required of the applicant, and the gamble is all on one side. If
            it .subsequently transpires that, when he signed the policy, he was not in good health,
            the insurance company loses nothing, but the policy-holder loses practically all except
            his premiums. If a company decides on that form of policy it should take the applicant
            with all his defects. It has plenty of opportunity to limit its liability by insisting
            on a medical examination. 
Another alteration that I would suggest to the Minister - although it is not so
            serious a matter as that to which I have just referred - relates to children's
            insurance. In the bill the obligation is on the parents, and I suggest that where the
            word "parent" appears the word "guardian" should be inserted in its
            stead. A canvasser may call at a home when the father is absent at work. He canvasses
            the mother, secures her signature, and there is an effective policy. Now, who pays the
            premiums? The father probably knows nothing about the transaction. That should not be
            the position. If the father is the guardian of the children, he should know his
            responsibilities in the matter of their insurance. If the parents are legally separated
            by order of the court or by some other means, and the mother becomes the guardian, she
            is entitled to do what she likes regarding the insurance of the lives of her children;
            but while the father is the guardian he should have the final voice in the matter. 
Another point that might with advantage be explained by the Minister relates to the
            surrender value of the policy. It seems to me that sufficient protection is not given to
            the policy-holder, so far as the surrender value is concerned. 1 realize that we cannot
            lay down definite principles as to surrender value, because they depend on a number of
            contingencies; but I do suggest to the Government that the final arbiter in 'this
            matter should not be the company. Suppose, for instance, that a man desires to surrender
            his policy, either on the ground that he cannot afford to continue to pay the premiums,
            or for any other reason, and the company declares that the surrender value is £200.
            Once the company has made that decision there should be somebody to whom the
            policy-holder could appeal in the event of a dispute as to the value. This is a most
            important matter at the present time, because many men who have been able to keep up
            their payments for years now find that they have to rely on their policies being kept
            alive entirely out of the surrender value. A policy may be surrendered, and the holder
            may lose  the  benefits. If there is not sufficient
            provision in the bill to meet such contingencies I suggest to the Minister that it
            should be inserted. 
There is one other small matter. According to the definition clause, " actuary
            " means " a Fellow or Associate of the Institute of Actuaries of Great Britain
            and Ireland or a Fellow or Associate of the Faculty of Actuaries of Scotland." If we
            have not now, we certainly hope to have in this great Nationalist Capital City of
            Canberra an Institute of Actuaries. Why not alter that definition so that " actuary
            " would mean a fellow or associate of any institute of actuaries approved by the
            Governor-General-in-Council, or some such provision? That would provide for any
            contingency such as I have mentioned. The bill is essential for the protection of the
            community, and the Opposition will give the Government every facility to secure its
            speedy passage. 
I listened with a great deal of attention to the statement made by the
              Minister on behalf of the department, in moving the second reading of this bill. I
              emphasize that point because it became evident to honorable senators that the speech
              which the Minister was supposed to be making was really the case for the department,
              and he read it as such. The time has arrived for the Senate to take strong exception
              to the way in which important measures are placed before this chamber very often by
              Ministers. Years ago it was the custom for Ministers in charge of bills to go to
              considerable trouble in order to acquaint themselves with their provisions and to
              deliver interesting and instructive speeches. But it has now become the practice for
              Ministers to read a carefully prepared statement which is recorded in  Hansard  as the speech of the Minister, when it is
              nothing of the kind. This is misleading to the. public and it is not treating the
              Senate with that respect to which it is entitled. 
Then the case should have been submitted in another way altogether. As stated
                by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly) 
                this measure is long overdue. If my memory serves me aright, the Minister in charge
                of the bill had a most unfortunate experience not long ago because of certain
                transactions with an insurance company which could not have acted in the way it did
                had this measure been in operation when that company was formed. In consequence of
                the absence of proper legislation to control the insurance business, it has been
                felt for many years that the public has been exploited by mushroom insurance
                companies which have sprung up from time to time and which secure the services of
                well-known persons to act as directors. On some occasions they have appointed
                members of this Parliament to act in that capacity because they believed that in so
                doing they would be able to make a stronger appeal to the investing public than they
                could in other circumstances. The promoters of such companies get their cash and
                then slip quietly out of the business, whilst the investing public is left to "
                nurse the baby ". On several occasions in recent years, companies of this nature
                have been formed and the fact that no one has been prosecuted for obtaining money
                under false pretences points to the necessity of amending the law to meet such
                cases. Money was so obtained by these companies under false pretences, and the
                investing public lost not only their money but their confidence in genuine insurance
                companies which had a definite and stable offer to make to the public. The fact that
                nothing has so far been done is not perhaps entirely the fault of the Commonwealth
                Parliament. The State Governments have had the power to deal fully with this matter.
              
I shall deal with that in a moment. In the matter of a uniform company law the
                State Governments have been negligent to the public. All the States have insurance
                company legislation which this measure will eventually supersede, but the State
                legislation is out of date and inadequate. It has been shown that the State laws in
                actual practice do not afford proper protection to the public. 
No. The company laws of the States are far short of what is required, and we
                have not the power to enact a Commonwealth company law. That is why certain
                investing concerns are in their present position. The most recent insurance act is
                that in operation in Queensland, which was passed in 1923. The last New South Wales
                act was passed in 1917, whilst the South Australian act was passed in 1899. The
                Leader of the Opposition referred to certain points which this measure does not
                cover, and quoted some heartrending cases that had come under his notice in South
                Australia ; but I remind the honorable senator that the South Australian Parliament
                has always had the power to fully protect the investing and insuring public. Labour
                and other governments have been in office, and have failed to introduce amending
                legislation. 
Yes ; but in recent years no attempt hasbeen made to introduce an up-to-date.
                measure covering insurance companies and insurance business generally. 
This measure, in which consideration is given to the legisation of other countries,
            appears to embody all that is contained in the State acts, together with a number of
            improvements which time and experience have shown to be necessary. A perusal of the bill
            shows that a very thorough investigation has been made by the officers of the department
            into the insurance laws of other countries, and I congratulate the officers who compiled
            the information upon the fine work they have done. It is a credit to them, and I feel
            sure that when this measure becomes law it will make the position much better for the
            insuring public and those who invest in insurance companies. Honorable senators have not
            the same facility for research as have the departmental officers, and when considering a
            measure of this kind have, to a certain extent, to depend upon the information supplied
            by Government officials. I am prepared to accept their work so far as it has gone,
            although I intend, when the bill is in committee, to move one or two amendments which
            appear reasonable and necessary. 
This measure will perhaps meet the needs of the position aud remove the reproach
            that Australia is behind other countries in legislation of this character. It provides
            amongst other things for the registration of existing and new companies, and requires
            the payment of a fairly substantial deposit in cash cr in approved securities as a
            guarantee of good faith. In the case of foreign companies the deposit is the same as it
            is in the case of bona fide established Australian companies. In the case of new
            Australian companies desiring to register, some easement is provided in the conditions
            under which they make their deposit, in so far as the £20,000 to be deposited may
            be paid over a series of years on a kind of time payment system. To that extent the
            conditions are much easier for new Australian companies formed and registered under this
            measure. No distinction ' is, however, made between established Australian companies
            and foreign companies as £20,000 is required in each case. This provision will
            require some justification by the Minister from the standpoint of the investor or the
            policyholder, as there is an important distinction between the two types of companies.
            An Australian company has practically all its assets in Australia, and these are real
            and tangible. They may be realized upon in cases of emergency, and may be available to
            assist the finances of the country. On the other hand, the greater portion of the assets
            of foreign companies is not held in Australia. An attempt is made to meet the situation
            in clauses 37 and 38 which relate to statutory funds. Two lists of statutory funds are
            to be established. The first relates to life insurance statutory funds, and the second
            to industrial insurance statutory funds. It is provided that all receipts in respect of
            such funds shall be carried to the credit of the respective statutory funds, and shall
            not be available to meet any liabilities of " the company other than those referable
            to the class of business in respect of which the fund was established. Some difficulty
            appears to arise with regard to the investment of those funds by a parent company.
            Clause 38 provides in subclauses 2 and 3 - 
Subject to this act and to the provisions of any memorandum or articles of
                association, deed of settlement or other instrument imposing restrictions on the
                manner in which the assets of the company may be invested, the assets of every
                statutory fund maintained by a company may be invested in such investments as the
                company thinks fit. 
Unless in this act otherwise expressly provided, the assets of any statutory
                fund shall not, without the sanction of the court, be invested directly or
                indirectly in any share or interest in any insurance business whether carried on
                within the Commonweath or elsewhere except insofar as any assets are so invested at
                the commencement of this act. 
That restriction, in my opinion, is a wise one, because it is easy to
            understand that the funds of one concern may be invested in the securities of another
            insurance company, which, owing to some great national catastrophe, may be unable to
            meet the claims made upon it, in which event the funds of the investing company would be
            dissipated. A foreign company, I remind honorable senators, may invest its funds in any
            part of the world, and in any class of security, other than insurance security. Thus it
            may happen that the Australian assets of a foreign company, plus even the £20,000
            deposit required under this bill, might not be sufficient to meet the claims upon the
            company, and it might not be in a position at the moment to realize upon its investments
            in other countries to meet claims made upon it in Australia. This may be regarded as an
            extreme case, but extreme cases sometimes become hideous realities; it is as well to
            provide for every eventuality. 
The Australian people, through the legislation passed by the Commonwealth
            Government, should retain some measure of control over the assets of all insurance
            companies doing business in the Commonwealth, because they are virtually in the position
            of trustees for Australian investors, I suggest, therefore, that a new sub-clause be
            inserted to provide that foreign companies shall be compelled to invest in Australia
            sufficient of their statutory funds to meet at least a. fair percentage of possible
            Australian obligations. What this percentage should be must be a matter for
            investigation. It may be desirable to require foreign companies to invest all their
            Australian funds in Australian securities, because the money is earned in Australia, and
            is subscribed in this country. If we require foreign companies to do this it will be all
            to our advantage, not only from the standpoint of development, but also from the
            standpoint of security for the investment. A new sub-clause to embody the suggestion I
            have made, would, I am sure, meet with the approval of the investing public, and at the
            same time would not injurs the business of a foreign company. 
There are not many; but Australia is developing rapidly, and it is possible
                that overseas companies, particularly those concerns which have their head-quarters
                in the United States of America, may look to this country for further expansion of
                their business. They may form nominally Australian companies registered under some
                State act, and unless we make provision against such a course, may invest their
                statutory funds in the United States of America or some other country. 
I would include even British companies, because I wish to emphasize that all
                such concerns act as trustees for Australian investors. That, broadly speaking, is
                what life insurance means. The insurer pays his premium, and all such payments are
                invested by the companies in various forms of security. I say that all such
                investments should be made in Australia. 
Very few of the private banks have investments in other countries, though
                there is no restriction upon them in that respect. 
Dividends are not " invested funds." They represent a different thing
                altogether. Speaking generally, a private bank invests its funds in Australia, and
                we should see to it that the insurance companies do the same. It would not do any
                injury to a foreign company, and certainly it would do a great deal of good to
                Australia. 
I come now to the definition of a " foreign company." It is defined as "
            any company which is incorporated or the head office of which is outside the
            Commonwealth." That does not appear to be adequate. The company laws of the various
            States, even more than the State insurance laws, are in a chaotic condition, and this
            Parliament lacks the constitutional power to deal with the position. It would be easy
            for a foreign company to overcome all or a great many of the disabilities imposed upon
            it by registering as an Australian company. This has been done with some success, as
            honorable senators know, by the various foreign film exchanges. Only sufficient shares
            are issued to conform to the requirements of the act under which the company is
            registered, and those shares are generally held by the directors of the company, who are
            officials or servants of the foreign company. The difficulty could be overcome by a new
            definition of an Australian company. We have already defined a foreign company; we
            should also define an Australian company. Following the language of the previous
            definition, I suggest the following definition of an Australian company - " An'
            Australian company' means any company the majority of the shareholders holding a
            majority of the shares of which reside within the Commonwealth." That would afford
            some protection to the public, and enable us to deal with the situation. 
The Government is to be congratulated on having brought forward the bill which is
            long overdue. In committee I shall move the two amendments I have foreshadowed. I
            support the second reading. 
While honorable senators on this side of the Chamber support, in the main, the
              bill before us, I, personally, should be prouder still to support a bill providing for
              national insurance. When the Labour party gains the Treasury bench, as I expect will
              be the case in a few weeks, a national insurance bill will be introduced.  Senator Duncan  referred to the many mushroom companies
              which have been formed in Australia. In insurance matters, New South Wales has always
              been the happy hunting ground for these mushroom companies. Seeing that the bill
              before us will tighten up the legislation relating to insurance companies, I feel
              confident that before the debate proceeds very far, some honorable senators supporting
              the Government will raise objections to its provisions, for the reason that many of
              the big insurance companies are of the opinion that they should have a free hand.
            
 Senator Duncan held both Labour and non Labour Governments responsible for the
            delay in introducing legislation to control insurance companies. I remind him that when
            a Labour Government in New South Wales did introduce legislation along those lines the
            Legislative Council prevented it from being placed on the statute-book. 
It proposed to do something for the good of the community in general, in the
                same way that it placed on the statute-book the Workers' Insurance Act.
                Honorable senators will remember that the big insurance companies in New South Wales
                raised an outcry when that legislation was passed. Not many years ago  Senator Duncan  was a prominent member of the Trades
                and Labour Council of New South Wales, which at that time was just as "red"
                as it is alleged to be to-day under " Jock " Garden. 
It is a wonder that, in those days,  Senator Duncan  did not endeavour to do
                something to place on the statute-book of New South Wales legislation which would
                benefit the workers and the community generally. It remained for the Lang Government
                to do so. 
If that is so, the Commonwealth Treasurer has a good field to exploit. 
The Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales has placed in my hand the insurance
            policy of Christina Wilkinson, an office cleaner. The policy is dated 15th April, 1929.
            This woman signed the proposal form in good faith. From her small earnings she was
            prepared to set aside 1s. 3d. each week so that in case of an accident she would not be
            without an income. Later, she developed a carbuncle and was off duty for four weeks. The
            insurance company had paid her for only fourteen days of that period when it altered the
            policy by deleting the word " carbuncle " and adding the following condition - 
It is hereby declared to be a condition of this policy that no compensation shall
              be payable in the event of disablement, directly or indirectly arising from "
              carbuncle " or traceable thereto, nor shall compensation be payable beyond the
              usual time for any disablement or injury wherefrom the recovery of the insured may in
              consequence thereof be retarded. 
That provision was dated the 13th August, 1929, and was signed by C. H. Robinson,
            the manager of the industrial branch of the company. 
It is the Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances Limited, whose authorized
                capital is ?500,000. I have the policy here, and have the permission of  Mrs. Wilkinson  to hand it to the Minister should he
                desire to peruse it. Had that policy been made out in favour of a company director,
                or an opponent of the Lang Government, the company would not have attempted to evade
                payment; but because the insured person was only an office cleaner, she was treated
                in that shameful manner. 
It is. Ned Kelly has been dead for many years, but in Australia to-day there
                are many worse robbers than he was. 
I agree with  Senator Duncan's  remarks in
            relation to foreign companies operating in Australia. If, as is frequently stated, trade
            follows the flag, I predict that there will soon be a number of Italian companies
            operating in the north of Queensland - a portion of Australia which is controlled by the
            " dagos". 
It is not.  Senator Duncan  hit the nail on
                the head when he dealt with the definition of a foreign company. I congratulate the
                Minister on having introduced this bill, and feel sure that he is big enough to
                extend its scope so that foreign companies may be effectively controlled. The Leader
                of the Opposition cited instances which have come under his notice of the activities
                of " go-getters " in South Australia. I also remind honorable senators that
                there are insurance "gogetters " as well as land " go-getters," and
                feel confident that the Minister in charge of the measure will accept suggestions to
                insert in it something to curb the operations of these nefarious individuals, and
                to protect the community against their depredations. 
Senator R.D. ELLIOTT (Victoria) [4.6]. - We all listened with a great deal
            of interest to the very illuminating history of insurance legislation as given by the
            Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  in submitting
            this measure to the Senate last week. I shall not give any time to its consideration at
            this stage, but will proceed to deal with the remarks just made by the Leader of the
            Opposition  (Senator Daly),  who urged that there was
            need for the fuller protection of policy-holders. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Dunn</inline> laboured the same point. I feel that it is because of the realization of
            the need for something of that kind that the Government has brought down the bill with
            which we are now dealing. I am unable to agree with <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Daly</inline> that life assurance should be nationalized. I believe that
            nationalization of industry, whether it be that of insurance business or any other
            branch, is the greatest factor at present damning the progress of Australia. With every
            advance of production, under the impetus of private enterprise, the nation advances
            towards the only communism that can benefit mankind: the communism of opportunity. Such
            a need is not confined to the man of affairs; it applies equally to every section of the
            community. The working man, however poor he may be, should have the same opportunity
            that every other person in Australia enjoys. 
The honorable senator spoke of the "authorization" of insurance agents. I
            think that in looking at the bill from that viewpoint <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Daly</inline> has approached it from a wrong angle. When we realize that we are
            dealing with an industry which had, in 1922, assets in Australia amounting to
            £80,973,935, and in 1927, five years later, invested assets in Australia amounting
            to £118,274,047, we must recognize that the issue is a big one. It must be
            appreciated that in five years the accumulated assets increased by nearly
            £35,000,000 ! That is why I contend that the angle from which both  Senator Daly and Senator Dunn   have approached the subject
            is not in conformity with our status as a Senate. 
The Leader of the Opposition dealt with surrender values, and here, I agree, there
            is need for protection to all concerned. That causes me to reiterate the statement that
            it is because of a realization of that need that the Federal Government has brought down
            this legislation. My concern in life insurance is limited to a case that may interest
               Senator Daly . I am not a shareholder or a director
            of any insurance company. My interest is confined to the fact that shortly after I began
            work, when I was twelve years of age, I wished to lay the foundation of a form of
            compulsory saving, and it was presented to me that a life insurance policy represented
            the best method. I took out a policy, and continued to pay premiums, to the maximum of
            my ability, until my policy had a surrender value of £120. I then surrendered it,
            and that amount was the first capital that I possessed. 
I confess that I have one fear in connexion with this measure, and that is that it
            presents in clause 6, which provides for the appointment of a registrar, a possibility
            of establishing another big government department. My hope is that before we have
            finished with the bill the provision for the appointment of a registrar will be so
            safeguarded as not to mean another department for the Government to administer. All that
            is necessary is that the registrar shall be an actuary. Whether his charter be
            Australian, English or Scottish is immaterial, provided that he belongs to one of the
            institutes which regard their business as a science. Essentially that scientific outlook
            on figures is required, and I trust, then, that the registrar will be an actuary who
            will become an official of the Treasury. 

 Senator Duncan  dealt with the clause which requires
            a deposit of £20,000 to be lodged by insurance companies. I am afraid that he
            misinterpreted the object of that requirement. Admittedly I speak as a layman, and I may
            be wrong; but I believe that the amount is not to be regarded as being in the nature of
            a security. Twenty thousand pounds would be totally inadequate as a security for almost
            any insurance company at present operating in Australia. Even £500,000 would
            scarcely be sufficient. 

 Senator R. D. ELLIOTT . - My interpretation of the
            provision is that it is merely to show bona fides, and to prevent the establishment of
            " mushroom " companies such as those to which honorable senators have referred
            this afternoon. I even feel uneasy regarding the intention to allow new companies formed
            within the Commonwealth to pay the deposit of £20,000 by instalments of £2,000
            per annum. If such a company is unable to put down a deposit of £20,000 on
            commencing business, then it should not, in the interests of the community, be permitted
            to begin business. For many years life insurance business in Australia has enjoyed a
            world-wide reputation for the soundness of its practices as well as for strong and
            efficient management. The astonishingly rapid growth of the older offices, their great
            financial strength, the soundness of their investment methods, and the extent of their
            bonus distributions to policy-holders, are features of our life insurance history of
            which every Australian may be proud. 
Again I remind honorable senators that I do not speak as an expert; but a study
              of the activities of the mutual offices of Australia reveals that, in life assurance
              principles, they lead the way in the Empire, if not in the world. If, as  Senator Foll  suggests, their premiums have been too
              high, that policy has reacted to the advantage of the policy-holders in the shape of
              increased bonuses and the consolidation of the finances of the companies. That
              satisfactory history of insurance in Australia suffered a check after 1920, when
              mushroom companies began to develop, with results that are well-known to most
              honorable senators. Those mushroom companies were due really to the ease of finance,
              and to a very great extent to the gullibility of the public of Australia. The majority
              of them were established for the personal gain of their promoters - individuals, more
              often than not, ill-equipped to assume the management of or responsibility for the
              affairs of such companies. They had been accustomed merely to securing business for
              the larger offices, and all that they could see in life insurance was the obtaining of
              business. They were the " go-getters." of whom we have heard. There is a good
              deal more in life insurance than the mere getting of business. It is a science, the
              intricacies of which require almost generations of study to master. Honorable senators
              must realize how imperative it is that regulations appertaining to life insurance
              companies should be as stringent as those governing trustee
              companies.Unforfortunately, there has been no Commonwealth law to prevent departures
              from sound practice. It has been possible for a company to become hopelessly
              insolvent, both as regards capital and policy resources, and still continue to
              transact business. It has been possible for a company to disregard all principles of
              sound practice and jeopardise the savings of share-holders and policy-holders alike.
              This bill will call a halt in such circumstances. We know of cases where some of these
              mushroom companies have had an expenses ratio for new business as high as 321 per
              cent. for the first year, while their renewal business has amounted to only 32 per
              cent. For four years the whole of the premium income was utilized to cover
              establishment charges associated with the new business. Only after the lapse of those
              four years had the company an opportunity to make provision to meet its obligations to
              policy-holders. 
Senator R. D. ELLIOTT .- To the policy-holders. An investigation will reveal that
            many such companies welcomed the early lapsing of policies, as they had not the
            resources to meet their obligations. Let me cite an instance of a company which carried
            an annual premium income of £32,500 after three years operations. The fourth
            year's collections amounted to only £6,908 for premium renewals. In one year
            the policies issued carried £7,739 premium income; in the next, that company issued
            no renewal notices to the policy-holders, and the revenue from premiums amounted to only
            £483. An investigation of the losses to the public through taking out policies in
            such companies, paying premiums for a few years, and then allowing them to lapse, makes
            very interesting reading. We know from experience that some of these companies have
            resorted to issuing dummy policies in order to hoodwink their directors and the public.
            That practice, which is easily carried out, was followed because the expense ratio in
            most of the companies exceeded the income. In one instance a managing director insured
            the whole of his family for large amounts just before the issue of a balance-sheet, and
            even the office stenographer found herself possessing a very substantial life cover.
            This was done because the expense ratio was showing at over 100 per cent. It was merely
            a matter of an exchange of cheques for the premiums and in this way the finances were
            bolstered up so as to present a reasonable aspect to the directors. There was no renewal
            of these premiums : the policies lapsed after the first premiums had been paid. Then,
            again, we know that in preparing balance-sheets many of these companies included amounts
            for uncollected premiums that they knew would never be collected. They included them, of
            course, as live assets. Many examples of that practice might be given. I have before me
            the. particulars of the case of a company whose income for a year amounted to
            £4,086, and its expenditure was £14,151. That was one of the "
            mushrooms." Another company, in its third year, had absorbed £41,988 of its
            capital of £44,333, and its income of £11,177 had been obtained at a cost of
            £12,905. In yet another case the income of the company, after six years, was
            £7,685, and the expenditure amounted to £11,769, while, of its capital,
            amounting to £37,920, £21,851 had gone. In still another case, in which the
            revenue was £7,157 and the expenditure amounted to £14,219, of the capital of
            £45,483, no less than £39,848 had disappeared. Those are merely a few examples
            of the "high finance" that has been going on in connexion with insurance in
            Australia during the last few years. 
Turning to the bill, I am rather afraid of clause 6, because of the danger of it
            leading to the establishment of another Government department. I hope that an assurance
            will be given that in committee that risk will be eliminated. I do not intend to deal
            with the bill in detail, but Division IV., "Policies," gives scope for a good
            deal of discussion. I hope that there is nothing in the measure that will require life
            insurance policies throughout Australia to be uniform. We ought still to preserve and
            develop the initiative of insurance companies. We should maintain healthy, active
            competition. Any legislation that would bring about a uniform proposal form would be to
            the disadvantage of the public of Australia. 
 Senator R.D. ELLIOTT. - So long as that is made clear, I am satisfied on the point.
            Considering the matter as a layman, I was inclined to fear that it would depend on the
            official charged with the administration of the act, who might place his own
            interpretation upon it and insist on uniform policies. Proposals for insurance that are
            off the beaten track are often received. It would be quite impossible for any business
            concern to submit such a proposal, and the conditions of policy, which would be drawn up
            to suit the particular case, for review by the authorities in Canberra. It would
            probably mean weeks and weeks of delay, and in the meantime the business might be held
            up for want of the policy. 
A matter upon which I am sure the Minister anticipates a query is that of proof of
            age. The onus should he on the person presenting a proposal for insurance. If the clause
            dealing with this question is passed as it stands, we shall find persons forming a habit
            of underestimating, to put it in a mild way, their age, knowing full well that by doing
            so they will obtain a reduced premium, and at the end of twelve months the company will
            be in the position of having either to cancel the policy or to accept the declaration of
            age by the policy-holder. Intending policy-holders will gamble on the prospects of a
            company being prepared to accept their assurance on the matter. 
Though the need for effective regulation is urgent, I feel that no legislation
            should be enacted without full consideration of the requirements of this very
            complicated business, and I am certain that that is the attitude of the Government. Care
            must be exercised not to place unnecessarily harsh restrictions on sound and genuine
            enterprises, or restrictions that would give a monopoly to the businesses of the
            older-established organizations. At the present time, however, more companies are
            engaged in insurance business in Australia than the value of the business warrants. The
            outstanding principle of life insurance is that it is essentially a trustee business
            conducted on the savings of every class of citizen. Our first duty, therefore, is to
            require that adequate protection shall at all times be given those savings by compelling
            a company to cease accepting new applications for insurance when its funds are no longer
            sufficient to meet its surrender liabilities. That, I realize, is one of the main
            objectives of the bill. 
Feeling that this is a highly technical measure, and that no body of laymen is
            capable of giving it the detailed attention that it demands, and seeing, that the
            Treasurer mentioned in his budget speech that he had been in consultation with experts
            on insurance, I wonder whether the Government would consider the advisability of
            appointing a select committee, so that the opinions of a number of outside experts could
            be brought to bear upon the measure. Since most of the heavy work has been done, this
            course would probably involve but very little delay, and I submit the suggestion to the
            Minister for his consideration. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia)
            [4.28]. - I join with those honorable senators who have already spoken in
            congratulating the Government on bringing down this undoubtedly belated measure, and I
            thank the Minister, too, for his informative speech in moving its second reading. At the
            same time, I direct the attention of the Senate to certain features of the bill which,
            to my mind, constitute defects either of omission or commission, and I suggest that the
            closest Consideration be given to them in committee. I am entirely in accord with the
            general principles of the bill. It should be obvious that in no matter is it more
            necessary that the public should be amply protected than in that of life insurance,
            which, if it is to be of any value at all, must be absolutely safe. Every element of
            risk must be removed, so far as it is possible to remove risk from human affairs, and we
            must have continuity, extending from generation to generation. It is equally important,
            however, that, in protecting the public, we should do nothing to burden unduly or'
            harass unnecessarily bona fide life insurance companies that have performed, and are
            performing, beneficent services throughout the Commonwealth. I know perfectly well that
            entirely undesirable companies have sprung up from time to time; but the people of
            Australia are to be congratulated on the fact that, over a long period of years, they
            have had their choice between a number of competing companies that have always conducted
            their business on a satisfactory basis, and have given absolute security to those who
            have taken out policies with them. 
Without for a moment passing any reflection on those companies which distribute
            their profits among shareholders, I think that I might take the opportunity to single
            out for special commendation those mutual companies that have not only raised themselves
            to a position of extraordinary importance in the public life of Australia, but have also
            established foi" themselves an unequalled reputation throughout the insurance world.
            It has been suggested this afternoon that these companies have been able to provide
            large bonuses, because the premiums they charge are too high. For that there is an
            explanation, which to my mind serves to emphasize the very distinct advantage of a
            mutual company to the community. Perhaps the greatest reason why the premiums to-day are
            too high is the fact, upon which I think we may all congratulate ourselves, that during
            the last half century there has been an increase of no less than fifteen years in the
            average term of human life. Consequently, premiums that were adequate to meet the
            circumstances of 50 years ago are now too high, but where too high a premium is charged
            by a mutual company, the whole of the excess comes back in the shape of increased
            bonuses to the policy-holders. That may or may not be so in the case of a company of a
            proprietary character that is not entirely mutual in its operations. 
I am 'quite sure that there is no desire on the part of the Government to
            embarrass any bona fide insurance company. I accept in advance the assurance that I know
            the Minister will give, that the act will be administered with wisdom and discretion;
            but, at the same time, I cannot refrain from associating myself with the honorable
            senator who has just resumed his seat in regard to the possibilities of danger
            underlying clause 6. That honorable senator suggests that under that clause another big
            department may come into being. I think that clause 7 makes it abundantly certain that
            another department will arise, because it provides for the appointment of a staff. My
            experience of public affairs is that not infrequently when an officer is appointed with
            a high sounding title, three things occur. First, because of the officer's high
            sounding title, he must have a high salary, and secondly, because of his high salary he
            must have a big staff - an establishment commensurate with his position. If we have a
            similar experience in connexion with this bill, an already embarrassed Treasury may find
            that it has done something to increase the steadily growing cost of federation - a
            matter that might more appropriately be discussed in connexion with the financial
            statement. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH. Yes ; but I do not believe
            in extravagance, whether it be connected with a good or a bad thing. It seems to me to
            be extremely likely that we shall first have a registrar with a branch of his department
            and a staff in every State. The next thing will be to find something for the staff to
            do. That something, under the provisions of this bill, may amount to vexatious
            interference with the proper activities of insurance companies. That, I am sure, we all
            wish to avoid. Reference has been made to clauses 57 and 58, which require that policy
            and proposal forms shall be submitted for approval. There we have abundant scope for
            officers who want to find work for themselves. I know of one insurance company which, in
            its ordinary department, has no less than 25 tables of policies, and I am inclined to
            think that matters of that kind can be more satisfactorily dealt with by the companies
            themselves than by a staff such as is contemplated under this bill. 
There is also opportunity for abuse under clauses  53  and 54, which relate to the furnishing of confidential returns. I am not
            at all sure that we ought not to consider whether an order of the court should not be
            necessary before a company is compelled to divulge returns of that character. I entirely
            endorse all that has been said concerning clause 78, because in clauses 73 and 77 we
            have ample provision for adjusting difficulties that arise in regard to proof of age.
            Trouble arose in New South Wales a short time ago because a learned judge in that State
            made a mistake qf twelve months in his age. It is a fact that in 20 per cent, of the
            proposals for life insurance errors in regard to age are inadvertently made, but it is
            also a fact that these errors have never caused any serious trouble or loss to persons
            insured by bona fide companies. Instead of following the practice adopted in the past by
            which an error can be adjusted whenever it is discovered, even after the death of the
            person insured, and without prejudice or without charge against the policy beyond what
            would have been paid had the error not been made it iB now proposed that at the end of
            twelve months,  a  quite inadequate period for this
            proof of age to be secured, the company shall take one of two objectionable courses. It
            must either take the extreme step of cancelling the policy, thus causing the person
            insured to forfeit his first year's premium, or it must be finally and definitely
            bound by the policy. I cannot see any advantage in a provision of that nature, and I ask
            the Honorary Minister to contrast it with the course which is followed to secure
            accuracy in regard to the age of applicants for oldage pensions. 
That portion of the bill which leads up to clause 35 also requires close
            consideration. Clause 35 reads - 
In all matters relating to the value of securities deposited under this act, the
              decision of the registrar shall be binding and conclusive. 
Personally, I do not like decisions which are "binding and
            conclusive although we must, in cases of this kind, have something which is conclusive.
            We have the conclusions of the High Court by which we are governed; but we should be
            very careful before we trust to any official a power that is given in clause 35, which,
            so far as I have been able to study, in the limited time at my disposal governs
            paragraph 3 of clause 30. This paragraph reads - 
If any company fails to comply with any notice given under this section within a
              reasonable time after receipt of the notice, the failure shall be a good ground for
              cancelling the license to the company. 
This extreme step is -contemplated without making any provision for an
            appeal from the decision of the registrar. 
The only other matter to which I wish to refer at this stage, is an important
            omission from Part rv., which deals with the insurance of children. I do not think I am
            breaking any confidence in saying that at the conferences to which the Honorary Minister
            referred, a very earnest request was submitted by the representatives of some of the
            most important life assurance companies in the Commonwealth, that the legal difficulty
            that had arisen in regard to what are known as deferred insurance policies on the lives
            of children, should be remedied when this measure came before the Federal Parliament.
            These deferred insurance policies provide that if a child dies before reaching the age
            of 21 years, the premiums paid shall be returned with or without interest. For many
            years it was thought, as, indeed, it was intended, both by the persons effecting the
            insurance and by the companies concerned, that these policies were the property of the
            parents until the child reached the age of 21 when they became the property of the
            person insured. A recent English case has thrown doubt upon the question of ownership,
            and it is the desire of all these companies - it is also in the interest of the
            policy-holders, too - that the opportunity should be taken under this bill to remove the
            difficulty. I should be grateful if the minister in charge would carefully peruse
            certain clauses which have been drafted by eminent counsel with the object of overcoming
            this difficulty. There are many minor matters in the measure which I hope to refer to
            when it is in committee, but for the moment I shall content myself with cordially
            supporting the bill. 
.- I add my congratulations to those which have already been tendered to the
              Government on the introduction of this measure, although it is true, as some have
              said, that its introduction is somewhat belated. Some honorable senators have urged
              that the States are to blame for not having brought their life insurance company
              legislation up to date. As a fact, the subject has been considered by all the State
              governments from time to time. In Victoria there has not been much necessity for
              amending legislation because our law on this subject is fairly up to date; but it was
              felt by the States generally that the Commonwealth Parliament would, in due course,
              exercise the authority given it under the Constitution to deal with life insurance. It
              is a fit and proper subject for Commonwealth consideration. It is unquestionably a
              matter for uniform Australia-wide legislation and those charged with the conduct of
              insurance companies will find it an advantage to have to deal with only one authority.
              I was particularly interested in the Minister's reference to the history of life
              insurance, and his story of the legislation on this subject by the Mother Country. The
              evolution and development of life insurance is of special moment to us, inasmuch as
              Australia has contributed in a very large measure to the benefits of the system and to
              the methods which are now employed in the business. The honorable gentleman said that
              Lord Parmoor presided over a committee which considered the question of industrial
              insurance and that as a result of his labours and those of his colleagues an
              industrial insurance measure was introduced into the British Parliament in 1923. It
              may interest honorable senators to know that the greater portion of the alterations
              recommended by that committee had already been adopted by most of the life insurance
              companies - certainly the leading ones - in Australia. That shows that Australia has
              nothing to be ashamed of in its contributions to the system of life insurance. It is
              also pleasing to note that it was an Australian company that in 1870 first introduced
              the non-forfeiture principle which provided that so long as the surrender value of a
              policy was sufficient to pay the premiums, the policy should not be forfeited. That
              revolutionized the whole practice of life insurance throughout the world. At the
              inception of life insurance, as honorable senators are aware, the business was in the!
              hands of proprietary companies, and it was in Australia that the mutual principle was
              developed. "We on this side of the chamber are opposed to the nationalization of
              insurance, which is the - policy of honorable senators opposite. There is a
              fundamental difference between nationalization of insurance and insurance conducted on
              the mutual principle. In the latter, we have the finest embodiment of the principle of
              cooperation that can be imagined. It is sincere, genuine co-operation, and the nearest
              approach to the ideal which the Leader of the Opposition cherishes. The principle of
              co-operation is safer and saner than that of nationalization. 
I do not wish to raise the party issue on this measure. It is one which honorable
            senators should approach with due regard for the magnitude of the problem with which it
            deals and a fitting sense of its responsibility in passing a law to govern the
            operations of these institutions. Our policy must be to encourage thrift and foresight,
            and those stabilizing influences which are so essential in the life and character of our
            people. The whole of our influence should be thrown behind any movement which makes for
            stability in the community. We should encourage in every way that which induces people
            to save and make provision for the major contingencies of life. This ideal is not the
            peculiar possession of any one party. It is the well-being of the whole community - rich
            and poor alike - that we have to consider in passing legislation of this kind, and we
            must do all that is possible to protect their interests. 
I have spoken of the desirability of uniform legislation - of the wisdom of lifting
            the subject from the conflicting laws of the several States and placing it upon an
            Australia-wide basis - and providing facilities for the successful operation of life
            insurance companies throughout the Commonwealth. In our consideration of this bill we
            should give due weight to the importance of the interests involved. By this I do not
            mean the interests of the capitalists or the plutocrats - those people whom our friends
            opposite are pleased to condemn with such fiery enthusiasm from the public platform.
            What I wish to impress upon the Senate is the fact that every section of the community
            is deeply interested in the stability, the strength, and the safety of life insurance
            companies, to whose care the savings of the people are entrusted. Honorable senators
            will have gained from the figures quoted by those who have already spoken in this
            debate, some idea of the magnitude of the operations of life insurance companies, and
            the extent of the interests involved. It seems to me that the placid and undisturbed
            atmosphere of such a chamber as this is an admirable one for the discussion of this
            measure. 
Some of the provisions of the British bill referred to previously have not yet
            received legislative sanction in the Imperial Parliament, but they form the subject of
            recommendations by an expert committee that has been considering the problem. It should
            be our aim, therefore, to enact a model cod'' of life insurance legislation that
            will he our pride and the envy of other countries. I suggest that we can do this only if
            we approach, the discussion of this bill in a thoroughly impartial manner, and realize
            how important is the position occupied by the numerous life insurance companies whose
            interests are affected by it. I believe all honorable senators realize that the money
            invested in these companies^ which represents the accumulated savings of, for the most
            part, the poorer sections of the community, and what we may term the middle classes, has
            been, on many occasions, applied to the service of the Commonwealth. They will recall
            how, in times of national crisis, the insurance companies by reason of their financial
            strength and power, have been able to render valuable aid by way of loans to the
            Government. Invariably they have responded magnificently to the call of the State. Apart
            from the financial assistance which they have been able to render to the State, they
            have also been a source of strength to municipal and semi-public bodies in various parts
            of the Commonwealth. Money which has been made available by these companies for.
            investment in municipal and other undertakings has been used advantageously as a
            developing agency for this country. 
If one had time and the Senate were prepared to listen, one could tell an arresting
            story of useful service rendered not only to members of societies and policy holders,
            but to the general community by the employment of life insurance companies' funds in
            the way I have indicated. I say, therefore, that we should bring to the discussion of
            this bill a due sense of our responsibility, having regard to the extent of their
            operations and the influence of the companies whose interests are affected, and we
            should do nothing that is calculated to restrict in any way the beneficial influence of
            their operations. The provisions of the bill should he designed to protect as far as
            possible all those who have entrusted their savings to these companies, and to guide and
            help those upon whom rests the obligation to invest such funds wisely. 
I congratulate the Government on having faced this problem and on the introduction
            of this bill. In the main I think that it may be said that the principles enunciated in
            it are sound. I wish, however, to direct attention to one or two matters. In the first
            place, I support my colleagues  Senator E.D. Elliott 
            and  Senator Colebatch,  in the warning note which
            they have sounded with regard to the appointment of the registrar. We have a precedent
            to guide us in the appointment of registrars of friendly societies. These institutions
            are deserving of the greatest encouragement for the reason that, being thrift societies,
            they exert an important stabilizing influence on the community. But Parliament has said
            that there must be legislative supervision of the investment of their funds and some
            check on their actuarial calculations to see whether they are fulfilling the obligations
            resting upon them. In the State of Victoria, at all events, the appointment of a
            registrar of friendly societies has not led to the growth of a huge department. The
            registrar in that State is attached to the Statist's office. He is generally
            respected, the trustees of societies have confidence in his decisions and are grateful
            for the guidance and direction which he is able to give them in the management of their
            funds. I suggest that the same course might be followed with regard to the appointment
            of the registrar under this bill. It is necessary to have someone competent, from a
            scientific and technical point of view, some one capable of giving wise decisions and
            tendering valuable advice to the Minister who will be charged with the administration of
            this law. But there is the danger, as <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Colebatch</inline> has so strongly stressed, that the person appointed may magnify his
            office. We are all familiar with what has happened on many occasions. We have seen a man
            appointed to a public office start with a table and a chair and before long he has
            gathered round himself a huge department. I should like to have a definite assurance
            from the Government that nothing of that kind is contemplated, that the Government will
            so circumscribe and direct the work of the registrar, that there will be no possibility
            of a big department springing from the appointment. 
I agree with the honorable senator, and for that reason I should like to know
                what safeguards the Minister proposes to adopt. 
I am aware of that. It is because human nature is what it is that I wish to
                impress on the Minister the need to impose effective safeguards. "I magnify mine
                office" is an often quoted Biblical saying. We must see to it that the bill
                contains such restrictions as will prevent the growth of the life insurance
                department into something that will be onerous, expensive, meddlesome and
                interfering. There should be the minimum of government interference where companies
                are discharging their obligations in a right and ; proper manner. Where, however,
                there is wrong doing - where there is any evidence that the public is being
                exploited, the Government, through its officers, should act in the strongest
                possible way, not only for the sake of the good name of the Commonwealth and in the
                interests of honesty and fair dealing, but also for the sake of those whose funds
                are embarked in these enterprises. 
It is well known that, in the framing of this measure, the Government had the advice
            of an expert committee of public officers of undoubted repute and integrity, whose sole
            concern was the public interest. It is not too much to say that in drafting the bill
            they have done an important work well. The measure is not overloaded. On the whole, it.
            may be said that in. its conception the bill is sound, and in its draftsmanship it
            adequately expresses the Government's intention. I am, however, advised by those who
            are competent to judge, that it contains a number of irritating provisions which are not
            likely to serve any useful purpose, but will increase the cost of administration. I
            suggest, therefore, that these provisions should be reviewed in the light of expert
            advice which can be tendered to the Government. 
Other honorable senators have mentioned the clause dealing with proof of age. It is
            a recognized principle that the onus of proof of age shall be on the proponent. The
            provision in this bill will throw the door open to misrepresentation, and, possibly,
            fraud; and, furthermore, it will operate harshly on companies, and will not help the
            cause of life insurance, whichwe are all anxious to see prosper. 
There are also one or two other matters which I feel should be reconsidered. For
            example, there is the provision which liberalizes the conditions of policies, probably
            at the expense of the general body of policy-holders. It is, I think, undesirable to
            remove any safeguards that make for security and safety. Clause 69, which I understand
            has been taken from a State act, provides that notice shall be given before the lapse of
            an industrial policy. I am informed by those who are competent to advise me that this
            provision, as operated in the State of Queensland, has not benefited the policy-holders,
            but that on the contrary, it has proved burdensome and expensive to companies, and has
            made industrial insurance in that State largely an unprofitable venture. I am informed,
            further, that the bonuses on industrial policies, in which Queensland policyholders
            share, are largely carried by the other States of the Commonwealth. This provision is
            one that contributes to that end. I, therefore, ask the Minister to give it careful
            consideration. 
I am informed that in the case of companies which operate outside Australia it will
            be impossible to lodge returns within the time specified in the bill. Many mutual life
            insurance companies operate both in the Mother Country and in Australia; others, in
            South Africa as well, and one at least in India. While we all desire to remove the cause
            for those complaints which have been voiced by the Leader of the Opposition, and to make
            life insurance a clean business, we must be chary about accepting  ex parte  statements. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Dunn</inline> referred to the case of an office cleaner. While all that the honorable
            senator said on her behalf may be true from her point of view - and I make no defence of
            the company - we must remember that, after all, her complaint is the complaint of a
            policyholder. 
I have investigated many such complaints, and have found that while, in some
                instances, they are founded on fact, in others there is a complete answer. Without a
                knowledge of the facts, we should not accept <inline font-style="italic">ex
                  parte</inline> statements. I feel sure that the Senate will approach the
                consideration of this bill with a common desire to preserve for life assurance in
                Australia a reputation for honest and fair dealing; to make these institutions the
                safe repositories for the savings of the people - institutions to which they can
                look with confidence, because their guiding principles are strength and stability,
                and a capacity to fulfil to the uttermost the contracts into- which they enter.
              
I desire, in replying, to refer to the several matters raised during the
              debate. The Leader of the Opposition <inline font-weight="bold">(Senator
                Daly),</inline> who referred to surrender values, 'will find, on closer
              reference to the measure, that that matter is dealt with, as regards ordinary
              policies, in clauses 66 to 68, and, as regards industrial policies, in clause 70. I do
              not propose to deal at this stage with the desirability or otherwise of nationalizing
              our system of insurance as suggested by the honorable senator. That is a matter beyond
              the scope of the bill, and . is also, in my opinion, out of the sphere of practical
              politics. 
In the preparation of this measure the Government has been in consultation with
            departmental officers, as well as with experts in the various institutions affected -
            indeed, the bill has been in draft form for two or three years - and it is believed that
            it will not unduly interfere with the business of the country, but, on the contrary,
            will preserve the principle of freedom in relation to life insurance business.
            Nevertheless, it doe.? aim at regulating life insurance. 
In my introductory speech, I said that I did not blame the States for not having
            introduced legislation to deal with life insurance companies. In 1910 a royal commission
            investigated matters connected with life insurance, and it was then agreed that it was a
            subject for the National Parliament to deal with. 
It has been said that we have closed the stable door after the horse has been
            stolen. However much the individual investor, in the shape of a company shareholder, may
            suffer through risking his money in loosely controlled or illconceived enterprises, or,
            where well conceived, badly managed enterprises, our , concern is not for him, but for
            the policyholder for whom company directors and shareholders are merely trustees. Our
            duty is to safeguard the future of the policy-holders by ensuring that the funds of life
            insurance companies are sufficient to meet their liabilities. If those who invest their
            money in rash enterprises lose it, they have only themselves to blame. This
            legislation does not aim at protecting them; it is introduced to protect those who, in
            good faith, take out policies to provide against death or accident. With that object,
            certain clauses, which may be referred to as disciplinary provisions, are incorporated
            in the bill. 
It has been suggested that in presenting this bill to the Senate, I should not have
            kept so closely as I did to a prepared memorandum. When submitting important
            legislation, I prefer to adhere fairly closely to a carefully prepared statement. It
            does not appear to me to be important whether that statement has been prepared by my
            officers or by myself, so long as I am the master of my subject : and we shall see as
            the debate proceeds whether or not I am master of the subject with which this bill
            deals. I desire to express my sense of obligation to officers of the Treasury, the
            Statistical, the Attorney-General's and other departments, who have brought to my
            knowledge the information I have submitted to the Senate. 
Many of the matters referred to by honorable senators are subjects for consideration
            in committee, rather than in a second-reading speech. <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Duncan</inline> advocated the drawing of a distinction between Australian and foreign
            companies in respect of the deposit required. The considered opinion of the committee,
            to which I referred, is that it would be unwise to draw that distinction. My own
            inclination was to make the deposit in the case of a foreign company much higher than
            that required for an Australian company; but, after all, the deposit does not bear any
            relation to the statutory funds of the companies. It is rather in the nature of a
            guarantee of good faith and of capacity to carry on the business. Should an appropriate
            amendment dealing with statutory funds, and designed to take protective measures in the
            interests of the public, be moved, the Government will give it favorable consideration;
            but I remind honorable senators that considerable difficulties arise in connexion with
            such matters. It is impossible to compare insurance companies with banks, for their
            obligations to the community are entirely different. 
Reference has been made to the mushroom companies which have sprung up in Australia.
            If this bill becomes law, we shall have gone a long way towards guarding the community
            against the operations of companies which have done a great deal of harm to the name of
            insurance in this country. 

 Senator R.D. Elliott  suggested the reference of this
            measure to a select committee. I remind him that, before its presentation to Parliament,
            it was carefully considered by a committee of insurance experts and legal gentlemen,
            after which it was carefully considered by Cabinet and by one or two members of the
            Cabinet for four or five months. In my opinion, no better committee exists than this
            chamber to deal with the matters contained in this measure. The Senate is the proper
            place in which to give it that placid considerationto which  Senator Lawson  has referred. I may be wrong, and I am subject to correction
            by the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate, but I think that it
            was here that our magnificent Bankruptcy Act was introduced and polished into its
            present form. 
That is regulated by the provisions which we have taken from existing
                legislation in several States, including Western Australia, South Australia and
                Victoria. After all, the shareholders are not the great concern of the Parliament in
                dealing with this measure. Essentially the bill seeks to provide protection for
                policy-holders. That is the business, first, of the registrar, and secondly of the
                court. No amalgamation will be approved if the policy-holder is not sufficiently
                protected by the existence of sufficient assets on the part of the purchasing
                company to create a statutory fund to meet the combined liabilities of both
                institutions. I draw the attention of honorable senators to the various improvements
                to our existing legislation, which have been taken from British, Indian and South
                African legislation and incorporated in this measure. 
I appreciate what has been said as to the possibility of some of the provisions of
            the bill irritating well-managed insurance companies. I assure honorable senators that
            if any mistaken policy has been embodied in the bill, the error has arisen from a too
            eager endeavour to make absolutely safe the position of the policyholders. The
            Government has at all times endeavoured not unduly to interfere with the operations of
            any of the highly creditable companies which are at present carrying on business. It has
            endeavoured to give effect to the very best practice at present prevailing amongst the
            reputable insurance offices of Australia. Honorable senators have my assurance that
            suggestions submitted by them for the amendment of any provisions that are considered to
            be too drastic, will receive a good reception from the Government, provided that they
            are consistent with the primary principle for which the measure stands, the safeguarding
            of the interests of the policy-holders. 
I express my gratitude to honorable senators for the manner in which they have
            received the measure. In conclusion, I may say that the Government has no intention to
            create what in future years may become a big Commonwealth insurance department.<inline font-weight="bold">Senators
            Lawson, R. D. Elliott and Senator Colebatch,</inline> in
            speeches which were valuable contributions to the debate, referred to that possibility.
            Candidly, I admit that I come from the same political school as they. Frequently I have
            watched legislation passing through Parliaments other than our own, and have heard
            members giving assurances that no additional departments would be created. It is
            difficult, however, to guard against such an eventuality. When an official is entrusted
            with such duties as will be charged to the registrar under this measure, it is difficult
            to prevent the expansion of his bureau. If any suggestion can be made which will enable
            the Government to place a statutory restriction on that contingency, it will meet with
            no objection from me. All that I urge honorable senators to do is to refrain from
            placing the registrar in such a position that he will be leg-roped and unable to
            function satisfactorily in the interest of the policy-holders of Australia. We are
            dealing with a much greater matter than the establishment of a State Registrar of
            Friendly Societies. In common with  Senator Lawson,  I
            am aware that the Registrar ofFriendly Societies for South Australia carries out his
            activities with the assistance of a staff of two. But the ambit of his operations is
            limited to theFriendly Societies of South Australia, whereas the ambit of the operations
            of the registrar in this case, is Australian-wide, and we must provide accordingly. 
I wish to call attention to one aspect of the matter, which has occurred to me
            during the debate. Suggestions have been made, one emanating from  Senator Daly , with regard to the authorization - "
            licensing " is too painful a word for the honorable senator to use except in
            association with the liquor laws - of canvassers. That is a double-barrelled proposal.
            We are at present engaged upon the making of one of the most serious pieces of
            legislation, from a commercial point of view, that the Senate has ever passed. Once the
            Government licenses insurance companies it puts upon them the imprimatur of a government
            institution; it gives them government approval. No insurance company has such an
            imprimatur to-day. It therefore behoves us to be particularly careful how we act. I
            venture the opinion that this bill will tend to eliminate the abuses to which  Senator Daly  and <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Dunn</inline> referred. I believe that insurance companies will make an endeavour to
            be represented by agents of a highly satisfactory character. The control that will be
            exercised and the pressure that will be brought to bear will eliminate the
            "go-getter" class of business and make for the establishment in Australia of
            that higher standard of life insurance business for which a number of us have heretofore
            looked, in some cases, in vain, but for which, I hope, we shall not long continue to
            seek vainly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Commencement). 
I think it but fair that I should draw the attention of honorable senators to
              the fact that this clause provides that section 131 of the act shall come into
              immediate operation. That provision enables His Excellency the Governor-General to do
              certain executive acts to bring into being the necessary machinery for the measure.
              The rest of the bill will come into force only when it is proclaimed. Much of the
              preparatory work is provided for by the Acts Interpretation Act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 - " Actuary " means a Fellow or Associate of the Institute of
            Actuaries of Great Britain and Ireland, or a Fellow or Associate of the Faculty of
            Actuaries of Scotland. 
I should like to see an alteration made to this clause, in accordance with the
              opinions expressed by me during my second-reading speech. If the recommendations which
              I made in my second-reading speech were given effect, the Governor-General in Council
              would be enabled to appoint aFellow or Associate of an Australian Institute of
              Actuaries. 
I am, but surely recognition should be given to an AustralasianFaculty of
                Actuaries, if it exists. 
But this legislation will operate for many years, and it would be regrettable
                if an institute of actuaries were established in the near future and its fellows or
                associates were ineligible for appointments as actuaries within the meaning of the
                act. An excellent man, a member of such a faculty, might not be able to qualify. I
                therefore move - 
That the word "the," line 2, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu
              thereof the word "any." 
If that amendment bo agreed to, I shall then move to so amend the clause as to
            provide that "Actuary" means "a Fellow or Associate of any institute
            approved by the Governor-General in Council." In the event of the contingency to
            which I have referred arising, the Governor-General in Council would be able to decide
            whether the institute concerned was of . sufficient importance to warrant the selection
            of one of its members as an actuary. 
I have no wish to obstruct the debate, but I do not know precisely what the
              effect of the amendment would be. The bill is an important one, and vast interests are
              involved, therefore, I consider that any amendment should be circulated, and honorable
              senators given an opportunity to study it. Extempore amendments may appear speedy, but
              I do not think that, in this instance, they conduce to the satisfactory or expeditious
              despatch of public business. I ask the Minister to give honorable senators an
              opportunity to study any amendment that is moved. I suggest that the Minister report
              progress in order that honorable senators may see the amendment in print and be in a
              position to circulate any further amendments that it is proposed to submit. 
.- I have a suggestion to offer regarding a later portion of the clause, and it
              may involve postponement of its consideration. 
The CHAIRMAN  (Senator Plain).A  specific
            amendment is already before the Chair. 
This may be an amendment to which little exception can be taken; but, if
              honorable senators propose to submit amendments as the bill is taken through
              committee, I think that we ought to have the more important ones printed and
              circulated. This is a highly technical measure, and, while the present amendment may
              not involve much discussion, it may be well to report progress at this stage. I invite
              honorable senators who have amendments to propose to put them in writing, so that we
              may consider their effect, not only upon the particular clauses to which they relate,
              but also upon the bill as a whole. 
Progress reported. 
[5.42]. - As I understand that honorable senators are not prepared to
            proceed with the debate on the estimates and budget-papers at this juncture, I intend to
            move the adjournment of the Senate; but I ask them again to direct their minds to the
            financial statement, because it has been my invariable experience that, when the
            Appropriation Bill comes before the Senate, the Government is charged with not having
            allowed sufficient time to debatethe general financial position. The details of the
            budget are open for discussion on the motion for the printing of the Estimates and
            budget-papers; but, when the Appropriation Bill is brought forward, there may not be
            much time for a general discussion of the financial position. I regret that honorable
            senators are not prepared to proceed with that discussion to-night, and, in view of that
            fact, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon  notice - 
How long has a firm called Stacey &amp; Co. been buying arisings from Cockatoo Island? 
How were these arisings sold? 
What were the quantity and nature of material bought by Stacey &amp; Co. and the price paid for same? 
What quantity of material bought by Stacey &amp; Co. from the dockyard was resold to the authorities, and what were the prices paid ? 
Is Stacey &amp; Co. a registered company ; if so, who are the shareholders? 
What is the present position of the dockyard, and what are prospects of future operations in relation to shipbuildings and other works? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs, upon notice - 
What action has been taken by the Sugar Control Board to carry out a promise made, that adequate supplies of sugar should be available to consumers in Western Australia in the event of the dislocation or stoppage of the interstate shipping services? 
Aresuch supplies now heldin Western Australia, and, if so, to what extent? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
I am not aware of any such promise. It is understood, however, that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is erecting a refinery at Fremantle, which, when completed, will, it is believed, very considerably improve matters. 
The Colonial Sugar defining Company Limited at present has a store at Fremantle. in which it usually holds a stock of from 1,000 to 1,200 tons of sugar. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
When will the North-west Air Service in Western Australia be extended to Wyndham and Hall's Creek? 
The Government is anxious to extend the Perth-Derby air service to Hall's Creek and Wyndham at the earliest possible date, but pending the rates of subsidy payable for certain air services now operating, I am unable to say whether funds can be provided to enable the extension to operate during the current financial year. 
asked the Leader of  the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
In view of the unfavorable position shown by the immigration statistics, does not the Government think it inadvisable to bring any more people to Australia until more favorable conditions obtain? 
The only migrants brought to Australia under the assisted passage scheme are those who have been requisitioned, or whose nomination has been approved, by a State government. The number of migrants at present coming to Australia is relatively small, and comprises young women for domestic employment, boys and adults for. farm work, and such nominated persons as the States are assured can be satisfactorily absorbed. 
[3.4]. - I move - 
That  the  Senate do now adjourn. 
My reason for doing so is that the Life Insurance Bill at present before the Senate is of a technical character,  and  of such importance that the societies and. organizations affected by it have made representations that they desire further time to consider its provisions. The Government has consulted those institutions very freely, and has no desire to overlook any further representations that they may wish to make by pressing the measure through at this juncture. It is, therefore, proposedto adjourn the Senate now. I have given notice of motion today for leave to introduce a bill relating to arbitration in the Commonwealth Public Service, and I propose to ask the Senate to-morrow to agree to the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders to enable me to make my secondreading speech on that bill forthwith. The debate 'can then be adjourned. The suggestion* is that the. Senate should deal with that measure next week, the Life Insurance Bill being allowed to stand over for a time. I make an appeal to those interested in the Life Insurance Bill to bring their considerations to a conclusion and. to make their representations so that the Senate may be able to proceed with that measure towards the end of next week, or during the following week. 
I hope that the Leader of the Senate will reconsider the order of business for next week. The right honorable gentleman is rightly giving those interested in the Life Insurance Bill every opportunity to consider that important measure, but I am confident that honorable senators also realize that the proposed legislation inconnexion with Public Service Arbitration is of vital importance to Commonwealth public servants. The bill will be introduced tomorrow, and Commonwealth public servants throughout Australia are expected to make themselves familiar with its contents by the time that the debate opens next Wednesday. I respectfully suggest to the right honorable the Leader of the Senate that we might conveniently discuss the budget next week, thus allowing members of the Commonwealth Public Service another week inwhich to study this proposed legislation which so vitally affects them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate  adjourned at  3.8 p.m. 
Is the right honorable the Leader of the Senate aware that insurance companies in Sydney are sending telegrams and letters to honorable senators' representing that State sitting on this side of the chamber in regard to the Life Insurance Bill ? Is he also aware that in another place, the Prime Minister said that amusement promoters are endeavoring to apply a form of political pressure,  well known in America, in relation to another matter before that chamber? If so, will he take action to ascertain why this attempted intimidation by life insurance companies is taking place? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Regarding the other matter to which the honorable  Senator referred,  I can only say that I heartily associate myself with the statement made by the right honorable the - Prime Minister. 
SenatorFOLL.- Is the Leader of the Senate aware that the Australasian Council of Trade Unions in Sydney is attempting to adopt mass picketing methods in connexion with the Maritime Industries Bill now before another place; and does he know that the Labour party will fall in with the wishes of that body, as it always does in such cases? 
The honorable senator in asking a question is not entitled to express opinions. 
I got it in, and am satisfied. 
I apologise. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
By what means did Lord Forster, when Governor -General of Australia, visit theMandated Territorial? 
What was the amount offares paid in connexion with such visit? 
Lord Forster and his party travelled on theas  Mataram,  one of the vessels used in the Pacific Islands Shipping Service. 
£376/7/- 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Have, the claims of Turkey Creek been considered, as promised, as a landing-place on the contemplated extension of the air route to Wyndham? 
[11.9]. - I move - 
That Standing Order 192 be suspended to enable the second reading of this bill to be taken forthwith. 
I purpose moving the second reading of the bill to-day and then allowing the adjournment of the debate until next week. 
There being an absolute majority of the whole Senate present, and no voice being raised in dissent, I declare the motion carried. 
[11.10]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is of considerable importance, not only to the Public Service, but also to the people of Australia as a whole. Prior to 1911 members, of the Commonwealth Public Service had the right of appeal to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court in respect of all matters affecting salaries and wages and conditions pertaining to their employment. In that year, however, it was thought desirable that they should be removed from the jurisdiction of that court, and a measure was passed accordingly providing for the appointment of a Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator, to whom Commonwealth public servants have since had the right of appeal. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the powers of the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator as set out in sections 5 and 6 of the Arbitration (Public Service) Act of 1911- 
An organization of employees in the Public Service of the Commonwealth shall be entitled to submit to the court by plaint any' claim relating to the salaries, wages, rates of pay, or terms or conditions of service or employment of members of the organization, and the court shall thereupon have cognizance of the claim as if it were an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1911. 
The Public Service Commissioner and the Minister of any Department of State affected by the claim shall be entitled to be represented before the court, either jointly or separately, in the hearing and determination of the claim. 
The court shall, as regards any claim of which it has cognizance under this act, have power - 
to hear and determine the claim; 
to make any order or award or give any direction in pursuance of the hearing or determination; 
to fix maximum penalties, not exceeding Ten pounds, for any breach or non-observance, by any member of an organization bound by an award or order, of any term of . the award or order; 
impose penalties, not exceeding the maximum penalties fixed (or, if maximum penalties have not been fixed, not exceeding the maximum penalties which might have been  fixed), for any such breach or nonobservance ; 
to declare, by any award or order, that any term of an award shall, subject to such conditions, exceptions, and limitations as are declared in the award or order be a common rule of the Public Service or any branch or part of the Public Service; 
to vary its orders and awards and to re-open any questions; 
to summon any witness before it, and compel the production before it of books, documents, and things for the purpose of reference to such matters only as relate to the matter of the claim; 
to take evidence on oath or affirma tion ; 
to allow the amendment of the claim or of any subsequent proceedings; and 
generally, to give all such directions and do all such tilings as it deems necessary or expedient in the premises. 
Under those sections the Public Service Arbitrator was given very extensive powers. Long before provision was made for arbitration for Commonwealth public servants, there was in existence a Commonwealth Public Service Act providing for the conduct of the Service and its control by a Public Service Board. It is interesting to recall the atmosphere in which such legislation came into existence. Those who have given any consideration to the subject will remember that prior to the appointment of a Public Service Board - before the adoption of such a system by the States - a very objectionable atmosphere surrounded employment in the Public Service.From time to time charges were made of political influence and nepotism, and not only was there a state of unrest and dissatisfaction in the Service, but also dissatisfaction in the minds, of the general public. The fact has been lost sight of, I think, that the Public Service Board was actually brought into existence as a protection to public servants themselves. ' In the atmosphere which has grown up in recent years, the Public Service Board has come to be regarded as a body opposed to the interests of the Public Service. Nothing could be further from the fact. The creation of the Public Service Board has been of the greatest benefit to public servants. It has protected their interests,  and has shielded them from ministerial and political interference and influence of every kind. That is an essential fact of which we should not lose sight in dealing with this subject. 
One of the principal duties imposed upon the Public Service Board was the classification of the Service. This necessarily occupied a considerable time, since the Service is not only a vast one, but is widely spread throughout the continent. 
The work was completed in  1922  and under the sections I have quoted it was then competent for any organization of public servants to appeal to the PublicService Arbitrator against the salaries, wages, or conditions, fixed by that classification. But I remind honorable senators that in addition to that power there was also under the Public Service Act itself the right given to any individual officer, who felt aggrieved,- to appeal against his classification to a board, one of the members of which was a direct representative of the class or division to which he belonged. Public servants were thus safeguarded by the Public Service Act from injustice; they were given the right of appeal to a body independent of the board that had made the classification. 
Parliament, therefore, provided a double safeguard, in order to protect the rights of individual officers in the Service. In the Public Service (Arbitration) Act, however, Parliament went further, perhaps unknowingly, as it not only gave the right to sections of the Public Service to appeal from the classification of the board to the Public Service Arbitrator, but it also gave individual officers the right to appeal to him. In the Commonwealth Public Service to-day, there are approximately  28,000  permanent officers. In consequence of this legislation there has been duplication and overlapping of the functions of the Public Service Arbitrator and those of the Public Service Board. These two authorities deal with the same subjects and conflict at many points. The Public Service Board - not necessarily as at present constituted, but ever since its inception - has from time to time directed the attention of the Government and of Parliament to that overlapping and conflict, and to the results that have followed. The British Economic Mission, which recently visited Australia to inquire into certain phases of our national life, gave attention to the adminsistration of the Public Service, and this feature of it struck them as an anomaly of such a serious character, that in their report, special reference was made to it. 
It is because of the present anomalous position, the duplication, overlapping and to a large extent, the confusion, loss and inefficiency arising under the present system, that the Government is submitting this bill to Parliament. It is framed with the object of overcoming that confusion, overlapping, inefficiency, and loss and it embodies the intention of the Government, and also, we hope, of Parliament, in regard to the future control of the service. It retains the right of public servants to approach an arbitration authority under proper conditions, and the aim of the Government is efficient administration under just conditions to the Public Service. The bill provides that the powers of the Public Service Board in regard to administration generally shall be exclusive. That was the original intention of Parliament, and  13  the reason for its existence. If that is not intended, then the board is an excrescence and should be abolished. We propose in this bill that its power shall be exclusive, except in regard to salaries and wages. In respect of salaries and wages, we retain in the bill the right of public servants to appeal to an arbitration authority against any classification which may be fixed from time to time by the Public Service Board. 
In dealing with all other conditions the Public Service Board will have that exclusive authority which Parliament originally gave it, although it subsequently created another tribunal" with overlapping authority. 
In the Public Service Act, as I have already pointed out, provision is made for an appeal to a board, upon which the officer concerned' is represented. By this measure we are removing the third appeal body that deals with these matters. 
The arbitration authority to be set up under this bill will be in the nature of an arbitration committee, presided over by a judge and consisting also of a representative of the Public Service Board and of the particular section of public servants that may from time to time appeal to it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No particular judge has been selected; it will be the Chief Judge of the Maritime Industries Court or such judge of that court as may be nominated by him. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The representative of the taxpayers will be the representative of the Public Service Board, whose duty it is to- safeguard the interests of the taxpayer. The representation of the Public Service itself will change from time to time, according to the nature of the case to be heard by the tribunal. At the outset, the organizations representing various sections of the Public Service will be invited to nominate a panel of three, from which one will be selected by the Minister, according to the case to be adjudicated on. Further, the organization of employees concerned will have the right, through its advocate, to prepare and submit a case to the tribunal, and the representative of the department concerned will also have the right to prepare the case from the departmental viewpoint. In these circumstances, the tribunal will have before it the case for the organization of employees involved, and also the case for the department in reply to the plaint. 
There is one important principle which differentiates this proposed legislation from that now in operation, namely, that under the present system we have a single arbitrator. The weakness of that system, which has been disclosed, is that there is no link between the arbitral authority and the administrative authority. The result is that the Arbitrator has had to inform his mind, and can inform his mind only by means of the oral evidence submitted to him. Under this legislation, however, as the Public Service Board has an organization and inspectors in every State, the arbitral authority will be linked up with the Public Service administration and organizations throughout Australia. It is believed, therefore, that the new tribunal will have a better knowledge of the facts of each case than is possible when the Arbitrator has to rely wholly on the oral evidence submitted to him. The arbitral authority will have, as an employees' representative, a person who is cognizant of all the conditions of the Service, and who probably will be an officer employed in the particular department or branch concerned in the plaint. And so with the board's representative. In that way we shall have sitting round the table men who are actually concerned in the work of the Service - men who have a knowledge of all its ramifications and of the advantages or defects which would follow from a given judgment. 
We are making in this legislation a change of an important character, in that whereas under the present system every public servant, from the highest paid official to the most recently appointed telegraph messenger, has the right of appeal to the Public Service Arbitrator, under this measure it is proposed that in the matter of appeals there shall be a salary limit of £600. Officers receiving more than that amount will not have the right of appeal to the Public Service arbitral authority. Then we are excluding individual officers from the right of appeal to this authority. In this we are merely following the example provided by our general arbitration legislation.  No  individual employee can take a case to the Federal Arbitration Court. That right is given only to organizations representing sections of employees.. In this measure that principle will be followed. 
We are also excluding from the ambit of the power of this tribunal everything except salaries and wages. Those are the only matters affecting the Public Service on which this tribunal may adjudicate. Before I conclude I shall submit a mass of evidence that will absolutely justify the exclusion of all the minutiae of administration that have been responsible for so much confusion in the past. 
Another important alteration is made in the bill in regard to determinations. Under the present law a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator does not take effect until it has been laid on the table of both Houses of Parliament. A certain time must then elapse before effect is given to it. During , that time a Minister in either House may submit a motion disap- 
E roving of the determination. But the Arbitrator, it should be noted, has the power  to  make retrospective awards, and, before I conclude, I propose to give instances of certain retrospective awards that have had financially, a most embarrassing effect on the Government of the day. The right given to the Government to ask Parliament to disallow an award has, to my knowledge, been exercised on only two occasions, and the circumstances in each case were rather important. Some years ago a previous Ministry introduced into the Public Service the principle of child endowment, with certain limitations; but the Public Service Arbitrator, in one of his determinations, took upon himself the responsibility of extending that principle beyond the limits intended by the Government and endorsed by Parliament. In the circumstances the Ministry considered that the Public Service Arbitrator's determination trenched on matters of policy, and for that reason it asked Parliament to disallow the award. Parliament did so. The second occasion will be well within the recollection of those honorable senators who were members of the last Parliament. They will recall that in one of his determinations the Arbitrator extended the Canberra allowance beyond the limits intended in the regulation made by the Public Service Board. On that occasion also the Government considered that the determination was an interference with Government policy, and that it would have very far-reaching effects upon the Public Service. Because of the confusion that would result, the Government asked the Senate to disallow it. This chamber did so. Those are the only two occasions upon which, so far as I can recollect, the power to disallow a determination has been exercised. 
Under' the bill the procedure with regard to determinations will be slightly different. It has always been a grievance with the Public Service, that if Parliament is in recess for a considerable period, a determination which may have' been made immediately prior to the adjournment can have no effect until Parliament reassembles and the determination is laid upon the table. Under the bill it is proposed that the authority to make retrospective determinations shall be strictly limited to certain special cases, but a determination will take effect immediately it is gazetted. 
There is, however, a reserve power given to the Government to suspend a determination. If this power is exercised the suspended determination will be laid upon the table of both Houses of Parliament, and either House may, by resolution, object to the suspension. This provision is, of course, inserted to protect the definite right of Parliament eventually to control and safeguard the public revenue. It will remove the objections on the part of the Public Service ' in regard to delay in giving effect to determinations, and at the same time will reserve to Parliament final authority over such determinations. Once the Government has taken action to suspend a determination, action may be taken in either House to disallow that suspension. 
Parliament will have power to override such suspension. 
An important alteration is being made in regard to viva voce evidence. We are providing that oral evidence shall be disallowed in proceedings before, this tribunal and I feel confident that I shall be able to convince the Senate of the desire.ableness of the proposed amendment. The ideal underlying the constitution of this arbitral authority is not that it shall be regarded as a court, with all the legal trappings and procedure of a court in regard to evidence and so forth, but that it shall be a tribunal in which those interested in the industry concerned, if we may regard Government departmental activities as such, may sit around a table and compose their differences. 
I propose to give a few reasons why we contemplate making this departure from the practice hitherto observed in the taking of evidence. The Government takes the view that the sometimes protracted proceedings before the Public Service Arbitrator have led to excessive costs and have been responsible for a great waste of time in the hearing of claims. The delay that occurs between the lodging of a claim and the hearing of the evidence is the cause of a great deal of irritation and generally has a bad effect on the Public Service. Under the bill it will be possible, if necessary, to have more than one committee sitting at the same time, so there should not be any considerable lapse of time, as is experienced now, with a single arbitrator, between the filing of a plaint and the hearing of the case. This will provide a simpler and speedier method of hearing the claims. One of the most objectionable features of the present system is that it often involves the hearing of numerous witnesses, some of whom are brought from considerable distances, with the result that the proceedings are unduly prolonged and the expense is excessive. In many instances a great deal of time is occupied in the hearing of minor issues involving comparatively small sums, so that the cost of the proceedings sometimes exceeds many times the final determination of the Arbitrator as reflected in the increased salaries o* better conditions awarded. Under thibill it is thought we shall be able to get all the pertinent evidence - all the evidence that counts - prepared in the most effective way by those more intimately acquainted with the industry and considered by those who have a special knowledge of the work of the department involved. 
It is desirable, I think, that I should, give honorable senators some evidence qf what is happening under the present law. and show why we propose to make the changes which I have indicated. In the first place we may be asked why we are confining the power of the arbitral authority to salaries and wages. To. make the position absolutely clear I must quote at some length cases where the Arbitrator has adjudicated upon what are purely matters of administration and show the confusion that has consequently resulted. I direct attention in the first place to the question of tests for advancement. Those who have a working knowledge of the Postal Department will know that it comprises many technical branches in which large numbers of public servants are employed. In private employment the advancement, of a particular employee is a simple matter. An employer has the right to promote or bring down any person in his employment. There is no body of electors to question his authority. The position of a Government department is entirely different. In that case the advancement or promotion of individual officers is governed by many considerations. Care has to be exercised so that no allegation of favoritism in the promotion of public servants can be levelled at the head of a department or its responsible Minister. Promotion has to be based on the attainment of technical knowledge, and consequently there must be a series of tests to prove the qualifications of the officers advanced. In the post office, particularly, there has been evolved a system of tests, built, up as a result of experience over a series of years for the promotion of its employees. Nevertheless, under the present law, the Public Service Arbitratorwithout any technical knowledge of the working of the department, may take oral evidence and make a determination. The following rules have been laid down by the Public Service Board as tests for advancement :  - 
.- When the debate on the Public Service Bill is resumed on Wednesday next, will the right honorable the Leader of the Senate take honorable senators into his confidence and supply the names of those linemen who are said to have bought farms out of their overtime receipts ? 
 I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General the difficulties connected with the reception of wireless messages by Canberra residents. Apparently, some electrical disturbance seriously interferes with the receptivity of their ' instruments. I do not need to stress that residents of this city are unable to visit theatres and other places of entertainment to any considerable extent and are largely dependent on their wireless equipment for entertainment, and general information. I do not know whether the poor reception of wireless messages here can be attributed to a leakage of electricity from the local power bouse but, apparently; weather conditions are not responsible. 
. -I shall bring under the notice of the Post master-General the matter referred to by  Senator Carroll,  It is common knowledge that in high altitudes there is frequently considerable electrical disturbance. Last year, when I was at Geneva, a highly technical examination was made of the proposal of the Swiss Government to install', at the expense of the League of Nations, a high power wireless station on the shores of Lake Geneva. The discussion showed that that site was not suitable either for the transmission or the reception of wireless messages. I understand that until the existing difficulties have been overcome the proposal has been postponed. I am not aware whether the difficulties to which  Senator Carroll  refers are of long standing or of recent occurrence. If they are a recent development, I should be disposed to explain them by reminding the honorable senators that during the last few days the telegraph lines have been very highly charged, or perhaps electrical disturbances in the political atmosphere are responsible! 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
With reference to the speech of the Minister who moved the second reading of the Arbitration Public Service Bill, I asb the Leader of the Government in the Senate - 
What is the number of linemen who drew the allowances referred to in respect to purchase of farms, &amp;c. t 
Where were the farms purchased? 
Who are the officers concerned? 
What were the purchase prices of the farms ? 
What were the facts concerning the purchase of such farms that guided the Minister in his remarks? 476  Arbitration  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill. 
On what was the information based that the money paid in purchase of the farms  was  saved from the allowances paid to the officers  as  referred to by the Minister? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate, upon  notice - 
Is if. a fact that the Treaty of Versailles provides that if any signatory nation to the Peace Treaty notifies the German nation that no discriminatory tariff exists against the products of that country, Germany is bound to annul any discriminatory tariff duties operating to the disadvantage of the country so notifying? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE No. Since January,  1925,  Germany has been under no obligation by reason of the Versailles Treaty to annul discriminatory tariff duties. 
[10.5]. - I wish briefly to reply to some of the observations made in the course of this debate. First, I take exception to the statement made by  Senator Barnes  and  Senator Daly  that this bill is a departure from the principles of arbitration. They, surely, cannot be serious in making that statement, for, in making it, they are condemning legislation which is allowed by various Labour governments in Australia to remain on thestatute-book. For instance, in Queensland, where a Labour government was in possession of the treasury bench for many years, and there was only one legislative chamber, a - measure providing for a tribunal of three persons was allowed to remain. In Western Australia, where there is a Labour government, the arbitration court is composed of three members - a judge and two others. 
 Senator Johnston  referred to the limit of  £600  provided in the bill. When I interjected that senior officers should be available to defend the interests of the taxpayers when appeals for increases of salaries are being heard, he suggested that the judge could do that. Obviously, a judge cannot collect evidence to present a case. He is there to adjudicate in the event of a difference arising between the representatives of the employers - the general public - and the employees - the public servants. We could not expect any judge to collect evidence for presentation to a court. In the absence of some person to represent the taxpayers, the case would go by default. It is not fair to expect an officer who is personally interested to give evidence which might react against himself. How could the officer, in the case I quoted, who would have benefited to the extent of  £1,000  a year, be disinterested? The class of public servants who will be excluded from the arbitral authority will include "heads of branches, such as the meteorological and electrical branches. To-day, should such officers appear before the Arbitrator and claim an increase of salary, there is no one to resist the claim who is not personally interested, either directly or indirectly. Heads of branches in the Public Service correspond to foremen in private institutions. In my trade union days, many trade unions had a rule that, when a man became a foreman, he ceased to be an active member of the union, it being recognized that his duty as foreman was to defend the interests of his employer. The existing law makes heads of departments members of the same organization as the men over whom they have control. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The reason for their exclusion is that at present there is no one to defend the interests of the general taxpayer, except a person who is either directly or indirectly interested. I emphasize that the interests of senior officers are safe, for they have the Public Service Board, the Government, and finally, Parliament, to conserve them. I point out that only recently the salaries of a number of senior officers were raised by the Public Service Board, not as the result of any claims put forward, but solely because the board recognized the value of the work they performed. The increased salaries were approved by the Government, and, when the papers were laid on the table of Parliament, no exception was taken to the increases. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Either House of Parliament may veto any regulation made by the Public Service Board. 

 Senator Johnston said that the revelations made in my second-reading speech suggested that in other directions also, there was scope for considerable savings. I assure the Senate that during the recess the Government undertook a rigorous scrutiny of all branches of the Public Service, whether under the Public Service Board or not, and that in many of them substantialeconomies have been effected. Those economies were made because the 
Government had the power to make them. There was no intervening body. In the case of officers under the Public Service Board, and the Public Service Arbitrator the Government has no power to make economies unless it first secures an amendment of the law or obtains the approval of Parliament to annul the determinations made. 
That would be the duty of the Public Service Board. 
I also desire to point out that in connexion with a number of bodies, such as the War Service Homes Commission, the Development and Migration Commission, and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, the Government has adopted the practice of making the regulations controlling them, harmonize, as far as possible, with the regulations governing the Public Service generally. Whatever regulations are promulgated by the Public Service Board in the future, in order to effect economies, will, when this bill becomes law, affect all branches of the Public Service, whether under the Public Service Board or not. 
A false atmosphere has been created in connexion with these matters. I ask where is there any evidence of unfair conditions in the Public Service? Is it not rather that almost ideal conditions of employment exist? I invite honorable senators to ask themselves whether, in any State Public Service, or in any private employment in Australia, anything like the same conditions exist that are to be found in the 
Federal Public Service? It might be well for me to give a few illustrations. In the Federal Public Service, every employee receives eighteen days recreation leave each year on full pay. In addition, there are nine statutory holidays, as well as authorized holidays up to four each year. In some States the full number of authorized holidays is granted ; in others, two or three days. In addition to holidays and annual recreation leave, officers are granted twelve days sick leave on full pay, eight days on half-pay, and six days on one-third pay, for each year of service. That is on a cumulative basis, any leave not taken in one year accumulating to " the officer's credit. Some officers have as many as 400 days' credit on full pay to draw upon, should they have the misfortune to become ill. 
Let us examine the matter of hours. It has been advocated that the Government should remit the matter of hours to an arbitral authority, because there is some possibility of injustice being done. The hours for the clerical staff are 36f a week, for the general division - labour  -  44 hours a week if on day work, and 40 hours if the officer is on night work. Is there any other branch of employment in the Commonwealth that can compare with those conditions? Does such a position of affairs call for the interference of an arbitral authority to save these unfortunates from sweating conditions ? I have not mentioned the accumulated furlough, to which an officer is entitled at the end of twenty years' service, superannuation, and quite a number of other matters that make the Commonwealth Public Service the ideal form of employment in Australia. I have in mind a deputation that waited on me in connexion with a matter mentioned by  Senator Johnston,  the proposal that Commonwealth taxation officers should be transferred to the State Service. That deputation claimed that if that was done, the: Commonwealth taxation officers would be penalized. I was supplied with a list of privileges that they enjoyed under the Commonwealth regime, which they would lose if they went over to the State Service, and those men claimed that if the transfer was effected they should receive monetary compensation, because of the privileges they would lose! Yet to hear some honorable senators in. this debate, one would believe that 'we were dealing with a mass of underpaid, over-worked and sweated individuals, and that some powerful hand was needed to intervene between them and their rigorous employers to save them from their hard task-masters. Is there no difference between a man working for the Public Service, protected by a Parliament and public opinion, and a man working for a private employer, who seeks to make a profit from his labour? Whilst in the one case it is easy to justify an arbitral authority, to stand between the private employer, who seeks profit from the labour of his employee, it is impossible to do so in the case of the Commonwealth employer which is not seeking any profit, but simply  desires  the efficient carrying, on of public services. 

 Senator Barnes issued one of the most extraordinary challenges that I have ever heard. He challenged the Government to tell the country that it was out to destroy arbitration. It is in the category of that very old_ and stale political joke about the candidate who was asked whether he had discontinued beating his wife. The Government has no intention of fighting an election on any such issue, nor does  it  propose to destroy arbitration. 

 Senator Dunoon desires the bill extended to deal with a number of conditions, and specially urged that the arbitral authority should deal with higher duties pay.  Senator Thompson  has quoted from the report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts dealing with temporary employment in the Commonwealth Public Service. That committee is representative of all parties in this Parliament, and I should like honorable senators to read a paragraph  on  page 9 of the report, which sets out that,  at  31st March, 1929, there were 2,115 officers out of a total permanent staff  of  some 28,000 officers temporarily occupying higher positions and that the higher duties allowances paid for 1927 and 1928 were £65,673 and £84,012 respectively. It also points out that  if we  had adopted the British practice whereby a man has to serve for six months  in  a higher position before becoming entitled to the higher duties allowance, a saving of £50,000 of the £84,012 paid  in  1928 could have been effected. That position has been brought about not by the Public Service Board, that is intimately in touch with matters of administration, but by the Public Service Arbitrator.  Senator Duncan  also asked why the proposed tribunal should not deal with overtime and broken shifts. I have already given some instances where those matters have been dealt with by the arbitral authority, with very disastrous results. Are these not purely and simply matters of administration? Is not the matter of overtime one of administration? Ib it not a fact that if you increase the rates of overtime pay you also increase the likelihood of overtime being worked ? In the Commonwealth Public Service, through the decisions of the Arbitrator, there has been a constantly rising scale of overtime pay, with the result that the amount paid for overtime for the year ended June, 1928, to officers receiving less than £450 per annum, amounted to no less than £91,000. In my judgment, excessive overtime is an evidence of slack administration, and of bad management on the part of a department. I believe that it can be cut down to a minimum by good administration. Instead of encouraging overtime we should discourage it. In my day as a trade unionist it was considered that overtime was a thing against which we should set our faces. To-day the endeavour is to obtain the highest rate of pay for overtime, and then to get as much of it as possible. The practice is a bad one, and should not be encouraged. 

 Senator Duncan suggested that difficulty would be experienced in providing in Canberra the necessary panel for the committee, and he mentioned the case of certain letter carriers. Queanbeyan is not the only place in this district where there are letter carriers. Within 60 miles of Canberra there is the town of Goulburn, with a population of 10,000 or 15)000 people; in another direction, less than 40 miles away, is Yass, with a population of 5,000 to 6,000 people; and Queanbeyan itself has a population of approximately 5,000. Surely, with these three towns within such a small radius of Canberra there should be no difficulty in securing the necessary panel. Even if, by any mischance it was impossible to provide a panel, 516  Arbitration  [SENATE.](Public  Service) Bill.  there is no reason why a member should not be brought up from Sydney. I know that it would be much cheaper to bring a man from Sydney, and to pay his travelling expenses, than for 600 witnesses from all over the Commonwealth to lose time and to be paid travelling expenses in order that one case might be heard. A complaint has been made that officers will not be able to present their case orally, and that the Government should continue the system of persona]  viva voce  evidence. The bill provides that the advocate of an organization may appear before the tribunal, and no restriction is placed upon what he may desire to put before the committee on behalf of the members of his organization. That advocate will, in most cases, be a paid official of the organization, the man best fitted to put the case, and the man who to-day does so. But under existing methods he is handicapped, as instead of being able to put the case himself he has to do so indirectly, through innumerable witnesses. The Government contends that is this bill it has maintained substantial justice to the Public Service, and that it has also striven to obtain justice for the taxpayers who, after all, have to find the money with which the Public Service is paid. 
This measure, which the Opposition has had an opportunity of perusing, appears to be dependent upon the passage of a bill which is now before another place. The declared policy of Australia, to-day, is arbitration, but this is a distinct departure from that principle. The members of the Opposition very much resent its introduction in anticipation of the passage of a certain measure now before another place. This bill provides that the  chairman  of the Arbitration Committee shall be one of several judges whose appointments are also dependent upon the passage of the Maritime Industries Bill, by another branch of the legislature. If that measure is not passed in its entirety, what will be the position of honorable senators when it comes before us for consideration? Their hands will be tied in consequence of their having passed this piece of legislation. Instead of the Senate sitting as a chamber of review, it will be forced to amend the legislation that is brought before it to make it conform to the measure wehave already passed. I move, as an amendment - 
That the word "now" be left out with a view to adding to the motion the words " this day six months." 
The Maritime Industries Bill is not. yet the law of the Commonwealth, and I do not think the Leader of the Government in the Senate can quote one instance where this chamber has passed legislation involving the scrapping of a vital  principle  whilst the popular chamber is debating whether that principle shall be scrapped. That  is  what we are asked to do in  this  instance. It appears to me that there has been trouble in the caucus room of the ministerial party, and that the Government feels certain that in the  pact  there are at  least 27  senators who would be prepared to scrap arbitration. They, therefore, want to make certain that those  27  senators will not waver; but will throw their weight behind the Government, and thus prevent further expulsions from the party. 
I ask honorable senators to consider whether there is any necessity to scrap the present system of arbitration, which has been in operation since  1911 -  a period of eighteen years - and by so doing, affect 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  477 approximately 40,000 public servants whose wages and conditions have been fixed by the Public Service Arbitrator. Honorable senators cannot recall any system which has a better record than that which is now in operation. During the seven years in which the Public Service Arbitrator has been functioning, it has been necessary, on only two occasions, to disallow his determinations. In one instance, it was because a majority of the Senate considered that he had exceeded his powers and, in another because it was thought that he had exercised his discretion unwisely. 
Although this system has undoubtedly been a pronounced success, we are now asked to scrap it. When this Government went to the electors it strongly advocated arbitration, but to-day, in the matter of private employment, it alleges that arbitration has failed, and that it is difficult to secure an observance of arbitration awards by employees. It has also been stated that the dual jurisdiction of Federal and State Courts has created chaos in industry. Do either of these arguments apply to the Public Service? Can any one say that the dual jurisdiction has created chaos in the Public Service or that there has been any difficulty in securing observance of the Arbitrator's determinations ? Can any one say that the discretion vested in this tribunal, which was set up in 1911, has been exercised in such a way that the Government must appoint some other tribunal? It must be admitted that the system has been a wonderful success. The Minister referred to the cost of the system to the Government, but I invite the right honorable gentleman, and honorable senators generally, to read the budget speech of the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  in which he points out that the cost of administration in Australia has remained practically stationairy during the last seven years. Even though there have been increases in salaries, and an alteration in the conditions, they have been such that owing to the efficiency of the officers the cost of administration has been practically stationary. The present system of arbitration as applied to the Public Service is not peculiar to the Commonwealth; it is in operation in the various States with the exception of Victoria, which may soon come into line. Simply because the Government believes that arbitration has failed, it now proposes to bring the Public Service into line with another system, which it is introducing before we know definitely whether that change will be made. The Treasurer, in his speech, patted the public servants on the back. Are they asking for this change? Who desires an alteration ? Let us deal with this from the viewpoint of the Government, the Public Service and the community. I should like to read the first letter sent from the Prime Minister's Department to the secretary of the Commonwealth Public Service Association. It reads - 
As you are doubtless aware, the term of office of the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr. Atlee  Hunt, will expire in November next. The time is, therefore, opportune for a reconsideration of the methods that have been adopted for determining wages and salaries in the Public Service. 
In this connexion, I am directed to say that, in the opinion of the Government, experience of the existing system of Public Service arbitration has disclosed a number of defects which may possibly be removed by a re-adjustment of methods. 
There was no suggestion then that the system was to he scrapped. It was merely an invitation to the public servants to make suggestions for the improvement of the system. The letter continues - 
Before taking any action in relation to this matter, the Government would be glad to have the benefit of any views which Public Service organizations may desire to express upon the general question, and in particular upon the following: - 
The Government is exploring the possibility of giving representation to the Public Service upon the tribunal which finally determines such matters as wages and salaries, and would be glad to receive and to consider the views of the Public Service organizations as to the possibility of providing for the representation of a particular division or branch of the Service upon the tribunal in cases where' the interests of that division or branch are specifically concerned. 
The Government is also looking into the question of whether an improvement can he. effected in the methode of presenting to the tribunal mentioned the information it requires for the determination of a case. At present, the methods adopted are  478  Arbitration  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  those of a law court, and it is probable that a great deal of time and expense could be saved by the adoption of less formal methods, which would enable equally satisfactory but much more expeditious decisions to be reached. 
We have heard a good deal from the Government regarding its belief in the maintenance of law and order ; yet in this letter it complains of the methods adopted in our law courts. Honorable senators who desire a government controlled by caprice rather than one which really believes in the maintenance of law and order, are entitled to their opinions; hut they should not say that others are controlled by outside forces. The letter proceeds - 
As the Government  is  desirous of dealing with the question as soon  as  possible after Parliament meets,  it  would be appreciated if any views your organization may desire  to  express in regard  to  any aspect of the matter could be forwarded  in  time  to  reach me within a month from the present date. 
To that letter the Public Service Association replied - 
I have placed your communication before the members of my executive, and branch representatives in each State, and I am directed to respectfully request that more detailed' information be made available concerning the proposed alternate system or tribunal as referred to in paragraph 3 (1) and (2) of your communication. 
We would appreciate information as to - 
The defects of the present system of arbitration as referred to in paragraph 2 of your communication. 
The tribunal, its constitution, composition, &amp;c, as referred to in paragraph 3 ( 1 ) of your communication. 
The methods proposed for presenting to the tribunal mentioned the information required for determination of a case. 
To those questions no satisfactory reply has yet been received. The Public Service associations were not given an opportunity to discuss with the Government the improvement of the present system. 
The reason for the. introduction of this bill in the Senate is that the Government, finding itself in difficulties in connexion with the Maritime Industries Bill now before another place,, hopes to shift the attack to this chamber in order to strengthen its numbers in the caucus meetings. Such proceedings, I submit, are. unworthy of the Senate, which should be above suspicion. Even if the Government is moved by the best of intentions, suspicion undoubtedly attaches to this measure ; otherwise, what is the reason for the undue haste exhibited in connexion with it? The Senate has before it a bill dealing with life insurance, which the Minister states was in the hands of the draftsmen and of the Cabinet for two or three years before its introduction. That measure was prepared after consultation with the parties concerned. But what happened when a protest was raised immediately it was introduced? Progress was reported, in order that vested interests might be consulted. Honorable senators will remember that a few days ago I asked the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to postpone the consideration of the bill now before us, in order that the 40,000 public servants affected might, through their organizations, consider its provisions and present their case to Parliament. But the consideration shown to the rich insurance companies was denied to the Government's own employees. Such action lends colour to the suspicion that the Government realizes that this hill must be: rushed through this chamber in order to stampede another measure through another place. I hope that the Senate will not allow that suspicion to remain, and that: it will agree to the postponement of the consideration of this bill until the fate of the measure before another place is known. Should members there decide against a continuation of the system of arbitration, the Opposition in this chamber would probably notbe justified in fighting this measure so strenuously as we now feel we must fight it. 
There is no great urgency about this bill. As honorable senators can see, it is to come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation. Even if it is passed, that date will depend on the fate of' the Maritime Industries Bill in another place. I appeal to honorable senators to; allow the consideration of this bill to be postponed, in order to ensure that no suspicion may attach to the action of the Senate. 
I support the amendment, because I see no reason why the Senate should deal with a bill of such important while the general principle of arbitratiom 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  479 is in suspense in another place. That bill I have not yet seen, but its fate will decide the policy of this country for the future in arbitration matters. Although I listened attentively to the speech of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when introducing this bill, I failed to see any need for such legislation. In 1911, Commonwealth public servants first secured the right to have their wages and conditions of employment determined by arbitration. It was then felt that that system was the best for the settlement of disputes, in the interests of both public servants and the general community. With the growth of the Public Service and the extension of the arbitration system, it became increasingly difficult to have cases heard by the court. It was then thought that it would be wise to establish a tribunal to deal only with Public Service cases. The necessary amending legislation was passed, and a public service arbitrator was appointed. As the Leader of the Senate remarked, the Government of the day considered it only right that the government, in relation to its employees, should be placed on the same footing as private employers. Not only was it considered right that employees of the Government should have their grievances heard before an independent arbitrator, but it was also felt that the arbitrator could become more conversant with the ramifications of the Public Service than was possible to the court dealing with industry generally. For seven years the arbitration system has been in operation in connexion with the Public Service. During that period there have been no complaints by the public servants in relation to the system, nor has there been any serious trouble. Moreover, the taxpayers of the Commonwealth have not protested against it. 
According to the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, the first intimation that something was wrong came from the British Economic Commission. 
The right honorable senator referred to grievances of long standing. Apparently, it has taken the Government four or five years to arrive at the conclusion that the existing system is wrong in principle. From what I can gather the report of the British Economic Mission contained the first public suggestion that matters in the Commonwealth Public Service were not as they should be ; that there was overlapping, and no co-ordination between the Arbitrator and the Public Service Board. That commission made certain inquiries, but instead of approaching the representatives of the Public Service, they approached the representatives of the employers, the Public Service Board. The employees had no opportunity to state their case and, with ' all due respect to that commission, I contend that it did not go thoroughly into matters affecting the Service. It would appear that the Government then issued instructions to departmental heads to economize, and to spur their employees to greater effort. The Opposition has no objection to such a procedure, but we do desire that public servants, who have given of their best, shall in turn secure a fair deal. Following on that demand for economy and greater efficiency, the Public Service Board reported in this strain - 
Unfortunately much of the work performed in the classification has been rendered nugatory by determinations made during the past year under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act. 
That, I believe, is the key to the situation, and the warrant of the Government, for introducing this bill. But I am inclined to agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly),  when he states that there is something more behind this move on the part of the Government, than the mere passing from one form of arbitration to another. The bill proposes to establish an arbitration committee, which will be presided over by a judge. But it is empowered to deal only with the salaries and wages of public servants earning under  £600  a year. It will have no power to regulate hours or conditions. A tribunal of that character is of no earthly use, and its upkeep will merely be an additional burden on the community. The wages of public  servants  are fixed according to the cost of living, therefore it should be only a simple application of a rule of thumb to determine such wages and salaries. Under this measure public servants will be ' deprived of any right to appeal against any injustice to which they may be subjected by the Public Service Board. I do not think that any honorable senator will claim that even- the most humble employee should be denied the right of appeal against what he deems to be unjust conditions. 
The Leader of the Government dealt at length with what he alleged to be irregularities, overlapping and injustices in connexion with the Commonwealth Public Service. He referred to the matter of travelling allowances, and the payment of 12s. a day to linemen away from home, who were actually paying 35s. a week for board and lodging. The Opposition have gone exhaustively into the subject, and it is their opinion that the instances referred to were isolated and of little importance, also that the additional expenditure imposed upon the community as a result of the awards of the Arbitrator is trifling compared with that which will be necessitated by the establishment of this proposed tribunal. I also believe that the man in the street will naturally conclude that if the Government in another place is contemplating the scrapping of the existing form of arbitration and conciliation, certain high officials holding lucrative positions will be out of employment, and that a bill of this nature is necessary in order to provide those individuals with fresh avenues of employment. I hope that that is not the intention of the Government. 
I see no reason why this measure should be proceeded with, pending a determination of the fate of the Government in regard to its policy in relation to arbitration generally. The decision of another place with regard to another bill that is now under consideration will settle the question whether or not the existing system of arbitration in regard to industry is to prevail; whether some other system is to be brought into operation, or whether we are to revert to direct action. The Opposition does not believe in direct action, and I may safely claim that the majority of workers in Australia prefer to have their disputes settled by arbitration. That applies more particularly to public servants, who have never expressed disapproval of decisions arrived at by the Public Service Arbitrator. As the fate of the existing order of things is under a cloud, and as there is a possibility of the debate on the Maritime Industries Bill in another place bringing about a change of government, , the consideration of this measure should be temporarily suspended. If the bill is carried in the Senate it is safe to assume that any honorable senator supporting it will be in duty bound to support the action of the Government in another place with regard to arbitration generally. I believe this measure to be merely the thin end of the wedge. It forecasts the jettisoning of the principle of arbitration generally, despite the pledges of the Government during the last election" It is almost inevitable that if arbitration is scrapped, trouble and discontent will arise. I believe that this measure, if carried, will bring about a feeling of unrest and discontent in the Public Service. Therefore I claim that it is unwise at this stage to proceed with it, particularly as the existing condition of affairs is satisfactory and peaceful, and there has been no demand from either the general public or public servants for a change. 
[3.43]. - The Government cannot accept the amendment for the postponement of the consideration of this bill. I think that the honorable senator who moved it, and those who follow him, are under a misapprehension as to the motive of the Government in addressing the letter referred to, to public service organizations. The Government did not ask those organizations to assist it in drafting the bill ; it merely intimated that it was contemplating the introduction of a change in the law as it stood, and invited any suggestions, which would be taken into consideration when the bill was being drafted. The Government did not in any way suggest that its methods of procedure would be dependent upon such representations. Many of the  organiza- tiona merely replied stating that they -were in favour  of  the law as it existed. Obviously no profit could accrue from  a  postponement of the discussion of the bill to meet the wishes of those people.  The issue is clear cut - they do not want any change, and a postponement of the measure would not in any way assist them. 
But some associations did make certain suggestions as to the way in which they thought the existing law could be improved, and the Government, in considering the draft bill, had the benefit of those suggestions. It gave them full consideration, and some of them have been dealt with in the bill itself. Obviously, therefore, nothing is to be gained by postponing further consideration of the measure in order to ask those associations if they are satisfied with the way in which the Government has met their suggestions. 
The same procedure was adopted in regard to that measure as in the case of the present bill. Exactly the same form of letter was sent out to the associations connected with the maritime industries as was addressed to the Public Service organizations. Those associations were asked if they had any suggestions to make regarding the law covering their industries. The Government has received letters from those bodies, and has taken into consideration the representations made. Would it now be suggested that because we have not fully complied with the suggestions of those associations, the bill now before another place should be postponed ? Obviously, the responsibility for legislation on this matter rests with the Government and the Parliament. The Government, having fully considered all the representations made by the associations connected with the Public Service, has brought forward this measure as representing its view, and is inviting Parliament to endorse it. Therefore, we  cannot see that any good purpose would be served by postponement of consideration of the measure, and we ask honorable senators to reject the amendment. 
Judging by the opinions to which expression has just been given by members of the Opposition, grave misapprehension exists as to the purpose of  the bill. It is clear that previous speakers have, I think, erroneously formed the impression that some inroad is to be made upon the rights and interests of the Public Service. Let us look into the matter before we come to that conclusion. I am afraid that the examination so far has been of a perfunctory character. The whole object and intention of the bill is to change the method and not the principle of arbitration in the Public Service. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  knows as well as I do that there are almost as many systems of arbitration as there are brands of tea or whisky, and by altering the method of arbitration in the Public Service from having only one Arbitrator to having a committee of three, as contemplated by the bill, we do not necessarily wipe out arbitration. 
Let us go back to the origin of arbitration. It is a means of settling a dispute between two parties who cannot themselves decide it. When a case is taken out of the hands of the Government and the Public Service, and is left to the decision of an impartial tribunal, irrespective of what the Government and members of the Public Service may think, is that case not submitted to arbitration? 
Quite so. I am coming to that point. It is high time that the reform was introduced. The Minister has given us reasons why the bill should be accepted. Anybody should be able to see at a glance that' there is ample room for the proposed departure from the present practice. As I have already said, there are many kinds of arbitration, and the present bill merely substitutes one system for another, with the addition that, instead of the employees in the Public Service being shut out, they are given a voice in arriving at determinations. Their representative will sit side by side with the representative of the taxpayers. 
What is wrong with that? Is that not the equivalent of the wages board system, which is just as much applauded to-day in certain quarters as it is condemned in others? In my opinion, it is one of the best devices ever introduced in this country for bringing about a permanent, mutual understanding between the parties to an industrial dispute, because it brings them close together. If there is one thing more fruitful of discord than another it is keeping the parties separated, as has been done by the unified form of arbitration that has been adopted in the Public Service too long already. But, when we bring the parties into intimate relationship with one another, the human element comes into play to great advantage, and then, and then only, can anything like a lasting agreement be obtained. The present bill provides for precisely that system, and it is high time we tried it in the Public Service. 
Is the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  satisfied with the type of arbitration that has been adopted in the past, however well-meaning the Public Service Arbitrator may have been? Can he satisfy his own conscience that it requires 600 witnesses to be called, with all the incidental trouble and expense, to decide a simple case? Would he be a party to a case in which he had to bear the expense of summoning all those witnesses? It must be remembered that somebody has to meet that cost. Talk about a Gilbertian method of settling disputes! I have never heard of anything approaching it. As to the unlimited area over which this tribunal has roamed, there was hardly a capital in the Commonwealth that was not visited, and all without necessity for it. Talk about a roving commission ! Applying our own knowledge to the case, we are aware that the evidence that could have been obtained in two or three of the capital cities would have been ample, without going to the other centres. The system died of its own inherent defects. 
If honorable senators have any purpose in life in being here, it is to see that the people who returned us receive first and primary consideration. We are not in this chamber to give undue weight to afterthoughts or secondary considerations. Honorable senators make that quite clear when they appear on the hustings. A good many people in this country have not much money to spare; many of them - and I include myself - have to toss up every shilling, metaphorically speaking, before they spend it, and to consider carefully how it can be judiciously expended. Some persons even have to borrow the money with which to pay their taxes. While the cost of government is going up, which I hope to prove in the course of the budget debate, are we justified in continuing a system in which the taxpayer's money has been so wantonly wasted as the speech of the Minister has made clear ? We should be failing in our trust if we saw even a small proportion of tlie taxpayers? money being wasted, and did not object to it and stop it. 
As to the interests of public servants being imperilled, no honorable senator would be a party to that. When it is said that this has been covertly done, and that there is a dark notion in the mind of the Government and the party supporting it that it will see that the public servants are brought to the scratch, and given a worse time and a worse deal than they have experienced in the past, any fair-minded person must agree that the insinuation is without the. suspicion of foundation. Would it be a good thing for the people, or even be in the interests of honorable senators politically, to deliberately injure the interests of the public servants. I venture to say that it is the last thing that any sane man would think of doing. To adopt a policy that would make an inroad on the welfare of the public servants of this country, by creating a position that would make them less able to meet their daily wants than they have been in the past, would be to take the shortest possible track to our own political extinction. There, in my opinion, lies the safeguard. The contingency which the honorable senator fears is a mere phantom. 
The Minister has referred to a timewhen the Public Service was in anything but a rosy condition ; when, in fact, it was in a most unenviable plight. That was before the power to make appointments and promotions was removed from ministerial hands and placed in the care of an impartial body known as the Public Service Commission. There were times when the Public Service of this country was nothing but a pawn in the political game, and when politicians sometimes had square pegs placed in round holes - men utterly unfit for the posts they were hoisted into. To that extent every able and independent member of the community was placed at a disadvantage. But when public opinion led to the promotion of men on merit, and merit alone, the politician who wanted to place his supporter in a rosy job was superseded. Then the moneyless and friendless but efficient and willing man could forge his way to the front, although he might have no political friends. He got fair play for the first time. It was eventually recognized, however, that even this system was not perfect, because, while giving a fair and generous hearing to the appeals of members of the Service, an undue burden might be thrown on the taxpayers, whose burdens we are sent here to lighten. With that opinion I entirely agree. 
We have heard that cry before. It reminds me of the indiarubber doll which, when one presses it, cries " Papa " and " Mamma." Honorable senators opposite always urge of every amendment of our arbitration system that it is designed to reduce wages. That indeed, Has been their assertion, so far as the Government is concerned, for many weary years and it has been repeated so often that the people have come to look upon it as a mere parrot cry. Evidence that it has been disbelieved by a majority of the people of the Commonwealth is to be found in the beggarly array of empty benches on the Opposition side of the Senate. After all it does not pay to indulge in these  tarradiddles  ; the electors are not all fools. The answer to the Opposition is that this Government, and governments from which it has descended, have given all the concessions worth while that civil servants now enjoy. A Public Service Arbitrator was appointed some years ago with the object of giving the public servants of this country every chance of having their grievances rectified; but we have now reached the stage when the rights of the taxpayers have also to be considered. It is the duty of Parliament to hold the scales evenly between the taxpayers and the Public Service. We are told by the Leader of the Government that the present system of arbitration for the Public Service has proved wasteful, cumbersome and irksome, and that it must be superseded by some system less costly and yet equally effective. Arbitration is still the law of the country, and will be even when this measure and that now before another branch of the legislature have been passed. Arbitration will still be the principle upon which the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes will be based, notwithstanding what honorable senators opposite may say to the effect that the proposed change is designed to bring about the lowering of wages in the Public Service and the destruction of arbitration. There is no need for me to labour the point that nothing of the kind is intended, because if any attempt in that direction were made, the Government responsible for it would not remain in office very long. Our desire as custodians of the public purse, is that public servants shall receive a fair deal and that at the same time the interests of those who pay the bill shall be protected. A point which must not be overlooked in connexion with this bill and that now before another place, is that it is the duty of the Government to protect the interests of not only one section of the community but the people as a body. 
I remind honorable senators, and particularly those who have not closely studied the history of arbitration in Australia, that arbitration as such, was not first introduced by the Labour party. It came into existence in the States when there was no Labour party. It is true that certain unionists or that element in society from which the Labour party springs, first suggested a system of arbitration in the belief that when it came into general operation, there would be some control over those unscrupulous employers who dealt with their employees as ruthlessly as they desired. The fathers of the Labour party never dreamed for a moment that when a proper arbitration system was in operation its awards would 484  Arbitration  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  be broken by either the employers or employees, or that the decisions of a properly constituted tribunal would be torn to smithereens, as they repeatedly have been in the past. Such a thing never entered the heads of the leaders of the old-day Labour movement. They were men whose word was their bond. But a new generation has arisen; conditions have altered, and men engaged in certain industries in the industrial field appear to be always ready to disregard and disobey the decisions of the very tribunal that was established for their protection. 
The introduction of this measure and that which is now being considered in another place will, I hope, arouse some feeling of fidelity in the minds of those who have always proclaimed arbitration to be their policy, and who may even yet return to the fold. If that does result from these discussions, some good will have been accomplished; if not, arbitration must be cast upon the scrap heap. It must not be forgotten that Parliament cannot pass a law affecting an overwhelming bulk of' the people in this country unless it has public opinion behind it. 
Of course. We need to arouse once more the sleepy feelings of those who once claimed that arbitration would be the panacea forall our industrial ills, but who when the crucial moment arrives, are not in their places. In season and out of season many of them disobey and violate the principle of arbitration. 
The honorable senator knows as well as I do, that an employer cannot be charged with locking out his men if his business is not being carried on at a profit. 
I could tell the honorable senator that neither he nor any other man would be mad enough to carry on a losing business. 
 I ask the honorable senator to address the Chair. Interjections are disorderly. 
In order that I may not be misunderstood, let me say clearly that it is and always will be, my desire that public servants shall not be victimized, that their interests shall not be sacrificed, nor their well-being undermined. My voice and vote in this Parliament have been always used to that end. I am not here to assist any political party in placing them in a less favorable position than that to which they are entitled. In this measure provision is made for a Committee of Arbitration, before which their grievances can be adjusted. I think it will be admitted, whether this bill is or is not passed, that the public servants of this country, when compared with other sections, are not too badly off. We are living in an age in which there should be no privileged class, civil or uncivil. That in certain quarters is regarded as a sound doctrine. It is our desire that every section of the community shall receive  a  fair  deal. We are told by the Opposition that if this measure is passed, and the office of the Public Service Arbitrator is abolished, public servants of the Commonwealth will have no protection - that their position will be helpless and hopeless, and that it will be impossible for them to have their grievances remedied much less get a fair deal. Nothing could be further from the fact. Compared with other clements in the country, public servants are better off. In the first place, a public servant, working in North Queensland, in the north-west of Western Australia, in New South Wales or elsewhere can, through  his  representatives, bring any grievance regarding his conditions of employment before this chamber or another place, while those in private employment, however unjustly though they may be treated, have no such opportunity. I am sure my references to them in this respect will not be misunderstood. At present they have a Public Service Board that waa brought into existence for their protection, and from the decisions of which they can appeal to another authority. They have also had the assistance and protection of a Public Service Arbitrator, and under this bill they will be able to have their salaries or wages adjusted by the Committee of Arbitration. To-day public servants have five lines of defence. They have the Government, the Public Service Board, the Appeal Board, and the Arbitration tribunal. What private sections of our citizens are in the same secure position? I challenge any honorable senator to contradict that assertion. Wherein are the ramparts of safety that protect other sections of the community? They have only the Arbitration Court. My remarks may be twisted by my political opponents as they frequently are and it will be said, no doubt, that I am making disparaging references to the Public Service. I am doing nothing of the sort. I am speaking as I would before an assembly of public servants, and am telling them that their interests are being carefully, justly and even generously taken into account as they have been in the past. As' a rule the person who claims to be most deeply concerned in your welfare, who is loud mouthed in his protestations of regard for your well-being, is the last to render you assistance when the help of a friend is most needed. My experience is that it is not the loudvoiced man, who wastes his breath telling you how much he is concerned about, your welfare and how his heart palpitates for you, who is your best friend. Eather it is the man of quiet demeanour. Talk is cheap any time and always. I would advise the public servants of this country to take that lesson to heart. 
Generally, I approve of this measure, for it is calculated to hold the balance equitably between the opposing parties. It would be folly to say that the interests of the two parties concerned are identical. If we considered only the taxpayers of this country, they might go beyond the bounds of justice in one direction. But this bill will stop them. It keeps them, as it were, on the right side of the chalk line. The same applies to the men in public employ. I welcome the bill as a departure from a system which, in a " tin-pot " case, allows over 600 witnesses to give evidence, with consequent' expense and disturbance of the work of the departments. Such things are not in the interests of the people generally, who, after all, are mainly interested in these matters. This bill will safeguard their interests better than has been the case in the past, and it, therefore, has my support. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly).  I remind honorable senators that, between the 10th of August, 1914, and the 25th of October, 1919, I. was outside Australia, doing my " bit," together with my brothers and my only sister, to assist the Empire in her time of need. I am not thin-skinned; nor am I a squealer or a quitter: I will take all that is coming to me ; but, when' I retaliate, honorable senators also should take what, is coming to them. In 1911, the late  Senator McGregor,  who at that time occupied in the Senate the distinguished position now held by  Senator Pearce,  488  Arbitration  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  moved the second reading of the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill. Speaking in relation to that bill,  Senator Vardon,  of South Australia, said - 
I have already stated my opposition to this bill. I am opposed to the principle of endeavouring to settle industrial disputes by means of an arbitration court. Many attempts have been made in this direction, but none has been absolutely successful, or anything like it. 
Yes, from the honorable senator's point of view. It might interest honorable senators to know the result of the motion that that bill be read a second time. When the question was put, and the Senate divided, there were twenty " ayes " and eight " noes," a majority of twelve in favour of the " ayes." A glance at the " ayes " reveals the names of Senators Barker, Blakey, Buzacott, Gardiner, Givens, Guthrie, Henderson, Long, P. J. Lynch, McGregor, Needham, O'Keefe, G. F. Pearce, Ready, E. J. Russell, W. Russell, Stewart, Story and Turley, with  Senator Rae  as teller. The "noes" were Senators Cameron, Fraser, Gould, E. D. Millen, St. Ledger, Vardon, Walker, and  Senator Sayers  as teller. It is interesting to see among the " ayes " the names of Senators P. J. Lynch and G. F. Pearce, who are now opposed to arbitration. Honorable senators will remember that a Labour government was then in office.  Senator Daly  to-day pleaded with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  for a postponement for six months of the discussion on this bill. If the right honorable gentleman desires to do the right thing by the 42,000 men and women in the employ of the Commonwealth, he will agree to the postponement asked for. Only last week a number of honorable senators supporting the Government asked for the postponement of a bill dealing with life insurance, in order to enable them to become conversant with its provisions. 
Where 42,000 employees of the Commonwealth are concerned, the Senate should enable them to consider the measure and express their views concerning it before passing it through this chamber. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate, in the course of his speech, said that a number of linemen had bought farms out of their allowances. I then interjected. Even if, in the heat of the moment, an interjection is made, the honorable senator who is speaking at the time need not stand on his head and ride a high horse. 
The right honorable senator always reminds me of a circus, for he is always a clown. 
I do not know whether  Senator Foll  is a go-between for the Leader of the Senate, but the right honorable gentleman did say something about a circus. 
And I am not going to stand the honorable senator's dirt. I ask your protection,  Mr. President,  from the attacks of  Senator Foll. 
I appreciate the distinguished position that you occupy,  Mr. President,  but I consider that, even though I am a member of the Opposition, I have the right to claim your protection against attacks by honorable senators opposite. 
The honorable senator will invariably receive that protection. 
This bill is of considerable importance, not only to the Public Service, but also to the people of Australia as a whole. Prior to 1911 members of the Commonwealth Service had the right of appeal to the  Commonwealth  Conciliation and Arbitration Court in respect of all matters affecting salaries and wages and conditions appertaining to their employment. In that year, however, it was thought desirable that they should be removed from the jurisdiction of that court, and a measure was passed accordingly providing for the appointment of a Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator. 
Whether honorable senators uphold my view or not, I contend that at the present moment, the Commonwealth Public Service is positively seething with discontent. Yet, though the Public Service Arbitrator was not appointed until 1921, there has been no industrial trouble in any of the departments since the appointment. The Opposition contend that the satisfactory working of the Public Service depends upon the general conditions which obtain in it. If in another place, a certain bill is defeated, how will the Government stand on this measure? In that other place an endeavour is being made by the Government to throw arbitration into the gutter. What is to be the attitude of honorable senators opposite on this issue? One honorable senator informed me that I was becoming good, because a bible was on my desk. I may have a few skeletons in my cupboard, but I am not aware of any. I shall read from the " Good Book " in which I, as a citizen of Australia and a Christian, believe. The Gospel according to St. John, chapter X, reads - 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that  entereth  not by the door into the sheepfold, but  climbeth  up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 
But he that  entereth  in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
To him the porter  openeth;  and the sheep hear his voice: and he  calleth  his own sheep by name, and  leadeth  them out. 
And when he  putteth  forth his own sheep, he  goeth  before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. 
And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. 
Honorable senators opposite know  the voice of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate ; he  goeth  before them, and they, perforce, must follow him. If their conscience pricks them, and they show disinclination to follow, the caucus whip will be cracked over their shoulders.  Senator Pearce,  quoting section 5 and 6 of the Arbitration (Public Service) Act of 1911, continued - 
An organization of employees in the Public Service of the Commonwealth shall be entitled to submit to the court, by plaint, any claim relating to the salaries, wages, rates of pay, or terms or conditions of service or employment of members of the organization. 
The bill before the Senate deprives public servants of all arbitration rights, with the exception of those applying to salaries and wages. The right of appeal to an arbitration tribunal in respect of conditions subsidiary to awards, such as hours, overtime, sick pay, higher duty pay, and so on, which are most important to public servants, is now to be denied to them. The bill defines "members of Arbitration Committee " in this manner : - 
For the purpose of this Act, there shall be a Public Service Arbitration Committee, which shall consist of three members. 
Of the members of the Committee, the  Chairman  shall be the Chief Judge of the Maritime Industries Court or a Judge of thai Court nominated from time to time by the Chief Judge. 
Who is to be that judge? There are three Industrial Arbitration judges, Chief Judge Dethridge, Judge Beeby and Judge Lukin.  Senator. Lynch,  who is entitled to his own opinions, ventilated his views on the subject, and, while I shall respect the Chair at all times while I am a member of this Senate, I shall also have my say. What is to become, say, of Judge Lukin? Is the whole of the Federal Public Service to be thrown into a state of turmoil, and to become engaged in industrial warfare similar to that now existing in New South Wales ? Does this mean that the "boot is to be put into the public servants." That is a matter with which honorable senators opposite, who support the Government, must be fully conversant. 
In the atmosphere which lias grown up in recent years the Public Service Board has come to be regarded as a body opposed to the interests of the  Public  Service. 
The Public Service Board is definitely opposed to any system of arbitration. It seeks full powers to control the whole of the Service and, being nominally the employer of the public servants, it cannot be regarded as a body generously inclined to them. These men and women are to be stripped of their rights in every shape and form, and yet I was told that I was going overseas to fight for democracy! But did I fight for democracy, if the rights of 42,000 men and women are to be taken from them? The proposed new arbitration committee may be presided over by Judge Lukin, Judge Beeby, or, alternatively, Judge Dethridge. In addition to a presiding judge, there are to be two other members, and I should like to know at a later date who they are to be. Is one of them to be an individual named Skewes, who is hated and regarded with contempt by every man and woman in the Public Service to-day? Did we fight for democracy, when three individuals can control the destinies of  4:2,000 men  and women? 
Let me say, in support of the amendment that has been ably moved by the Leader of the Opposition, that no such appeal against classification is possible, because the Service has no direct representative on the appeal board. I trust that the Leader of the Government will take notice of that point. An individual officer may appeal against his classification by the board. He may, in an isolated case, be given the right to state his case in person, or nominate some one to state his case, but no nominee of the Public Service has a seat on the board. Let that fact sink into the mind of the Leader of the Senate. He further said - 
These two authorities deal with the same subjects and conflict at many points. The Public Service Board - not necessarily as at 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  489  present constituted - but ever since its inception -has from time to time directed the attention of the Government and of Parliament to that overlapping and conflict, and to the results that have followed. The British Economic Commission, which recently visited Australia to inquire into certain phases of our national life, directed attention to the administration of the Public Service. 
The Commission certainly visited Australia, and I had the pleasure of meeting one of its members at the Trades Hall in Goulburn-street, Sydney. That is a place that is well known to certain honorable senators in this chamber; it is regarded as a hot-bed of bolshevism ; an arsenal where guns, bombs, and bayonets are manufactured ; where the " red " element foregathers; and where the ghost walks. Eighteen years ago two honorable senators opposite, to whom reference may be found in  Hansard,  were proud to walk into that hall. 
The leader of the Government went on to say - 
In the Public Service Act, as I have already pointed out, provision is made for an appeal to a board upon which the officer concerned is represented. 
No such appeal, as I have already explained, is permitted. What is the use of the Leader of the Government making such a mis-statement of fact. 
The honorable senator may not accuse another honorable senator of making a mis-statement. 
The secretary of the Sydney branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers' Imperial League of Australia - of which I am a member -  Mr. W.  J. Stagg, received the following letter, dated 30th August :  - 
Following a conversation with an officer of your department this morning, I am prompted to write to you expressing the following facts: - I am a returned soldier, married, with four children, and have been employed as a temporary clerk in the Telephone Accounts branch for the past fifteen months, and yesterday I received notice that the position I was filling would be occupied by a permanent official as from Thursday next; my services would be terminated as from that day. . . . 
The letter goes on to set out the circumstances in which this unfortunate man is placed. He is a returned soldier with four children and will have no opportunity of stating his case. He is, perhaps, as old as the Minister in charge of the bill, yet at the outbreak of war he had sufficient courage and determination to take up a rifle in defence of his country. The present leader of the Government in the Senate and  Senator Lynch,  when members of a Labour administration, strongly supported the principle of arbitration as applied to the Public Service. The former, when moving the second reading of this bill on Friday last said - 
Public Service employees were first granted the right to appeal to the Federal Arbitration Court for the settlement of rates of pay and conditions of employment in 1911. 
He was a member of the Labour Government which, 18 years ago, introduced the bill providing for the right of appeal by the Public Service to the Arbitration Court. In moving its second reading, the then Attorney-General, the present right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes)  - who we understand has been expelled from the Nationalist party's room - - 
The measure affords an opportunity to the employees of the public to appeal to the Arbitration Court for the settlement of differences and the adjustment of anomalies. An organization of employees, may submit to the court by plaint, any claim relating to the salaries, wages, rates of pay or terms or conditions of service or employment of its members. 
I was elected to this chamber with a majority of 75,000 votes and it is my duty to protect the interests of the electors of New South Wales. I do not know what the position will be in Western Australia when the next general election is held. 
The employer is the people of the country of whom the Public Service Commissioner is the agent. He will represent the employer's case, the organization will represent the employees' case and an impartial chairman hearing what the two parties have to say, will make such award as he may think just. 
It would appear that one of the. objects of this bill is to provide employment for the present members of the Arbitration Court bench who, with the abolition of arbitration as applied to industry generally, would otherwise be out' of a job. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 Septembeb, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  491 
This bill is to enable them to avoid the hunger and misery experienced by others who are unemployed. I should be grieved indeed to find that a judge was out of employment and had to approach a benevelon't society for rations. The  Chairman  of the Arbitration Committee to be appointed under this bill will be the Chief Judge, or such other judge of the Maritime Industries Court as he may appoint, and to him public servants will have to submit their case. I can imagine what their position will be if Judge Lukin is appointed  chairman  of the tribunal. 
That has not been the experience' of those who have come before him in the past.  Mr. Hughes'  statement continues - 
It is humanly impossible fora man to be at once the administrator of a department, and the judge of complaints arising under that administration. A number of honorable members have declared that the Commissioner's office is that of an arbitrator. Nothing can be further from the truth. 
We have been informed by the Minister in charge of the bill that oral evidence will not be taken by the proposed arbitration committee, and that written statements must be submitted for its consideration by the parties concerned. It is difficult to understand how the presiding judge can possibly come to a just decision when a case is so submitted by, say, employees in the electrical section of the Postmaster-General's Department. What technical knowledge will he have of that branch of the department? How can he inform his mind in the absence of oral evidence? Although it has been said, on behalf of the Government, that the present system has been responsible for the loss of thousands of pounds, no reference has been made to the expenditure of  £60,000  or  £70,000  in bringing here the members of the British Economic Mission. When introducing the Arbitration Public Service Bill in 1921, providing for a special tribunal to deal with the claims of public servants, the present leader of the Government in the Senate said, "The Public Service Act of 1911 provides for the principle of arbitration on the lines laid down in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act." It was intended by the framers of our Constitution that the Senate should be a chamber of review, and in order that this measure may receive proper consideration by the Senate, I ask the Minister to confer with the Leader of the Opposition to see if something cannot be done to meet the wishes of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. As consideration of the Life Insurance Bill has been postponed to give the life insurance companies interested in its provisions an opportunity to state their case, a similar course should be adopted in this instance. Surely the public servants of the Commonwealth who are vitally interested in this matter, should have a reasonable opportunity to make to honorable senators their representations concerning it? I have nothing to say against honorable senators opposite asking for the postponement of the consideration of the Life Insurance Bill. If the Leader of the Senate wants to do the right thing by the employees of the Commonwealth, he should agree to the request made by the Leader of the Opposition. This bill has been sprung on the public servants throughout Australia. They cannot consider it fully in the time allowed. Why should the Government wage war upon men and women who are unable to defend themselves? I warn the Senate that if this bill becomes law, without an opportunity being given for its provisions to be reviewed by the men and women concerned, there will be great discontent in the Public Service. I do not believe in direct action. As a trade union leader, I know that direct action will never get the workers anywhere. I have had experience of direct action, for at one time, as the result of direct action by a government, . I was incarcerated in Long Bay goal for sixteen days. Direct action does not pay. Many of the public servants of the Commonwealth have been distinguished students in our great public schools and colleges. They are a sane body of men and women, who are prepared to give their all in the interests of the country. Yet the Government would throw a spanner into the industrial machinery, and bring about chaos. I endorse every word that my leader has said in relation to this bill. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I desire to. say a few words regarding this measure which vitally affects the Public Service of the Commonwealth. Owing to the increasing extent to which the Federal Government is concerned with the life of the people, there is no doubt that every year the Public Service is becoming an increasingly important part of the economic life of Australia. Nor can it be disputed that the complex legislation enacted from time to time places a heavier burden of responsibility on individual public servants each year. Reference has been made to the protection which the Public Service Act gives to our public servants, both in regard to their positions and salaries. The public servant enjoys a security of tenure greater than that  of.  the employees of private concerns. Subject to good behaviour, he is assured not only of promotion, but also of continuity of employment. I recall well how different things were in the bad old days before the Public Service Board was constituted. At that time, in the State public services at least, a man had to become a secretary to a Minister of the Crown in order to obtain promotion to a high office. Every member of the Public Service appreciates the protection afforded by the Public Service Act, and rejoices that that state of affairs no longer exists. I have had a long association with public servants, more particularly in the State from which I come, but also to some extent, iri federal departments, and I regard them as a most efficient body of men. Generally, they are highly trained men, who do all they can to conserve the interests of their  employers 
Although I intend to support the bill I wish to emphasize that I should not do so if I thought that it would result in any injustice to anyone. In that case I should fight hard to ensure to an efficient arid worthy body of men, charged with heavy responsibilities, the rights to which they are entitled. I urge the Government, in making these reforms, to do nothing to lessen the spirit of public service which to-day animates the majority of public servants - that desire to help people and at the same time protect the interests of the State. 
The Government should take no action that would result in the loss to the Public Service of its technically trained and highly skilled officers, particularly those holding responsible positions. In some departments, the Public Service is being bled through its best men leaving to receive in outside employment salaries and emoluments greater than they enjoy as employees of the Government. I have in my mind, in this connexion, the Civil Aviation Department, the officers of which I have known since the formation of the department. Within the last few months two of the most highly trained men in that department - aviators with an Australian-wide record - have left to receive in outside employment salaries which, I am told, are double those they received as officers of the department. When I refer presently to the retention of margins, and extra payment for skill, I hope that honorable senators will remember these instances in which the Commonwealth, through not paying adequate salaries, has lost the services of men whom it will be most difficult to replace. The two men I have mentioned held senior positions in the Civil Aviation Department from its establishment. 
Generally, the Federal Public Service is more popular than that of the States. That is so, at least, in Western Australia, where the State Government is always s"hort of funds. Evidence of the greater popularity of the Federal Service was given in that State a few months ago, when it was proposed that the State Government should take over the collection of federal taxation. The officers of the Federal Taxation Department who protested against the change urged that, if the transfers did take place, their existing rights and privileges as Commonwealth employees, should be retained. There was great relief among them when it became known that the proposal had been abandoned, and that they would remain officers of the Commonwealth. Most people agree that governments should set an example to private employers in relation to the conditions of employment and the salaries of their employees. A government should certainly offer conditions and emoluments comparable with those offered by commercial enterprises. 
I congratulate the Government on the introduction of this measure, which appears to be designed to put an end to the extravagance which has taken place in some directions - an extravagance which would not be permitted for one moment in any properly conducted commercial concern. The evidence of waste and loss to which the Leader of the Senate referred - and which, I take it, led to the introduction of this measure - should be ended without delay. Certainly the instances quoted by the right honorable gentleman have caused me to give this measure my support, for I believe that it will protect the taxpayers from a repetition of such huge losses. The Minister pointed out that for some years there has been one arbitrator dealing with Public Service cases. From the point of view of the taxpayer that is not a satisfactory system. It is impossible for any man, however brilliant, to assimilate all the details and intricacies of a great public service. I appreciate that the Government is reverting to the accepted principle of arbitration - that there shall not be one arbitrator, but a tribunal of three persons. The tribunal te be set up by this measure will comprise a judge, skilled in the hearing of evidence, who will hold the balance between contending parties; a representative of the Public Service Board, who will possess an inner knowledge of the effects of any alterations of the classification; and a representative of the employees themselves, chosen from the very branch of the department whose work is under review. That such a tribunal is better than a tribunal comprising one outsider, is unchallengeable. One man, acting as arbitrator, might get at loggerheads with the Public Service Board, and undo its good work. A tribunal comprising a judge, a representative of the Public Service Board, and a representative of the employees, will be exactly similar to the Arbitration Court of Western Australia, and, I believe, in other States as well. It is well for honorable senators to realize that the most scientific and well-balanced classification can be upset by a few alterations. There is no inconsistency in the Government's action in introducing this measure at a time when it proposes to repeal the legislation providing for the settlement of industrial disputes by arbitration. In this case it is getting away from the decisions of one man and saying, " We will give our employees complete access to a tribunal constituted in accordance with the accepted ideas of arbitration throughout Australia. There shall be a judge as  chairman,  a representative of the Public Service Board, and a representative of the employees." In Western Australia unionists, generally speaking, prefer the State Arbitration Court, which is constituted on lines similar to those of the proposed tribunals. There have been occasions when Western Australian unionists, evincing a preference for the State Arbitration Court, have been prevented from making their claims to that court by a writ of  mandamus  from the Federal Arbitration Court. I hope that when this new appellate committee is known to the employees of the Public Service they also will prefer it to the single Public Service Arbitrator. 
I admit that they will be considerably less than the powers of a State tribunal, but I consider that it should be the duty of such a committee to fix wages and salaries, and not to roam over the whole field of activities of the Public Service in the manner that the single Arbitrator has done in the past. 
Whilst agreeing with the Government on the points that I have enumerated, I consider that the least justifiable provision in the bill is the exclusion from its operation of officers who receive salaries of over £600 a year. I see no reason why a committee authorized to fix salaries should not do so for all officers of the Service. If the principle is sound it should apply generally. I could understand the attitude of the Government if it had declared that there should be no Appeal Board at all; that, in view of the finances of the country, the decision of the Public Service Board should be final. I am glad that a more generous outlook has been adopted and 494  Arbitration.  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  that the Government has provided a right of appeal to this proposed body. Officers who receive over  £600  a year comprise the technically professional and technically trained skilled officers who, by the application of their knowledge and training and by keeping themselves up to date in the latest scientific developments of their profession, can and do save the Government the expenditure of many thousands of pounds. In the Post Office alone such officers authorize the expenditure of millions of pounds, and the PostmasterGeneral is somewhat perturbed that the best of his officers, as has been the case with many of our aviators, are attracted by the higher remuneration to civil vocations. The need for an appellate tribunal is far more evident in regard to professional officers than it is in regard to officers of the general and clerical division. It is comparatively easy to classify the rank and file of the clerical divisions of the Service. It is all the more amazing, in view of that ease of classification, that the Public Service Arbitrator should have travelled from one end of Australia to the other and visited all the mainland capitals to examine witnesses when dealing with the salaries of typistes. That, alone, leads me to conclude that the Government was wise in making a change. Under the present proposals junior officers receiving less than  £600  a year can gradually increase their remuneration, as the result of appeals, whilst their seniors in the Civil Service may stand still; and these seniors, of course, control the more important activities of the department. It seems to me that the new tribunal, with a judge as  chairman,  would be far more competent to fix the salaries of the highly paid scientific members of the Civil Service than, probably, the Public Service Board, and from every point of view it appears to me that if there is to be the right of appeal the senior officers, who guide the destinies of the great departments of the Commonwealth, should not be excluded from it. 
There would be a member of the Public Service Board, and also the judge, who would have to be convinced as to the facts before he allowed a change to be made. 
The Public Service Board. 
Who has been presenting the cases in the past? 
I believe that the Government would experience very little trouble in having its case adequately presented. I also point out that the importance of the preservation of the margin of skill has been stressed by great judicial minds ever since we have had a Commonwealth Public Service, and particularly by  Mr. Justice  Higgins in 1916 in his original award for the Professional Officers Association. Only last Saturday the  Sydney Morning Herald  published a statement on behalf of Chief Judge Dethridge in regard to this payment for skill not having been properly appreciated. The statement concludes - 
The Chief Judge's remarks were directed to the question of the wage appropriate for specific occupations. They did not indicate a tendency to reward insufficiently work involving the possession of skill or special qualifications. It was recognized that skill should be remunerated at the highest possible rate economically. 
That really is necessary if we are to prevent the Public Service being denuded of its best brains. The Professional Officers Association comprises doctors, lawyers, electrical and civil engineers, architects, licensed surveyors, meteorologists, wireless experts, navigators, forestry experts, and representatives of all professions and scientific vocations. 
I do not. From my experience in both State and Federal political spheres, I believe that members of Parliament are very reasonably remunerated for the services that they are able to render to the country. 
They are in the fortunate position, which is not enjoyed by public servants, of being able to fix their own salaries, and a number of regrettable raids have been made on the Treasury in that direction, which I hope will not recur. The two reasons why the higher-paid officers should have access to the tribunal are - (1) Because it is far more difficult to assess the value of their services; (2) because it is essential that the Commonwealth should retain the best of its ' officers in the professions enumerated. 
The officers of the clerical and general divisions naturally carry great influence by reason of weight of numbers alone, which can be used to political advantage.  In  our democracy thousands of men can mate their grievances articulate, if they so desire. On the other hand, the professional officers are comparatively few in number. It is doubly necessary that they should have access to a tribunal which, by its constitution, with a judge as  chairman,  would be more capable than the Public Service Board of assessing their special qualifications in the field of scientific and professional knowledge. For these reasons I think that the restriction placed on officers receiving more than £600 should be removed from the bill. 
I listened with a considerable measure of amazement to the disclosures made by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate during bis second-reading speech. They demonstrated the absolute necessity for the introduction of this measure to protect the interests of the taxpayers of Australia. Judging by those disclosures, I should say that the bill is considerably overdue. However, it is better late than never. . Through the award to linemen of a travelling allowance of £4 4s. a week, which could not be rectified for some considerable time, the honorable senator stated that  £80,000  had been wasted. The right honorable gentleman stated that eventually that allowance was reduced to 35s. a week, which appears to be regarded by all parties as a fair thing. He also told us that this year the allowances, other than salaries, in the Civil Service, amounted to £500.000, The right honorable gentleman made what was to me a staggering announcement - and here I congratulate him upon making the facts publics - when he stated that the Public Service Board is of the opinion that, if this measure is passed, no less than £150,000 will be saved this year in the matter of allowances only. I commend the Government for deciding to begin to effect that saving immediately, particularly as it is pointed out that that can be done without inflicting injustice on any section of our Public Service. The right honorable gentleman told the Senate about the Arbitrator travelling around the continent from capital to capital, at enormous expense, to inquire into .very simple matters affecting junior officers. I understand that in many instances the expenses incurred in the inquiry amounted to more than the additional wages granted. I congratulate the Government for introducing a bill to put an end to such a state of affairs. At the same time, I cannot help wondering for how many years this extraordinary expenditure and these remarkable methods have been in existence. There is, undoubtedly, a general feeling in the outlying parts of Australia that federal expenditure has been reckless and wasteful. The figures quoted by the Minister prove this to have been so, at least, in the directions he" has indicated. One wonders what" the total losses have been, and whether these steps in the direction of economy would have been taken if we had not experienced the deficit last year, and if we had not the present financial stringency. The burden of federal taxation falls heavily on our people, both the direct taxation and the exactions made through the tariff. I desire to know whether other savings can be made similar to this £150,000, and without impairing efficiency of services, or doing injustice to our employees. 
Most honorable senators know that the tariff bears particularly heavily on the State which I represent, and that the taxpayers generally pay about three times as much as the amount received by the Treasurer through tariff charges. The people of the outlying States, whose livelihood depends largely on primary production, find it most difficult to meet the burden that federation has placed on their shoulders. There is a great body of public opinion that our present financial difficulties should be met by more careful administration, and by economy in public expenditure, rather than by the all-embracing policy of increased taxation forecast in the budget speech. The facts quoted by the Leader of the Government in his most illuminative speech, for which I think the country should thank him, will certainly confirm that opinion. 
So far as I am concerned, after the Minister's revelations, I think that honorable senators are fully entitled to ask the Government not to expect us to approve of new taxation proposals until it can give an assurance that federal expenditure in other directions has been subjected to the careful scrutiny and review that was no doubt given to the ex,penditure in the Public Service before this bill was introduced. The Minister tells us that in one direction alone, in the opinion of the Public Service Board, £150,000 out of a total expenditure of £500,000, could be saved this year in connexion with travelling allowances. T thank the Government for bringing in legislation to enable that saving to be made; but I certainly wish to know in how many other directions federal expenditure could be reviewed with the possibility of similar results. I hope that every similar avenue will be explored, and that the Government will not ask us to approve of placing further burdens upon the shoulders of the taxpayers until it is satisfied that all extravagance of this nature has been eliminated. If there are similar fields where large 'savings in expenditure are possible, the sooner the Government investigates them the better it will be for the people. The bill deals only with permanent members of the Public Service. 
Under the system of relegating Commonwealth undertakings to commissions for the purpose of carrying out Government policy, we have large numbers of employees who are removed from the operations of the Public Service Act, and whose remuneration and conditions of employment are not subjected to the safeguards provided by that act. I refer to commissions such as the War Service Homes Commission, Federal Capital Commission, the Repatriation Commission, and the North Australia Commission, and others which may be created in future, in view of the Government's tendency to favour that form of administration. These commissions are entirely removed from the Public Service Act, and I want to know whether their expenditure will be similarly reviewed, so that we may ascertain whether the same excellent results that have apparently come from the review of the operations of the Public Service can be obtained by a closer oversight of the work of those bodies. In passing, let me Bay that I am entirely opposed to government by commission, which is foreign to the principles of responsible government, an evasion of direct ministerial control, and a removal of expenditure from the channels approved by Parliament. 
When we are told that savings of the nature indicated by the Government can be made by a careful control of the departments working under the Public Service Act, under which the officials- have a life tenure, and are specially trained for their work, I think that it is essential that the expenditure by commissions should bc carefully reviewed. They have in their employment large bodies of men who could not be employed under the PublicService Act. It seems to me that the scope of both the Public Service Act and this measure should be enlarged to embrace the employees of these commissions, to the mutual advantage of both the Government and the employees, and their expenditure should be similarly reviewed. One of the reasons for the early trials and tribulations of the War Service Homes Commission, for example, is that its officials enjoyed neither the status nor the advantages conferred by the Public Service Act; nor that direct ministerial and parliamentary control, which is extended to our public departments. I welcome this bill. It should have the support of every member of the Senate, so far as it will put an end to the reckless waste and extravagance disclosed by the Minister. It should also give us improved and more economical administration. I hope that it will also give us an efficient, contented, and adequately remunerated body of public servants, which is essential for the proper working of the great public departments of the Commonwealth. 
I also support the bill. It appears to me to afford an opportunity to put into effect a portion of section 51 of the Constitution, which so far has been almost ignored. Paragraph xxxv of that section gives the Commonwealth Parliament power to legislate for " Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes." While we have given ample scope to the principle of arbitration, conciliation, which is mentioned first in the Constitution, has been, in the main, neglected. This bill gives, for the first time, a chance for conciliation ; but it is combined with a form of arbitration. There were many difficulties in the way of an arbitration court of the type that we have had in the Public Service in the past. Cases were decided by the judge of this court as of any other court of law on the weight of evidence, and, while the employees' organizations were able to call thousands of witnesses to support their claims, where was the Public Service Board to look for witnesses to present the case on its behalf? They could not summon witnesses from outside the Service, because such witnesses would know nothing of the conditions within the Service. In effect, the board was limited to members of the Service, and thus, directly or indirectly, it was sooner or later in the position of presenting its case to the Arbitrator through men who had a personal interest in the case adverse to the board. Therefore, how was it possible for the Government to do justice to the taxpayers whom it represents? 
But the Arbitrator could only act on the evidence submitted to him by the parties, and, therefore, the evidence was not only all on one side, but biased from the start. He could not go outside of that. 
He cannot decide a case contrary to the evidence. He has certain latitude, and may inform his mind outside the strict rules of evidence which apply in a court of law. 
He cannot decide a case contrary to the evidence. Nobody could make a greater fuss than the Leader of the Opposition would if a judge ventured to do that. Under the present conditions under which the Arbitrator functions, there is a direct incentive to mislead him, and this cannot be checked in any way. It would be necessary . for members of the Public Service Board themselves to be present at every case from day to day to keep a check on the statements made to the Arbitrator; but they have other work to do. Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the Arbitrator proceeded from blunder to blunder, with the result that we have the appalling scandal that has been revealed to me for the first time by the Minister's statement. I venture to say, and the Leader of the Opposition knows perfectly well, that no judge could conduct any court if hampered in such a fashion. Not only was the Public Service Board limited as to the witnesses it could call in rebuttal of evidence, but it was also actually deprived of assistance from skilled counsel accustomed to cross-examining witnesses. It had to rely entirely on some member of its staff, who himself, in turn, might be a suppliant before the same court at any time. 
It will be entirely different as a representative of the Public Service Board will be present at every meeting of the Arbitration committee. 
The committee will be presided over by a judge, who will be assisted by a representative of the Public Service Board, and that representative will not be affected by the decision of the tribunal. It will not take oral evidence, but will decide the case upon written documents submitted to it which can be analysed and the contents checked before the decision is made.  Senator Johnston  suggested that it was wrong that those officers of the Public Service in receipt of £600 a year and over, should not have the right to appeal to this tribunal. Honorable senators opposite have alleged that this measure is an attempt to introduce sweating into the Public Service and break down the present system; but surely it is not suggested that an officer receiving £600 a year which is far above the average salary paid in employment outside the Public Service, is working under sweated conditions. In private employment it is not considered unfair to exempt heads of departments from the awards of the Arbitration Court in order to preserve the necessary balance and to ensure that some one will protect the interests of the employer. If we are to give the same right of resorting to the court to every employee in the Public Service there will still be, as under the present arbitration system, an incentive for officers to combine in an endeavour to rob the taxpayers. It is most important that the highly-paid officers in the service should act in the interests of the Government and endeavour to keep down departmental expenditure. The abuses under the present system have been largely due to the fact that the whole weight of the service has been against the interests of the taxpayers, and I trust the passage of this measure will bring these appalling scandals to an end. 
I have received a number of letters from members of the Public Service in not one of which is there any suggestion as to the way in which the measure should be improved. Representations have been made to me from those great public institutions interested in. the Life Insurance Bill which is now before this chamber. In these it has been admitted, that in principle the measure is admirable, but that it contains certain provisions which may lead to unnecessary friction and trouble, and may result in its failing to function . effectively. Amendment in those particulars only are desired. 
I shall deal with that point. This measure in fact embodies all those very principles which union representatives have alleged are absent from the present arbitration system. The representation on the arbitration tribunal, which they have always sought, has now been granted. 
In the regulation of wages and conditions, the main object is to prevent sweating, and not to introduce luxuries in the matter of employment. 
Surely a 36-hour week, such as certain sections of the Service are advocating, is a luxury. No one can suggest that the hours and conditions of employment in the Public Service are unreasonable, and that sweating conditions exist. 
I am making no such charge. The main purpose of an arbitration system, is to prevent sweating and oppression. 
The honorable senator is referring, I suppose, to a section of postal employees? 
Almost daily I have to meet a queue of men beseeching me to assist them to obtain employment in the Postal Department. Does that suggest that sweating exists in that department? 
If the conditions are so oppressive, it is extraordinary that so many persons prefer employment in the Postal Department to outside work. Recently I have received a large number of letters- written for propaganda purposes in the same way as those which honorable senators have received from picturetheatre proprietors, who are opposed to the proposed additional amusement tax - from the lower paid public servants, principally postal officials. As these letters 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration[4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  499  are all worded in the same way itwould appear that they have been copied from a circular supplied to them. I have received communications from certain picture people who knew that I had certain interests in picture shows, but who overlooked the fact that I am also a member of Parliament. These people sent me pounds worth of stamps and telegrams, already written out to members of Parliament, including myself, with this request - " Will you kindly send these to senators and local members." 
In the criticism of this bill, nothing has been said as to the way in which it could be improved. The representations made to me have all been to the effect that as public servants have done very well under the present act it should not be amended. In view of the revelations of the Minister in charge of the measure, I am not surprised at this. So far as I can see, this measure provides amendments in the direction advocated by the representatives of the unions. They have always said - " Give us representation on the tribunal." 
SenatorH. E. ELLIOTT.- The honorable senator must admit that there must be some limitation of power. Such a tribunal cannot be given a blank cheque. 
Of course they are. When Parliament passed the present act it was thought that the powers of the Arbitrator were limited to a greater extent than they actually were. The Public Service Arbitrator has, however, flagrantly exceeded his powers. The last occasion on which Public Service matters were discussed in this chamber, was in connexion with the action of the Arbitrator in making a determination which be had no authority to make. He, however, directed the attention of the Minister to the fact and stated that it was open to Parliament to disallow the determination. I support the bill. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.11 to 8 p.m. 

.- I congratulate both the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  and the  Deputy  Leader  (Senator Dooley)  on the courteous speeches they have delivered in connexion with this measure. All honorable senators, I feel sure, appreciated the moderate manner in which they expressed their views. I cannot, however, agree with the conclusions at which they arrived. Any government worthy of the name will introduce legislation to meet any necessity that arises, irrespective of what may be taking place in another chamber. When the facts detailed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in his speech last week became known to the Government, it would have failed in its duty if it had not taken immediate steps to remedy the evil which it felt existed. 
Very few of the measures passed by this Parliament become effective immediately. Does the honorable senator suggest that, because this legislation will not be operative until November, it should not have been introduced ? 
The measure is important. I feel sure that I am voicing the experience of most honorable senators when I say that frequently I am questioned by members of the general public as to the reasons for the enormous increase in the cost of our Public Service. There is a general feeling outside Parliament and the Public Service that the number of Commonwealth employees is far too great. We, who know something of the development of Australia and can visualize its future development, reply that the Public Service must keep pace with that development. But, when the facts related by the Leader of the Senate became known to the Government, . it would no longer have been entitled to the confidence of the people if it failed to take action to meet the situation. Such facts as were then related must have appalled most honorable senators. Had the Government delayed taking action to remedy such a state of affairs, I, for one, would have resented such delay. It may be that the feeling outside Parliament and the Public Service to which I have referred is the result of that jealousy which is generally felt by those in less  fortunate positions than those whom they criticize. Honorable senators will admit . that public servants are more favoured than are the majority of men in outside employment. Subject to good behaviour, the public servant has security of tenure, and, in addition, many advantages not shared by others. Honorable members of this Senate should do their utmost to inspire public confidence, not only in Parliament, but also in the Public Service which administers the laws made by Parliament. We cannot hope to do that unless we can assure the public that they are getting a reasonable return from the Public Service for the money expended thereon. 
I am not suggesting otherwise. The Leader of the Opposition should recognize that the employers of the public servants in this country are the taxpayers. The Government is the ministerial manager, and the Public Service Board the business manager for the taxpayers. Those who pay for the cost of the Public Service look to the Government and the Public Service Board to get a fair return for the money expended. I know the public services of this country, both State and Commonwealth, fairly well, and I say unhesitatingly that Australia should be proud of her public servants in the main, for they are men and women who give of their best to their country. I believe that the people of this country should have a high regard for the Public Service, and consequently I support this measure, for I feel that it will inspire in the public a greater confidence in the Public Service.  Senator Johnston  referred to the financial position of Australia. If ever there was a time when it was necessary to keep a tight rein on expenditure, it is to-day. I do not suggest that we should reduce expenditure so low as to produce inefficiency, but we should endeavour to discover any leakages; and if found, to stop them immediately. There should be the greatest economy consistent with effici-, ency.  This is no new doctrine. In the past, most of the States have found it necessary to apply the pruning knife. When that step is necessary, it must be taken; but the work must be done effectively. I believe that it could be done effectively in the Commonwealth Public Service to-day. For a number of years, Australia has experienced a period of great prosperity, with the result that we have become somewhat lax in our control of public expenditure. I do not suggest that we have been wilfully extravagant. Probably the reason is that we have expected the good times to continue; but unfortunately there are indications that for two or three years at least, we must expect adverse conditions. If we are wise we shall put our house in order now. 
I have studied the bill carefully and find in it no indication of injustice to the public servants of the Commonwealth. . It does not propose to decrease their wages or to lengthen their working hours ; it does not deprive them of a tribunal to hear their cases, and to adjust their grievances. Honorable senators opposite appear to think that the retention of the Public Service Arbitrator is essential to contentment in the Public Service. 
The experience of recent years shows that that method of adjusting differences is far too expensive and cumbersome for this country. 
I have not suggested the reduction of wages, although I have said that, we must have efficiency and value for the money spent. Surely the continuance of the Public Service Board and the provision for round table conferences, as provided in the bill, is the best method of settling disputes that may arise in the Public Service. It must be admitted that beneficial results have been achieved by round table conferences. 
The speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  last week shows clearly that the present system of arbitration in the Public Service is far too cumbersome. 
The most glaring instance referred to by the right honorable gentleman related to linemen in the Postmaster-General's Department. With the indulgence of honorable senators, I shall read an extract from his speech - 
Then there are cases in which the Arbitrator has unnecessarily disturbed existing conditions. In 1924, the Arbitrator determined the rates of pay of linemen employed in the PostmasterGeneral's Department as, minimum £233; maximum £251. The board then dealt with - the linemen by classification, and fixed the rates as, minimum £230; maximum £252. These rates accorded with standard rates adopted in classification of the Service. They gave these  officers  a minimum £3 higher than that allowed hy the Arbitrator, and a maximum £1 higher than that of the Arbitrator, with the further advantage of reaching their maximum in two years instead of three as under the Arbitrator's determination. Within twelve months of the approval of the classification, the Arbitrator again varied the scales of pay by reducing the minimum by £3 to agree with his earlier award, by spreading the increments over three years, instead of two years as under the classification, and by increasing his former maximum from £251 to £25li, or £4 more than the classification rate. 
The effect of the determination was that, in the first three years, the linemen were worse off than under the classification of the board, while- at the end ' of five years they benefited under the Arbitrator's finding by only £1. Thereafter they would benefit to the extent of 4d. a day. I think that that was the most serious incident cited by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate. It is appalling to realize the enormous amount that it must have cost Australia to bring about these determinations. The whole procedure has been too cumbersome. Had this enormous expenditure brought about more highly efficient service, had it conferred infinitely greater advantage on the worker in the form of £ s. d., one could not protest so vigorously. 
The honorable senator may arrive at his own conclusions in his own manner, but he cannot attribute such a statement to me. He knows that' I said nothing of the kind. In another instance where, the gain was infinitesimal for the workers involved, 600 witnesses were examined, and every mainland capital in the Commonwealth visited, to hear what was really a repetition of what had already been heard in another case. It was a case of straining at the gnat and swallowing the camel. 
I candidly believe that the good sense of the public servants of Australia will cause them to welcome this measure. Instead of delayed hearings, they will be able to obtain a determination within a very short space of time. The fact that the proposed legislation will link up the Public Service Board and the administration with the tribunal itself must necessarily result in a very appreciable reduction of the expenditure which has hitherto been necessary. The Board has estimated thai during the coming year the operation of the measure will bring about a saving of £150,000. I have not heard one effective argument from honorable senators opposite that would induce me to advise the Government to delay effecting such a saving. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  advocated with considerable skill that the second reading of the bill should be delayed for six months. The honorable senator knows that that is simply a proposal to defeat the bill. 
The measure is purely a machinery one. There will be ample scope later to discuss its contents, some of which may need amendment. I should not believe in the principle embodied in the bill if I thought that  it  placed  any  injustice upon the public servants of the  Commonwealth.  It does not. We must remember that we are here to hold the scales of justice evenly between the public servants and the taxpayers, who have to find the money. If we fail to hold that balance fairly we shall forfeit for all time the confidence of the people of Australia. 
.- I propose to make some brief remarks in support of the amendment. All my life I have been a supporter of arbitration. Like other honorable senators, I know  that it is the avowed object of the Commonwealth Government to destroy arbitration as far as it is able to do so. This bill is a corollary of a measure that is now being debated in another place. When the Government recently went to the country it held this up its sleeve. It was not sufficiently candid to take into its confidence the electors of Australia and tell them that, if returned, one of the first things that it intended to do was to disturb the industrial conditions of Australia ; to destroy the machinery which has worked so satisfactorily to the benefit of the people of Australia, by abolishing what we know as the Arbitration Act. I do not claim that that act is the last word in bringing about industrial peace, but I do claim that it is 100 per cent. better than anything which preceded it. The Government now takes this opportunity to differentiate between a man who works for the public, and another who works for a private individual. I contend that every worker in Australia, irrespective of whom he works for, should have an opportunity to secure an unbiased judgment as to wages and conditions without having to fight and starve to do so. That is why arbitration was introduced into Australia. In the old days a man had to fight bitterly for what he was entitled to receive. Frequently he, his wife, and children had to go hungry, ill-clad and badly housed for many months before obtaining that object. That is why the Labour party fought with all the strength of its organization for the institution of different methods and, as a result, arbitration was established. There was no more ardent fighter than the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate for that method of settling industrial disputes, nor was there a greater warrior than  Senator Lynch  for the same principle. Now those honorable senators, subservient to the capitalistic institutions of the country, declare that they will destroy arbitration and substitute this biased measure. 
It is nothing of the kind; it is only a drop in the bucket. The measure proposes that the tribunal to be created shall deal only with salaries and wages. Arbitration should apply to all industrial matters, salaries and conditions alike. Why should differentiation be shown as between the Commonwealth public servants and private employees? The Prime Minister broadcast throughout Australia that he intended to legislate to destroy the Arbitration Act, and to leave the workers of the country at the mercy of the State Legislative Councils. 
But it is a corollary of the endeavour to destroy the general principle of arbitration that is being made in another place. What is the use of honorable senators opposite trying to throw dust in our eyes? They know that the Government is merely bringing this bill forward as a blind for something that it intends to do elsewhere.  Senator Reid  knows perfectly well that when he is committed to this measure he cannot go back on his action when another matter comes to us for discussion. The wily leaders of the Governmental party know where they are leading their flock, the deaf, the dumb and the blind. They are merely being led on to effect the destruction of industrial peace in Australia, and of advantages enjoyed by the workers for over twenty years. 
My union thought that it suffered certain disadvantages because of the laxity of the Federal Government in providing facilities for the hearing of grievances. At the present moment that union has a case waiting to be heard which has been before the court for two years. That is why it addressed itself to the Queensland Arbitration Court. 
Even if that were admitted, it would justify the action, but I have already supplied the reason to honorable senators. The Queensland court afforded a more rapid method of adjusting the grievance. I do not think that the Commonwealth Arbitration Court has been the success that it should or would 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1029.]  (Public Service) Bill.  503 have been had its administration been better. What would it matter to Australia if there were a dozen arbitration judges each drawing  £5,000  a year, provided that grievances were handled readily, and industrialists were kept working? The main drawback to Australia at present is that men are idle for months at a time, locked out or on strike. Surely this Senate should be sane enough to provide a preventive for that kind of thing in the shape of an effective court. 
Men are but human, and occasionally act wrongly when suffering under grievances.  Senator Payne  claims that there is nothing wrong with the Public Service of this country. If that is so why are they treated differently from other persons ? Why are they not provided with facilities to approach the court, as is the case with other toilers? Public servants are trained to do the work of this country, and, speaking by and large, they are courteous, efficient and obliging. They value the fact that they have been placed on the same plane as the rest of the workers of Australia in having been given access to an. arbitration court. The representatives of 21 unions in the Public Service, embracing many different occupations, have the same right to go before an arbitration court as have the 150,000 men who belong to the association of which I am  president.  But this is to be taken from them. The party opposite would place the Public Service under the jurisdiction of a tribunal that could fix their wages, but could make no alteration whatever in their conditions of employment. That would be wrong. Those employees should have the right to go before the same court as the rest of the workers of this country.  Senator Lynch  imagines that there is no body to protect the taxpayers against the rapacity of the public servants, but what is the Arbitrator paid for? He knows that in fixing the rates of wages for public servants he must have regard to the basic rate decided upon for other workers, and the different circumstances of members of the Service. He has to guard the interests of the public, just as he guards the interests of the private employers. Even if the Government had no representative in the court, the judge would be guided by the facts put before him. It is wrong for the Government to differentiate between members of the Public Service and those employed outside it. That is the danger which I see in this unsatisfactory principle that underlies the bill. I have been an advocate of compulsory arbitration all my life, and although it has not proved to be all that we hoped for, I trust that  this country will never return to the conditions that obtained in the old days when we had no such method of settling our disputes. Then, every man who worked for a crust was at the mercy of the employer of labour, and some of the employers would have made slaves of every worker. They tried to do it, but failed, thanks to organized labour, which enabled Australia to rid itself of the kanakas. 
It was the mailed fist of organized labour that removed the kanaka from this land, and also put an end to the conditions of sweating that obtained prior to federation. The same power established compulsory arbitration in Australia, and that force will also defeat any Government that sets out to destroy it. I challenge this Ministry to go to the country and tell the people that its avowed objective is the removal of the Federal Arbitration Court. If it does that, it will certainly meet with the disapproval of the people. My party may be wrong in some matters, but it stands firmly for the great principle of arbitration, which it believes to have been definitely accepted by the people as a common-sense method of settling industrial disputes. Those honorable senators, who have not already committed themselves on this measure, should give grave thought to it before they cast their vote upon it. Consideration of the bill could easily be held over for the term mentioned in the amendment. The Government says that, even if it secures the passage of this legislation, it will carry on the present system for a sufficient time to enable the State legislatures to frame machinery  to take the place of the federal law. The amendment would provide the opportunity that the Government wishes to give. If honorable senators opposite are so traitorous to the people as to agree to the abandonment of the principle of arbitration, I ask them to have the courage to consult their masters, the people, before they do such a grievous wrong. Let them take as the first plank of their platform their proposal to abolish the present industrial arbitration machinery. 
Yes, because I realize its danger. It would cause a lot of trouble. For eighteen years there has been no industrial disturbance in the Public Service, although I can recall instances of grievous disputes among public servants under State laws. Members of the Federal Public Service have been loyal. There has been no mutiny or disorganization, and now a well-tested piece of machinery is to be scrapped. 
It may be expensive; but it is much cheaper than any other method of which I am aware. I hope that the bill will be defeated. 
Unlike  Senator Barnes,  I do not propose to anticipate a discussion that will take place in this chamber on arbitration generally, when I intend to have a good deal to say on the subject. There seems to be no immediate prospect of reaching final consideration of this bill, which is dependent, to a certain extent, on the bill now before another place. 
I hope to show that it has something to do with that measure. Something may be said in support of the case submitted by one or two honorable senators opposite, who have urged that there is no necessity to rush this measure through as hurriedly as the Government desires. 
Perhaps such a delay would not be unreasonable. During the period I have been a member of Parliament, I have never known a Government to gamble with the future as the present Administration is doing in this instance. If honorable senators refer to the bill they will find that clause 6 provides for the appointment of an arbitration committee, the  chairman  of which shall be the Chief Judge of the Maritime Industries Court or a judge of that court nominated by him. A bill now before another place provides for the repeal of the present Commonwealth Arbitration Act. Contingent upon its passage another system is to bc introduced providing the conditions under which arbitration shall be carried on in the future, and it will also have to run the gauntlet of this chamber. Before' the passage of this measure, which may take  a  considerable time - much longer than a week or two as  Senator Thompson  suggested a few minutes ago - we an; asked to agree to set up another tribunal. 
A bill providing for the abolition of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court, and another proposal setting out the conditions under which arbitration shall be conducted in the future. 
The Minister may have it that way if he so desires ; but I am looking at the subject from two aspects. As certain other factors are dependent upon the passage of that bill, we are following a procedure which is unwise, and which should be adopted only in exceptional circumstances. As usual, the right honorable gentleman in moving the second reading of the bill revealed to the Senate that he had a thorough grasp of his subject. That is not surprising, seeing that he has administered various branches of the Public Service for so many years, and that he knows more concerning their activities than any other member of this Parliament. In submitting the measure to the Senate, he dealt very fully with the main principles of the bill, to which I have no very strong 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public  Service)  Bill.  505 objections. I am aware, however, that certain organizations in the Public Service are very anxious that the present system shall remain in operation, as it is thought that it has been the means of not only protecting the Government, but of safeguarding the interests of public servants. During the week-end, I endeavoured to see as many representatives of the Public Service interested in this measure as was possible in the limited lime. I asked quite a number if they could suggest amendments which would make the measure more acceptable to the Public Service, and, in doing so, I felt that I was following a course adopted by the Minister, who said that he had obtained opinions from representatives of the Public Service, concerning the general principles of the bill. The right honorable gentleman claimed that, so far as he had been able to ascertain, public servants generally had no strong objection to the measure. 
It is true that there are some who have declared that they prefer the present act, although they realize that it is likely to be repealed. But is has been abundantly clear for many years that there is something "rotten in the state of Denmark," particularly in connexion with the operations of the act. It has, as the Minister pointed out, caused the Commonwealth a good deal of trouble, and financial losses which, in view of our present financial circumstances, should be avoided. I thank the Minister for his courtesy in giving me a copy of his second-reading speech, thus allowing me to obtain a more thorough grasp of the measure than would otherwise have been possible. The right honorable gentleman mentioned certain circumstances where considerable sums of money had to be paid for overtime. Let me deal with the cases of the lockers employed in the customs bond, who, as shown by the Minister, and on their own admission, were paid a considerable amount in overtime. These are the facts. The Arbitrator gave his decision upon evidence tendered to him, and the department declaring that it could not accept his decision appealed against it. Owing to the Government's action, and the interchange of opinions between various authorities and the Arbitrator, a period of two years elapsed before a final determination was reached. It was for this period that the department paid the overtime complained of. That was not the fault of the organization or of the Public Service, but was due solely to the circumstances which prevailed. 
If it was, that strengthens the Government's case. If, under the present system a case may be delayed two years, during which period overtime is mounting up, a change should be made. 
Yes, but that was not in connexion with the lockers. The Minister quite inadvertently, I am sure, referred to other large sums of money that had to be paid to lockers and other employees of the Customs Department as overtime. I assure the right honorable gentleman that I know from personal experience, that in all cases where overtime is worked by lockers or any one else directly concerned with importations, the cost is met by the merchant. 
It may be, but there is no record of it ever being paid by the Government or on its behalf. I inferred from the Minister's speech that he used that cost as an argument in support of this amending measure. 
Yes; that cannot be defended in any circumstances. If it can be shown - and I believe it can - that this proposal for setting up separate tribunals, provided they are appointed in a proper way, will give greater elasticity and enable the arbitration authority to reach decisions more speedily, the  system should be adopted. Under the present arrangement, the Public Service Arbitrator has to travel from one end of Australia to the other, and to make decisions in individual cases. I believe that the organizations will realize that the arbitration tribunal, under an independent chairman, who will be assisted by the representative of the Public Service Board and of the branch of the Service concerned in the dispute, will function more effectively. In certain States that system has met with the approval of the Labour party, which has always been 
Seeking  representation on industrial tribunals. 
I am dealing only with the establishment of the tribunals. 
I do not know why they should be. The standard of education and intelligence in the Commonwealth Public Service is as high, if not higher, than it is outside that Service. Members of the Public Service have to possess fairly high qualifications, and wherever I have been associated with them - as a member of parliamentary committees, or in the departments - I have found that their efficiency is of a higher 
Standard  than that of many men following similar occupations outside the Service. If these men cannot be trusted to protect the interests of their fellow officers, who can? If these tribunals are established and the organizations are represented on them, I am confident that the Government will be satisfied that the interests of the Public Service will be conserved, and that the position generally will be better than it is to-day. The Leader of the Opposition suggested, by interjection, that the powers of the arbitral authority were unduly limited, inasmuch as it would have authority to deal only with the salaries and wages of public servants. I do not think  it  is desired by the officers of the Public Service that these tribunals should in any way concern themselves with matters of administration such as designation and seniority. They are not seeking that power. They want a tribunal to deal with salaries and conditions generally. That is not asking too much. If the tribunal to be appointed will have power to prescribe the salaries or wages for a certain class of work, for so many hours each day, why should it not also have power to determine the overtime rates when work has to be done outside the ordinary hours? Further, if broken shifts are found to be necessary, why should not the tribunal be empowered to deal with that matter also ? The Minister instanced certain employees who commenced duty half an hour before the ordinary starting time each day, and remained for half an hour after the ordinary closing time, and said that, according to the interpretation of the award, those men had to be paid for an hour each morning and evening; the two half-hours could not be regarded as one hour for the purpose of overtime. These are matters affecting ordinary working conditions, and could be dealt with by these tribunals without interfering with the administration, or cramping the style of the Minister, the Government, or the Public Service Board. 
In that case, what necessity is there for setting up these tribunals ? The introduction of this bill is evidence that the Government is of the opinion that the Public Service Board cannot be entrusted with these duties. A Public Service Arbitrator was appointed because the Government of the day had lost faith in the ability of the Public Service Board to deal with such matters. Now that the system of the single arbitrator has to go - and there is  no doubt - that the Government's policy in this matter will receive the endorsement of the Senate -  Senator Thompson  would put nothing in its place. He would allow the Public Service Board to have complete control. I am amazed that the honorable senator should not be in agreement with the Government's policy in this matter. 
I desire to refer to the constitution of these tribunals. The organizations with which I have had the opportunity of conferring, claim that, in some sections of the Public Service, it will be impossible to 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) BilI.  507 nominate a sufficient number of suitable officers to provide the panel required under this legislation. The bill proposes that three members shall be nominated by an organization, and that the Government shall select one of such number to act upon the tribunal. The tribunal will sit mostly in Canberra, where, it is claimed, there are not sufficient officers employed in certain branches of the Service to provide a satisfactory panel. 
Of course they could, but that would not meet the situation. One of the main objects of this bill is to avoid travelling expenses. It is reasonable to assume that, with the tribunal sitting in Canberra, the Government will endeavour to get a panel here. I am informed, for instance, that it will be extremely difficult to find in Canberra suitable men to form a panel to deal with a case affecting letter-carriers. There are other branches of the Service similarly situated. Of course, the Government may make an exception in those cases, and bring men here from Sydney or elsewhere. A good deal can be said for the suggestion that the organizations should be permitted to nominate one officer to act on their behalf. We all know that the reason underlying the provision that the Government may select one of the three persons nominated by an organization, is to enable it to exclude any person it considers undesirable. An organization ought to be able to judge for itself in such a matter. All public servants are, or ought to be, specially picked men. Before they are eligible for appointment, they have to produce evidence of good character and ability. I, therefore, cannot see any objection to a Public Service organization naming the individual officer, or person, whom it desires shall act on its behalf, provided that he is an officer in the branch of the service concerned. The request the organizations make is a reasonable one, and I think the Government might grant it. 
I support the general principles of the bill, and the plan it outlines for the appointment of these tribunals. ' If the Government will give consideration to the matters raised, I am confident that the measure will be improved and will give greater satisfaction to all. I hope to have an opportunity in committee of moving the amendments I have indicated. 
I shall endeavour to be brief and to touch chiefly on points that have not already been dealt with. The revelations made by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate, as to the expense connected with the present arbitration system, were of such a nature as to compel the Government to take action to put an end to such a state of affairs. The bill before us should provide that relief which the Government is seeking. It appears to me that we already have the means of safeguarding the country against such enormous expenditure. Even if such expenditure be legal the Audit Department ought to have some control over it. That department, at least, ought to draw the Government's attention to such matters. It might also direct attention from time to time to the huge expenditure incurred by various commissions and other bodies. 
When  Senator Duncan  was speaking, I interjected that the Public Service Board was better fitted to deal with many matters than was the Arbitration Court. I should be content to leave the control of the Public Service in the hands of the Public Service Board, so long as there was an independent board of appeal open to public servants. I am pleased that the Government has introduced this measure, forI believe that it will provide a much needed check on the expenditure of public moneys. 
Reference has been made to the desirability of having a board of three men instead of one arbitrator. In Queensland, at one time, arbitration matters were under the control of Judge McCawley, but later, a Labour Government appointed a board of trade comprising three members. There we have a precedent for the action contemplated by the Government in this measure. 
I agree with the provision that, in the hearing of cases, counsel or solicitors shall not be employed. In arbitration matters, the employment of legal advisers tends to cumbersome proceedings, and to delay in dealing with cases. I also agree whole-heartedly with the clause which provides that there shall be no retrospectivity. Having been connected a good deal with wages boards, arbitration courts, and industrial disputes generally in Queensland, I know that a great deal of hardship is inflicted upon employers by the principle of retrospectivity. It cannot injure the employee, because it is impossible to take "  breeks  " off a Highlander. 
I did nothing of the kind. The honorable senator refers to the shearers' strike of 1891, when I was called out in the public safety to maintain law and order. My action prevented bloodshed, and I venture to say that it would have been taken by any one else in the circumstances. 
I point out to Senators Thompson and Dunn that the subject introduced is irrelevant. 
I rose particularly to draw attention to the waste of public money in the payment of what are termed higher duty allowances, I have had this matter before mo as a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, and you also,  Mr. President,  in your recent capacity of  Chairman  of that Committee, had also a good deal to do with the subject. In the report of that committee upon temporary employment in the Commonwealth Public Service I find the following - 
According to figures submitted in evidence 2,115 officers out of a total permanent staff of some 28,000 officers wore, at 31st March, 1929, temporarily occupying higher positions. The higher duties allowances paid for 1927 and 1928 were £05,073. and £84,012 respectively. It was stated that the present system of higher duties allowances was brought about by the Public Service Arbitration Court in developing the principle of higher duties allowances. During the earl)7 years of Public 
Service administration no higher duties allowances were paid until an officer had acted for six months in the higher position. Later thu period was reduced to three months, the salary paid being the minimum only of the higher class. Subsequently the matter was taken into the Public Service Arbitration Court, and for several years inconsistencies arose, different unions and associations being treated in different ways. At the present time an officer receives a higher duties allowance if ho is engaged for a total of 20 days in any period of twelve months in a higher position, whether the period of 20 days is continuous or not. He is also entitled to annual increments if retained in the higher position for a lengthy period. It was further submitted in evidence that the principle of higher duties allowances was equitable if reasonably applied, but it should be restricted to cases in which the officer is acting in the higher position for at least three months, and  then  only the minimum salary of the higher position should be paid. Evidence also disclosed that in Great Britain the principle had been adopted under which, an officer must serve for six months in a higher position before becoming entitled to the higher duties allowance, which was paid by means of a 20 per cent, increase on his ordinary salary. If the English system had been applied to the Commonwealth Service in 1927-28, when £84,012 was paid in allowances, it was claimed that a saving of £50,000 could have been made. In many cases higher duties allowances had to be paid to three or four nien owing to the absence of one officer. It was further stated in evidence that the system nf higher duties allowances was being "abused, that much of the expenditure on higher duties allowances was unjustified, and that the practice had gradually extended until the financial effect was serious. 
I had a good deal of information under that heading supplied to me in a private way in Queensland, indicating how the practice has been abused. If there is any recommendation for the present bill it is contained in that statement, which is a condemnation of a system which I hope the passage of this bill will eliminate forever. I have very much pleasure in supporting the bill. 
If there is one satisfactory feature of the bill, it is that referred to by  Senator Thompson,  that the legal fraternity will be debarred from taking part in the proceedings of the proposed tribunal. That action should have been taken when arbitration was first established in Australia. It would have saved many union organizations and employees enormous sums of money, which have been paid to the legal fraternity. Whenever unionists had to approach the Arbitration 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  509 
Court they were requested to give lawyers the facts that they hadlaboriously gathered through their personal association with industry. Those lawyers then went into court and pleaded the case of the industrialists, frequently not as well as could have been done by the men themselves, although, I grant, in more flowery language. 
I have frequently expressed my views on this matter to the honorable senator, and I repeat them on this occasion. The arbitration courts of Australia have been fattening paddocks for the lawyers. I am very pleased, indeed, that the fraternity will be excluded from this tribunal. The members of the Public Service will be fortunate indeed to escape the fangs of the lawyers. 
There is one thing that has the Opposition wondering, and that is why members of the Public Service have been debarred access to an ordinary arbitration court. Why should there be any differentiation between them and private employees? If the principle of arbitration is good for one body it should be equally good for another. 
So far as I can judge those employed in the Public Service are quite satisfied with the existing system, and I do not think that they have asked for any alteration. Why, then, does the Government insist upon bringing about this change? At whose request is it made?  Senator Johnston  stated that a saving of thousands of pounds would be effected by the innovation, but he did not explain how it was to be done. Is it to be brought about by the wholesale sacking of public servants? Anybody could save money in that manner, but it would be a retrograde step. If there is employment for these people their services should be retained. The recent Economic Commission seemingly sought to justify its existence by recommending the dismissal of hundreds of employees. 
I could understand the action of the Government in establishing a new tribunal if the public servants refused to obey theawards of the Arbitrator, but ever since 1911 there has not been an instance of any such disobedience, although a number of the awards were not favorable to the employees. Very often they got more kicks than ha'pence. The question arises whether the proposed tribunal will be cheaper to maintain than the present system, and whether it will give better service. I doubt it. Seemingly, the prevailing system has met with a measure of success, and we should not tamper with it, particularly when the public servants have made no such request. I do not like the proposed personnel of the tribunal, a member of the Public Service Board, a member of the Public Service, and a judge to act as chairman. I can imagine myself, as a unionist, going before such a committee to give evidence. 
He will have to be a person from outside the Public Service, otherwise he will lose his job. I have had experience with that type of tribunal. When I felt called upon to give evidence and did so, I was not sacked, but was disrated for my temerity. I trust that the Government will consider whether it is not possible to obtain suggestions from the public servants to improve the proposed legislation. If the tribunal makes an award, that must remain in abeyance for 30 days, either House having the power to veto it. I think that is a very broad-minded and fair provision. But, apparently, the Government has taken upon itself the power to make appeals against awards, even after they have been approved by the tribunal. As  Senator Duncan  pointed out, in one case they hung up an award for two years, and then had to repay the whole of the money. Why the Government should appeal against an award of such a tribunal is beyond comprehension. If it thought that the Arbitrator was unfair, why did it not use the power it had and dismiss him from office, instead of punishing the employees? No harm could come from the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. If the Government objects to postponement of consideration of the bill for six months, why not allow three months delay. By that time another measure dealing with 510  Arbitration.  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  arbitration will probably have reached the Senate. My sympathies lie with the public servants. The Public Service Board can well hold its own; but the members of the Service, who have to pass severe examinations, do 'a worthy work the value of which the Government should recognize. If it treats them well, they will give the public good service in return. 
I propose to refer briefly to remarks made by honorable senators opposite concerning the attitude of honorable senators on this side to arbitration generally. Senators Dunn and Barnes, particularly, said that one of the main reasons for the bill was that the Government desired to destroy compulsory arbitration in Australia; but the whole record of the work of the Nationalist and Country parties points in the opposite direction. The present Government, and previous administrations of a similar character, have probably done more than any other Ministry to assist arbitration. I support the bill because I was one of the first who prophesied the present condition of affairs, and I voted against the appointment of the Public Service Arbitrator in the first place. At that time there was considerable congestion in the Federal Arbitration Court, and various unions associated with industries outside the service were constantly complaining that they were unable to have their claims heard because nearly half the cases before the court concerned Commonwealth public servants. The Leader of the Opposition will recollect that congestion seven or eight years ago, and one of the main reasons for the appointment of the Arbitrator was a desire to expedite the hearing of claims, giving the public servants themselves an opportunity to have their claims dealt with more expeditiously than would otherwise be possible. That fact, and the appointment of extra judges, show that the present Government has never set out to destroy arbitration. The speech of  Senator Barnes  is similar to those made by Labour representatives throughout Australia in the last three or four months. They have endeavoured to misrepresent the attitude ofthe Ministerial party to arbitration. 
The desire is to do away with the overlapping and the many disadvantages to industry that are due to the clashing of Federal and State awards. When it was proposed by a Nationalist Government that the Commonwealth Public Service should be removed from the jurisdiction of the Federal Arbitration Court and that a Public Service Arbitrator should be appointed, this party wasopposed just as bitterly as on the present occasion. 
As Leader of the Opposition the honorable senator naturally objects to any action contemplated by the present Government. When the appointment of the Arbitrator was under consideration, Labour representatives in another place delivered speech after speech to the effect that the Government was entering upon a wage-smashing and an anti-arbitration campaign. Their remarks to-day are merely a re-hash of the observations made on that occasion. The Government's sole object, however, is to bring about the smooth working of the Public Service and of the industrial machinery generally. 
I regret that  Senator Dunn  is not in the chamber at the present moment. In some parts of his speech he was very abusive to some honorable senators on this side. I hope that he will learn to realize that a debate should be conducted in a courteous manner. There is no occasion for any honorable senator to adopt an arrogant or bullying attitude towards his fellow members, and I think that it would be well if the Leader of the Opposition reminded his perhaps over-zealous colleague that it is just as easy to be courteous as to adopt bullying tactics. In the course of his speech, he declared that the Commonwealth Public Service was seething with discontent, and yet, on the other hand, he tried for nearly an hour to show why a system of arbitration that, according to him, had resulted in such discontent should be maintained. If there be such discontent, the Government should try to remedy it ; but, personally, I do not think that the Service is in such a condition. There is certainly -no occasion for it, because the Nationalist party, 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Arbitration [4 September, 1929.]  (Public Service) Bill.  511 since it has been in power, has endeavoured to make the lot of the public servants congenial. Superannuation and child endowment schemes have been introduced for their benefit. 
The honorable senator's statement as to seething discontent in the Service is probably no less inaccurate than that regarding the expenditure said by him to have been incurred in connexion with the visit to Australia of the British Economic Mission. He stated that anything from  £60,000  to  £70,000  had been spent in that direction; but I find, on reference to the Estimates, that the amount expended on that account was only  £9,722,  or about one-seventh of the sum mentioned by  Senator Dunn. 
I do not believe that the money was unwisely expended. Members of the mission, on their return to Great Britain, showed that, despite their short visit to this country, they had obtained a fair grasp of the economic conditions here. They gave Australia a good advertisement in other parts of the world, and did a good deal to refute the bad name given to this country by the inflammatory speeches of a number of the opponents of the Government. 
The statement was made by  Senator Barnes  over and over again that the sole object of the bill was to take away the rights and privileges of public servants. Apparently,  Senator Barnes  has not studied clause 3 of the bill, which reads - 
(1.) The Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1920-1928 is repealed. (2.) Every award or order made by the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1911, and any determination or interpretation made by the Public Service Arbitrator under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1920, or under that act as subsequently amended, which is in force at the commencement of this act, shall, subject to this section, continue in force notwithstanding the repeal effected by sub-section ( 1. ) of this section. 
In view of that provision, I do not know how the honorable senator can contend that this measure is being introduced with the object of depriving public servants of the advantages they have derived from the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. When the present Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  moved the second reading of the bill under which a Public Service Board of three Commissioners was appointed, he directed attention to the volume of work which would have to be undertaken by that body. Very extensive powers were given to the board to enable it to place the Commonwealth Public Service on a sound and business-like basis, and shortly after its appointment, it set to work to reclassify the whole of the Service and to introduce new conditions, to ensure the more economical working of governmental departments. Shortly after the appointment of the board, which every one realized would be of great benefit, not  only to the Public Service, but to the Commonwealth generally, the Government introduced a measure providing for the appointment of a Public Service Arbitrator who, unfortunately, as discovered later, had the power to practically undo everything which was being done by the Public Service Board. That measure gave the Arbitrator the right to interfere with the system of controlling the departments, with the result that much of the good work of the board was undone. 
In moving the second reading of this bill, the Minister gave very good reasons why a change should be made with the least possible delay. The right honorable gentleman showed how unnecessary expenditure had been incurred in travelling expenses and in hearing evidence on trivial matters which could have been settled by the board at very little expense. The Public Service Arbitrator; whose term of appointment is just about to expire could be removed from office only by a resolution of both Houses, and had it not been for this provision in the act, this measure would probably have been introduced earlier. I look forward with a great deal of pleasure to the appointment of the proposed tribunals, and I feel sure that they will function in the interests of the Commonwealth and of the Public Service generally. When the Public Service Board was appointed, the members of the Laibour' party were strongly of the opinion that the members of the Public Service 512  Arbitration  [SENATE.]  (Public Service) Bill.  should be represented on that body; and although we have not reached that stage, public servantswill have representation on the arbitration committee to be appointed under this measure. This system has been adopted in practically all the States, and is working satisfactorily. I am hopeful that the measure will receive the support of the majority of honorable senators, and I am sure it will not result, as  Senator Dunn  suggests, in a dissatisfied Public Service. It should be the means of ensuring to public servants reasonable remuneration and fair conditions of employment, as well as effecting economies which will be of benefit to the whole Commonwealth. 
The principal objection of honorable senators opposite to this measure appears to be that it has been introduced at the ' same time as a similar bill which is being discussed in another place. It has been suggested that the Government has brought it forward for the express purpose of assisting the passage of the other bill referred to. The Maritime Industries Bill now under consideration in another chamber does away with the present Commonwealth Arbitration Court, but this measure is merely changing the system of arbitration for the Public Service. The term of office of the present Arbitrator in the Commonwealth Public Service has now practically expired. In the circumstances the Government, therefore, has either to continue the present method of arbitration for a further period, or take this opportunity of improving its former legislation. It would appear that the Government is adopting a reasonable course, particularly when we consider the losses which have been incurred under the present system. I congratulate the Minister upon his informative speech, and commend the Government for introducing a bill which should be the means of saving a considerable amount of money in the administration of the Public Service. A careful study of it shows that all the rights and privileges that public servants have enjoyed in the past will be fully safeguarded, and that the taxpayers' interests will be conserved to a greater extent than they are under the present system. It has been stated by honorable senators opposite that during the last five or six years, the cost of administration has been reduced. That is very creditable to those in charge of certain departments; but as the expenditure incurred by the Public Service Arbitrator has been unnecessarily heavy, it is evident that other departments, which have been economically conducted, have had to bear the burden of the system now to be abolished. 
I take a more optimistic view of the situation than honorable senators opposite, who have said that there will be a great deal of discontent and trouble in the Public Service when this measure is placed upon the statute-book. I contend that the members of the Public Service are sufficiently intelligent and fair-minded to realize that the action the Government is taking is not only in the interests of the taxpayers, but will be of advantage to the Public Service generally. Provision has been made for public servants to be represented upon the arbitration committee, thus giving effect to the wishes of a large number of members of the Service. The measure will dispense with the overlapping which now exists, it will reduce expenditure, and enable the Commonwealth Service to be efficiently administered. I therefore support it. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
With regard to the speech of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate in introducing the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill on Friday last - 
What is the number of linemen who drew the allowances referred to in respect to the purchase of farms,  &amp;c. J 
Where were the farms purchased? 
Who are the officers concerned? 
What were the purchase prices of the farms? 
What were the facts concerning the purchase of such farms that guided the Minister in  his  remarks? 
On what did the Minister base his statement, that the money paid in' purchasing the farms was saved from the allowances paid to the officers? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.For some time following on the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator certain members of travelling line parties in the Postmaster-General's Department were paid travelling allowance at the rate of 12s. per diem for the first two weeks' stay in any one place. In many instances the parties moved from job to job, not staying fourteen days  in any one place. The officers concerned almost continuously drew allowances at the rate of £4 4s. per week, although it is clear from evidence obtained, and later submitted to the Arbitrator, that generally their boarding costs did not exceed 35s. per week. They were thus in the position of drawing allowances of 49s. per week over and above their living requirements, and in addition to their salaries. 
While, as intimated yesterday, I am not prepared to disclose specific names or instances, the information which has been obtained in regard to the matter leaves no doubt that many of the men, quite laudably, invested, in property, the additional payments so received. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is he prepared to set up necessary ma-  chnery to allow representatives of the Theatrical Employees Union, and also representatives of the Picture Show Industry to appear before the bar of the Senate to state their reasons why the proposed Amusement Tax should notbe applied? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a mergerhas been formed in England between the various companies interested in telegraphic communication ? 
Are negotiations in progress for the application of such a merger to Australia? 
Will the Government, before it becomes a party to any such merger, give Parliament an opportunity of discussing the whole question of overseas telegraphic communication? 
The answers are - 
A fusion of interests has taken place between the Eastern Telegraph and its associate companies and the Marconi Wireless Company under a new company known as the Imperial and International Communications Company. This organization has accepted the liability for the Pacific cable system, and will be responsible for its future operation, 
No; but negotiations are proceeding with a view to securing a co-ordination of the wireless and cable services in Australia. 
See answer to (2). 
[3.10]. - It will be noted that this clause provides that this act, except sub-section 5 of section 3, shall commence on a date to be fixed by proclamation. This is necessary because considerable work will be involved in con stituting a panel of the associations, and also for the reason that on the termination of the Public Service Arbitrator's period of service,his records must be removed to Canberra. As to the exception of subclause 5 of clause 3, which is to become operative on the date of the GovernorGeneral's assent to the act, it is desiredthat the power to make regulations outside the matters of wages and salaries shall be availed of at the earliest moment after the bill has been passed by both Houses. The financial position is such that early steps should be taken to review the payment of allowances of various kinds in order to secure the more economical working of the departments. I ask honorable senators to observe this differentiation of treatment. The act is to come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation, with the exception of sub-clause 5 of 'clause 3, which will come into force when the Governor-General has assented to the act. This will enable action to be taken at once to rectify some of the glaring anomalies of which I gave the Senate some examples, and to secure that economy which is so much desired. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 - 
The power to make regulations, contained in - 
section ninety-seven of the Com monwealth Public Service Act 1922-1928; and 
any other act which empowers the making of regulations prescribing conditions of employment in the Public Service shall extend to the making of regulations inconsistent with any portion of any such award, order, determination or interpretation (not being a portion which relates to salaries or wages in respect of ordinary hours of labour), . . . 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.12]. - I move - 
That the words " salaries or wages in respect of ordinary hours of labour " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words, " any matter or class of matter within the ambit of the powers conferred on the committee by section eleven of this Act. 
Clause 11 of this bill provides that - 
The committee shall have power to determine, subject to the provisions of this section, all matters submitted to it relating to salaries or wages in respect of ordinary hours of labour of classes of officers and employees of the Public Service: 
Provided that the committee shall not determine any claim in so far as it relates to classes of officers or employees in receipt of salary or wages exceeding £600 per annum, and shall not make any determination fixing, in respect of any class of officers or employees, salary or wages at a rate exceeding that amount. 
As that clause is at present drafted it would have the effect of preventing the Public Service Board from dealing with the salaries or wages of officers in receipt of over £600 per annum. It is desired, therefore, to alter the drafting in the direction I have indicated so as to make it clear that the board will have complete power in regard to the salaries or wages of officers receiving over £600 per annum. 
 The Opposition desire to voice their protest both against the  clause and  against the amendment.' Honorable senators will see that the clause repeals the present form of arbitration in relation to the Commonwealth Public Service. For the reasons which we outlined in our second-reading speeches, we feel that we should make one final endeavour to persuade the Senate to retain to the Commonwealth Public Service its present form of arbitration. That system has been in operation for eighteen years and, despite the statements of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  it has worked so well that we feel justified in asking the Senate to negative the clause. 
.- I  move- 
That the words " Maritime Industries Court" paragraph  a,  be left out, with a view to insert  in  lieu thereof the words " Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration ". 
In my second-reading speech, I gave my reasons for desiring to make this amendment. There is at present no such tribunal as the Maritime Industries Court, and I submit that the Senate has no right to anticipate what might be done in another place. It is a matter of principle with the Opposition. If the Government is determined to set up a new form of arbitration, let it be presided over by a judge of a court that does actually exist. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.26].  -  I cannot accept the amendment. In making this provision the Government is doing nothing unusual. It is a common practice, when amending two laws of a kindred nature, to anticipate the amendment of each. The Senate and another place are dealing with two bills which in a sense, are linked up, and the Government hopes that both will pass. It would be futile to make the amendment proposed by  Senator Daly,  if we then found ourselves in the position of having to repeal it, after the bill which is being considered in another place became law. 
Amendment negatived. 
Amendment (by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) agreed to - 
That the word " failed " sub-clause9, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " ceased ". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 6 -  (1.) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Public Service Arbitration Committee, which shall consist of three members. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.28] .   -  This clause provides for the constitution of an Arbitration Committee. It contemplates that this committee will deal with the Public Service departments which are now operating under the Public Service Act. But there are also branches of the Service, in which officers are employed, that are constituted under various authorities set up by Parliament. For instance, the officers of the Commonwealth railways do not come within the provisions of the Public Service Act. At present they have the right of access to the Public Service Arbitrator, but I do not think they have availed themselves of the privilege very frequently. There are also the officers of the Commonwealth Bank. It is possible that the board of directors of that bank might wish to avail itself of this contemplated tribunal. In addition, there are other governmental activities, such as the Developmental and Migration Commission, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the War Service Homes Commission, and others, which are not under the Public  Service Act. There are also the industrial establishments of the Defence Department, such as the munition factories at Maribyrnong and the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. It is thought desirable that this tribunal should be available to deal with cases which may arise there. I therefore move - 
That the following sub-clauses be added: - (10.) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, in any case in which any of the officers or employees directly concerned in any matter to be determined by the Committee are employed under the authority of an Act, other than the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1928, the Minister may appoint to theCommittee an officer or employee other than a member of the Public Service Board, instead of that member. (11.) The officer or employee appointed under the last preceding sub-section shall have all the powers and functions of a member of the Committee as if he had been appointed to the Committee under sub-section (2.) of this section and shall . be entitled to receive the same remuneration under the same conditions as a member appointed from a panel under that sub-section. 
The addition of those sub-clauses would leave it within the power of the Minister to appoint other than a member of the Public Service Board  to act on' any of these committees. For instance, in various bodies allied with the Public Service, such as the War Service Homes Commission, the Development and Migration Commission, and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, the conditions of employment are similar, to those in the Public Service, -and generally the regulations governing employment therein follow the regulations governing the Public Service. In the event of a case affecting any of those sections being referred to a committee, the Minister would probably appoint a member of the Public Service Board to act on the committee. In the Commonwealth Railways, however, it might be considered better, in some cases, to appoint on the committee a representative of the Railways Commissioner, because the conditions of employment in the Railways service are not in all respects similar to those in the Public Service. Although the clerical section of the Railways service does approximate to that of the clerical section, of the Public Service, and in dealing with claims affecting railway clerks, it might be thought desirable to appoint on the committee a representative of the Public Service Board, a different representative might be appointed in cases affecting engine-drivers and firemen. The clause has been drafted in a flexible manner, so that the Minister may take action according to the class of case concerned. It is consistent with the policy contained in the bill. 
It is considered that these branches of Commonwealth activities should be dealt with by Commonwealth legislation, rather  than that they should he left to the States. It might not always be desirable to have State authorities controlling the conditions of employment in the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow, or the Munition Factory at Maribyrnong. In the case of the Maribyrnong factory, which is a part of the Defence Department's administrative machinery, the Minister would probably appoint to the Arbitration Committee a representative of the Munitions Board, to represent the employers. I ask the committee to adopt these two subclauses, in order that we may be able to cover practically every branch of Commonwealth activities, if thought desirable to do so. l( 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11- (1). The Committee shall have power to determine, subject to the provisions of this section, all matters submitted to it relating to salaries or wages in respect of ordinary hours of labour of classes of officers- and employees of the Public Service: 
I move- 
That t&gt;.e words " in respect of ordinary hours of labour " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words, "or conditions of employment." 
Honorable senators will remember that we were told in unmistakable language, that this new tribunal conformed to all the principles of arbitration; that the Government was not opposed to arbitration ; that indeed, it desired to set up a more effective tribunal in the interest of the Government, the Public Service and the community. In this new jurisprudence, which we know as industrial law, conditions must be prescribed by the tribunal in order that it may prescribe the wages which shall be paid. It is a contradiction to say that after the wage has been fixed, the Minister will prescribe the conditions under which that wage shall be earned. The authority which prescribes the wage should also define the conditions under which it shall be earned. Otherwise it is not arbitration. We have been told that certain anomalies have arisen as the result of the work of the Public Service Arbitrator, and that the constitution of this tribunal is an attempt on the part of the Government to prevent any such anomalies arising in the future. If it is to be an arbitral tribunal, let it be one in the truest sense of the term; let it do what every arbitration court may do - prescribe, not only the hours and wages, but also the general conditions of employment under which particular classes of employees shall work, or wages be earned. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Vice-President of the Executive Council) [3.40]. - I ask the committee to reject the amendment. I do not propose to go over the whole ground again, because it was fully debated on the second reading. I suggest to  Senator Daly  that there is no parallel between a private employer and his employees and the Public Service Board and members of the Service. In the case of a private employer, the arbitration authorities prescribe the conditions of employment, because otherwise, the employer would have the right to' determine them. In the case of the Public Service, however, Parliament has already set up an authority to stand between the employer and the employee. That authority determines the conditions of employment in the Public Service. There was a time when the determination of such conditions was left to the employer - the Minister - but to-day the Public Service Board, composed of public servants, fixes the conditions of employment. Over the Public Service Board stands Parliament to see that justice is done. In giving a picture, yesterday, of the conditions of employment in the Public Service, I think I made it clear that that service has no parallel in the Commonwealth. The Government contends that there is no necessity to interpose another arbitral authority between the authority which Parliament has already created and the  public servants in so far as conditions of employment are concerned. That authority was created to remove any suspicion of political patronage which might be associated with the acts of a Minister. Parliament did that deliberately. To continue a double-barrelled system would be for Parliament to stultify itself. The amendment suggests that Parliament might stand by and allow an injustice to be done. That is unthinkable in a democracy like ours. The danger is not that Parliament might allow an injustice to be done, but that, in view of the mass vote in every electorate, Parliament might lend too willing an ear to requests for privileges to be granted to public servants which other sections of the community cannot enjoy. The amendment would take us back to where we were, and I trust that the committee will reject it. If it were agreed to, we should merely have a repetition of the anomalies of the past. 
. -I am afraid that the amendment moved by  Senator Daly  has not been prepared with that care which one generally associates with amendments moved by the honorable senator; for it asks for rather more than the Public Service organizations themselves ask. In my secondreading speech I urged the desirability of extending the powers of the committee so that in addition to determining salaries, it could deal with such matters as overtime, broken shifts, higher duties pay, and other conditions associated with ordinary conditions of labour, but not purely administrative matters such as designations and seniority. Overtime, broken shifts, and similar matters are directly concerned with the conditions of employment. Surely it is not asking too much that a tribunal which, in order to determine salaries and wages in any branch of the Public Service, must have a full knowledge of the facts, should also be empowered to decide what rates shall be paid for overtime and broken shifts. Those matters relate to salaries and wages; but they are deliberately excluded from the powers of the tribunal. Unfortunately, the clause limits us to ordinary hours of labour. If we have one authority fixing the hours of labour, and another determining the rates to be paid for overtime, the work of the tribunal will be duplicated, and there will be a risk of bringing about confusion. I think that the organizations that are asking for an extension of the powers of the tribunal in this direction are not making an unreasonable request. The Minister has not replied to this point, and I should be glad to hear why the . Government is unwilling to grant -the request. By acceding to it, it would remove many of the objections that certain organizations now . have to this clause, and I believe that a smoother working of the Service would result. 
The words that I have asked the committee to insert have a meaning that is well known under our industrial arbitration system. I see no objection to their insertion, and  Senator Duncan  should have no difficulty in agreeing to the amendment. Parliament would still be the supreme appellate tribunal in the matter.  My  complaint is that, while the Leader of the Government avowed yesterday, that his Ministry stood four-square for arbitration, he has stated to-day that he and his Government favour the fixation of conditions that should be determined by an arbitral tribunal by the Public Service Board, which is a non-arbitral body. It is impossible for me to reconcile his statement yesterday with that made by him to-day. If honorable seantors believe in arbitration, I ask them to give to the authority to be set up the full jurisdiction that a court of arbitration should have. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 18 agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
I understand that  Senator Herbert  Hays desires to move the adoption of the report of the Select Committee that was appointed to investigate the subject of sending wireless messages from Australia to England at one penny a word. Since honorable senators generally are not desirous of proceeding with the budget debate at this juncture - I understand that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Daly)  is not anxious to resume that debate now - and, in view of the promise given that the debate on the Life Insurance Bill will not be taken up until next week, I propose to give  Senator Herbert  Hays an opportunity to submit the motion standing in his name. After that, I intend to move that  the  Senate  adjourn until Wednesday next, when the Life Insurance Bill will be proceeded with. I therefore move - 
That orders of the day, Nos. 2 and 3 be postponed until after consideration of Private Business, order of the day No. 2. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That the report from the Select Committee appointed to inquire into and report upon the desirability and commercial possibility of sending messages from Australia to England over the beam wireless at a penny a word, presented to the Senate on 14th August, 1929, be adopted. 
I do not intend to detain honorable senators for any considerable time, not because I regard the subject as unimportant, but because every member of this chamber had an opportunity early this year to debate the matter to which the motion refers, and copies of the report of the committee have been placed in their hands. Honorable senators will, I feel sure, join me in saying that we have to thank ex-Senator Thomas for bringing this subject prominently under our notice. A number of us, probably, would not have regarded it as of great importance, but, as the result of its ventilation in this chamber, we recognize that the ex-senator's hopes regarding penny-a-word wireless were not a mere dream. I pay a tribute to him for the enthusiasm and industry which he showed during the inquiry. He displayed the same earnestness then as was manifested by him when he submitted the motion for the appointment of the select committee. 
I confess that I was at a loss to know at that time why the Government opposed the motion, and I am at a greater loss to-day to understand why it so strenuously opposed a motion that had for its object the gathering of information that would be of benefit both to the Government and the Parliament. The principal reason advanced by the Minister representing the Postmaster-General in this chamber, for the Government's opposition to the motion, was that certain negotiations were proceeding between the cable companies and the governments of Australia and Great Britain regarding the merging of the interests controlling lines of communication, both by wireless and submarine cable, between Australia and the Mother Country, and fears were entertained that the appointment of the committee might prejudice those negotiations, and, in some unexplained way, be prejudicial to the best interests both of the negotiators and Australia. As a member of that committee, I think that I may say that it has been clearly shown those fears were groundless. I believe,  Mr. President,  that you stated from your seat in this chamber, prior to your elevation to the high office that you now adorn, that you saw no reason whatever why the committee should not be trusted to make the investigation, using that discretion with which each member, by virtue of his qualifications as a senator, should be endowed, in making inquiries along such lines as he thought prudent in the interests of the people. The evidence obtained by the committee showed most conclusively that there was every justification for the inquiry, as witnesses frequently stated that a cheaper means of communication between Australia and Great Britain would be of great benefit to every section of the community. During its inquiry the committee endeavoured to avoid complicating the situation, which was then developing in connexion with a proposed merger of the wireless and cable interests in Great Britain, and, in this connexion, refrained from exploring many avenues in which it could have obtained useful information. The recommendations of the committee are very brief. The first recommendation reads - 
That the wireless station should be owned by the Government and that all overseas telegraphic communications should be under Government control. 
The second recommendation reads - 
That wireless should be developed to its fullest extent, and that its development should not be handicapped by cable considerations. A plant with a carrying capacity to enable ordinary messages to be despatched at the rate of1d. a word should be provided as soon as possible. 
The third recommendation reads - 
That the Government should immediately proceed to inaugurate a system of overseas post letter telegrams, similar to that in use across the Atlantic, at a charge of lid. a word with a minimum of ten words per message. 
The committee further states in its report that Parliament should have an opportunity of discussing the whole subject of overseas telegraphic communications before the Commonwealth Government becomes a party to the wireless and cable merger. During the inquiry it was made abundantly clear that the ambition of ex-Senator Thomas, who was responsible for the appointment of the committee, that wireless messages should be despatched at1d. a word; was a practical proposition, provided the capacity of the station in Australia was capable of carrying the business. 
The inquiry of the committee disclosed that commercial messages could be despatched at a much lower rate, possibly at1d. per word, if the business was regulated as the cable business is by despatching deferred messages at lower rates. It was clearly shown that cheaper rates on deferred cable messages have been fully availed of by the Australian people. In these circumstances we are justified in contending, that if the wireless rates were reduced to1d; a word; and the traffic properly regulated; the volume would be much greater than it is to-day. It is reasonable to assume that for perhaps a year or two transmission at low rates would not show a profit; but when the facilities were fully availed of by the public-, the financial returns would be satisfactory. The proper development of a system of cheap overseas wireless communications -has undoubtedly been hampered in consequence of its effect upon the business of the cable companies. Evidence tendered to the committee disclosed that there was a good deal of apprehension on the part of the cable interests concerning the opposition which they had to meet from Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. It was contended by some that if the wireless rates were reduced to a1d. per word, the cable companies would be practically ruined. It is the 'duty of 'this Parliament to give the fullest consideration to this  subject regardless of the money invested by governments and others in. cable companies. The people in this portion of the empire should be able to take the fullest advantage of wireless by sending messages to the other Dominions, and to Great Britain, at the lowest possible rates. Even if the cable services must be maintained in the interests of the empire; that is no reason why the development of wireless should be hampered. When the Honorary Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  asked if the committee was of the opinion that commercial messages could be transmitted at a1d. a word, I said that that was possible if the traffic was properly regulated; but I did not mean that such a rate would include terminal charges at either end. At present lettergrams are despatched between Great Britain and Canada at a1d. a word during periods when the wireless plant is not fully occupied, and this service which has been in operation for some time has been a means of extending trade and bringing the great Dominion of Canada into closer touch with the centre of the empire. If the people of Canada have all the advantages of cheap communication, why should not the people of the Commonwealth derive similar benefits? As a member of the committee; I had ample opportunity of ascertaining the wonderful work which is being undertaken by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, under the control of the Managing Director, Mr.Fiske, whose exceptional ability  is  largely responsible for the rapid development of wireless. The organization which should be assisted by the Government must be equal to anything of its kind in any part of the world. It will hot be long; as  Mr. Fiske  stated in evidence, before1d. a word messages will be a feasible proposition. I believe that is the company's aim. Cheap wireless communication provides a means for the interchange of social messages between Great Britain and the Commonwealth, and is also an important factor in developing trade between different portions of the empire. 
The committee first endeavoured to ascertain whether it was possible for the plant  of 
Amalgamated "Wireless (Australasia) Limited to handle the business at this end. If that could be done, negotiations could then be entered into with the authorities in Great Britain. 
That is so. 
That should not be necessary. It is attributed to me that I urged that the cable companies should go out of business. I suggested nothing of the kind. At the same time the absolute necessity for the maintenance of the cables, as an essential means of secret communication during 
Avar time, has not been borne out by the facts. 
I do not presume to offer any criticism upon the views of Admiral Napier in the matter. He is enthusiastic and capable in his duties, and we must respect his opinions. But his opinions on the subject must necessarily be biased, and those of im-partial observers, such as the manager of Amalgamated Wireless Limited, who hold a contrary opinion, are also entitled to respect. It  is worthy of note that although Great Britain cut off Germany's means of cable communication in the early stages of the Great War, Germany at no time during the duration of the conflict was unable to communicate with the outside world. 
I am, and I am also aware that Germany was just as successful as Great Britain in intercepting the messages of its enemies. Let us examine the contention of Admiral Napier that our cables should be maintained in the interests of the safety of the Empire. Assume that our fleet is at sea, and a message affecting it is despatched by cable to the Admiralty in Great Britain. The only method of conveying the information to the fleet is by wireless, which is subject to interception by the enemy. I believe that the position is exaggerated and that, while Ave should listen to the advice of naval experts like Admiral Napier, we should also give ear to other men of great capabilities whose position ensures that they are not biased. 
The principal recommendation of the committee is that the Government should approve of the  despach  of lettergrams at the rate of lid. a word. There should be no need to add terminal charges to that rate, as the message would be handed in at a post office in the usual manner, transmitted by wireless, and delivered at destination as ordinary mail matter. 

 - Senator Lynch knows that there is an intra as well as an interstate tariff for telegrams, and it has been demonstrated very clearly by the Director of Posts and Telegraphs that telegraphic messages can be profitably transmitted to any part of Australia at the rate of Id. a word. The Commonwealth has an amount equal to approximately £11,000,000 invested in telegraphic and telephonic means of communication. If they are segregated, it still leaves a total necessary capital of about £8,000,000 to provide telegraphic communication. On the other hand, an efficient wireless station would cost a maximum of £300,000, and honorable senators know that wireless annihilates distance. Only a few days ago Ave had an instance of that. A cadet on a British steamer which Avas approaching Australia Avas dangerously ill, and the condition of the lad was adversely affected by his lack of contact Avith his mother. Through the enterprise of Amalgamated Wireless Limited he Avas enabled to speak by wireless telephony Avith his mother in Great Britain, to their mutual advantage. That indicates the potentialities of the system. 
The report gives statistics as to costs, but I point out that it is very difficult to itemize costs when dealing with telegraphic or wireless communication.We accepted the practice obtaining in Commonwealth post '.offices. Honorable senators are aware that the cost of transmitting messages fluctuates. During the peak period, it may be necessary to pay urgent rates to expedite the delivery of a message, but if the sender is prepared to allow his message to be deferred until business slackens, he may avail himself of the cheaper rates. It is difficult to assess the cost of sending messages under the varying rates. 
As to the merger, it is unlikely that any detailed information will be supplied on the subject. We know what has happened in Great Britain, where a merger took place in the interests both of the nation and of the commercial organizations concerned. The step became necessary by . reason of the merging of competing organizations outside Great Britain. It is reasonable to assume that the Government will give the matter the closest examination, and that it will protect the interests of the public. But the matter is of such great importance that Parliament should have an opportunity of knowing what has been done, what is involved, and whether the merger will in any way retard the development of wireless communication with Australia. The science has made remarkable progress during the last seven' years and, granted proper encouragement, it is impossible to forecast its rate of development during the next seven years. The committee respected the wishes of the Government that it should not in any way prejudice the negotiations of the Government or any organization concerned in the merger. That somewhat limited the committee's field of inquiry, and that is why I now urge that Parliament should be given more information on the subject. 
I thank the Government for giving me an opportunity to move the adoption of this report. Honorable senators will now be able to debate the matter. I sincerely hope that the Government will not strenuously oppose the recommendations of the committee. The wishes of Parliament were clearly expressed when exSenator . Thomas moved for the appointment of this Select Committee. The motion was opposed by the Government, but, fortunately, the good sense of the Senate prevailed, and the committee was appointed. Ex-Senator Thomas went exhaustively into the subject and the report of the committee is in every -way unbiased ; its conclusions being arrived at after the fullest consideration, the committee always keeping in view its responsibilities and the importance of the subject. I commend its recommendations to honorable senators. 
Debate (on. motion by  Senator McLachlan)  adjourned. 
[4.30]. - In . moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I ask honorable senators to come prepared on Wednesday next to deal with the Life Insurance Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.1].  -  I desire to inform the Senate that in consequence of the vote against the Government on the Maritime Industries Bill, in committee of the House of Representatives last night, the right honorable the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  has waited upon  His Excellency  the Governor-General and tendered certain advice, which  His Excellency  is now considering. In these circumstances I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate  adjourned at  3.2  p.m. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs yet in a position to make a definite statement as to what conclusion, if any, has been arrived at in regard to the request for a bounty on evaporated apples? 
I am not in a position to make such a statement. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate take honorable senators into his confidence and let them know the exact date of the proposed general election? 
[3.8]. - In view of a vote adverse  to the  Government having been carried in another place, the Prime Minister waited upon His Excellency the Governor-General and presented  the  following letter: - 
Canberra, 11th September, 1929. 

 Sir- 

I beg to inform you that the second reading of a measure constituting an important part of the policy of the Government, the Maritime Industries Bill, was carried on Saturday last in the House of Representatives by a majority of four votes. Yesterday thebill, on my motion, was declared an urgent measure, also by a majority of four Votes. 
In committee, an amendment was. carried by a' majority of one . vote declaring that the bill should  not  be brought into  operation  until it had been submitted to the people at  a  referendum or at a general election. 
The Constitution makes no provision for a referendum of. this description,' and the. Commonwealth Parliament has no- power' to pass effective legislation for the holding of such  a  referendum. 
The Government is, however, prepared to accept the other alternative - namely, a general election. 
I, therefore, formally advise Your Excellency to grant a dissolution of the House of Representatives, and I now inform you that I propose to ask Parliament for the necessary financial provision to carry on the public services until after the election has been held. 
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) S. M. Bruce, 
Prime Minister. 
His Excellency the Governor-General. 
To this His Excellency the GovernorGeneral has, to-day made the following reply: - 
Canberra, 12th September, 1929. 

 Sir- 

I am in receipt of your letter of yesterday and have carefully consideredthe question which it raises. 
I note that you propose to ask Parliament for Supply to carry on the public services of the Commonwealth until after a general election has been held, and. in view of this assurance I accept the advice tendered by you. 
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.)  Stonehaven, 
Governor-General. 
The Right Hon. S. M. Bruce, C.H., M.C, M.P., Prime Minister'. 
As a consequence of the reply given by  His Excellency  the Governor-General to the request made by the Prime Minister, the Government has submitted measures in another place for Supply and for appropriations from the Consolidated Revenue for the payment of invalid and old-age and war pensions; also bills to validate, for three months, the customs and excise tariff schedules recently laid on the table in another place. It is anticipated that all these bills will be passed by another place in the course of the afternoon, and will come to the Senate for consideration, and when they are disposed of it is proposed to adjourn both Houses, which adjournment will be followed by a prorogation and dissolution of another place. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware whether it is alleged that the Government of the State of South Australia has announced that in entering into contracts it will give a 5 per cent, preference to South Australian cement manufacturers ? 
If not, willhe inquire into the matter? 
Would not such a preference be contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, as a discrimination between States and an interference with interstate trade and commerce? 
Is it not a fact that cement manufacturers in Tasmania are taxed for the purpose of contributing towards the wine bonus granted to aid South Australian wine-growers? 
In fairness to these citizens of Tasmania, will the Government introduce legislation to prevent such unfair discrimination from sheltering inefficient enterprises in other States which cannot compete on fair terms? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
I am unable to say whether the facts are as stated. 
I will give consideration to the question. 
This involves a question of law, and it is not the practice to express legal opinions in reply to questions. 
The manufacturers referred to are not being taxed, specifically, for the purpose mentioned by the honorable senator, but, to the extent that they are paying taxes prescribed by federal laws, they are, in common with other federal taxpayers, contributing to the revenue from which bounties are payable. 
See answer to No. 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Is not the Government aware that Australia is one of the few countries of tha world that is without a national topographical map system? 
In view of the value of such maps for defence, scientific, and developmental purposes, will steps be taken towards the commencement of a geodetic and topograhical survey of Australia? 
The Government is fully aware of the position, and has during the past few years been obtaining data and reports concerning such a survey. 
The question of a geodetic survey of Australia was considered at a conference of surveyors-general of the respective States with the Director of Lands and Surveys of the Common wealth in May, 1912. The conference decided that a geodetic survey of Australia should bc undertaken, but due to the war and the subsequent financial . position, the matter was deferred for the time being. It was agreed at the conference of Commonwealth and State  Ministers, held at Canberra on 28th-30th May, 1929, to arrange a conference of SurveyorsGeneral of the States, together with Commonwealth representatives, to endeavour to arrive ut an agreement with regard to the preparation of accurate survey maps of the Commonwealth and the methods to be adopted in the geodetic and topographical surveys necessary to achieve this end. It is understood that arrangements will be made to convene such a conference at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Tariff Board completed its investigations into the operation of the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act? 
When is it anticipated that the Tariff Board's report on this subject will be available to members of the Senate? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
No date can yet be fixed as the report in question has not been received. 
 In compliance with the request of the Leader of the Senate,  I  shall leave the chair until such time as I am advised that the bills whose arrival is anticipated are ready for  the  consideration of the Senate. 

 Sitting suspended from 3.8 to3.38 p.m. 

[3.40]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As the available appropriation under Supply Bill (No. 1) of 1929-30 is almost exhausted it is necessary to make a further appropriation of revenue to carry on the services of the Commonwealth pending the passing of the Estimates, and, in this case, to meet the cost of a general election. The amount which the Senate is now asked to appropriate is £6,578,090 which will meet requirements for the months of September, October and November. This sum includes the following services, details of which are set out in the schedule to the bill - 

<graphic href="121332192909126_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The items making up these sums are based approximately on last year's appropriation, or the current year's Estimates, whichever is the lower. Provision is also made to cover the pay day which falls on the 13th December. No new proposals are included. In addition, provision is made for "Refunds of Revenue," £100,000, and "Advance to the Treasurer," £1,500,000. The amount set down for " Advance to the Treasurer," is required mainly to enable loan works and services in progress to be continued until a loan bill has been passed by Parliament. . The average monthly expenditure on these services is about £450,000. It is also necessary to make provision out of the Treasurer's advance to carry on works and services in respect to "Additions, New Works and Buildings - Payable from Revenue," until parliamentary appropriation is available, and to meet miscellaneous and unforeseen contingencies incidental to the services of the Commonwealth. I repeat that honorable senators are not being asked to commit themselves to any new expenditure, as the figures are based on existing expenditure or on the estimates already submitted to Parliament whichever is the lower. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee. 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule, 
I ask the Minister for Defence  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  if the amount of £1,164,360 provided for the Department of Defence, is based on the normal annual expenditure of the department? The amount provided represents practically one half of the department's annual vote and suggests that its expenditure is heavier during the first three months of the year than for any of the remaining quarters ? 
[3.45], - This is a provision for three months, based either on last year's expenditure, or the Estimates for this year, whichever is- the lower. During the first three months of the year a little extra money is required for training. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[3.50]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this  bill  is  to provide  from the consolidated revenue fund  the  sum of £10,000,000 for the payment of invalid and old-age pensions. Prom time to time Parliament has made appropriations of a similar amount, and transfers are made under the authority of the relative Appropriation Acts to the Trust Account from which payments are made to pensioners. The total amount previously appropriated for this purpose was £101,250,000, of which £98,296,126 had been expended up to 30th June last, leaving a balance on that date of £2,953,874. As the balance is sufficient to meet payments only until the last pay-day in September a further appropriation is now required to provide for payments from October onward. The sum which the Senate is now asked to appropriate will meet the requirements for approximately twelve months. I add that the measure has nothing whatever to do with the rate of pensions or the conditions under which they are payable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[3.53]. - I move - 
That  the  bill be now read a second time. 
The circumstances surrounding the introduction of this bill are exactly similar to those associated with the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Appropriation Bill with which the Senate has just dealt. Its purpose is to provide the sum of £10,000,000 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the payment of war pensions. Parliament has, from time to time, made appropriations of a similar amount, and transfers have been made under the authority of the relative Appropriations Acts to the Trust Account from which payments are made to pensioners. The total amount previously appropriated for this purpose was £75,622,632 of which £72,116,683 had been expended up to the 30th June last, the balance on that date being £3,505,949. That balance is sufficient to meet war pension payments up to the middle of November next. A further appropriation is therefore required to provide for payments from November onward. The appropriation which the Senate is now asked to make will meet requirements until approximately December, 1930. I point out that this measure has nothing whatever to do with the rate of pensions or the conditions under which they are payable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
, - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is really a tentative measure, and I would like honorable senators to understand that it binds . no one to the tariff schedule that has been placed on the table of the House of Representatives. Its introduction is due to the peculiar circumstances that have arisen in another place during the past few days. It is merely a validating measure which continues in force the schedule which would have remained in force had Parliament continued to sit. No injustice can be done to any one in the event of the tariff schedule being ultimately rejected by Parliament, as, following the policy that has been observed in the past, refunds will be made to those who have been subjected to increased tariff duties in the interim. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without request or debate. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The observations that I applied to the Customs Tariff Validation Bill, -which has just been passed, also apply in exactly the same manner to this bill. It is what may be termed a " without prejudice " measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill, read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Definition). 
 The clause reads - 
In this act " Tariff proposals " means the proposed duties of excise introduced into the House of Representatives on the twenty-second day of August, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine. 
Beyond those bare words, honorable senators have no information on this matter. These duties may or may not be very important. Although the House of Representatives has had every opportunity to know what the duties are, the Senate appears to be delightfully in the dark. It is one of those " little big " things that need attention. Honorable senators are simply asked, in the baldest of language, to vote for the imposition of a set of duties which have been mentioned in another place, and about which they know nothing. This chamber should be placed on precisely the same level as another place. We. should be enlightened on the subject, instead of being asked to vote upon something about which we are in the dark. I am sure that it is merely an oversight on the part of the Minister in charge of the bill; but it is certainly not very pleasant to find honorable senators in such an invidious position. 
 As the honorable senator understands, the excise schedule has, under the Constitution, to be placed on the table in another place. The position to which he . has referred arises, no doubt, from the expedition which has to be exercised in the peculiar circumstances which exist. I point out that this is really a "without prejudice " measure. Actually, the tariff proposals to which it relates have not yet been discussed in the House of Representatives, and we did not contemplate a discussion in the Senate at this stage.  A  discussion will take place on the 
Excise Tariff Bill itself, which will be duly presented to' the Senate. The ' procedure as I understand it, from the constitutional stand-point is this: When the schedule was laid on the table in another place, it came into operation immediately, but is subject to the will of that chamber. When it is finally passed, it will come up for consideration and discussion in the Senate, in the form of a bill. As I explained a few moments ago, this is a tentative measure introduced to cover the period indicated in the next clause. Its introduction in this form cannot be regarded as a suggestion that the dignity or the rights of this chamber are being ignored. It is necessary to pass the bill to protect the revenue. Honorable senators on either side are not bound by the schedule. The purpose of the. bill is to place the department of Trade and Customs in the same position as if Parliament had continued its sittings - no more and no less. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.7]  . -I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till a day and hour to be fixed by the  President,  which time of meeting shall be notified to each senator by telegram or letter. 
The motion is submitted to permit of Parliament being called together before the dissolution of the House of Representatives. . It is not anticipated that we shall have to act on it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have thehonour to present a petition from the Patriotic Life and Health Saving Mission of Australia, whose headquarters are in Perth. The petition bears 31 signatures and it refers to the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York to Australia in 1927, and to their gracious acceptance in Western Australia of a  People's Patriotic Memorial  signed by 3,239 Australians, including a large proportion of returned soldiers. The  People's Patriotic Memorial  records these important facts :  - 
That Australia is the birth-place of Empire Day, 1887-1897. 
That in 1889-1900 "our Empire's Rally " - supporting the principlesof Empire Day, namely, the "Unity of All Britons Everywhere " - was dedicated by Field-Marshals Lord Roberts and Wolseley to the British Army, thereby attracting beneficial celebrity to Australia, and conferringon the composer, the originator of Empire Day, an honour without precedent in British history. 
In 1900 the petition to Parliament from the Empire Day Patriotic League caused the singing in Parliament of patriotic national songs, the passing in Parliament of the resolution in support of returned warriors from the South African war, and other scenes of patriotism. 
I may say that the petition contains the most praiseworthy, loyal and patriotic sentiments, and it is particularly appropriate that it should be presented to the Senate in this year of historic importance to Western Australia, the year of the State's centenary. The petition hears the signature of the  Clerk  of the Senate, testifying that, in accordance with the Standing Orders, it is respectfully worded. It concludes with the following prayer - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this petition be received, and that a copy of the  People's Patriotic Memorial  be filed in the records of the Senate as a record of Australia's appreciation of the messages of a very cordial approval accorded by the Duke and Duchess of York in response to the  People's Patriotic Memorial,  as well as a Centenary Record of Western Australia's settlement, achievement, and progress, due largely to our unity and patriotism towards our State, our Commonwealth, and our Empire. 
I beg to move - 
That the petition be received and read. 
I second the motion. It is unnecessary for me to add anything to the comprehensive extracts readby  Senator E.  B. Johnston. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Petition read by the  Clerk  as follows :  - 
To the Honorable the Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament Assembled. 
The humble petition of theundersigned patriotic and loyal Australian electors, including returned warriors, respectfully sheweth :  - 
InA.D. 1927 Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York, were received throughout Australia with the greatest enthusiasm as was evidenced by numerous addresses, and especially by " The People's Patriotic Memorial," duplicates of which were signed by 3,239 Australian citizens, were presented, and were very cordially approved by Their Royal Highnesses in messages specially conveyed in writing from England to Australia. 
The significant welcome of the People's Patriotic Memorial opened as follows: -  May it please Your Royal Highnesses 
The undersigned Australian citizens, who are representative of all sections of the people, reflect the feelings of Australians in extending to you a heartfelt welcome to our State and Commonwealth; and they recall Australian's services, so valuable to all our Empire. 
Important statements of the People's Memorials were also supported by resolutions passed and signed by municipal councils, and by other public bodies, meetings, organizations, &amp;c. 
A summary of some of the chief events, facts, &amp;c, evidenced in the People's Memorials by public sworn irrefutable testimony, is to the following effect: - 
Australia is the birthplace of Empire Day (1887-1897) ; 
In 1899-1900 "Our Empire's Rally " - supporting the chief principles of Empire Day, "The Unity of all Britons Everywhere," &amp;c., was dedicatedby Field-Marshals Lord Roberts and Wolseley to the British Army, thereby attracting beneficial celebrity to Australia, and conferring on the composer, the stated originator of Empire Day, an honour without precedent in British history; 
In 1900, the petition to Parliament from the Empire Day Patriotic League caused 'the singing in Parliament of patrioticnational songs, the passing in Parliament of the resolution in support of returned warriors from the South African War, and other scenes of patriotism. 
In view of the foregoing, and of other notable events, facts, &amp;c., of the stated Patriotic Memorial and Petition, likewise 1929 being Centenary Year of the State of Western Australia, in which reside the signatories of this petition, we petitioners respectfully express our earnest opinion that the present is a specially appropriate occasion to present this petition with its memorial to the Federal Parliament. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this petition be received, and that a copy of the People's Patriotic Memorial be filed in the records of the Senate as a record of Australia's appreciation of the messages of a very cordial approval accorded by the Duke and Duchess of York in response to the People's Patriotic Memorial, as well as a Centenary Record of Western Australia's settlement, achievement, and progress, due largely to our unity in patriotism towards our State, our Commonwealth, and our Empire. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &amp;c. 
Motion (by  Senator E.  B. Johnston) agreed to - 
That the copy of the  People's Patriotic Memorial  referred to in the petition be filed in the records of the Senate. 
. -I lay upon the table of the Senate, by command - 
Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure, Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, &amp;c., and Estimates of Expenditure from Loan Fund for the year ending 30th June. 1930. 
The Budget, 1929-30 - Further papers presented by the Honorable E. G. Theodore, M.P., in connexion with the Budget of 1929-30. and move - 
That Standing Order No. 14 be suspended so far as to permit the moving of a motion "That the Papersbe printed " before the AddressinReply is adopted. 
There being an absolute majority of the whole number of senators present, and no dissentient voice, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That the papers be printed. 
It will be convenient at this stage briefly to outline to honorable senators a few details relating to the Budget and the Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure. Since the new Government assumed office there has not been sufficient time to call for fresh estimates in detail from all departments, and to construct an entirely new budget based upon the policy of the new administration. Therefore, the major portion of the estimates of the late Government has been adopted. It was the duty, however, of the new Government to examine the estimates of receipts and revise and amend them so far as was necessary to disclose the true position of the Commonwealth finances. The examination revealed that, in some important instances the late Government had greatly understated the expenditure requirements and overestimated the probable revenue. The late 
Treasurer has grossly miscalculated both the cost of definite commitments of the departments and services for the year, and also the probable revenue. 
It is now apparent that if the actual requirements of the year had been provided for in connexion with war pensions, repatriation and war services, oldage pensions, iron and steel works bounty, prospecting for oil and sundry other items, for all of which definite commitments had been entered into, the estimates of expenditure should have been increased by approximately £500,000. 
No.I am quoting facts, not. opinions. It is also apparent that the customs and excise revenue, land: tax, and income tax. and other receipts, would have fallen short of the estimate by at least £1.050,000. The late Treasurer would, therefore, have finished the year with a deficit of about £1,200,000 instead of a surplus of £360,000 as promised by him in his budget speech. 
I shall give honorable senators the facts if they will pay attention. 
All our electioneering claims have been established. As a matter of fact  Senator Sir William  Glasgow knows that financially we are £2,000,000 worse off than the Labour party anticipated when it warned the people of the desperate position of the country. 
In addition to the inescapable commitments for which inadequate provision had been made in the budget, the late Government proposed to effect a saving of £60,000 at the expense of the maternity allowance by amending the act and altering the basis of qualification, and £140,000 at the expense of officers of the Public Service. The saving in the latter case was to be accomplished by abolishing the Public Service Arbitrator and amending the Public Service Regulations to provide for reduced allowances in respect of overtime, Sunday pay, higher duties, travelling, and other services. 
I am not responsible for the opinions of the honorable senator. There are also certain arbitrary reductions made in respect of the ordinary votes of departments, the anticipated savings in connexion with which would not have been realized during the year. 
The Commonwealth general elections, of course, were not foreseen when the budget was being prepared, but the responsibility for the expenditure involved rests with the late Government. The cost of these elections was £105,000, for which provision is now made in the new Estimates. 
Moreover, it has been found that if  Mr. Justice  Pike's recommendations relating to soldier laud settlement loans are accepted by the Commonwealth and the States, the Commonwealth will be involved in a liability of £284,135 for interest overpaid by the States during the period 1st July, 1927, to 30th June, 1929. No provision for this liability was made in the late Treasurer's budget, although his Government was prepared to accept the  recommendation. The present Government is of opinion that, whilst there may be objections to the whole of the liability being charged against the accounts of the present year, provision should be made in this financial year to meet some proportion of the liability which falls upon the Commonwealth, and 1:100,000 is being set down for that purpose, and is included in the item " Other war services ". 
The increased expenditure provided for in the new Estimates in respect of Departments and Services (Part T.), for which either no provision or inadequate provision was made in the late Treasurer's budget, can be summarized as follows : - 

<graphic href="122332192911224_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government proposes to reduce the Defence Department expenditure by £150,000 for the year. The net increase in expenditure, therefore, to be provided for in the new Estimates is £657,340. 
The revised estimates of expenditure in respect of Part I. may be set out as follows : - 

<graphic href="122332192911224_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

For the year 192S-29 the corresponding expenditure was £51,S99,077. 
The amended Estimates disclose an increased expenditure over the previous year of £744,424. As has already been shown, this increase is almost entirely the result of the financing of the late Administration. 
It is the intention of the present Administration as soon as time and opportunity permit to make an exhaustive examination of the entire governmental and semi-governmental organizations of the Commonwealth with a view to putting an end to extravagance and terminating the employment of highly-paid but unnecessary office-bearers and functionaries. 
I agree with the honorable senator. 
We are dealing now with Commonwealth governmental expenditure. The Government has as yet no control over the persons employed in private enterprise, but when the industries of the country have been nationalized, it will bc able to deal with them also. 
In recent years the Commonwealth expenditure has been burdened with the cost of a number of more or less ornate boards and commissions whose work obviously has not justified the cost of their upkeep and maintenance. 
Moreover the consolidated expenditure carries heavy charges for certain departments and branches of Government, some of which have become obsolete and for others that have grown beyond all reasonable requirements, and also for services that are not, in all cases, a proper obligation for the Commonwealth to carry. 
It will be recognized that a reorganization cannot be effected by a stroke of the pen, but must come gradually to be effective. The best way of arriving at economy in the Departments and throughout the Service generally, without sacrificing efficiency, is by making progress gradually in accordance with a wellconsidered plan. In this way the Government hopes to put a check upon the annual growth of expenditure. 
Part II. - Business Undertakings. 
This is equal to the total assistance contemplated by the late Government but without any condition as to the railway mentioned. It is also proposed that, a payment of £320,000 shall be made in each of the next two years to complete the payment of the total grant of £1,000,000 recommended by the royal commission. 
With regard to Tasmania, the late Government proposed to make a special grant of £250,000 a year for five years. The present Government has adopted that proposal and has made provision accordingly in the Estimates now submitted. 
The revised estimates of expenditure for payments to the States in the current financial year, omitting that portion of the interest on State debts which is recoverable from the States, are as follows : - 

<graphic href="122332192911224_5_6.jpg"></graphic>

Exactly. I am not condemning the late Government. I am merely emphasizing the point because I wish the Senate to know that it is a contingent liability which may accrue at any moment. 
I repeat that I am not condemning the previous Government in this matter. But I do say that it was the duty of the Treasurer, and also the duty of the then Leader of the Senate, to explain to honorable senators that it was a contingent liability. We intend to take all parties into our confidence and to show exactly what is the financial position of the Commonwealth, with the object of asking them to co-operate with us in putting the Commonwealth finances on a sounder basis. 
Under the  recommendations  of  Mr. Justice  Pike, which were accepted by tilt late Government, n further sum of approximately £2.600.000 will have, to V written off as from 1st July, 1927, subject to agreement by the State governments -and ratification by all parliaments. 
If both these sums are allowed for, the debt of the Commonwealth as at 30th June, 1929, will stand at £7,600,000 more than the sum quoted in the budget speech. 
I doubt that even  Senator Pearce  is optimistic enough to believe there is no justification for what I am saying. The right, honorable the Leader of the Opposition must admit that financially the position of the Commonwealth is £2,000,000 worse than was disclosed by the former Treasurer. 
Yes; because we are trying to put the ship of state on an even keel again. 
Perhaps not; but he was in office, long enough to know that it was his duty to inform Parliament about such an important matter as this. 
The writing off pf the further sum of £2,600,000 would result in an annual loss to the Commonwealth of interest amounting to £162,000, and would necessitate the refund to the States of £284,135 of interest paid during the last two years. The late Treasurer allowed for a loss of £152,000 in the present year, but, as I have already stated, made no provision to meet the liability of £284,135. 
The Government has no intention of instituting any such procedure. Under the present system the rate of interest is fixed by the private banks when it should be fixed by a national financial institution. 
The honorable senator is well aware of the fact that although Labour Governments have been in office in the States they have not been in power. A rural bank was established by a Labour Government in South Australia, but its efforts were frustrated by the representatives of vested interests in the Legislative Council, which whittled away the powers of a bank, established to assist the farmers. 
Queensland is a State which I hope to visit during the recess. The potential wealth and unbounded possibilities of the other States are always being extolled by their representatives in this chamber, but the representatives of Queensland always seem to be decrying that important portion of the Commonwealth. 
 Senator Foll  and  Senator Glasgow  are always directing attention to what has happened in Queensland. I am not responsible for the position in Queensland, and I am sure this Government will be very willing to assist the Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Moore,  in placing the finances of that State on a sound basis. 
The Premier  of  Queensland will receive every assistance from this Government should he need it. 
The present Treasurer laid the foundations of the prosperity which Queensland is enjoying to-day, and no one knows that better than do  Senator Glasgow  and  Senator Foll. 
-Labour was defeated in Queensland at the last election largely as a result of the votes of electors who had never lived under a Liberal administration. The last election in that State was decided by men and women who have within recent years reached the age at which they are entitled to vote. "When the " money bags " of Queensland attempted to dictate to the Queensland Government in matters of policy, the late  Mr. Ryan  saved the State with his election cry of "home rule for Queensland." 
If the honorable senator read more and interjected less he would appreciate the wonderful work which  Mr. Theodore  performed on behalf of Queensland. 
I am anxious to proceed, but am prevented from doing so by the interjections of honorable senators opposite. 
I can quite understand  Senator Thompson  viewing with horror any proposal of the Government to tax gross receipts generally, because he knows that principle is unsound. 
It is not. Taxation proposals should be based upon a definite principle. 
-Is not the Government proposing to do the same thing in connexion with excise duties? 
 What difference is there ? 
Order! I ask honorable senators to refrain from interjecting and to extend to the Leader of the House  that  courtesy to which he is entitled. 
Coinage revenue was estimated to produce £76,500. The revised estimate will fall short of the original estimate by £44,000. There will also be £10,000 shortage of receipts on the item " Interest on loans to States for soldier land settlement ". 
The shortage of revenue on the foregoing items totals £1,694,000 made up as follows : - 

<graphic href="122332192911224_10_11.jpg"></graphic>

After deducting this shortage there would remain  a  total revenue of £62,504,000 towards meeting the revised estimates of expenditure. 
It is convenient at this stage to summarize the revised estimates of expenditure which must be provided for. They total £64,574,442, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192911224_10_12.jpg"></graphic>

There is thus a gap of £2,070,442 which has to be budged before the budget can be balanced on the basis of the revised estimates. 
To cover this gap additional revenues of £i;200,000 will be obtained this year from an adjustment of the Customs and Excise Tariff, and it is also proposed to raise a further £S85,000 by an increase in the rates of income tax. 
Excise duties cannot be imposed to suit the whims of every section of the community. The Government proposes to reduce the excise on beer, because it does not consider the present rate equitable. 
No further increase in duty on excise spirits ' delivered from customs control in bottles is contemplated, but increases on excise spirits other than rum delivered for home consumption in bulk will be proposed. The schedule which will be introduced covers 221 items and sub-items of the customs tariff, and IS items in the excise tariff, 
In the amended duties, special attention has been paid to agricultural produce and groceries, textiles, including such lines as woollen piece goods, apparel, hats and caps, socks and stockings, metals and manufactures thereof, including wireless appliances. 
An increase of Id. per gallon is proposed on petrol. This action is being taken to maintain the margin of protection for petrol distilled in Australia from enriched crude petroleum. 
Amended duties on dressed timber, manufactures, of wood and furniture will be provided. 
Increased duties will be imposed also on leather and rubber manufactures. The motor car industry, especially the manufacture of the enclosed type of bodies, has had further attention, and the fixed rate of duties on this class of body will be increased. Attention has been devoted to parts of chassis, such as springs and gears. The intermediate and general tariff rates on assembled chassis will be further increased. 
Cotton-growers, together with the spinners of both cotton and woollen yarns, will receive increased assistance by way of duties under the proposed schedule in order to help the absorption of our own raw products, cotton and wool. 
Under the Excise Tariff the rate of duty of 2s. per gallon on beer imposed by the schedule tabled on the 22nd August last, will be reduced from the 21st December next, that is, the day after the schedule referred to expires, to ls. lOd. per gallon. 
An endeavour is being made to assist the cigar-making industry by admitting cigar-leaf - which it is admitted is not being grown in Australia - at the rates of duty prevailing before the 23rd August last. The import duty on cigars will be increased, in order to give the local cigar manufacturer a larger margin of protection against the imported cigars. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the excise duty on hand-made cigars to 3d. per pound, and on machine-made cigars to ls. 3d. per pound - rates which were recommended by the Tariff Board. 
The Government has felt that with the vast number of workers who are unemployed, every avenue should be explored whereby the production of goods necessary for the domestic markets of Australia should be conserved to Australian industries, and that where consumers will insist upon having imported goods they must pay for that privilege. 
Although the tariff proposals will result in increased customs receipts which will benefit this year's revenue, they are being imposed with the primary and definite object of protecting Australian industry. The Government recognizes the need to be on guard against attempts to make use of an inflated customs revenue as a pretext for relaxing protective vigilance. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate will he make available to honorable senators a copy of the tariff as amended by the new schedule laid on the table in another place last night? I understand that it has been the practice to provide honorable senators with schedules showing the various amendments made by new tariff proposals. 
I understand that in the present case the usual practice will be followed by the Government. 
Yesterday  Senator E.  B. Johnston asked the following questions :  - 
What steps have been taken in regard to the extension of the north-west aerial service to Wyndham ? 
At what date is it expected that this extension will come into force? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
With the exception of an all-weather aerodrome atWyndham, all landing grounds essential forthe operation of a regular service between Derby and Wyndham have been prepared for use. 
The date upon which the service can be extended to Wyndham is primarily dependent upon the provision of funds to cover the subsidy payments involved. 
It having been stated by the honorable member for Calare  (Mr. Gibbons),  that the Government, on the authority of the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore),  has assured the farmers of that district that they will receive 6s. 6d. a bushel for their wheat, I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether the Government has any pronouncement to make upon the authenticity of the statement? 
The Government has no knowledge of any such promise having been made, and in the absence of such knowledge it may be inferred that no such procedure is contemplated. 
The answers to the right honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 

 Mr. Martyn M. Threlfall has been selected to fill the position in the Prime Minister's Department rendered vacant by the resignation of  Mr. Julian  Simpson. In addition to the duties previously performed by  Mr. Simpson,  it was decided to associate with the position the dissemination of information relating to the legislative and administrative activities of the Commonwealth. The Public Service Board suggested that a suitable designation for the occupant of the position would be that of Publicity Officer. 
Authority for the employment of an officer to carry out the duties referred to was given by the Public Service Board, upon whose certificate the position was exempted from the provisions of the Public Service Act. 
No. There is no obligation to invite applications for such positions. 
It is not the duty of the Public Service Board to suggest what persons shall be selected to occupy exempt positions. 

 Mr. Threlfall has not previously occupied a position in the Public Service, but in 1923 he was sent by the Commonwealth Government on a special mission to Japan, connected with the disastrous earthquake that occurred in that year. 
No. 

 Mr. Threlfall was not in charge of the publicity of the Labour party in the recent election. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has  Mr. William  Mahony been appointed to a position in the Cockatoo Island Dockyard? 
Is this the same  Mr. Mahony  who was member for Dalley, and who is reported to have resigned to make way for  Mr. Theodore,  the present Treasurer? 
The information is being obtained, and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
As provision was made in the Estimates of the late Government on pages 384 and 386 for the terminals of the Victoria-Tasmania radio telephone link will the Government proceed with this work as expeditiously as possible? 
Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Government make representations to the Queensland Government in favour of processers having, say, 1,500 tons of sugar at export parity to enable the raspberry and currant' crops in Tasmania to be made into jam instead of falling on the ground and wasting? 
In reply to the honorable senator, the matter referred to is now receiving the attention of the Government, and a reply will be given at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been directed to the utterance of the  President  of the United States of America to the effect that he was not prepared to disarm his nation as a gesture whatever he might do upon agreement? 
Did the Ministry consult any and what officer or officers before deciding to abolish compulsory training? 
Will the Minister state whether any and what nation has abolished compulsory training without having a regular military force? 
Will the Minister state whether, in the event of an attack upon Great Britain, he proposes that Australia shall remain neutral? 
The Minister for Defence will give the questions his attention, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
In view of the expressed intention of the Government to devote £350,000 to work on the north coast railway, will the Minister ascertain and inform the Senate as to whether the completion of the Clarence River bridge will be likely to synchronize with the completion of the railway? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is - 
No. The railway line will be finished some months before the construction of the Clarence River bridge is completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the burdens imposed by the tariff on the gold-mining industry, will the Government review the recommendation of the  chairman  of the commission which inquired into the disabilities of Western Australia under federation, in favour of the payment of a bonus for the production of gold? 
Will the Government similarly review the recommendation of the Development and Migration Commission that £250,000 should be appropriated for the assistance of the goldmining industry? 
The Government will consider both these recommendations as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Have the investigations into the request for a bounty on evaporated apples for export been concluded, and, if so, with what result? 
If the investigations have not been concluded, will the Minister expedite the matter so as to ensure, if the conclusions are favorable, that the bounty will be available for the approaching season? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 1 and 2. The investigations have been completed and the Government, upon the recommendation of the Board of Trade, has decided that the payment of a bounty is not warranted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will he ascertain if it is a fact that, through the heavy fall in the price of copra, it is difficult, if not impossible, for many who purchased plantations in New Guinea from the Expropriation Board to meet their engagements to the Government? 
If such is the case, will he devise some measure of relief to those who are so situated? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 1 and 2. In the case of hardship arising through the fall in the price of copra, each case will be considered on its merits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Before any fundamental changes are finally approved in the defence system of the Commonwealth, will he cause the matter to be discussed and pronounced upon by Parliament? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows : -  lt is the intention of the Government to introduce amending defence legislation early in the coming year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
ls he aware whether in a common recreation room at the Hotel Kurrajong, Canberra, last night, " The Red Fluff " was sung by a number of leading politicians, including Ministers of the Crown? 
ls he further aware whether the singing of that song is particularly offensive to a number of the guests present, as well as to the overwhelming bulk of the people of this country? 
In view of the fact that the hotels at Canberra are owned by the public and conducted in its interests, will he take care to sec that no revolutionary songs are sung there to hurt the feelings of patrons of those hotels ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : -  1, 2 and 3.  At  an informal social gathering held at the Kurrajong Hotel on the evening of the 20th instant, at which were present members of the Commonwealth Parliament of all parties, including Ministers of the Crown and lady friends of members, who had been invited to the opening of Parliament, a variety of popular vocal and instrumental numbers were rendered, in which most of those present joined. No offence could reasonably he taken in respect of any of the numbers rendered. In view of the above facts and the nature of the gathering, it is not proposed to take any such notion as that suggested by the honorable senator. 
.- I move- 
That the days of meeting of the Senate, unless otherwise ordered, be Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of each week : and that the hour of meeting, unless otherwise ordered, be three o'clock in the afternoon of Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and eleven o'clock in the forenoon of Friday. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE ( Western Australia) [12.30]. - My object in calling " not formal " to this motion was to draw the attention of honorable senators to the contemplated inclusion of Tuesday as a sitting day. I can .see no reason for that. So far the Senate has before it only the Address-iu-Reply and the printing of the budget-papers, and, in view of the nature of the business that the Government indicates it will proceed with, it is extremely unlikely that any bill will come before this chamber until after next week. There seems to be no necessity to bring honorable senators back here on Tuesday next. Should it be found necessary for the Senate to sit on Tuesday of the following week, the Vice-President of the Executive Council could on Friday next move that the Senate at its rising adjourn until the following Tuesday. 
If the right honorable gentleman will move an amendment to omit the word " Tuesday," I shall accept it. 
That the word " Tuesday " first occurring be left out. 
While I have no serious objection either, to the motion or the amendment, I point out. that it has not been customary for the Senate to sit on as many days as the House of Representatives has sat. The Senate contains fewer members than does another place, so that it is not necessary for it to sit the same number of hours to deal with the same volume of business. The proposal to ait on Tuesdays is one of the first results of the Government's neglect of the Senate. With the ministerial representation in this chamber limited to two Assistant Ministers, it is obvious that they will be overworked. The previous Government, recognizing the importance of the Senate, was represented in this chamber by four Ministers. Unfortunately, there is a desire on the part of a section of the community to disparage the Senate. Seeing that the Senate springs from the people, and is of their creation, it should be treated with greater respect. Indeed, its claim to the respect of every citizen of this country is pre-eminent. I feel that we should stand up for the rights and privileges of the chamber to which we belong. The two Ministers in the Senate must be disgusted with the lack of comradeship which their party displayed when it forced them to bear a burden which previously was shared by four Ministers. The volume of business transacted to-day is much greater than it was fifteen years ago, yet the present Labour Government has not treated this chamber so generously as did the Fisher Government, which was represented in the Senate by three Ministers. The action of the Government is an affront to the Senate, for not only is the numerical strength of its ministerial representation here less than it has ever been, but the status of Ministers has also been reduced. There is, in the Senate, no Minister with a portfolio; the nine plums of office are held by men in another place. Now the Ministers in this chamber are to suffer a further indignity in that they are asked to work on four days instead of three each week to transact the business of the country. The Government has offered a gratuitous insult to the first council in the land. What has the Senate done to be treated in this way? The Labour party in Australia will not even follow Soviet precedent; even under the Soviet system of government in Russia the federal scheme is maintained. I look to  Senator Rae  to support my protest. I well recollect the strong stand taken by the honorable senator when the selection of a site for the Federal Capital city was before the Senate. On that occasion he stubbornly resisted all appeals to vote against the dictates of his conscience. 

 .- X agree with  Senator Lynch  that the action of the Government in not allotting to the Senate at least one Minister with a portfolio is a reflection on this chamber. It would appear that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  is of the opinion that among the members of the Labour party in this chamber there is not a man fit to be entrusted with full ministerial rank. 
The remarks of the honorable senator are only distantly connected with the subject under discussion. Am I to understand that the matter to which he has referred is the principal reason foi his rising to speak? 
I ask the honorable senator not to pursue that side issue too far. 
I feel that some of the remarks made in connexion with this motion call for a reply. I remind honorable senator? that as their statements are recorded in  Hansard  and are published in the public press, it is unwise to reflect on our Parliamentary institutions by referring to any honorable senator as a" half-baked Minister ". Personally, I regard the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council as a high and honorable one. Members of the Labour party, like the members of other parties, express themselves freely in the party rooms; but when a decision has been arrived at there, they loyally abide by it. As the VicePresident of the Executive Council, I shall endeavour to fulfil the duties of that office as worthily as did my predecessor; 1 should have been the last man to refer to  Senator Sir George  Pearce as a " halfbaked Minister ". In appointing the Leader of the Senate to be Vice-President of the Executive Council, the Government has followed the precedent set by the government which preceded it. I am prepared to accept the amendment of the right honorable the Leader of the Opposition. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Motion further consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. I left the chamber to attend a meeting of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, butbefore doing so I left strict instructions that if the other Minister desired to leave the chamber, I should immediately be sent for. I have given instructions that the Senate shall at no time be left without a Minister, and I am sorry that my instructions were not carried out. I had no desire to treat the Senate with discourtesy. I ask the Senate to accept my apology. 
.- I desire to ask the Leader of -the Senate whether he has seen the following report in to-day's  Sydney Morning Herald: - 
PEACE CONFERENCE. 
Declared " Black." 

 Labour Council Decision. 

The Labour Council last night decided to declare " black " the industrial peace conference convened by the Prime Minister,  Mr. Scull  in. It was agreed that the council should not be represented at the gathering. Instructions will be forwarded to the delegates from the council at present attending the executive meeting of the All-Australian Council of Trade Unions in Melbourne, Messrs. J.  Kavanagh and J. Hooke, to more for the rescission of the motion recently carried by the executive agreeing to representation at the conference. The decision of the council represented a victory for the Communists, who have been uncompromisingly opposed to aims and ideals of the peace conference. Its determination is likely to place the Assistant Minister for Industry,  Mr. Beasley,  in an embarrassing position. He will be compelled to choose between allegiance to his chief, who convened the gathering, and the Labour Council, whose influence was largely responsible for his elevation to the Cabinet. 
I should like to receive from the Minister  an  assurance  that,  irrespective of any resolution that may  be  passed  by  outside bodies, the Government  will  proceed with the Peace Conference. The community generally was pleased that the Prime Minister, so soon after receiving his commission, had taken steps  to get  the different factions in industry together. I hope that he and his colleagues will not allow themselves  to be  dictated to  by  any outside organization. 
 I ask  Senator Foll  to give the Government credit for having the best interests of Australia at heart. If honorable senators desire to assist the Government to bring about permanent industrial peace and better relations between employers and employees, they will refrain from quoting articles of the nature of the one just read. The Government owes no allegiance to any body outside the body politic that elected it. It will shoulder its responsibilities, irrespective of the opinions of any section of the community. 
The Government will go on with the conference, if it can be arranged.  Senator Foll  must recognize the right of any trade union organization, such as the Trades and Labour Council of New SouthWales, to express its opinion as to the probable results of any conference that may be held. The Government can do no more than invite the representatives of employers and employees to meet. It must leave it to the good sense of both sides in industry to decide whether or not they will attend the conference. Should the Employers Federation decide not to attend the conference, the Government could not compel them to do so; but it believes that if if can get the parties together, it will have gone a good way towards bringing about those relations in industry which we all desire. It is anxious to secure the cooperation of all sections in framing its industrial legislation. I ask honorable senators not to be scared by headlines in the press, or even to seek cheap notoriety by drawing attention to them ; but to assist the Government in its endeavour to bring about industrial peace. Until they have reason to believe otherwise, they should give the Government credit for sincerity of purpose. If they do that, I feel that they will realize before long that their confidence in the Government has not been misplaced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In view of the urgency ofthe matter I should like the Leader of the Government in the Senate to indicate when the Government will be in a position to announce its promised policy in regard to the important and pressing problem of providing work for the unemployed? 
The Government has given and is still giving most serious consideration to the question of  unemployment  Whatever measures can he taken to alleviate the present position or minimize the effects of unemployment or prevent Australia from getting further into the state of chaos which undoubtedly recently obtained, will be taken by the Government at the earliest possible moment. 
Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister had his attention drawn to a statement reported to have been made by the Minister for Justice in the Union of South Africa to the effect that a widespread plot had been instigated by the Third International of Moscow which was calculated to strike a serious blow at the industrial life of the Union on the 16th December next? If so, does the Minister consider that the pledges given by the Soviet to the British Labour Government to abstain from propaganda in the British Dominions is a sufficient guarantee thatsimilar methods will not be attempted in Australia if diplomatic relations between the Commonwealth and the Soviet republics are resumed in the manner indicated by the Prime Minister? 
The question is really one for the British Prime Minister to answer. The Commonwealth Government does not concern itself with what newspapers in any other part of the world may say. It has its own problems and these it will attempt to solve. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to debate the matter on a question. 
I should like to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Transport whether in view of the press reports stating that 30,000 of our breeding merino sheep have been purchased during the past few weeks for shipment to South Africa and Russia, the Government will state what action, if any, it intends to take, in the interests of the majority of the woolgrowers in Australia, to prevent the lowering of the standard of our flocks and the consequent injury to the staple industry of Australia ? 
As an announcement is to be made in another place today regarding this matter, I ask the honorable senator to repeat his question tomorrow.' 
I desire to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs if at an early date he will lay on the table the report of the Development and Migration Commission on the proposal to pay a bounty on evaporated apples for export, on which report the recommendation of the Board of Trade was made? 
I understand that the report has riot yet been forwarded to the Government. When it is received it will be available for the inspection of every honorable senator as soon as possible. » 
I should like to know if the Government is prepared to proceed with the Life Insurance Bill introduced last session as a Government measure. If not, will it afford facilities to any honorable senator to proceed with it as a private measure? 
I must ask the honorable senator to give notice of the first part of his question. As to the second part of it, if the bill is not made a Government measure every facility will be afforded for its consideration, because it is generally recognized that there is need for the consolidation of the life assurance laws of Australia. I doubt, however, that Opportunity for considering the measure can be afforded during the present sittings. The business that will come forward from another place will most likely occupy the whole of our attention until the Christmas adjournment. [ can promise the honorable senator that if the Government does not bring in a life insurance bill every facility will be afforded to honorable senators opposite to bring one in when the Senate resumes its sittings after the new year. 
I have to report the receipt of the following letter: - 
On the 22nd November, 1929,  Senator Payne  addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following question :  - 
As provision was made in the Estimates ot the late Government, on pages 384 and 380, for the terminals of the Victoria-Tasmania radio telephone link, will the Government proceed with this work as expeditiously as possible? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator that the Government is particularly anxious that a telephone connexion should be provided between Tasmania and the mainland at the earliest possible moment, and will spare no effort to make this necessary facility available as soon as possible. 
On the 22nd November  Senator J.  B. Hayes asked the following question,  upon notice - 
Will the Government make representations to the Queensland Government in favour of processers having, say, 1,500 tons of sugar at export parity to enable the raspberry and currant crops in Tasmania to be made into jam instead of falling on the ground and wasting ? 
I am now in a position to furnish the following reply: - 
The sugar agreement made by the BrucePage Government with the Queensland Government has fixed the conditions and prices for the sale of Australian sugar until 31st August, 1931. It provides for the supply of sugar for processing fruit products for home consumption at £6 5s.1d. per ton less than the ordinary price. While the Government is sympathetic with any difficulties that the growers of raspberries and currants in Tasmania may be encountering for the time being, it does not feel justified in seeking a variation of the agreement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,upon  notice - 
Will the Minister exert the influence the Commonwealth Government must have through financing the north coast railway connecting Brisbane and Kyogle in seeing that, when that line is opened to traffic, a daily train (including Sundays) will be provided between Sydney and Brisbane? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows: - 
In terms of agreement between the Commonwealth and the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland, as the works are completed and ready to be opened for traffic, they are to be handed over to the States, and the matter of the train service will be one for consideration by the Railways Commissioners of New South Wales and Queensland, who will no doubt arrange a daily service if the circumstances warrant same. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister informthe Senate whether it is the intention of the Government to permit the volunteers of the Victorian Scottish Regiment to wear the kilt? 
Would not such permission do much to make the volunteer system of enlistment a success? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  -  1 and 2. The question  as  to whether the wearing of the kilt can be authorized will be considered in connexion with the scheme of voluntary enlistment which is in process of development. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will he make available the Tariff Board's report on the flax industry? 
What action docs the Government intend to take in regard to it? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  -  1 and 2. The report will be made available as soon as the Government has decided on the action to be taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister obtain a report from the Council of Defence - 
Comparing the nucleus of the Aus tralian Army under the recently abolished compulsory system with the proposed new system? 
Stating what would be the period required under the new system before the army would be fit to take the field? 
Intimating whether the present system will provide an adequate defence of Australia? 
This is a matter of Government policy and it is not proposed to take the action suggested. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will full preference to returned soldiers be observed by the Government in all appointments to government positions ? 
If not, to what extent, if at all, will this policy be observed in the future? 
This involves a question of Government policy, in regard to which it is not the practice to make statements in reply to questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
What are the facts of the John Brown case as shown by the departmental files on the subject and as submitted to  Dr. Brissenden  for opinion? 
Was counsel's opinion obtained upon the facts as to whether there was a case for  a  prosecution ? 
If so, what was the opinion received, and were there more than one; if so, how many were in favour of prosecution and how many against? 
What fees were paid for such advice? 
What is the opinion of the present AttorneyGeneral as to the success of any prosecution against John Brown on the existing facts? 
What was the personal opinion of the former Attorney-General, as recorded on the files, as to the success of the proposed prosecution against John Brown? 
Was there any award of the Arbitration Court in existence at the time of the alleged lockout by  Mr. John  Brown? 
What section or sections of ( 1 ) the Commonwealth Arbitration Act, (2) the Industrial Peace Act, are alleged to have been infringed by John Brown in respect of the alleged lockout? 
Does the Attorney-General now allege or suggest that the late Attorney-General or Prime Minister was guilty of any dishonest or corrupt action in connexion with the withdrawal of the prosecution against John Brown ? 
If not, will he state publicly at an early date that there was never the slightest foundation for any such charge by any of the Government supporters or other persons? 
In view of the proposed industrial peace conference, and if the Attorney-General is of opinion that there is no foundation for a charge of creating an industrial lockout against  Mr. John  Brown, will he announce that publicly so as to create a proper atmosphere for the consideration of peace in industry? If not, why not? 
In view of the pronouncement of  Mr. Hibble  that it is only possible to continue the coal industry upon the basis of a reduction of wages, does not this pronouncement exonerate  Mr. Brown  from the charge of creating an industrial or punishable lockout. If not, why not ? 
If the answer to the last question is in the negative, is it the intention of the Minister to institute a prosecution against  Mr. John  Brown? If not, why not? 
Will the Minister lay the complete file of the John Brown case on the table of the Senate, or otherwise permit senators to fully learn the facts of the case? 
The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow :  - 
See answer to No. 14. 
Yes. 
A joint opinion by  Mr. Brissenden,  K. C., and  Mr. Neill  was received which advised that a prima facie case for a prosecution would exist, if evidence of certain alleged matters of fact was obtained. 
£3711s.6d. 
It is not the practice to express legal opinions in answer to questions. 
See answer to No. 14. 
There was no award of the Arbitration Court dealing with the coal industry, but there was an award of a special tribunal under the Industrial Peace Act which was alleged to be in force. 
Section6a of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 9, 10, 11, 12. 13. These questions are considered for the most part rhetorical and controversial in character. In other respects the questions seek to elicit Government policy which it is not usual to disclose in answer to questions. Corruption is not alleged on the part of the late administration. 
I do not think it desirable to lay the file on the table, but it will be made available for the perusal of the honorable senator at the Attorney-General's office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What was the effect of the decision of  Mr. Justice  Dixon in the High Court of 
Australia with regard to the kerbing and guttering charges made by the Commission? 
Does the Commission propose to refund the amounts collected from tenants, other than the defendant in that case, in respect of such charges? 
What amounts have thus been collected from tenants in respect thereof? 
Will interest be allowed to the tenants at overdraft rates on the amounts so received from them with respect to the period the amounts are retained? 
What ordinances and/or regulations of the Federal Capital Territory have been declared  ultra vires in  this case? 
In view of the importance of this decision, will the Attorney-General obtain the opinion of competent counsel as to which other ordinances and/or regulations (if any) affecting the Territory have been affected directly or indirectly by this decision or any necessary inference from it; if not, why not? 
Is it a fact that large amounts of money are due to be refunded to tenants for amounts of rates arising out of excessive valuation reduced by  Mr. Justice  Pike recently? 
What is the amount of such sums of money ? 
When are these sums to be refunded? 
In view of the penalties imposed by the Commission for late payment of rates, will similar penalties be paid to tenants or interest allowed on amounts to be refunded until paid? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 

 Mr. Justice Dixon, while upholding the validity of the Building and Services Ordinance, held that the regulations made thereunder by the Commission were invalid. 
The effect of the judgment on the general question in regard to the charges for kerbing and guttering is at present under consideration, and it is expected that an announcement will shortly be made. 
The amounts already paid in respect of kerbing and guttering total £3,676. 
See answer to 2. 
I am not at present able to state, but the matter is being carefully examined by the Government's legal advisers. 
See answer to 5. 7, 8, 9 and 10. The final judgment of the court has not yet been received, but when it is received, action will be taken in accordance with the provisions of the Bates Ordinance 1926-29. 
The Government has decided for financial reasons that no further camps of continuous training will be held during the current financial year. Voluntary activities including schools, courses and competitions, are to continue. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation - 
Will the Minister favorably consider granting to returned soldiers who have to travel by train to hospital for attention, owing to wounds or disabilities caused by war service, first class rail tickets in lieu of second class, in order to ensure reasonable comfort when travelling for this purpose? 
The Minister has called for a report on this matter and a reply will be furnished when his decision on the report has been made. 
. It is a somewhat unique experience for me to speak on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech other than as a Government supporter. Conse quently,I listened very carefully to the remarks of both the mover 'and the seconder of the motion, and made notes of statements which I considered were not in accordance with fact. My purpose in so doing was to acquaint the public of Australia with the real reasons for the change of government. 
Later I shall deal with one or two items in the Speech itself; but at this stage I feel justified in referring to the speech of the mover of the motion - an excellent speech in many respects, but spoiled by incorrect statements regarding the causes of the defeat of the BrucePage Government. The honorable senator ought to have refrained from making statements which could not. be corroborated. The first of his statements to which I take exception is that the Labour party had always been vilified by the previous Government. I do not know what object the honorable senator had in making that statement, but during the period that I have been connected with this Parliament I have heard no vilification of the Labour party by the late Government or its supporters. It is true that we have endeavoured to let the people of Australia know the truth about the Labour party; but so long as we told the truth there was, and, indeed, could not be, any vilification. If there was any vilification, it came from the members of the Labour party itself, and not from the party with which I am associated. 
The mover of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply said that the defeat of the Bruce-Page Government was the result of the awakening of the people. He described it as a great triumph for democracy. If democracy has to rely upon a campaign like that which preceded the last election, then God help democracy! 
To the extent that Labour party candidates departed from statements of fact, everything was wrong with it. 
I have not  been  affected, except that I am in a better position than before the election, for the change of government has provided me with an ' opportunity to say a number of things which previously I refrained from saying. It has always been my policy to treat a weak opponent with mercy. Indeed, that has been the attitude generally of members of the present Opposition. In this chamber they greatly outnumber r lie members of the Labour party, and for many years, while that has been the state of parties here, they have dealt mercifully with the minority. 
The mover of the motion said that the late Government was responsible for the distress in Australia to-day. 
The intelligent section of the community knows otherwise. The condition in which we find ourselves to-day has been brought about largely by organizations not. connected with the party to which 1 belong. If honorable senators will cast their minds back a year or two, they will remember that the unemployed problem in Australia was greatly accentuated by industrial troubles on the waterfront. After certain steps had been taken, peace was restored on the waterfront, for the first time in seven years. Then, less than twelve months ago, there was an upheaval in the timber industry. That strike  wa3  the cruellest which Australia has experienced for many years. Those who were responsible for it, knew that the industry could not be carried on in Australia unless the Australian product could be sold at. a price that would meet, Australian conditions. The only alteration in the conditions which the court imposed was a provision for 48 hours a week. When that, award was made, men whose own positions were secure, urged the unfortunate timber workers to disobey it; they told them that it was better to be half -starved than work 4S hours a week. Unfortunately, the effects of that strike were not confined to the timber workers. As the result of inquiries both in Melbourne and Sydney, 1 have found that the timber workers' strike resulted in the dislocation of a number of other industries, with a consequent reduction of employment therein. In some industries, the dislocation was so great  that, although to-day there is comparative peace in the timber industry, those industries have not yer recovered the ground lost during the strike. Nor will they do so for some time. As a result there have been added to the list of unemployed, thousands of men. who were not in any way directly concerned with the timber workers' strike. If one interviews the heads of any of the big furniture manufacturing establishments in any of the capital cities, one will be told that, because of the timber workers' strike, trade is now so stagnant that they are carrying on with staffs that have been reduced by 50 to 70 per cent. The spending power of the people has been so seriously impaired by these industrial disturbances, that necessarily a long time must elapse before it will be possible to bring the output in the furniture trade up to what it was prior to the strike. The mover of the motion  (Senator Dooley)  declared that the Bruce-Page Government was to blame for the trouble in the timber industry. ' Those primarily responsible were the leaders of industrial organizations, because they incited trade unionists to starve rather than abandon the principle of a 44-hour week in the industry. They entirely ignored the fact that all sections of the timber industry were not in enjoyment of a 4.4-hour week. All the bush mills were working 4S hours, and actually the 44-hour principle applied only to city mills. 
I strongly deprecate such a term being applied to an award of the Arbitration Court. 
 Senator Dooley  now endorses the view of  Senator Hoare.  Evidently every award that does not meet with their approval must be described as " rotten." And yet they profess to believe in the principle of arbitration ! Are not they aware that arbitration .as a principle rests upon the acceptance of awards of the court by both sides to a dispute? I hold that if arbitration is to be successful, an award, whatever may be its nature.  must be obeyed loyally by all concerned. If an award is not. acceptable to one or other of the parties, the act provides constitutional means for an alteration or amendment of it.  If we are to be regarded as a law-abiding people, and earn the respect of other countries, we must be prepared loyally to abide by all the decisions of our properly constituted cri  ibunals 
I am glad to have that admission from the honorable senator. [ turu now  to  one or two incidents that came under my notice during the last election compaign. And I take this opportunity to say that they reflected no credit upon supporters of Labour candidates in the election for another place. Iti my somewhat lengthy career as a public man, I have taken part in many election campaigns, and I say without hesitation that I have never- known such widely organized misrepresentation to gain votes as I noticed during the recent election contest. I can speak only for Tasmania, but I have, no doubt other honorable senators will have something to say as to what happened in their States. 
At all events, I took an active part in the contest in my State, and I kept my eyes and ears open. I was actively engaged in it, because I believed the Nationalist cause to he the right one, and I would rather go down righting for the right than win in fighting for the wrong cause. 
Nationalist candidates who lost their seats need not be regarded as martyrs. They stood for a cause that is certain to be returned to power in the near future. But I set out to tell of a number of election incidents that came under my notice. In Hobart I found that many of those who were helping the sacred cause of Labour were visiting shop after shop, and informing sales girls and other employees that, if the Bruce-Page Government were returned, their wages would be reduced. 
That was the most dastardly lie that was ever told to win au election. Those who propagated the lie were fully aware that the Bruce-Page Government had no control whatever over the wages of shop girls in Tasmania, or any other State. Unfortunately, the average girl is not fully informed about these matters, and the girls in Hobart, at all events, did not know that their wages are determined by a State tribunal. But Labour supporters descended to still lower depths of degradation. They paid particular attention to a number of old-age and invalid pensioners, and . spread the lie that if the Bruce-Page Government were successful, invalid and old-age pensions would be reduced. 
The honorable senator knows that statement is not correct. He knows that the old-age and invalid pensioners were materially helped by the Bruce-Page Government, which some years ago increased their payments to £1 a week.  Senator Rae  can search the records, and he will fail to find, in any of the speeches delivered by Nationalist Ministers or supporters, either in Parliament or on the public platform, reference to a proposal to reduce payments to old-age and invalid pensioners. 
The honorable senator must know that no statement of that kind has ever been made by any member of the Bruce-Page Ministry. 
The honorable senator knows that the Bruce-Page Government did not propose to reduce that form of assistance to any deserving case.  His  sneering reference to the proposal clearly suggests that he is prepared in make an unfortunate man, who may haw been out of work for a long time)- and who perhaps has a wife a in! half n dozen children to support, put his hand into his pocket and contribute towards the purchase of a gold bangle or silver cup for die child of wealthy parents. The late Government did not propose to deprive any deserving case of a maternity allowance. I have before me the report of the policy speech delivered by the present Prime Minister in the Richmond Town Hall on the 19th September, 1929, in which I naturally expected to find a definite and clear pronouncement regarding the policy of his party on matters of vital importance to Australia. I did not expect to read anything actually misleading to the people. 
Perhaps I expected too much. In addition to more than the average number of ambiguities and platitudes, there were several instances of absolute piracy. As the report before me was despatched by mail for publication in the Tasmanian papers the day after its delivery, I presume it can be regarded as accurate. At the conclusion of his speech the present Prime Minister said that if his party were returned to power effect would be given to the policy which he enunciated eleven months ago. In the summary of the Labour party's proposals reference is made to the establishment of a radio telephone service between the mainland and Tasmania. I have always advocated the establishment of such a service; but I am strongly opposed- to the Prime Minister referring to the matter in the way he did, the suggestion being that his party was the first to propose it. He was fully aware that the Bruce-Page Government had already given consideration to the installation of such a service between the mainland and Tasmania, and had provided a certain sum  on  the Estimates to cover preliminary costs. In effect, he said that if a Labour government were returned to power a radio telephone service would be installed. That, went down very well in Tasmania, because after a definite pronouncement has been made by a party leader it is difficult for the candidates belonging to other parties to put the true facts before the electors. When the new Ministry was formed the Postmaster- 
General  (Mr. Lyons)  announced, on 25th October, that the new Government would continue the arrangements already made for the establishment of a radio telephone service between the mainland aud Tasmania. He further said that a sum of £100,000 had been placed on the Estimates for this work by  Dr. Earle  Page, and that the present Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  would make provision for a similar amount on his Estimates. In the same speech the present Prime Minister also said that if his party were returned to power telephonic communication between Perth and the eastern States would be established, but he did not tell the electors that a good deal of work in that connexion had already been done by his predecessors. As a member of the Public Works Committee I visited Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth in May of last year, where evidence was taken on the question of linking up Western Australia with the eastern States by telephone. Later the evidence was considered by that committee, a report was drafted and adopted, and was tabled in the House of Representatives before  the dissolution occurred. 
No; but if the present Leader of the Government in another place had been honest in the matter he would have announced that the initial steps in connexion with these two undertaking had been undertaken by the Bruce-Page Government, and that if his party were returned to power the work would be continued. Many people were grossly misled and electors, particularly in the States directly concerned, were under the impression that the Labour party was initiating these proposals. I mention these two distinct acts of piracy to show the manner in which the Nationalist party was misrepresented by its political opponents. The people were also told to beware of the powerful commercial and financial forces behind the Government, which were seeking to dictate the policy of this nation and who were at the moment endeavouring to turn back the clock thirty years in an endeavour to repeat the evils of the "nineties." What were the evils of the "nineties" against a repetition of which  Mr. Scullin  warned the electors ? According to that gentleman they were these - 
Many of the young and happy folk who live to-day have no conception of the conditions of the past - and it is not a very distant past either. What do they know of the weary women who toiled in sweating dens eighty hours a week for a pittance of 12s. 6d.? What do they know of the drivers who were employed from 60 to 90 hours a week for a bare existence? Or the shearers who were paid a penny a head for shearing sheep? 
He went on to warn the people of the power of the commercial and financial forces which he alleged were behind the Government of the day and it is amazing ro think that many of his statements were accepted by an intelligent democracy. It was exceedingly difficult to follow up and combat utterances of that nature which were made not only by  Mr. Scullin,  as Leader of the Opposition, but by many of his supporters. Statements such as those I have quoted were largely responsible for the reverse which the Nationalists suffered. 
I am not  squealing  [ am satisfied that the medicine which the electors will eventually have to take will be so unpalatable that they will soon be seeking another physician. 
Yes, at any time. 
I want now to refer to a matter which E am very loth to touch upon, but about which someone must say something. It was another of the factors that had a wonderful influence on the recent election. The great majority of the public servants of Australia absolutely forgot that they held the title of public servants, and through their organizers and other officers came so much into the open that they publicly advertised in the newspapers of Australia, or at all events in one of them, which has a very big circulation, urging the people to vote Labour. 
No. It happened to be the Hobart  Mercury,  which, thank God, has no association with the  Labour 

 Daily. I want to speak on this matter' dispassionately. I want the people of Australia to be proud of the public service of Australia. I want those who provide the wherewithal to maintain it to feel that it is a service in which they can have every confidence, and is one that will not descend to party politics. The first object of the public servant should be to serve his country. A public servant is literally one who serves his country. In the recent election, however, officials of public service organizations not only advertised in the public press, but also issued thousands of circulars, urging the people to vote for Labour. I shall read a paragraph from one circular, issued over the name of the secretary to the Tasmanian branch of the Postal Workers Union. It is as follows: - 
Allowance Postmasters. Any reduction in salaries applied to public servants would almost certainly mean a comparative reduction in your present niggardly allowance. So, beware. Do not be misled, Labour will give you fair play. Try them by voting No. 1 fo, Labour on Saturday, 1.2th October. 
They were not bold enough to say straight out that it was the intention of the then government, if returned to power, to reduce salaries, but the suggestion they made was that, if there should be any reduction, the allowance postmasters must bear a comparative reduction in their present niggardly allowance. It was a cruel and reckless suggestion to make, and had no foundation in truth. There had never been any suggestion emanating from the late Government, or its supporters, that there should be any reduction in the salaries of public servants, or any diminution of their status. But, as a matter of fact, the payment to allowance postmasters is purely a departmental affair, and is based entirely on the amount of business done in any particular allowance post office. If an allowance postmistress finds on her returns that she has increased" her postal business, she gets an addition to her allowance. On the other hand, if there has been a decrease in the business she has done, her allowance is decreased. That is the contract entered into between the department and the allowance officer. It is made, not with the Prime Minister, nor with the Government, nor with the 
Parliament, but with the Postal Department, and this public service organization  well  knew it. Yet this suggestion was good enough, from a party political point of view, to broadcast throughout Tasmania among the allowance officersanu other people connected with the public service. 
We have in Australia a population of 0,200,000, and we have an extensive public "service. We have tried to make it a useful body. It is also expensive, but to get good business we must be prepared to pay well. I may remind the Senate that Australia has entered upon a period of adversity. How long it will continue, no one knows. I have no wish to be a dismal prophet, but I am afraid that under the present administration it will be much more prolonged than it would have been  under  the previous administration, lt is now indicated that extra taxation is to be imposed upon the people. I speak with a desire to help. I say that it is the duty of the public servants to recognize that the people outside, who have to find the wherewithal, should receive proper consideration. No matter how we may try to allay the feeling outside that they are overburdened by having an expensive public service to maintain, that feeling is a  growing  one, and if the period of adversity is prolonged and the burden of taxation becomes too great upon them, the people will rise up and cry for economy; and, as is always the case, the first effort at economy will be an attempt to reduce the cost of the public service. For my part, I want the public servant to maintain the esteem and respect of the community; but he cannot hold that when he descends to party politics. I, therefore, regret very much the attitude taken up by a majority of the public servants during the last election campaign. I have been in public life for many years, and I have become acquainted with thousands of public servants, who are always prepared to do their very best for their country; but I am afraid that, in their organizations as in other organizations, those who put self first predominate. The watchword of the public service should be " Our country first and all the time." 
There are- one or two items of con,siderable importance in the GovernorGeneral's Speech.  Senator O'Halloran,  in seconding the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, said that the present Government had made it perfectly clear during the election that compulsory military training would be abolished. All that  Mr. Scullin  said, in his policy speech, in reference to the subject, was - 
We are prepared to assume full responsibility for the adequate defence of Australia. 
Does that suggest the abolition of compulsory military training? 
All I know is that in the speech delivered by  Mr. Scullin  I cannot find the words " compulsory military training." I look upon this innovation with a good deal of dread. I am not militaristic; but I should be unworthy of being called an Australian, or, indeed, a Britisher, if I neglected to do my part in seeing that Australia is in a position to defend itself. I, therefore, ' strongly object to any step which weakens an already weakened defence system. It is not safe at this juncture to do so. It would not be worthy of Australia to weaken its defence scheme in view of the debt it owes to the Mother Country, upon whom an additional burden would thus be placed. I regret very much that the Government has seen fit to take this step without conferring with those who were in a position to advise it, and who, I think every one will admit, were in the best position to give advice. The Government took steps to abolish compulsory military training, and then went to its ' advisers and asked them to help it to find a substitute. 
My honorable friend evidently means that, no matter how much of an ignoramus a man may be who is given a portfolio he must not consult with any one in regard to a change of policy, because he can be assumed to know all about it himself. 
Order ! 
In conclusion, I may say that I shall follow the lead given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  in the early stages of this debate. I shall not offer capricious opposition to any legislation, simple because it was introduced by a party in which I do not believe. The administration of that party will have my support in all matters which have my approval. I do not believe that there is a Nationalist or a Country party senator who desires to retain his seat, simply for the purpose of opposing the government in power. I am confident that, like myself, they will do all they can to advance the interests of Australia. I sincerely hope that when the details of the measures forecast in the Governor-General's Speech are dis closed, the programme will not be as bad as we anticipated. If it is, I shall be bound to fight it. I hope that the Government will realize the wisdom of at all times keeping before it the real needs of Australia, and that it will avoid sectional legislation. We are Australians and we cannot injure one section of the community without injuring all. 
 As one sitting in opposition to the Government of the day, and almost wholly unfamilar with Parliamentary etiquette and procedure, may I say how glad I was to hear the right honorable Leader of the Opposition state on Thursday last that it was his intention not unnecessarily to harass the Government, but to help by constructive suggestions any endeavours it made to introduce legislation according to the mandate received by it from the country. I read into that declaration an indication that the right honorable gentleman did not intend to adopt a narrow attitude towards the administration of the Government. On the other hand, I was very sorry to hear an honorable senator on this side attempt to belittle, if not to ridicule, that great office, the VicePresidency of the Executive Council, and the senator occupying it, as well as his colleague,  Senator Barnes,  by referring to them as " half-baked " Ministers. I hope that, however much we appreciate the need to increase the existing Ministerial representation in the Senate, none of us will again descend to such tactics. If we consider the subject and put ourselves for a moment in the position of the Leader of the Government in this chamber, we shall realize that it is one of the most difficult in Parliament to-day. It falls upon the honorable senator to pilot through this chamber all the measures that come from another place. He has very slender numerical support in the Senate, and is faced with a party overwhelmingly strong in numbers, one that includes three ex-State premiers, ten or twelve ex-cabinet Ministers, and one or two of the most able political tacticians in the Commonwealth. We should deal with honorable senators opposite as men. We shall not refrain from criticizing the measures which the Government introduces. On the contrary, we shall criticize them severely and oppose them strenuously, if we feel they are not in the best interest of the community. 
In that attitude of constructive criticism, I should like to draw the attention of the Government to the importance of maintaining the national credit. All who have had any experience of affairs beyond the borders of Australia know that credit is one of the most important elements in national or individual progress and prosperity. I am inclined to think that this Government has not yet recognized that fact. I feel that that is a lesson yet to be brought home to it, and I believe that the lesson will be learned. Credit is a pedestal very delicate in structure if weakened, but very powerful if maintained. Anything that interferes with the foundation of the pedestal will affect us individually and collectively, most seriously. 
I find in the Governor-General's Speech a total disregard of the future. This Government had no sooner taken office than it rushed in and interfered with the existing migration system. It cabled to Great Britain asking for a modification of the migration agreement, and made announcements that have been broadcast throughout the civilized world, indicating that Australia, a country as large as the United States of America, does not hold potentialities for more than the paltry 6,500,000 people who now inhabit it. 
The Government overlooks the fact that human .nature will put the worst possible complexion on any set of circumstances presented to it. This Government has conveyed to the outside world the impression - an impression that , will take many years to- eradicate - that we are unable to maintain a growing population. The effect. is a direct shaking of chat pedestal of credit. Financiers on the other side of the world, as well as industrialists' and others, who were looking to Australia to provide fresh opportunities for themselves and their families. will now say, " No ; Australia is not the place for us. Let us look for other fields of investment and industry, other homes for ourselves and our families." The Government has seriously retarded the development of this country, for no matter what argument is now brought forward, an indelible impression has been made on the minds of people overseas that Australia is unable to absorb even three or four thousand migrants per annum. 
-That is the impression which has been Created in the minds of those controlling the press of the Old Country ; their views are a reflection of the thought of the people generally. Apparently, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  has not been abroad lately, otherwise he would appreciate that the leaders of thought and activity in the Homeland are particularly sensitive at present regarding Australia. The present Government has Confirmed in their minds the impression that Australia is a desert country, a land of droughts and industrial upheavals, . a place where investments are insecure. 
If the Leader of the Senate were to seek the honest opinion of the people of the- Old Country, he would find that the public announcements that have been, made during the last few weeks have shaken Australia's credit. 
According to the  Quarterly Summary of Australian Statistics,  No. 117, issued last Saturday, instead of there being an increase of population by migration during the second quarter of this year, there was a decrease of 2,273 persons. The natural increase during the period was 18,722; but the net increase in population was only 16,449. That, indeed, is one of the most, striking features of .the  Summary.  It provides food for thought, for the facts contained *in that publication are known to the authorities abroad, 
It was not the province of the Commonwealth Government to take up the matter of migration with the British Government. Ignorant as 1 am of political matters, I know well that migration is the responsibility of the States. Upon them devolves the settlement of migrants. They requisition the Home authorities, through the Commonwealth, so that the Commonwealth is really only the medium through which correspondence between the States and the British Government passes. It is a pity that the Common wealth Government rushed in and ignored the States in this important matter. 
I am aware that, for the purposes of management, it was decided by the Home authorities that, rather than deal with seven distinct and, perhaps, conflicting governments, 12,000 miles away, they should to make an agreement with the States, through the Commonwealth. Nevertheless, the States are definitely the authorities controlling migration. I hold that it was the duty of the Commonwealth to consult the States before expressing any opinion whatever on this subject. How can "Western Australia, for instance, with all its unpeopled areas and its great natural resources, develop if the source of supply is denied to its people? 
I was interested in an exchange of interjections between the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition, during the speech of the latter on Thursday last. 
I had hoped that the present Government would not follow the example of the government which preceded it, and refuse to hold an inquiry into the lot of those oversea settlers who were dumped down in a section of the new mallee of Victoria. By taking that matter up, the Government would render a great service to Australia, and tend to restore confidence overseas. 
I wish to emphasize the unwisdom of interfering with Australia's credit. Soon after the formation of the new Ministry, the Prime Minister, with a view to advertising Australia and giving the people of other countries an opportunity of knowing him and his Ministers, and their views, consented to the making of a. " talkie " film. The speech of the Prime Minister of this young and progressive country, supposed to be well endowed with great natural resources, informed the world that Australia contained many thousands of unemployed. If that was not another dagger thrust at the credit of this young country, I do not know what it was. The Government would be well advised to do its utmost to prevent that film from being exhibited outside Australia. 
The seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply referred to the Government's desire to assist in the development of our primary industries. Basing an opinion on the little experience I have gained in world affairs,  1  cannot help feeling that the Government, instead of easing the burden of the primary producer, is doing its utmost to destroy those very industries which it professes to be desirous of assisting. It has evolved a set of economic laws, the result of which must inevitably be the destruction of those industries. Mention has been made of the establishment of a wheat pool. Should the Government venture into fields of activity of that kind, I hope that it will not act without expert advice. I have here a leaflet which, I understand, was distributed throughout the electoral division of Calare. Over the signature of G. A. Gibbons, now the honorable member for that district in another place, appears the following: - 
Our industry is in a bad condition. The wheat crop will be very limited, while wool values are extremely low. Credit must be developed to permit every man on the land to continue working his farm to the greatest possible advantage. The means of recovery rests in increasing the area under cultivation on every farm. 
I emphasize that statement. The leaflet, continues - 
With that end in view, as Labour candidate for Calare, I stand for: - 
An immediate guarantee of 6s. 6d. for the 1930-31 wheat crop. 
There is no necessity for me to inform honorable senators of the price of wheat to-day. How ridiculous it is for any individual, let alone a candidate for Parliament, to make such statements! 
The leaflet continues - 
An advance, if required, by farmers on every acre of land cropped. 
The formation of a Commonwealth wheat pool. 
The establishment of necessitous runners' credit through their existing financial institutions. 
To stabilize wool values. The immediate institution of a system similar to B.A.W.R.A. and that proposed by  Sir John  Higgins. It is reasonable to say after reviewing the present position that the institution suggested could make an advance equal to the price now being paid for the wool, and as the wool is placed on the market further payments will be made. 
If the honorable member's ideals could be realized, I should be happy to place myself under his tuition for a period of six months. I repeat the hope that the Government will not be led astray by views such as I have quoted; but that it will, before proceeding with any such scheme, obtain the best expert advice available. Australia will never reap fruits worthy of its maturing nationhood, or attain a rate of progress in keeping with its immense opportunities, until a national responsibility has been assumed by all sections of the community. Having read the Governor-General's Speech' I am inclined to think that those words are particularly applicable to the present. Government. 
In rising to speak to the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, I desire to refer to some remarks made a few days ago by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly).  I sympathized with the honorable senator when he appealed to the Senate . to give the Government credit for sincerity. I also noticed in the press report of the proceedings in another place that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  appealed to the Opposition there not to make it harder for the Government to effect a settlement of the troubles confronting Australia, particularly those associated with the coal-mining industry in New South Wales. Nevertheless, I felt inclined to ask the Leader of the Senate whether the party which he leads gave the late Government credit for sincerity when it was doing exactly the same thing that the present Government has attempted to do to settle that trouble. 
I thank the honorable member for his interjection. Although in clear and definite terms the late Government stated that it did not possess the constitutional powers necessary to grapple with the situation effectively, not one member of the present Government gave it credit for sincerity. Indeed, that Government was accused of not telling the truth. When the BrucePage Government made proposals for the settlement of the dispute, certain members of the present Ministry went into the country to persuade those most directly concerned not to take any heed of the Government's efforts. I wish  Senator Daly  to remember how the work of the previous Government was hindered in this way. I have no desire to make the task of this Government any more difficult than it is. All I desire is to impress upon the Leader of the Senate that the Ministry, of which he is a member, is in much the same position as the Bruce-Page Government, when it endeavoured to bring about a solution of the coal-mining dispute in New South Wales. For this reason I have a good deal of sympathy for the Leader of the Senate in his appeal for assistance. It seems to me that he realizes, probably for the first time the magnitude of the task confronting the Government, and how much more difficult was the task of the previous Government, because of the gross misrepresentation of motives. The issue appears to me to be a simple one - similar to that of two persons engaged in a business. On the one hand we have the coal-mine owner, and on the other the employee. I am not suggesting that the dispute in the. industry is the fault entirely of either the mine-owners or the employees. Probably there are faults on both sides. But it is a fact that, through their joint action some years ago, they raised the price of coal to such a high level that it has become an unmarketable product abroad, and now there is a deadlock. I remind  Senator O'Halloran,  who is an ardent supporter of the present Ministry, that the Government of the State, which he assists to represent in this chamber, found recently that it could save an enormous sum of money by importing coal from Great Britain, despite the fact that British coal had to be transported over 12,000 miles as against less than 2,000 miles from Newcastle. 
The honorable senator appears to know a good deal about what happened to British coal cargoes. Perhaps he is in a position to  explain  why those mishaps occurred. 
At all events the South Australian Government saved an enormous sum of money by importing British coal. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. But let me return to the position in New South Wales. It has been suggested that if the miners would agree to a reduction of ls. a ton in wages, the owners would cut ls. a ton off their profits, and that the general public should contribute 2s. to enable the industry to carry on. It would be just as logical for me to ask honorable senators to contribute 2s. a ton for all trade that passed through my hands in the course of my business." That, in a nut shell, sums up the coal-mining position in New South Wales. We have a fairly considerable coal deposit in Western Australia. It may not be regarded as the best steaming coal, but it is a good quality product, and is largely used in my State. The miners there have been working for twenty years, and have never had any trouble. During the whole of the time  the mines in New South Wales have been closed the Western Australian miners have been asked to keep on working and contribute to the support of their idle comrades in New South Wales. 
Apparently, one of the privileges of coal-miners in Western Australia is to carry on so as to be able to contribute to wealthy New South Wales miners, who are doing nothing. 
While  Senator Payne  was directing attention to the trouble in the timber industry,  Senator Hoare,  by way of interjection, described the Lukin finding as a " rotten " award. 
Before the making of the award to which so much objection was taken, bush workers scattered all over the Commonwealth were working 48 hours. The Lukin award did not affect, that, section of the industry, and there was no outcry because the hours of bush timber workers had not been reduced to 44. It was only when the award affected organized timber workers in Sydney and Melbourne thai there was trouble. Then, to quote the words of  Senator Hoare,  it became a rotten award, or, according to  Senator Rae,  worse than a rotten award. 
I turn now to the references in the Governor-General's Speech to the £34,000,000 migration agreement, and I suggest that the Government would have acted far more honorably if it. had brought down a proposal to suspend the scheme in its entirety instead of suspending the assisted passages agreement and expecting the Government of Great Britain to contribute towards interest payments on any amounts raised. By repudiating the solemn obligation contained in an agreement, this Government has  sunk  to a very low level indeed, and, as  Senator R.  D. Elliott observed, it has done a great deal to shake the confidence of the people of Great Britain in the Commonwealth. It would seem that because a certain percentage of Southern Europeans are coining to -Australia, migration, in the opinion of the Labor party, must cease altogether. I have no particular love for Southern Europeans, but in fairness to those who have come to Australia it must  be said that they have shown a disposition to work. 
That is so. No matter what may be said in derogation of these southern Europeans, the leaders of trade unions take very good care that they join up and pay their union fees. As to the Italians who have settled in Western Australia. I may say that some time ago when  Mr. Angwin,  who is now Agent-General for Western Australia in London, was Minister for Lands and controlled the activities of the Agricultural Bank, he stated publicly that if farmers continued to let contracts to Italians for the clearing of their land he would withhold assistance to them from the Agricultural Bank. It would appear, however, that private members of the party to which the Minister belonged did not share his views, as in the course of conversation, one of them remarked, " I wish to God I was not in my present position to-day. If I were not where I am I would soon get these Italians to do my clearing. I had two gangs sent up from the Government Labour Bureau to my farm, and boughttools, tents, and ' tucker ' for them. They stayed on my farm until they had eaten all the ' tucker,' then they sold ' all the tools and tents and cleared out and left my work undone." The principal objection to the Italians seems to be that they are inclined to work. 
The government proposes to abolish the Development and Migration Commission. This, we are told, is to be done in the interests of economy. It may be good tactics to save 6d. in expenditure and advertise the fact. If the news is broadcast effectively the world takes more notice' than if we spend £50 and say nothing about it. It is well known that for some time the Development and Migration Commission has been a clear target for every critic to shoot at. It has not been at all difficult to ascertain how much it has cost the Commonwealth to date, but the value of its work is not so easily ascertainable. I know, however, that it has saved Western Australia a great deal of unnecessary expenditure, and I firmly believe. that if it had been appointed a few years earlier, it would have prevented the unnecessary expenditure of millions of pounds, and saved a large number of people from a good deal of misery. I say without hesitation that the good work done by the Development and Migration Commission for Western Australia alone more than balances its total cost to the Commonwealth. 
I do not propose to deal at length with the Government's proposal to abolish compulsory military training. That has been fully dealt with by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce), Senator Glasgow  and other honorable senators; but I take this opportunity to say that since the Government approves of the voluntary system I hope it will become universal. A not inconsiderable number of industrial leaders lately have been advocating the voluntary enforcement of the Arbitration Court awards. Now the Government appears to favour the voluntary system of military training. I hope it will go further. 
That would be the logical course for the Government to adopt. If it made the payment of taxation voluntary, it would receive the hearty endorsement of a great number of people. 
I come now to the remarks of  Senator O'Halloran  concerning an Australianwide Government controlled compulsory wheat pool. 
If the proposed wheat pool were not controlled by the Government what would happen ? 
But how could there be compulsion without Government control ? 
When the honorable senator was speaking of an allCanadian wheat pool I interjected that there was no all-Canadian wheat pool in the sense indicated, and he replied that I was too precipitate, as usual. Actually there is no Canadian wheat pool as outlined by the honorable senator. . The three prairie States of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have organized wheat pools which are controlled by a directorate elected by the participants in the respective pools. No other authority has any control over the farmers' wheat and, as nearly as I can ascertain, the three pools control 52 per cent, of the wheat production of Canada. Although the pooling system is carried on to a considerable extent in Canada all the Canadian wheat is not under control. The only really successful wheat pool in the Commonwealth is that in Western Australia, which is controlled by the farmers themselves. It is a voluntary pool and is the only one in the Commonwealth which is conducted as a business organization. I remind  Senator O'Halloran  that the people of Western Australia will never consent to being associated with an all-Australian wheat pool. 
I believe in a voluntary pooling system. If the Government, of which  Senator O'Halloran  is a supporter, advocates the formation of a compulsory wheat pool, I shall urge the farmers, particularly in the State which I represent, not to give away their civil or economic freedom. 
Not at all. It is interesting to note the extraordinary changes which are occurring in the policy of the Labour party. Some time ago the party favoured the nationalization of all means of production, distribution and exchange. That had a masculine and commanding sound. But times changed, and we were then informed that that party believed in the " socialization " of the  menus  of production, distribution and exchange. That expression apparently had a more seductive and feminine touch. It has now gone a step further and instead of using the words "nationalization" and "socialization," it employs "co-ordination," which suggests perhaps that a happy state of matrimony exists between the other two. 
That the  Labour  party's policy points ultimately towards unification cannot be denied. 
Possibly we did ; that is undoubtedly the direction in which we are drifting. When the Financial Agreement Validation Bill was before the House, I believe that  Senator O'Halloran  said that his party was out for unification. 
It is well to know what is in the mind of the honorable senator, and those with whom he is associated. 
I wish now to refer to certain points raised by  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch concerning the financial affairs of the Commonwealth. I think the honorable senator said that the ex-Treasurer was responsible for the budget. He was no more responsible for the budget which he presented than was any other member of the late Government. It was the Government's budget, not the Treasurer's. 
He was jointly responsible with the Government of which he was a member. I agree with the honorable senator's contention that the Commonwealth and State Governments have got into the habit of spending too much - money, and perhaps in many cases spending it unwisely. Unfortunately, that fault is not confined to governments, as quite a number of private persons are guilty of doing the same thing. The honorable senator also said that the Bruce-Page Government sought means to spend surplus revenue instead of handing it over to the States as provided by the Constitution. Without attempting to argue that point, I wish to quote a statement made in evidence before the Western Australian Disabilities Commission, of which  Mr. W.  G. Higgs was the-  chairman,  and which, in 1925, inquired into the financial position of that State.  Mr. Keenan,  on behalf of the State Advisory Committee, quoted section 6 of the Surplus Revenue Act of 1910 which provides that "In addition to the payments referred to in section 4 of this act, the Treasurer shall pay to the several States, in proportion to the numbers of their people, all surplus revenue, if any, in his hands at the close of each financial year."  Mr. J.  R. Collins, who was then Secretary to the Treasury, in answer to a question 5857, when referring to that section, said - 
That section was never intended to give to the States any money at all. It was put into the bill with my own knowledge, because of a constitutional difficulty. . . It waa never at any time agreed or suggested that moneys, in addition to the 25s., should be paid over to the States. It was fully understood by everybody concerned that the 25s. was to be a final pay.ment It was estimated that the surplus revenue available would be 25s. and not more. . . And it was deliberately intended that there should be no surplus to distribute under that section. 
The Constitution provided for the return of threefourths of the Customs and Excise revenue for ten years, and after that it was entirely in the hands of this Parliament to determine what should be done. This Parliament, in the exercise of its constitutional rights, made provision for a  per capita  payment of 25s. in lieu of the arrangement which had previously been in existence. 
I am referring to the agreement entered into at a conference at which the Commonwealth and all the States were represented and under which it was claimed that the States were ' to get surplus revenue over and above the  per capita  payment. But  Mr. Collins  said it was clearly understood by everyone that no such payments were to be made. It is unfortunate that the governments of Australia have got into the habit of spending more money than perhaps should be collected from the people. It would be infinitely better if the Australian taxpayers were able to retain more which they could possibly spend to greater advantage than the various governments are doing. 
The Governor-General's Speech does not contain any very definite proposals; but consists largely of a number of promises of something that will be done in the future. We can only hope that we shall soon be told what the Government intends doing. At present, with the exception of a  few minor  matters which have been touched upon, we are quite in the dark as' to what its intentions are. 
Before concluding I should like to support what has been said by other honorable senators concerning the unsatisfactory ministerial representation in the Senate. To-day, and probably for the remainder of this week, the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  will be the only ministerial representative in this chamber, and upon him will fall the responsibility of answering all questions and replying to points raised in the debate. Anything that can be done to improve the present situation will, I am sure, meet with the approval of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. 
For the first time I find myself on the opposition side of the Senate; but. I have no doubt that I shall soon become accustomed to the change. Changes of Government occur from time to time in every country and that which recently took place here was, having regard to the experience of other administrations, overdue, inasmuch as something like 14 years had elapsed since Labour held the rein? of office in the federal arena. 
A very good innings. Changes are certainly inevitable and not always wholly undesirable. I do not welcome the change in this case, but we should reconcile ourselves to it. having regard to the financial position and the outlook generally. In a sense it is not inopportune. 
I do not think anything of the kind. My point is that members of the Labour party, who, in their own opinion, are great financiers, will now have an opportunity to show the people how they would deal with the present acute financial situation. 
We find ourselves in opposition principally by reason of a good deal of misrepresentation that was indulged in on the hustings, particularly in connexion with the late Government's arbitration policy, which was the main issue. The Nationalist party was grossly misrepresented by its political opponents, who told the people our policy was designed to bring about an all ' round reduction of wages. We endeavoured to show the electors that such a thing was impossible; that there were State tribunals for dealing with wages and conditions and that the Federal Government would have nothing to do with the matter'; but apparently they accepted the statements of our opponents. 
Yes, the Labour party gained a considerable accretion of strength and a good deal of publicity in that connexion. It is rather unfortunate that the Government was compelled to go to the country when its' budget proposals, involving imposition of additional taxation in certain directions, had just been brought down. The Nationalist party did not for a moment favour a reduction in wages. We contend that high wages are the result of high production. This is demonstrated in other countries. For instance, in the United States of America higher wages are earned because of higher production, and the workers have, if anything, better condition of living than they have in Australia. This I had an opportunity of seeing when I was in California last year. The same thing applies in Canada. We hear a tremendous outcry about the conditions of living' in Australia compared with those in other parts of the world. The picture is very much overdrawn. The conditions of living in many countries of the world where wages are lower than they are in Australia, are better than here. I am Vice-Consul for Sweden, in Rockhampton, and I have read a good deal about the conditions of living in Sweden. Conditions of living there are in many respects much better than they are in this country, although the Swedish workers there do not enjoy the high wages we have here. I mention these two cases to show that conditions of living are not altogether dependent on high wages or low wages. 
Now that the country has decided that it is desirable to retain federal arbitration, it is, in my humble opinion, the right time for the Labour Government to ask the people by way of referendum for additional powers to make federal arbitration function properly, and I recommend that the people should, be asked to decide on the lines proposed by  Mr. Bruce  in 1926, and agreed to by both Houses of Parliament. It was only when the proposals were submitted to the people that the union organizers decided to oppose them. I really believe that in the present temper of the country there is a very strong chance of the people saying " yes " on this occasion. Of course I am not going to say that I would approve of them as they were put forward by this Government. 
They have already said " No " on four occasions. But inasmuch as they have recently  unmistakenably  expressed a wish for the maintenance of federal arbitration, I think the time is ripe to ask them to give the necessary powers to enable the. federal system to function properly. 
We hear a good deal about the coal trouble, and the promise of members of the Government to settle it within a very limited time - I think a fortnight was the period mentioned - and we hear also much about hardship and suffering in connexion with it. The responsibility for this hardship and suffering rests on the men themselves. It is their wives and children who are suffering, yet they will not do the work which lays at their hands, because they will not accept one jot of a reduction in wages or an extension of hours. I do not advocate the men accepting low wages, but with some knowledge of the coal industry, I say that they could, by some slight reduction in the hewing rate, earn wages which would be envied by every other class of. artisan in Australia. 
It is not nonsense. I know what I am talking about. It has come out that when a month's notice of the lockout was given and the men saw that there was a lean time in front of them for probably a long period they put forth their best efforts and in some cases earned as much as £25 a week in the Newcastle coal mines. We can, of course, take a very large discount off that figure. But is there any need for women and children to be suffering and starving when men can earn wages like that if they willingly turn their hands to it? It is another example of the way in which the organizers control the members of their organizations. . I think we can safely say that Australia is union- organizer-ridden to the point of madness. 
I was connected with a coal-mine in Central Queensland where the ordinary award rates were being paid to the workers, but every fortnight that came round showed a loss. At last it was decided to close down the mine and the miners were given notice to that effect. Some other miners on the same field approached the directors and offered to work the mine on tribute and it was finally agreed that it should be worked on tribute by these men. From that day to this the miners have been doing well and the owners likewise. When orders are good the former have each averaged wages at the rate of £1,200 per annum. Possibly co-operation on similar lines will solve our difficulties in the coal industry. It has been adopted in Central Queensland with quite good results on a number of mines, and the workers are able to make very good wages. They could do the same in New South Wales. The hardship and suffering of which we are told could be avoided if the men would be content toearn a good wage even though it involved the acceptance of a slightly lower hewing rate. If the employers cannot make a reasonable profit, it stands to reason that they cannot keep their mines open. It has been ascertained by investigation that 2s.1d. was the profit shown on the old basis of working. 
I am merely pointing out why all this talk of hardship and suffering should not be dinned into our ears when the remedy is for the men to go to work on a slightly reduced hewing rate which would still enable them to make very good wages. 
I view the decision to abolish compulsory military training with a good deal of misgiving. It is true that there are gestures of peace on every hand, and that these may be thought to justify the adoption of a voluntary system. But gestures of peace have been tried out from the beginning of the world's history; they have always failed in the past,' and probably must fail in the future. I hope they will not, and certainly think that they should be encouraged in every way. I trust that the wit of man will yet conceive something that will do away with war. But we must be ina position to defend our country, and I do not think that the voluntary system will give that adequate measure of defence which the Government considers necessary. I have had experience of both systems. Under the voluntary system in the old militia days in Queensland, it was quite an easy matter in country centres to raise companies of light horse or even artillery, but in the cities it was most difficult to get volunteers for infantry and arms of that kind. The position will be accentuated more than ever to-day, because the inducements to participate in amusements in cities are greater than they were at the time of whichI am speaking. Despite all our improvements in the art of war, infantry still remains the base line, and I do not see. how, by the voluntary system, we can obtain sufficient troops to fill our infantry quotas in the cities, which, afterall, are the places where defence is most required. The 4s. a day which the Government is offering by way of remuneration to volunteers when they are undergoing training compares most unfavorably with the 8s. a day paid in the pre-compulsory days, when the value of the £1 was very much greater than it is to-day. Compulsory training had a great many merits which voluntary training will not have. The voluntary system is most unfair, inasmuch as it is everybody's duty to lit himself to defend his country; but under it we get only the patriotically inclined to submit to. training, whilst the others are probably watching football matches, losing the benefit of the physical development that is gained by those who submit to military training, and not learning obedience to orders. There is no opportunity to inculcate discipline in them, and discipline, above all things, is what the young Australian is sadly lacking. These are points which ought to be considered by  the Government. Ministers should not lightly do away with compulsory training. Some months ago I had the advantage of a couple of days' unofficial connexion with a camp in central Queensland, and at the end of the course of training I was particularly pleased to see the troops swing through the streets of Rockhampton. The physique of those boys - their ages ranged from 18 to 20 years - was something to be proud of, and the way they swung along with martial stride and good step showed that the training had not been wasted on them. That is an example of the advantages we shall lose by the alteration in the system of defence. I cannot understand why Labour has done this. . It brought in compulsory training, and the system has functioned very satisfactorily. It was the base line for supplying troops for the Great War. Yet now, because of some influence which is not apparent to me, Labour has gone  back on its old principles, and has removed this very necessary element from the public life of Australia. 
I also regret the stopping of nominated migrants from the Old Country. I assume that is what is meant by the cablegram recently despatched by the Prime Minister. It is really a repudiation of the £34,000,000 migration agreement, and I daresay that the British Government is making representations to the Commonwealth Government to that effect. 
A great deal is said about absorption. 1 agree it is very necessary to keep that phase well before us, but surely, with our vast spaces and great resources, we can absorb a reasonable quota of migrants. The fears of this Government were not entertained by our pioneers.- When my father and others came out to this country they were unskilled, and absolutely unfitted for immediate developmental work, but they settled down and fully 90 per cent, of them made good. To-day their childrenare in excellent positions. 
That is admitted, but Australia then had no markets, and lesser absorptive power than it has to-day. The principal factor governing the success of our pioneers was their indomitable spirit. They did not require the spoon-feeding methods that are so popular to-day. Nor was there a Labour government in power with unsound ideas on migration. We have also to consider the matter from the point of view of the League of Nations, a tribunal which regards with disfavour the perpetuation of Australia's vast unoccupied spaces, while other countries remain over populated. That is one  reason why further consideration should be given to the problem, and why it should be viewed broadly. 
We should encourage rather than discourage assisted migration. I admit that the Mother Country also has its responsibilities in the -matter. The London  Times  recently announced that Great Britain had reached its peak as regards population, and the only solution of its problem was a better distribution of its people throughout the Empire. America also has probably reached its peak of population, and will need a distribution. But such a distribution does not necessarily mean sending to Australia only the unemployed. It should rather be a transfer of desirable citizens. I believe that Australia should receive from Britain a proportion of the intelligentsia - commercial people, manufacturers, high technicians, the best type of people, accompanied with capital, who will be able to establish and carry &gt;u new industries in this country. If that plan were followed, Australia would have no reason to complain of the migration scheme, and Great Britain would be assisted, as we should then be able to absorb a greater proportion of her unemployed. We must have brains, capital, and directivity. I expressed similar views when at Sydney, Nova Scotia, with the Empire Parliamentary delegation last year, and they appeared to be acceptable to the British representatives present. 
I understand that it is the intention of the Government to amalgamate the Development and Migration Commission with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, under the Works Department. 
I am glad to hear it. I consider that the activities of those two bodies are entirely different, and that such a procedure would be unsound. I have already indicated to some extent the trend 'of the activities of the Development and Migration Commission. Those of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research are more in the direction of scientific experiment and research and, while I think that the council has done very good work, I believe that there are still untouched many avenues which it should investigate. That body did excellent work inquiring into diseases in sheep and other matters vital to Australia, but I should have liked to see it direct attention to mining technology and the liquefaction of coal. The latter is a pet subject of mine, and both are of the utmost importance to the development of Australia. For over three years I have been concentrating upon the commercial possibility of extracting oil from coal. While I was* with the Empire Parliamentary Delegation, the subject was debated at a conference, presided over by the Minister of Mines, Vancouver. The English delegate, a  Mr. Hall,  who is now a Minister in the British Labour Government, was firmly of the opinion that the scientist in charge of operations in Great Britain was not putting his best foot forward, or sufficiently optimistic in his task, with the result that other countries were outpacing Great Britain. T com mented that it was rather unfortunate for Australia that it was so, and the Canadian representative echoed my sentiments on behalf of his own country. I said that both countries were relying for guidance on experiments being conducted in Great Britain. Since then, there has been a great development in the matter. I believe that an eminent German chemist has discovered a new method for the liquefaction of coal. T refer to the Bergius process, which is succeeding so well that Germany expects that, within three or four years' time not one gallon of oil will be imported into' that country. Also, the low pressure process is proving so successful in Great Britain that it is being employed wherever coalfields exist. Australia, with its marvellous coal deposits, should have a far better chance to extract oil from coal, than to win it from natural resources. Of course, I wish to see that method also prove successful, but to me it has not the possibilities open to the distillation of coal. 
Two companies ure at present working along those lines in Australia. 
I have a grievance to voice in connexion with the allocation of portfolios. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  has intimated that the Senate was flouted in that allocation. I agree with the right honorable gentleman, that we should have had  a  departmental head, in addition to the VicePresident of the  Executive  Council, a position which  Senator Daly  is, so far, worthily filling. I desire, not to reiterate the opinion of  Senator Sir George  Pearce, but to call attention to the manner in which the State of Queensland has been flouted. The third State of the Commonwealth is represented only by an honorary Minister, an improper condition of affairs. I do not say a word about the fitness of Queensland's representative in the Cabinet; but as a matter of principle it is wrong that the great State of Queensland should have to be content with an honorary Minister in a cabinet of thirteen. That is unfair treatment for my State, and I strongly protest against it. That reminds me of a promise made by the gentleman who has the honor to represent Quensland in the Cabinet. The honorable member for Capricornia  (Mr. Forde)  stated on the hustings that he favoured, for a period of five years, a bounty on the exportable surplus of beef to enable the cattlemen of Queensland to survive their losses occasioned by the recent drought, and to get on their feet again. Will the Government give effect to that promise, or is it to be treated merely as a cheap vote-catching device ? 
There is one thing in the speech upon which I heartily congratulate the Government, and that is the announcement of its intention to proceed vigorously with the completion of the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway. A sum of £350,000 has been placed on the Estimates for the purpose. I understand that, although the railway is approaching completion, the bridge over the Clarence River is a long way off finality. My object in eulogizing the Government in this respect is to ask it particularly to expedite the work on that bridge, so that the complete opening of the line will not be long delayed. I asked a question on the subject the other day, and  Senator Barnes  replied that, in all probability, the Clarence River bridge will not be finished until some months after the completion of the railway. I urge the Government to take every step to expedite the completion of that bridge. Until that is effected the railway will not function as satisfactorily as we all desire. 
I also questioned the Minister as to a daily train service, including Sunday, between the capitals of Sydney and Brisbane, and the reply given to me wa.« not satisfactory. It was - 
In terms of agreement between the Commonwealth and the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland,  as  the works ure completed and ready to be opened for traffic, they are to be handed over to the States and the matter of the train service will be one for consideration by the Railways Commissioners of New South Wales and Queensland, who will no doubt arrange a daily service if the circumstances warrant same. 1 should not have asked the question had I thought that the Commissioners of New South Wales and Queensland would grant the request. Although pressure has been brought to bear upon them, they have so far refused to include a Sunday train. I speak without authority in  the  matter; but I understand that the NewSouth Wales Commissioner was agreeable to the running of a Sunday train, but that the Commissioner in Queensland was not. Now that there is a different government in Queensland, it might be possible, if the Federal Government, which is financing the scheme, were to approach it, to get a promise from both Commissioners that a daily train service, including Sundays, will be established. There is a daily train between Sydney and Melbourne and also between Melbourne and Adelaide, and there is no reason why there should not also; be a daily train between Sydney and Brisbane. 
I desire to refer to the question of preferences. When the return of a Labour Government in Britain was announced, 1 was the first person in Rockhampton to hazard the conjecture that our preferences with the Mother Country were in danger. Unfortunately, we had not long to wait before  Mr. Snowden  announced that, in order to provide a free breakfast table for the people of the Old Country, the British Government would do away with those preferences. Later, because of representations made by the Dominions, that Government modified its proposals. It has now decided to hold the matter over until the Imperial Conference which is to be held next May. L hope that the Prime Minister who, no doubt, will represent Australia on that occasion, will urge the retention of the existing preferences. They mean a great deal to Queensland. Let us consider their effect in respect of one item alone. Assuming that the export of sugar from Queensland to Britain is 200,000 tons per annum, the removal of the preference would mean a loss to Queensland on that item alone of £1,000,0.00. It might be urged that the removal of the preference would provide a cheaper commodity forthe people of Britain; but it would, after all, make so little difference to the average family as to be negligible. In any case, the value of the preference granted to Australia by Britain is not nearly so great as that granted to the Old Country by Australia. 
The Governor-General's .Speech deals with a number of financial matters, but I shall leave my remarks concerning them until the Budget proposals are before the Senate. The outlook is not particularly bright, but, fortunately, there are a number of factors which indicate that an improvement is in sight. The appreciation in the price of wool, the bountiful rains which have fallen recently, and the lowering of the interest rate, indicate that, we are turning the corner and that more prosperous times lie ahead. Should the Government adopt the suggestion of the honorable member for Calare  (Mr. Gibbons)  and guarantee 6s. 6d. a bushel for wheat, a doubtful benefit to growers would be assured ! By wise administration the Government can do much to assist the country. So long as it brings before the Senate sane and progressive measures, it will meet with no captious opposition. The assistance of the Opposition will be withheld only if the Government introduces fantastic or highly experimental legislation. 

 Senator OGDEN (Tasmania) fo.42"). - I thought that when  Senator Thompson  resumed his seat some honorable member of the ministerial party would have risen to reply to the statements that have been made by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Since being raised to the treasury bench, however, honorable senators opposite appear to have become dumb. 
I hope that, before the debate closes, the Government will inform the Senate how it proposes to deal with some of the problems confronting Australia. 
I desire to congratulate  Senator Daly  and  Senator Barnes  on their accession to ministerial office. I do that sincerely. I also congratulate the Labour party on having come into power after having for so many years ploughed the barren fields of opposition. The new Government's tenure of . office will be determined, to a great extent, by its conduct of the country's affairs. I expect that I shall be a somewhat severe critic of the Government; but I intend at all times to play the game. Nor do I think that the members of the Opposition generally will take advantage of their numbers to embarrass the Government. The treatment which members of the ministerial party will receive at the hands of the Opposition will depend largely on themselves. If they play the game, we on this side will do the same. 
The verdict of the electors given recently must be respected. The issue was whether the Federal Arbitration  Cour  should, or should not, remain. The electors decided on its retention. I am prepared not only to accept their verdict, but also to co-operate with the Government in improving the existing system. I stand to-day where I stood twenty years ago in relation to industrial regulation. I have always held that there should be only one industrial authority in the Commonwealth. For years I have advocated that full powers in such matter? should be vested in the Commonwealth. Some time ago, when the electors were asked to grant fuller powers to the Commonwealth, the action of the Labour party resulted in their giving a negative decision. 
In 1926, when the late Government submitted its proposals to the people, the Labour party opposed the granting of full powers to the Commonwealth. The State governments refused to surrender their powers, and the people rejected the referendum proposals. I was then forced to accept the only alternative - the abolition of the Federal Arbitration Court and the vesting of the 
State industrial tribunals with the necessary powers. Although from many platforms trade union leaders had spoken in the most condemnatory, terms of the Federal Arbitration Court, when the Bruce-Page Government proposed to do away with that court, they charged it with attempting to lower the standard of living by reducing wages. To them it was immaterial that no government has the power to reduce wages. The fixing of wages is governed by the economic law of supply and demand. Members of the Labour party knew these things; but they found that their charge that the late Government desired to reduce wages was a very useful weapon. 
Probably no section of the community was more surprised at the result of the election than the Labour party itself.  Senator Daly  must have been amazed to find himself suddenly exacted to the high and honorable office which he now occupies. I believe that the electors them-, selves were more than surprised at what they had done. They were like the man. who lit a fire on a hot day, only to find that it got beyond his control, and threatened him with devastation and ruin. Many of the electors will be glad to have the opportunity to put out the fire they assisted to light. 
The Nationalist party will be returned to office probably before those now occupying the treasury bench expect it. The Government has already done many things which will tend towards its downfall. 
I now propose to pursue a line of argument which might be regarded as somewhat pessimistic or revolutionary. In this country to-day there is one main issue, and there are two parties. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber stand for the preservation of the existing social system. They believe in improving it where it needs improvement; in mending it, hut not ending it. Another section, which controls the Labour movement to-day, believes in the destruction of the present system and setting up in its place a communistic state. Thus there' is a complete line of demarcation between the principles enunciated by honorable senators on this side of the chamber and the social system advocated by that section which controls  Senator Daly  and his followers in this chamber. There is not any shadow of doubt that this is the issue before the people. The question of a divergence of political faith is not involved. For thousands of years this intricate political problem has been under discussion. If we go back to the days of Plato we find that he stood for the democratic state, while Aristotle represented the aristocratic system of government. But the people in those days were either not sufficiently educated or were too careless to take an intelligent interest in the discussion of the issues that came before them. -In our time, owing largely to a wider knowledge of the doctrine preached by Karl Marx, the issue is becoming a somewhat acute problem, and in my judgment it .will have to be fought out in the Commonwealth. 
It is remarkable that the Labour party to-day is endeavouring to steer a course between these two extreme  schools of thought. It is appearing in a new role. In its earlier days Labour directly challenged all forms of monopoly, and strenuously opposed the money power.' On many occasions I have heard my friend,  Senator Rae,  fulminating against monopolies, whatever form they took. To-day it would appear that he and other members of the Labourparty have abandoned those cherished principles, and so we find them in the role of the friend of the monopolistic enterprises and the representatives of themoneyed class. We have this evidence on every hand. It is written in character* so .plain that he who runs may read. Labour has mortgaged its political soul tothe money power. I need only remind the Senate of the attitude of the party during the recent election. Is it not a fact that the huge picture combine in this country - representing largely American capital - went to enormous expense  to  ensure the return of the Labour party? It may not be out of place here to emphasize that hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of pounds, are extracted from the people of the Commonwealth by the moving picture interests in the United States of America. During the election  its representatives in this country raised the cry - " Hands off the people's amusements." Arid the Labour party, be it noted, immediately fell in behind .this combine and said - " No taxation of the people's amusements." Why was that done? Was it not because the moving picture combine spent hundreds of thousands of pounds to help the Labour party to win the election? 
The honorable senator's objection is not a point of order.  Senator Ogden  is entitled to express any views he may have on the subject at. issue, and  Senator Dunn  may state his views; but both must do so in a courteous and proper manner. 
The argument of our Labour friends was that the Bruce-Page proposal to tax the moving picture industry on its gross turnover was vicious in principle. As a matter of fact, it is not a new principle at all. The present Ministry, even to-day, by the imposition of excise duties, is taxing the gross turnover of breweries throughout the Commonwealth. I also remind the Senate that  Mr. Lyons,  the Postmaster-General, when a member of a Tasmanian Ministry, introduced a similar measure, under which every publican in that State had to pay a tax of 2£d. on every gallon of beer and every bottle of whiskey which he ordered. Was not that taxation upon the gross turnover? The present federal land tax also embodies exactly the same principle. It is a tax upon the gross turnover of the land-owner, so, as I have said, there is nothing new in the principle. 
The only move made so far by the present Government for the relief of unemployment is a proposal to tax' industry. This Government has imposed a tariff duty of 10s. a gallon upon imported whisky in order to force the Australian consumer to drink an inferior brand of spirit - to poison the consumer with Australian whisky. Can it be argued that this has been done in the interests of the Australian working man, or to provide employment? May not we assume that the intention was to increase the profits of the Federal Distilleries .in which  Mr. John  Wren has a controlling interest? Unquestionably this is another instance of a surrender of the Labour party to the money power. 
I think I have clearly shown that the Labour party has changed its ideals, and that it has now become the champion of monopolists and money power, and is no longer a true advocate of democracy. The members of the Labour party have pleased their capitalistic friends - the rich manufacturers - who laud them day after day, and who will now transfer a further burden to the shoulders of the working man. The manufacturer will make bigger profits to swell his coffers, and the cost of  living will soar, while the poor unfortunate working man who looked to the Labour party to solve his problems will agaiti be left in the lurch. I shall deal with that subject at greater length when the budget and financial papers are under discussion. For the moment I shall content myself by saying chat the big moneyed interests are referring to the Labour party as the saviour of the community. 
But let us examine the other side of the picture.. How will the members of that party get on with their other friends? No man can serve two masters. How are they going to reconcile their attitude towards the capitalists of this country, with their professions towards the extreme element which was once represented so faithfully and so well by  Senator Rae.  The communists have now representation on the other side of the chamber and in the Cabinet. We can already see the concessions granted to these friends of theirs, and may naturally ask how long the Government will be able to steer its present course. I suppose the first evidence of a desire on the part of the Government to please the revolutionary section of the Labour movement is its amended defence policy. It is a well known fact that the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, which is the supreme controlling body of the trade union movement in this country, is avowedly communistic. That body believes in controlling the means of production, distribution and exchange by revolutionary political and industrial action. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

No person shall be conscripted under any law of the Corn mon wealth for naval, military or industrial service. 
Yet the Labour party contravenes that principle on every possible occasion. It will not permit its followers to have the privilege - of fighting in defence of their country, their homes or- their firesides, yet it says that every man must join a union or be called a scab or a traitor to the Labour movement. It thus employs industrial conscription in regard to trade unionism, but its friends outside who direct its policy will not allow any of the supporters of the party to strike a blow in defence of their country. The abolition of compulsory military training is a distinct gesture towards the communistic friends of the Government, who direct it from outside. 
The Labour party also seeks the abolition of the Singapore Naval Base, one of the greatest safe-guards we could possibly have for the protection of Australia. Ministers are prating about their desire for the adequate defence of Australia, yet they make this further gesture to satisfy the militant element within the Labour movement. They tell us that they have no time for communism, but they obey its instructions in regard to defence. 
The other day the Prime Minister said that the Commonwealth Government had accepted the Soviet Government's pledge to the British Government to abstain from propaganda in England and the dominions, yet to-day, in answer to a question,  Senator Daly  said, that this was a matter that had nothing to do with Australia. In this connexion let me read the following : - . 
In a speech at Pretoria the Minister for Justice  (Mr. Pirow)  referring to the Durban police raids on natives who had not paid the head tax, revealed that a wide-spread plot on Kith December was instigated by the Third In- ternational. It was calculated to strike a serious blow at the industrial life of the Union. 
The Third International, declared the Minister, sent written instructions to a number of native labour organizations to " wage a struggle against the native bills and all other petitions, but in a revolutionary manner, on 10th December. Militant demonstrations were to be conducted, and the mines were to be penetrated by all possible moans." Therefore, he claimed justification for the Government'* preventive action at Durban, which was the chief centre of unrest. He added that the Union Government would legislate  at the earliest date to deal 'with the agitator who was at the root of the trouble. 
Although we have this evidence of a distinct plot on the part of the Third International at Moscow, to interfere seriously with the industrial relations of one of the dominions,  Mr. Scullin  has accepted the pledges given by the SovietGovernment. But it is only another little gesture to appease the communistic friends of the Labour party ; to keep them quiet while Ministers sit down and draw their salaries. 
We were informed the other day that the Commonwealth Government has suspended the issue of licences  under  the Transport Workers Act. What is that, but another attempt to appease the militant section, which is the driving force behind the Labour movement to-day? Will  Senator Daly  or any other honorable senator sitting with him refuse to admit the immense benefit conferred by the Transport Workers Act on the people of Australia? No other piece of legislation enacted of recent years has done more than it has done to bring about peace and contentment and fair conditions on the waterfront of Australia. Yet the Labour party has now suspended the issue of licences under that act at. the behest of the militant leaders of the Waterside Workers Federation. 
The other day a union waited on the Minister in Canberra and urged that preference to unionists be observed. I am not and never have been a believer in preference to unionists. I am consistent in this regard, because I opposed compulsory military service during the war; although having regard to the number of eligible men associated with the Labour party to-day who refused to go to the war, I should not be prepared to take up the same attitude again. I opposed conscription, and I am equally opposed to preference to unionists, because I regard it as a form of compulsion. It is conscription. This step has also been taken by the Labour Government in an attempt to appease its communistic masters. 
Another gesture designed to please the communists is the cessation of migration. Here is a paragraph from the  Pan-Pacific Worker  to which  Senator Rae  frequently contributes. It reads - lt is the immediate task of the militants to carry on a determined and unceasing struggle against all form of race prejudices and race hatred fostered by capitalism and reformism. 
They want the White Australia policy to be destroyed. So far the Labour Government has not made any definite gesture in. that direction but it will have to, do so sooner or later. It cannot steer a clear course between the two opposing parties. It cannot remain uninjured between the fire of the capitalistic forces and the shells of the communists. Eventually it must pass to one side or the other. In regard to migration, this newspaper says -  it  is obvious that the workers of Australia, acting in conjunction with the Labour movement of Great Britain, must fight the mass migration scheme of Bruce and Baldwin. It cannot be doubted but that these schemes are exclusively in the interests of the exploiters and imperialists. 
In suspending migration the Labour party has surrendered to the wishes of the militant section. 
I think I have quoted sufficient to show that the contention I have tried to set up that the Labour Government is endeavouring to please two masters is correct. In the end it must either surrender to the militant section or mortgage its political soul and future to the capitalistic section of the community. I think it is a. matter of impossibility for it to steer a course which will keep it unscathed. 
I have some notes upon some of the proposals iu the budget, but I think I had better leave them until we come to deal with the budget in the next few days. But there is one thing I should like to mention. To serve certain, interests which are at the present time standing behind it the Labour party is attempting to abstain from taxing pleasures and luxuries. At the same time it is taxing the every-day commodities of the people, their food requirements, their clothing: children's socks and women's hats, and placing an intolerable burden upon industry. I do not know what the workers will think when they eventually come to realize that the cost of living is soaring up. They must see how absolutely futile were the promises made to them. 
I do not wish to hamper any negotiations which may be taking place in an effort to settle the coal dispute, but I declare that the Labour party flagrantly and wickedly deceived its supporters when it stated that it would settle that strike in fourteen days. Honorable senators opposite know that that was impossible, and that the Federal Government has no constitutional powers to do such a thing. So the strike continues, and unemployment is rife. 
The Labour party claimed that it would solve the unemployment problem by raising the tariff. No government can solve the problem in that manner. 
To support still further my statements with regard to the communistic masters of the Labour party, I shall read a portion of a letter which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of the 14th June last. It is written by a  Mr. A.  C. Woodsford,  a prominent member of the Labour party, and a trusted official of the Seamen's Union. Portion of it reads: - 
Who is it but the Communists who are directing the strikes against the law at the present time? The men's officials are sitting back and letting the Communists control their unions. Those who do their duty and attempt to keep the militant usurpers out of the committees of Australian unions are the target for all their vile abuse, being branded as "class traitors and scabs " for trying to assist working men and women to get a living. Wake up, fellow workers, and clean our unions of all disrupters. Are we still going to countenance strikes and disorganization of industry until the British Empire falls, and keep our children hungry until the Communists have toppled over our constitutional Governments  and  institutions? What then, fellow  workers?  Misery and pestilence. Nothing short of that will satisfy the Communists, and until they push the workers into violence and ruin. Unless the workers throw them out, the militants, following their instructions from Moscow, will ride the trade union movement to destruction, and I predict that Labour's hope df building up a clean White Australia with a high standard of living will not be fulfilled. 
I do not think that I am unduly stressing the dangers of this evil. All thinking: men know that there is a dangerous element in this country that wants to destroy existing institutions and set up, probably, a regime similar to that which now harasses Russia. I should not refer to that element so seriously but for the fact that it controls the Labour movement. 
The other day I read another gem in the columns of the  Age,  that great protagonist of Labour which the party has set out to serve by imposing high tariffs. A man named Cummins, a candidate at the last State election against  Sir William  McPherson, the Premier of Victoria, got into trouble during the police strike, at which time he was a member of the force. He was a good Labour man at that time, but recently he cannot be so pleased with the party, for this is what he is reported to have said at an. open air meeting at Prahran : - 
A Woman. - Do you expect more from the Nationalists than you do from Labour? 

 Mr. Cummins. ; I expect truth and principle from the Nationalists, which is more than you ?an get from many of the Labour men. They made us promises, and when they got into power they turned down principle for gold. They broke me mentally, physically, and financially. As long as members of the Labour party could get us to assist them in their campaigns, they made us promises, but as soon as they got into office they threw us down. I saw  Mr. Prendergast  once about a striker who was almost starving, and he promised to do something for him, but nothing was done. Later I was accused of having been with the enemy because I interviewed  Sir William  McPherson. I did interview  Sir William  McPherson. I went to see if he could do something for one of my friends, who had been out of work since the strike.  Sir William  McPherson, although he was only Leader of the Opposition at the time, said that he would do his best, and he obtained a position for that man. When he found that the man did not have enough money to pay his fare to the job,  Sir William  Mcpherson gave him ?2. 
A Voice. - Anyway, the Nationalist party has done a lot for you. 

 Mr. Cummins. ; The Nationalist party gave me the sack, and it has persecuted us, but it said from the beginning that we had committed an offence. The Labour party told us that we were right, and then forgot its principles. Every one makes mistakes, but the biggest one I ever made was when I had anything to do with the Labour party. 
To most men disillusionment comes sooner or later. I hope that the Labour Government will not indulge in wild schemes, or try to please its communist friends, but will exercise common sense in the government of the country. I hope that it will realize that its duty is to conserve the country's welfare, that it will legislate in the interests of the whole people, and not of a section of them, and that it will apply itself to the solving of the problems confronting the country. There is sufficient constructive work for it to do without pandering to sectional interests. Our so-called democracy has not brought to the world the benefits which were expected from it. Under our scheme of representative government it sometimes happens that a party seeking office will make all sorts of wild promises to the electors, knowing that it cannot give effect to them. That happened at the last election; the Labour party made promises which it knew were impossible of fulfilment. 
In the old days the Labour party had ideals; it fought for principles; it was concerned with the welfare of the struggling masses; it would not ally itself with capitalism, or any  moneyed interests; it had an industrial and a financial policy. But to-day that party is barren of any high ideals of citizenship; its only objective is to gain the treasury bench, and to manipulate the administration in the interests of its supporters. I am sorry that the great Labour movement has so far departed from the path on which it first set out. Without desiring to assume the role of a prophet, I feel confident that if the electors had the opportunity to-morrow they would reverse the decision they gave a few weeks ago. The workers will soon find that the Nationalist party is a better friend to them than is the party to which they gave their support. In conclusion, I repeat that I shall vote for any Government measure which I believe will serve the best interests of the country. But whatever the consequences - even at the risk of a double dissolution - I shall not hesitate to take action to frustrate any efforts of the Government which I believe will not be in the interests of the Commonwealth. 
I desire to congratulate  Senator Dooley  and  Senator O'Halloran,  the mover and the seconder respectively of the motion for the adoption of the Ad dress-in -Reply, on the speeches they delivered. There is much in the Governor-General's Speech for which the Government may take credit. When I call to mind some of the reactionary governments of the past, when the country was governed from Pitt-street, Bligh-street, or Flinders-street, or even from Fleet-street, London, I realize that the present Government, even in the few weeks it has been in office, has by comparison, done a great deal.  Senator Ogden  has promised, his support to the Government so long as its proposals have his approval, but he has indicated that he will stoutly resist any proposed legislation of which he does not approve. He is, in effect, prepared to assist the Government in passing pop-gun legislation; but should it introduce measures of heavier calibre he threatens it with an appeal to the country. The Labour party is prepared to accept his challenge; it is prepared to go to the country again. I invite  Senator Ogden  to study the votes cast for the several candidates in the Denison, Bass, and Wilmot divisions. A study of those figures would convince even  Senator- Ogden  that had ' there been a double dissolution, he would not now be in a position to say whether he would, or would not, assist the Government to give effect to its legislative proposals. The electors of Australia have shown their approval of the Labour party's constructive policy, by returning to another place a Labour government with a majority of seventeen over the members of all other parties combined. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  had a good deal to say about communist influences behind the Government. Indeed, a good deal of his speech dealt with Russia and communism. It might be well to remind  Senator Ogden,  who, since he joined the Nationalist party, has become quite respectable, of the following passage from Holy Writ : - 
But Peter said unto him, Although all shall' be offended, yet will not I. 
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto theo, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept. 
I think the honorable senator knows to what I refer. He charges responsible Ministers of the Crown and the supporters of the Government with being communists; he talks of a revolution; he suggests that either Parliament House will fall or the place be submerged. Unless  Senator Ogden  can tell a better bed-time story than that, he will not obtain a job as a broadcasting announcer. 
A few days ago  Senator Lynch  asked a question relating to the singing of " The Red Flag " at the Hotel Kurrajong. I do not say that the honorable senator was not entitled to ask that question, for he did so in a perfectly constitutional maimer; but I deny some of the statements be then made, and I disapprove of his efforts at propaganda. Did he think that to have his question reported in  Hansard  would be useful when next an appeal was made to the country? Did he expect to use it in order to " dope " the electors? Some honorable senators who do not reside at the Hotel Kurrajong might not be aware that, on the occasion to which  Senator Lynch  referred, some of the guests there indulgedin community singing. They sang some of the songs so familiar to many of us. Among them were " The Swanee River" and "Old Black Joe." It is probable that "Pie in the Sky" was also sung, as well as " John Brown's Body."  Senator Lynch  was there, and I have no doubt he enjoyed the evening. 
I suppose the honorable senator enjoyed it until the singing of " The Red Flag." But, really, I believe he was mistaken about that song. I understand he thought they were singing "The Red Flag," when actually they were singing " The Battle of the BoyneWater," and I believe the company was singing - 
My uncle Mick, he had a stick, 
Sohe began to slaughter : 
But forgot to kill old Paddy Lynch 
At the battle of the Boyne Water!" 
It may not be out of place to remind the Senate, that in every country that has a history, the working classes have songs particularly dedicated to their cause. Thus, we find working-class songs in Great Britain, the United States of America, Canada, the South American States, and in Spain, Portugal, France, Germany, and every other European country. And, strange at it may seem, in France, what was once a revolutionary song, has become the national anthem. When the Federal Parliament was sitting in Melbourne, both  Senator Lynch  and  Senator Ogden  took part in the historic gathering that welcomed the distinguished French visitor, General Pau. On the steps of Parliament House, these honorable senators, with everyone else in that great gathering, stood to attention when the band struck up " The Marseillaise." Likewise, I stood to attention on many occasions in France during the late war, and I now say that I was as good a soldier as ever "Pompey" Elliott was. 
Well, my name is secured under patent rights, and is constitutionally correct. In deference to you,  Mr. President,  I shall say that I was as good a soldier as ever  Senator H.  E. Elliott was. 
In a minute or two I may do so. I wish first to conclude my reference to "The Marseillaise," to honour which the first gentleman and the first lady of the British Empire, their Majesties the King and Queen of Great Britain, stand up whenever it is played in their presence, whether it he in England or France. 
For the information of those honorable senators who may not be conversant with its history, let me quote briefly from an historical reference to the song itself - 
The stirring song orhymn of the French Republicans, was composed in 1792 by a young officer, Rouget de Lisle. He composed both words and music under one inspiration on a night in April, after dining with the Mayor of the City of Strasburg. It was first known as the " Chant del'Armé du Rhin." The song was speedily carried by enthusiastic revolutionaries to the chief cities of France. It was brought to Paris by the volunteers of Marseilles, who sang it as they entered the capital, and as they marched to the storming of the Tuileries. It was thus called " La Marseillaise." As early as the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War, it was enthusiastically taken up as the French National Anthem, and has held that honoured place until this day. 
Again, I say that our King, to whom we all swore allegiance at the opening of this Parliament, and to whom I swore allegiance for five long years during the  war, stands to attention when this stirring national anthem is played. The words are - 
A man named Jim Connell, a young Irishman with turbulent blood in his veins. He sprang from a people who for 700 years were turbulent and troublesome, because the right to self-government was withheld from them. These are the words of " The Red Flag"- 
The people's flag is deepest red, 
It shrouded oft our martyred dead, 
And ere their limbs grew stiff and cold, 
Their heart's blood dyed its every fold. 
Chorus : 
Then raise the scarlet standard high! 
Within its shade we'll live or die; 
Though cowards flinch and traitors sneer, 
We'll keep the red flag flying here. 
Look round - the Frenchman loves its blaze, 
The sturdy German chants its praise; 
In Moscow's vaults its hymns are sung; 
Chicago swells the surging throng. 
It waved above our infant might, 
When all ahead seemed dark as night; 
It witnessed many a deed and vow, 
We must not change its colour now. 
It well recalls the triumphs past; 
It gives the hope of peace at last; 
The manner bright, the symbol plain, 
Of human right and human gain. 
It suits to-day the weak and base, 
Whose minds are fixed on pelf and place. 
To cringe before the rich man's frown; 
And haul the sacred emblem down. 
With heads uncovered swear we all, 
To bear it onwards till we fall, 
Come dungeon dark or gallows grim, 
This song shall be our parting hymn. 
What is wrong with those words? Are they not symbolical of the aspirations of the working classes throughout the civilized world?  Senator Lynch  has objected that this song was included in the programme of a musical evening at the Hotel Kurrajong. But as I recollect the incident, the company was taking part in community singing, when someone came to the door and said jocularly, "Now let us all sing the 'Red Flag'." Everybody did so with, I venture to suggest, a considerable amount of pleasure. I hope that  Senator Lynch  does not take the view that we should ask him what songs may or may not be sung at our gatherings. 
Like the honorable senator, I have Irish blood in my veins. I came to Australia at the age of fifteen years and have had a long association with the Australian Labour movement, having been in it for over 22 years, so I am not a "Johnny-come-lately" as the honorable senator infers. I should be sorry if the workers of Western Australia were responsible for his election to this Parliament, or if the workers of Tasmania sent  Senator Ogden  here. Both honorable senators have broken their pledges to the Labour movement, and I venture to say that if they attempt to rejoin the Labour party they will be reminded of the warning to Peter. 
Reference has been made, also, to the singing of the song "John Brown's Body ". That, too, is historic in its origin. John Brown was an American abolitionist, and leader of the famous attack on Harper's Ferry in 1859. Early in life he conceived hatred for the institution of slavery and became famous for the killing", under his orders, of five pro-slavery settlers. After carrying on a strenuous anti-slavery campaign,  he was eventually seized, imprisoned, convicted of " treason and conspiring with slaves and rebels, and murder in the first degree ", and was hanged at Charleston. Shortly after his death a popular song amongst abolitionists was " John Brown's Body." 
It was. It has now become one of the national songs of the United States of America, and is sung enthusiastically throughout the world as the song commemorating a great social reform. Similar compositions are in use by almost every nation, and there does not seem to be any reason why  Senator Lynch,  who was not a member of the social gathering at the Kurrajong Hotel that evening, should object, because the Red Flag happened to be sung. 
The Labour party has been returned to this Parliament with an overwhelming majority and we are safe in assuming that the present Government will hold office for a long time. It is thirteen years since Labour was in control of the administration of the Commonwealth, and during that period various anti-Labour Governments have been in power. Some years ago we had a Nationalist administration led by William Morris Hughes, the founder of the Nationalist party- 
Yes, and in leaving that party he went the way of many others. During the time the Labour party has been in opposition different administrations have endeavoured to guide the people of Australia through the dark shadows of the political valleys ; but with so little success that the people at last decided to give the Labour party an opportunity to overcome the obstacles which the Nationalist party found it impossible to surmount. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  spoke of loyalty and goodwill towards the Government.  Senator Ogden  also said that he was prepared to assist the Government to a certain extent; but added a proviso to the effect that at the first opportunity he would knife it. I suppose that is the type of loyalty we can expect from the Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Ogden. Senator Sir George  Pearce also referred to economic freedom, but I should like to ask the right honorable gentleman what economic freedom was experienced during the war or more recently by those who had to submit to the iniquitous provisions of the Crimes Act and the Transport Workers Act? The Labour party is a friend of not only the working man but the primary producers. That was instanced by the convening of a conference of primary producers at Bathurst several years agoby  Mr. J.  T. Lang, one of the greatest Premiers New South Wales has ever had. That gentleman was always prepared to go right ahead with his policy and to strenuously fight for that which he believed to be right, without asking for any quarter. During the recent election campaign,  Senator Glasgow  and  Senator McLachlan,  who were Ministers in the Bruce-Page Government, went into the highways and by-ways and told the farmers that they were their friends. But to-day stud rams and ewes are being exported to Russia, South Africa and other countries where valuable flocks are being raised and their wool is entering into strong competition with one of Australia's staple commodities. About 30 years ago, wattle seedlings were exported to South Africa with the result that wattle bark can now be produced in that country at such a ridiculously low rate that it can be exported to Australia and sold at a price much below that at which the local article can be. marketed. Years ago the wattle bark trade was worth millions of pounds to Australia, but our trade in that direction is not only seriously challenged by South African producers, but actually taken out of our hands. The wattle bark industry is now worth £2,000,000 a year to the Union of South Africa. If an embargo is not placed upon the exportation of stud rams and ewes from Australia it will not be long before wool producers in that country will be seriously competing with the woolgrowers in Australia. Previous administrations have allowed stud sheep to leave this country. 
My word it is!  Senator Guthrie,  speaking on the wool industry, stated that: - 
We had 10 per cent, of the world's sheep, which produced 27 per cent, of the world's wool, in value they produced on the average twice as much  as  the average of the sheep in the rest of the world. 
In merino wool, which is what really counts, as it is a pure breed, Australia produced over 50 per cent, of the world's output nf merino. In the year 1928 Australia produced from 100,000,000 sheep, 050,000,000 lb. of wool, valued at £09,000,000. 
At the time at which the honorable senator was speaking £69,000,000 worth of wool was produced from 106,000,000 sheep. It will not be long before South Africa, and a portion of French Morocco, will be serious competitors of Australia in the wool business. I am not a wool expert, but I have been informed that the woollen manufacturers of Bradford have reported that the South African fleeces are brittle, and do not possess the fine long texture of the Australian fleeces.  Senator Glasgow,  who,  I understand, has pastoral interests, has never advocated an embargo upon the exportation of stud sheep.  Senator Guthrie  continued - 
Unfortunately, owing to the enormous increase in the consumption of artificial fibres, such as so-called artificial silk so-called artificial wool, plus the serious increase in the production of fine quality merino wool in South Africa, there has been a tremendous fall in the price of wool. During the last twelve months values have fallen by 35 to 40 per cent., even a fall of 33 per cent. - £23,000,000. 
Thanks to the unrestricted export of our high class stud merino sheep to South Africa, the wool clip of that country has increased from 300,000 bales to 000,000 bales in the last 30 years, and from a miserable mongrel wool of low value per lb. they are now producing wool of equal quality (though not so good a yield when scoured) as wo are in Australia. South Africa boasts they are now so well established in the merino stud sheep industry that they can afford to do without any more Australian merino rams - well, perhaps, but let them try! They have never allowed the export of ostriches, ostrich eggs, or angora goats (mohair) from South Africa, and they put a very high duty upon our products such as wheat, flour, &amp;c. 
It is my opinion that without the almost continuous introduction of stud merino sheep from Australia the South African sheep will deteriorate and produce less wool, though admittedly fine wool (the country does that). 
Why sell our great national industry, our birthright, to South Africa or Russia.  The  ox port of our stud sheep only assists a very few of our big merino breeders, and we are building up serious competition to our greatest industry. 
I am not responsible for the opinions of the graziers.  Senator Guthrie,  who is perhaps the most reliable authority on the wool industry in this country, has definitely stated that if these exports are allowed to .continue our wool industry will be seriously endangered. It has been left to the Scullin Government to take this matter in hand and endeavour to protect Australia's most important industry. 
The Bruce-Page Government, which professed to be a friend to the farmers, disposed of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, which was the only bulwark Australia had against the British shipping ring.  Mr. Bruce  was well and truly defeated in Flinders by a man named Holloway, a Labour representative. This great joss worshipped by the Nationalists had his head in the clouds but his feet were 'of clay ; when he was put to the test at the poll he fell and his party with him. In his capacity as a private citizen is he trying to arrange a come-back? 
Yes, through the back door. He will never come back as Prime Minister. The people of the country were never consulted about the sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers, and if the present Prime Minister orders an investigation into that sale there may be another tale to tell. 
I am sorry that  Senator Sir George  Pearce is not here to-night. It is rumoured that he contemplates a trip to Tasmania. I am told that he has appointed himself chief Nationalist organizer for by-elections. He may do all right in Tasmania, but if any byelection occurs in New South "Wales, I am afraid he will not make very much progress. 
The other day he said a lot about the coal situation. No doubt the majority of honorable senators will candidly admit that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin),  the moment he assumed control, endeavoured to do something to bring the present trouble to an end. He failed because of the limitation of the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. I feel sure that the Leader of the Government will ask the people to extend the Commonwealth power. The sooner it is clone, the better it will be for the progress of Australia. So far as I am concerned, John Brown and Charlie McDonald will not be permitted to rule the destinies of this country. They did not put the coal where it is. It was put there for the use of every man and woman in the land. We know what His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales said after he made his inspection of the coal-mining districts of Great Britain. If he returned to Australia and went through the mining fields where John Brown and Charlie McDonald and other colliery proprietors are starving thousands of men and keeping 12,000 nien out of work, I am sure he would say the same thing. 
It was not rubbish when you were prepared to lead troopers to ride down, the shearers on strike in Queensland. 
The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
I have in my hand a printed Senate notice-paper on which appear certain questions. The first deals with a deed poll relating to the addition of the name of " Digger " to " James Patrick " before my surname. I have ascertained that these questions were taken off the noticepaper, and that they were to be asked with a personal motive. 
The honorable senator. is not in order in discussing a question which has been withdrawn and is not now on the notice-paper. 
Order! 
I thank you,  Mr. President,  for your timely warning, as I do not wish to trangress the Standing Orders. I was paid for my soldiering job, and on returning to Australia resumed my civil vocation at Cockatoo Island Dockyard. My eldest brother, Thomas, was killed at the war. My brother, Joseph, served for five years, and was personally decorated by the King of Belgium. My brother, William, served for five years, while my brother, John Edward, served for three and a half years, enlisting when only 17. He was shot through the right eye, and may be totally blind in four or five years' time. My sister, Katherine, also played her part in the war. Yet, in this National Senate, I was insulted by a man under whom I served abroad. What was the underlying motive of that direct personal attack? 
I thank you,  Mr. President,  for giving me the opportunity to vindicate myself. I have no wish to indulge in personalities, and I seek no mercy from honorable senators opposite in the pursuance of my political duties. If there are to be any more wars outside the coastline of Australia, I for one shall not go. I was going to explain why, but shall refrain from doing so, as I might hurt somebody's feelings. 
Quite a lot has been said in relation to the defence policy of the Labour party. I shall read that plank of our platform as set out by the executive in 1927. It reads - 
Defence. 
Amendment of Defence Act to secure - 
Deletion ofall clauses relating to compulsory training and service. 
Limitation of professional soldiers. 
That is plain enough. Members of the Labour party went to the country pledged to that platform, and they were returned to power. The platform is endorsed not by only five or six men, but by the representatives of Labour, in conference assembled. Therefore, neither I nor my colleagues are prepared to apologise for the abolition of military training. We realize that the compulsory system was regarded as a huge joke, a futility which necessitated the expenditure of vast sums of money. 

 Senator Sir George Pearce sneered at the introduction of the volunteer system. I remind the right honorable gentleman that that system gave to Australia many fine soldiers, including Major-General  Sir William  Glasgow, who did his job well on the other side; General Monash, General Chauvel, Major-Genera]  Sir Charles  Rosenthal, and MajorGeneral  Sir Joseph  Hobbs, who was in charge of the Fifth Australian Division. It also gave us Brigadier-General  Senator H.  E. Elliott.I regret the cheap sneers that have been cast upon the proposed uniform for the volunteer force, the references to kilts, and such like. At one stage I felt inclined to suggest that  Senator Reid  should be clad in kilts in order that he might act as a sample unit of a Queensland kilted regiment; but I did not' wish to be personal. I believe that the Scullin Government has displayed sound common sense in its handling of our defence problem.  Senator Sir George  Pearce allowed himself to become " all hot and bothered " over the proposal. Let me go back to the year 1901, to see what the right honorable gentleman then advocated. Speaking in the Adelaide public park on the 4th August of that year he said :  - 
In this bill we are face to face with one of the greatest dangers that have ever confronted the people of Australia. . . . Born as we are in the atmosphere of liberty and free government, we will not become part of a force which strikes deeply at the root of free government as this bill does. . . . The bill had its origin in the mind of the military commandants, but the string they played upon to dupe a credulous public was our White Australia policy. We have insulted our neighbours, not by the object of our desire, but by the method we have adopted to attain it, and therefore we fear reprisals. 
The extract is available to honorable senators should they care to read it. 
Surely honorable senators opposite recognize the inconsistency of spending millions of pounds on a system of compulsory military training, and at the same time supporting the Kellogg Peace Pact, and the disarmament ambitions of the League of Nations. Are they sincere in their desire that there should not be another war? 
God forbid that there should be another war such as the last. I feel confident that men like  Senator Cooper,  who lost a limb at that war, do not advocate that we should indulge in one. 
With all due respect to my ex-comrade,  Senator Cooper,  I should allow him to go, but I would remain out of it. I shall deal with our Naval Board, on which there are three members, pensioners of the Imperial Navy. 
I should like to see at least one Australian on that board. 
Then I should like to see two Australians on it. 
I hope so. I regret that £7,000,000 was spent overseas to construct the ships of our Australian Navy. I do not blame  Senator Sir William  Glasgow for that expenditure, as he was only one of a cabinet. I suggest that we have the men with the necessary ability to supervise the construction of war ships in Australia when they are needed. I hope that the present Government will embark on a scheme of ship building. 
The following comprehensive list of organizations in Victoria, which are associated with the world disarmament move ment, should convince honorable senators opposite that the peace movement is growing :  - 
Amalgamated Food Preserving Employees' Union of Australia. 
Amalgamated Society of Engineers. 
Australian Baby Carriage and Wickerworkers' Association. 
Australian Boot Trade Employees' Federation. 
Australian Brushmakers' Union. 
Australian Builders' Labourers' Federation. 
Australian Catholic Federation. 
Australian Church. 
Australian Labour Party (Victorian Central Executive). 
Australian Labour Party - Women's Central Organizing Committee. 
Australian Natives' Association (Victoria). 
Australian Railways Union. 
Australian Saddlery, Leather, &amp;c., Allied Workers' Trades' Employees' Federation - Saddlery, Leather and Canvas Section. 
Australian Saddlery, Leather, &amp;c., Allied Workers' Trades' Employees' Federation - Tanning &amp; Leather Dressing Section. 
Australian Student Christian Movement. 
Australian Timber Workers' Union. 
Australian Tramway Employees' Association. 
Australian Tramway Employees' Association (Victorian Branch No. 2). 
Australian Workers' Union. 
Ballarat Ministers' Fraternal. 
Baptist Union of Victoria. 
Bendigo Peace Alliance. 
Billposters' Union of Victoria. 
Blacksmiths' Society of Australia. 
Business and Professional Women's Association. 
Church of England. 
Church of England Men's Society. 
Citizens' Education Fellowship. 
Collins Street Baptist Church. 
Conference of Churches of Christ. 
Congregational Union of Victoria (Public Questions Committee) 
Council of Churches in Victoria. 
Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand. 
Federated Carters' and Drivers' Industrial Union of Australia. 
Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. 
Federated Confectioners' Association of Australia. 
Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Association of Australasia. 
Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia. 
Federated Lift Attendants' Union of Australia. 
Federated Liquor and Allied Trade Employees' Union of Australasia. 
Federated Millers and Mill Employees' Association. 
Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union. 
Federated Storemen and Packers' Union of Australia. 
Federated Tobacco Workers' Union of Australasia. 
Foreign Journalists' Association. 
Free Religious Fellowship. 
Greek Orthodox Church. 
Henry George League. 
Hibernian Australian Catholic Benefit Society. 
Housewives' Association. 
Howard League. 
Incorporated Association of Registered Teachers of Victoria. 
Independent Order of Rechabites. 
Institute of Pacific Relations. 
Labour Guild of Youth. 
League of Nations Union. 
Loyal Orange Institution of Victoria. 
Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows. 
Manufacturing Grocers' Employees' Federation, 
Melbourne Society of the New Church. 
Methodist Church of Australia. 
National Council of Women of Victoria. 
Operative Painters' and Decorators' Union of Australia. 
Peace Society. 
Presbyterian Church of Victoria. 
Printing Industry Employees' Union of Australia. 
Purple Cross Service of Victoria. 
Salvation Army. 
Sheet-Metal Working Industrial Union of Australia. 
Shop Assistants' &amp; Warehouse Employees' Federation of Australia. 
Socialist Party of Victoria. 
Society of Friends. 
Theosophical Order of Service. 
Toc H. 
Toc H League of Women Helpers. 
Trades Hall Council. 
Travellers' Aid Society. 
Unitarian Christian Church. 
Victorian Band of Hope Union. 
Victorian Christian Endeavour Union. 
Victorian Conference of Seventh Day Adventists. 
Victorian Plasterers' Society. 
Victorian Teachers' Union. 
Victorian Trades Union Salaried Officers' Association. 
Victorian Women Citizens' Movement. 
Women's Christian Temperance Union of Victoria. 
Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. 
Wooland Basil Workers' Federation of Australia. 
Workers' Educational Association of Victoria. 
Young Men's Christian Association of Melbourne. 
Young Women's Christian Association. 
At the biggest convention of its kind held in Australia, over which the late  Mr. Justice  Higgins presided, a resolution in favour of international peace was agreed to. The movement is now world-wide. I invite  Senator Glasgow  and  Senator Pearce  to contest an election on the issue of the abolition of compulsory military training by the present Labour Govern ment. My advice to those honorable senators is, that if they desire to retain their comfortable seats in this chamber and their names on the Commonwealth pay roll, the less they have to say about that act of the Scullin Government the better. 
I desire to refer to the suspension of assisted migration.  Senator H.  E. Elliott's bed-time story about Southern Europeans brought me almost to the verge of tears. It affected  Senator Rae  in much the same way, for he asked for a handkerchief.  Senator H.  E. Elliott said nothing about our Australianborn citizens; his whole concern was for the Southern Europeans. As a trade union leader, I congratulate the Government on its action in relation to the suspension of assisted migration. Owing to the maladministration of Nationalist Governments in the States, and of the BrucePage Government, a great deal of unemployment exists in Australia to-day. The ex-Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  was aptly described by the honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Gullett)  before he became Minister for Trade and Customs, as the most tragic Treasurer Australia had ever known, for during his term of office, a considerable surplus was turned into a huge deficit. I say nothing against  Dr. Earle  Page other than as a Treasurer, for I know him to be a good surgeon and physician. For a couple of years I lived in the district he served on the north coast of New SouthWales.  His  name there is a household word - not as a financier, but as a physician and surgeon. It is certainly a tragedy to have as Federal Treasurer a man who says that two and two make five. The empty Treasury coffers bequeathed by the ex-Treasurer to his successor reminds me of the nursery rhyme - 
Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard 
To get her poor dog a bone; 
But when she got there, the cupboard was bare. 
Arid so the poor dog got none. 
Fortunately for Australia, we now have a Treasurer who knows that two and two make four. 
I am. proud to support a Government which has the courage to say to the people of Australia, and, indeed to the world, that it places Australia  first.  Senator Payne  spoke of the "clear Old Country." I realize that Australia has a lot to thank the Mother Country for; but the time has come when we should put Australia first and build up our own industries. The new tariff schedule will enable thousands of workers now unemployed to obtain work in Australian factories. Our newspapers recently contained the information that Birmingham was greatly upset by 'the introduction of a new tariff by the Commonwealth Government. The Labour party offers no apology to Birmingham, or to any people anywhere, for its fiscal policy. I look forward to the day when we shall not only have a higher tariff but when we shall build our own ships. We should adopt the principle of the people of the United States and say that all Australian ships should be built in Australia. 
The  Labour Daily,  the official organ of the Labour movement, has summarized Labour's ideals in these words - 
An effective tariff wall - Australian matches are just as good as any imported . . . 
Establish and foster secondary industries - whoever has seen a small-priced Australian clock or watch? 
Open up industrial research laboratories - oil from coal  analine  dies, artificial silk. 
Decentralization - build dams, conserve water and give the workers on these big jobs the right to take up and develop land, which will be improved by these schemes. - 
Home marketing - teach the young idea to think now that we have abolished shooting. 
Good paths - we are getting good roads, out people are killed from being forced to walk on them by neglect of our paths. 
Stabilization of interest rates - building and manufactories are sorely hit by the high fluctuating rates now charged. 
Abolition of legal parasites - these bugs crush the life out of the little man in industry by their "procuration" and other fictitiously captioned greedy imports. 
Secondary industries bank - some institution which will not require a game man to pledge his soul if he is starting a new factory. 
Inventions - encouragement and protection of local inventors so that they will not be forced to soil their brains abroad. 
And so on. The Scullin Government was returned with an enormous majority in another place only a few weeks ago, and I venture to say that when it faces the electors again to give an account of its administration it will be returned puce more with an enormous majority, not only in another place, hut in this chamber also. I  am  afraid that my friend,  Senator Reid,  as  well  as  Senator Cox, Senator Thompson  and  Senator E.  B. Johnston, will be among the missing. As for  Senator McLachlan,  he  will  have such  a  crash .in South Australia that he  will  be convinced that his opponents have put the political hammer lock  on  him. The Scullin Government has given ample evidence of its determination to " deliver  the  goods." It has proved itself to be a virile administration, and I  am  satisfied  that,  as the result of its efforts,  Ave  shall hear no more about the so-called " red " influence. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Plain).  - Order! The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
On behalf of the Government I offer congratulations to the Right  Hon. Sir George  Pearce upon his elevation to the position of Leader of the Opposition, and to  Sir William  Glasgow upon his election as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I sincerely trust that the happy relations  which  existed between those  twi  during the term  when  I  Avas  leading the Opposition will be long continued. Even  at  the risk of offending  Senator Ogden  I express the wish that  he will long remain in  his present position on the Opposition benches. 
There are many aspects  of  the debate to which I should like to refer, but we have a fairly long business-paper and time is valuable. We are expecting a number of measures from another place shortly, and  if  Parliament is to rise on the date contemplated, we must push on with the business. I believe we can  finish within  the time fixed  if Ave  cease talking about these bogeys of bolshevism, and  the  unseen influences that are alleged to be disrupting the Labour movement. I am inclined to think that  if  a Labour Ministry had been  in  office when the seat of Government  Avas  transferred to Canberra,  Senator Lynch  would have blamed  it  for the colour of the carpet  in  this chamber, and  Senator Ogden  would have concurred, because both honorable senators affect to believe that anything  Avith  a. tinge of red  in it  is evidence of our association  Avith  some hidden force  in 
Russia. I can assure both honorable gentlemen, however, that the Government, which I have the honour to lead in this chamber, owes no allegiance to any outside political body. They need have no fear that we intend to link up with outside forces and bring about a revolution in Australia, because as I pointed out by way of interjection earlier in the debate, even if some people believed there was the need for a revolutionary change, the necessity for it disappeared when the democracy of Australia returned Labour to power a few weeks ago. 
There seems to be a complete misunderstanding on the part of honorable senators opposite, as to what is the Government's policy concerning some of the matters mentioned in the Speech of his  Excellency  the Governor-General.  Senator Pearce  mentioned what he termed a series of destructive administrative acts, and quoted particularly the proposal of the Government to suspend compulsory military training. I do not propose to traverse the arguments employed by honorable senators on this subject. All I wish to do is to remind them that the Labour party's platform has been before the people for many years, and even if the former Prime Minister did force an election upon one issue, Labour candidates declared that if returned to power, Labour would not only maintain the federal system of arbitration, but would give legislative effect to every plank in its platform. 
We gave a pledge that we should give effect to our policy to the fullest extent possible. We realize that we are up against a stiff proposition. One of our promises was that we would remove from the fair name of Australia the stigma of conscription of her youth. 
Of course it is a stigma. Only one dominion in the Empire now conscripts its youth for military service. Even the Mother Country has not conscription. How can we, as a people, talk about disarmament if we continue to conscript our manhood for military service? 
Under that system we were conscripting the youth and denying to them the opportunity to participate in games in their leisure time, but we did not take that stand with regard to men who had the vote. 
That is designed to fit a lad for his life's work. 
At the same time it inculcates in a youth a spirit of militarism before he reaches the age at which he is competent to decide for himself. The Government has pledged itself to reduce the military vote by £150,000. We believe this can be done without impairing the efficiency of our defence system. Although certain honorable senators opposite have earned renown in military service not one of them, during this debate, succeeded in proving that our estimate  was  an over-statement of the case, and not one was able to demonstrate that the voluntary system, which we propose to establish will not be at least as adequate for the defence of Australia as was our compulsory system. 
It has been alleged that the abolition of compulsory training will leave Australia defenceless. That I deny. Honorable senators on this side are just as sincere as are honorable senators opposite in their desire to see this country adequately safeguarded. 
I listened to the honorable senator for about an hour and a half, and he failed to produce one tittle of evidence that would satisfy any reasonable person that he had established his case. He said in effect, that in suspending compulsory military training, the Government was playing up to the reds, but he did not tell the Senate what was our expenditure under the compulsory system, and what would be saved under the voluntary system.  Senator Glasgow  said that possibly the Labour party's proposal would meet with some success, but he doubted it. 
The honorable senator quoted the figures when the rate of pay was 8s., as against 4s. per day. At a rate of 8s. per day it would be more expensive than under the compulsory system. Does the honorable senator think that we have not learned anything during recent years in the matter of military organization ? 
That may be of benefit to the taxpayers, considering that although we had so many generals on the Ministerial side for several years, during that time, £64,000,000 was spent on defence, and all we have to show for such expenditure is the somewhat insignificant fleet, which spents most of its time in Sydney. It may be of advantage to the taxpayers to have a government consisting of men somewhat inexperienced in military organization, and who take the views of expert military men who are not influenced by party politics. 
At present the Minister for Defence  (Mr. A. Green)  is conferring with the principal military officers. The Government did not confer with the department concerning the abolition of compulsory military training, as we definitely told the people prior to the general elections that, if we were returned to power, compulsory military training would be abolished. 
We are doing that now. 
We suspended compulsory military training, and perhaps we were safe in assuming that Australia would not be invaded during the short period in which the new organization would be built up. I do not think it will be long before the voluntary system will be at least as efficient as that which has now been abolished. It will then be our proud boast that, in this respect, we stand side by side with every other dominion in the British Empire, with the exception of New Zealand. 
My belief is that the success of the Australian soldiers during the Great War was due to the fact that they were not conscripts, and when  Senator Ogden  knows a little more concerning Australia's manhood, he will realize that we can do more with a man by guiding him than driving him. 
The honorable senator and those with whom he is associated have never attempted to get down to the fundamental causes of industrial unrest. At the first sign of an industrial disturbance the Nationalist Government proceeded to accentuate the trouble. The Transport Workers Act, which is regarded by honorable senators opposite as a most beneficent piece of legislation and the means of restoring peace on the waterfront, had a most disastrous effect not only upon a number of deserving workers but upon a section of the commercial community. 
It is very easy for the honorable senator sitting in comfortable surroundings to speak in that strain, but he has never taken the trouble to ascertain the effect of the late Government's action in that respect. The Transport Workers Act was responsible for driving, men, women and children to the verge of starvation, and seriously interfering with the activities of business-men. 
If the . honorable senator would visit Port Adelaide he would see in one street six or seven shops which were closed in one week as the result of the introduction of the licensing system. 
The honorable senator's contention is not supported by the information in my possession. One of my first acts after my appointment as a Minister was to conduct an investigation into the licensing system. I interviewed the licensing officer in Melbourne who was asked if he would grant a licence to a man in the last stages of consumption, or one who had just served a term in Pentridge, and he replied "It is quite possible." I was further informed that 8,935 licences had been issued, although at a peak period work could not possibly be found for more than 4,227 men. The same condition of affairs exists proportionately at Port Adelaide. Notwithstanding this we are informed by honorable senators opposite that the Transport Workers Act has been the means of promoting industrial peace. 
I am as conversant with the conditions on the Australian wharves as is  Senator Glasgow  and I know that it is not the Australian stevedores who are keeping the waterside workers from their employment, but the British shipping interests, which had the support of the late Government. 1 ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
As mentioned in my opening remarks on the Address-in-Reply, we shall soon be receiving a good deal of business from another place and it will be necessary to expedite the work of the Senate. I understand that several honorable senators opposite still wish to speak on the Address-in-Reply and also on the Estimates and Budget papers. In these circumstances I ask honorable senators to come prepared to sit for an hour or so later to-morrow in an endeavour to dispose of the Address-in-Reply and the budget and thus enable us to deal on Friday with the two measures, the first reading of which I have just moved. If that cannot be done I shall have to ask the Senate to sit on Tuesday of next week. There are also other measures coming from another place and in order that I may be able to regulate the business of the Senate and to meet the convenience of honorable senators who desire some freedom during the week-end I ask them to assist in disposing of the Address-in-Reply and the budget by to-morrow night. If that be done an adjournment can be made from Friday until Wednesday; if not I shall have to ask the Senate to meet on Tuesday next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to ask the Vice-President of the Executive Council a very simple question - whether the Government favours the principle of compulsory unionism? 
The honorable senator has been long enough in Parliament to know that matters of Government policy are not ordinarily stated in reply to questions. 
Is the Vice-President of the Executive Council in a position to make a statement as to the progress that has been made towards obtaining industrial peace in the coal industry? 
I know nothing beyond what I have read in the press. 
I should like to know if the Government has yet decided to prosecute John Brown ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has he seen a statement in the press to the effect that the Customs clearances on 21st instant were greater than on any one day previously in  Ausralia? 
Is the Minister of opinion that leakages of information may have occurred which resulted in these heavy clearances prior to the tabling of the new tariff schedule? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has he received a communication from the Hobart Chamber of Commerce relative to complete motor cars having arrived in Melbourne from abroad, prior to new tariff schedule coming into operation, on a through bill of lading to Tasmania, and awaiting transshipment to that State when the new tariff schedule was tabled? 
If so, has the Minister given consideration, and with what result, to the request of the Chamber of Commerce that these cars, having arrived in Australia before the new tariff schedule came into operation, be permitted to be cleared at the Customs under the tariff rates ruling at the time of their arrival in Melbourne? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has answered the honorable senator's questions as follows: - 
Yes. 
The law requires that duty shall be paid at the rate in force at the time goods are entered for home consumption. 
asked the  Minister  representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that more naval units have been trained at Geelong than at any other depot ? 
Is it' the intention of the Government to close the Naval Training Depot at Geelong? 
If all the naval officers connected with the Depot at Geelong are willing to act as volunteers and assist in enlisting volunteers, will the Government keep the Depot open; if not, why not? 
The information is being obtained and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether his intention has been  drawn  to the statement recently made by the Minister for Justice for the Union of South Africa, to the effect that " a wide-spread plot was instigated on the 10th December, by the Third International of Moscow, which was calculated to strike a serious blow at the industrial lifeof the Union »" 
If so, does he consider that the pledges' given by the Soviet Government to the British Labour Government to abstain from propaganda in the Dominions are sufficient guarantee that similar methods will not be adopted in Australia if diplomatic relations between the Russian and Commonwealth Governments are resumed, as indicated by the Prime Minister ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
I have seen such a statement in the press. 
The Commonwealth Government will take every precaution to see that the terms of the mutual pledge are complied with. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Whether he is in a position to inform the Senate when effect will be given to the promise to provide a bounty for the production of newsprint? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has informed me that this matter is at present, under considera tion. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the Government yet taken any definite steps towards securing a contract for a new mail service to Tasmania? 
If not, will the Minister inform the Senate when such action is contemplated, and whether it will be in the form of Federal ships or of a subsidized service? 
ls it the intention of the Government to provide or assist a continuous passenger service between Hobart and the mainland? 
This matter is at present receiving attention, and an announcement of the Government's intentions will he made as soon as practicable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What were the numbers of  (a)  officers, (6) non-commissioned officers, on the strength nf the Citizen Military Forces on the 1st July, 1923, and 1st July, 1029, respectively? 
What were the numbers of (a) officers, (6) non-commissioned officers, on the 1st July, 1910, in the Commonwealth Citizen Forces on the active list? 
The information is being obtained, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Transport,  upon notice - 
Is ho aware of the press reports stating that 30,000 of our breeding stud merino sheep  have  been purchased during the past few weeks for shipment to South Africa and  Russia? 
If such reports are correct, will the Government state what action (if any) it intends to take in the interests of the majority of the woolgrowers of Australia, to prevent such a lowering of the standard of our Hocks and the consequent injury to the staple industry of Australia? 
A proclamation has already been issued prohibiting the exportation of stud sheep, unless the  consent  in writing of the Minister for Trade and Customs has first been obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the' Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the additional burdens imposed on the people of Western Australia by the new tariff, will the Government introduce legislation to increase the present disabilities grant to Western Australia to at least the sum of £450,000 per year, which was paid for the financial year 1925-20, and which was recommended as a permanent grant by a majority of the Royal Commission which inquired into the disabilities of Western Australia under federation ? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
The Government will give due consideration to any claim made by Western Australia or any other State for special financial assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Were the 221 increases in the Customs Tariff Schedule which were imposed by the Government last week recommended by the Tariff Board? 
If not, will the Minister state which of the increases were recommended' by the Tariff Board, and which were not so recommended? 
Will the Minister lay the recommendations and reports of the Tariff Board on these increased duties upon the Table of the Senate? 
Full information on all these points will be afforded honorable senators when the schedule is being discussed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Were farm tractors officially described in the old Customs tariff as traction engines? 
J.f so, is it correct that they will in future he subject  to 40  per cent. British preferential tariff, 50 per cent, intermediate, and 55 per cent, general tariff? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes. 
Jio, Provision lias been made for admission under departmental by-laws of farm tractors free British preferential tariff, 5 per cent, intermediate tariff, 10 per cent, general tariff. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice -  . 
Is it true that the Government is dismissing postal employees; if so, why is that action being taken? 
The Postmaster-General has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Everything possible has been done to avoid dismissals. There are, however, certain cases in which temporary men had been employed in positions for which permanent staff was subsequently appointed, and it was obviously impracticable to retain these men on the duties they have hitherto performed. In certain instances it lias been possible to find alternative duties, but where this could not be done the department has been reluctantly compelled to let a few men go. Arrangements have been made to retain for some months ahead practically all the temporary men engaged on engineering construction work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will he lay on the Table of the Senate at an early date the report of the Development and Migration Commission on the proposal for a bounty on exported evaporated apples, on which report the recommendation of the Board of Trade was based? 
The report referred to by the honorable senator was recently received, and I shall be pleased to make a copy available to him and other honorable senators if desired. 
Will he request the Public Accounts Committee to inquire, while in Tasmania, into the question of granting a bonus on evaporated apples for export overseas? 
The Prime Minister has informed me that consideration will be given to the suggestion of the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government yet received a report from the Tariff Board on the price of superphosphates, and if so, when will such report be made available to senators? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs informs me that the report has not been received. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Before dealing with the amendments now sought in the Migration Agreement with the British Government, will the Government consult the Western Australian Government, which is a signatory to the agreement, and guarantee to it that the amendments sought will not prejudice the progress of the 3,000 farms scheme in that State? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
When a basis for negotiation has been reached between the British and Commonwealth Governments, the States will be fully consulted in regard to any amendments of the Migration Agreement. 
The second charge levelled against, the Government relates to the  problems of migration. It is obvious to me that certain honorable senators are not fully acquainted with the provisions of what is termed the £34,000,000 agreement. This Government is not opposed to migration. As soon as it is possible to absorb them the Government will welcome and assist an influx of the descendants of British stock, but it is not prepared to advise and encourage people to come here under promises of advantages which we know we cannot fulfil when they arrive. 
In order properly to understand the migration agreement, it is necessary to study the events which immediately preceded its execution by the British and Commonwealth Governments. There was then in operation between the British Government and three Australian States, Victoria, New South Wales and Western Australia, an agreement which cast upon Great Britain a liability to secure advances to the three States concerned -of amounts up to £14,000,000. From that sura certain moneys were to be advanced for what is known as the group settlement scheme in Western Australia, and for the opening up of sections of the Mallee country and the wet districts of Victoria. The exPrime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  in association with ex-Senator  Sir Victor  Wilson, visited Great Britain, and there discussed with the British Government Australia's relationship to the Mother Country. A migration compact was considered and eventually signed. It must be remembered that at that time Australia was enjoying an era of prosperity, and that its normal migration figures were somewhere in the vicinity of 30,000 per annum. The agreement was entered into with the best of intentions, the parties concerned believing that they were justified in speeding up migration to Australia. They reasoned out that, with the expenditure of additional capital, migration to this country could be increased from 30,000 to 40,000 per annum. The old agreement was modified and merged into the new one, which involved Great Britain in an additional obligation of £20,000,000, and became known as the £34,000,000 agreement. 
Profiting by its experience under the £14,000,000 agreement, Great Britain naturally insisted upon the insertion of certain clauses,, and it is to those clauses that I particularly desire to draw the attention of honorable senators. Under what I shall now speak of as the new agreement, the Commonwealth Government was to find the money in the same way as it would for ordinary loan purposes, and from the amounts so raised it was to finance the developmental requirements of the States. For a specified period Great Britain was to bear two-fifths, the Commonwealth Government two-fifths, and the State Government one-fifth of the interest. Advances were to be made either for farm development or for the construction of public works. . As the scheme developed, practically the whole expenditure under the new agreement was in respect of public works. The money advanced involved an absorption provision of one migrant for every £75 advanced to the States. 
Australia was to absorb the quota of migrants specified by the year 1935. 
Approximately 40,000. The absorption provision meant that for every £75 advanced for public works, the State concerned had, in addition to its natural increase, to add one migrant to its population. For this Great Britain was pledged to pay not the £75, but the equivalent of ten years' interest, based on a two-fifths proportion of the interest paid by the Commonwealth in the raising of the £75 loan. 
The desire of the Mother Country was to settle her people satisfactorily in Australia, while our idea was primarily to develop Australia's natural resources. Here, I believe, the first mistake was made. Development was to run concurrently with migration. Let us assume that a reservoir would cost £1,500,000, and would take five years to complete. It will be appreciated that such a work could not, concurrent with payment, absorb migrants at the rate of one for every £75 expended, so that during the five years constructional period some other industry would have to absorb the migrants and so carry them  over the interim. I am not condemning the Government for making such an error. lt is an error into which the parties concerned might easily fall at the time the agreement was signed. The Commonwealth Government was in duty bound to Great Britain to see, first that the money was wisely expended, and secondly that the absorption responsibilities were complied with. However, when this Government assumed office it discovered that some States had not absorbed their quota of migrants, and that they had drawn from the Commonwealth Treasury more money than they were entitled to claim. When the present Government assumed  office  South Australia had absorbed 2,281 migrants less than her quota; and at that time the Tod River reservoir had not been completed. "We had to study the absorptive capacity of the States. The Prime Minister having handed this matter over to me for attention, I had a conference with the members of the Development and Migration Commission. I asked them if they could supply any formula to guide the Government as to the absorptive capacity of the States. I realized that, although £1,500,000 might be spent on the construction of a dam, the determining factor was not necessarily the absorptive capacity of the surrounding country, but that of the State as a whole. The advice of an eminent authority - Professor Giblin - was sought, and he supplied a formula which, although necessarily only an approximation, was regarded as safe. He said that, in his opinion, if we spent on public works a sum which would result in an exportable surplus of £700, the absorptive capacity of that undertaking would be 21 persons. 
Yes. I then proceeded to examine some of the schemes which had been submitted. I wish to make it clear that I am not complaining that the Development and Migration Commission expended money unwisely from a developmental stand-point; but I do say that it spent money without due regard to the absorptive responsibilities of the Commonwealth. In considering one of the best schemes submitted - one involving the expenditure of £148,000 on road construction and other works in Gippsland with the object of opening up 48 new farms - I found that the expenditure worked out at slightly over £3,000 per farm. Under the agreement which provides that one migrant shall be absorbed for every £75 advanced, an expenditure of £3,000 requires the absorption of 40 migrants. That left us 37 migrants short per farm in that one instance alone. Applying Professor. Giblin's formula, it will be seen that it would be necessary for each of those farms to produce exportable wealth to the extent of approximately £1,300 per annum to meet our absorptive responsibilities. The instance I have given is not an isolated one. In connexion with the Wyangala dam scheme, £1,521,000 was to be expended over a period of years, for the purpose of opening up 800 farms. An examination of those figures will reveal to honorable senators where we were drifting. When the day of reckoning came, Australia would have stood in a very bad light in the eyes of the British people - it would have been regarded as a country which could not be depended upon to keep its promise. 
Had the scheme been one providing for farm settlement, that would have been all right ; but this money was advanced under a public works scheme. A farm settlement scheme would have necessitated clearing the land and making it available to settlers. When the present Government assumed office, the Commonwealth was under an oblige^ tion, under the £34,000,000 agreement, to raise loans and to pay our proportion of interest in respect of State schemes already approved, but incomplete, to the extent of £2,186,802; and in respect of State schemes in course of investigation, in connexion with which there was a moral or implied commitment, to the extent of approximately £3,000,000. Those schemes included some in respect of which honorable senators opposite might suggest that we should not have interfered with the agreement, because of certain action already taken by the States. The schemes referred to represent an expenditure of approximately £5,000,000 of the £20,000,000 we were to obtain from Britain. 
Seeing that before 1935 Australia had to absorb 50,473 migrants in respect to the schemes already referred to, what could the Government do in view of its knowledge of Australia's absorption capacity? As a partner with Britain in the matter of providing cheap money for the States, the Government, when it realized the true position, was in. duty bound to take its partner into its confidence, and point out the true economic position. It is a matter for regret that this stop was not taken earlier, before the taxpayers of this country were saddled, as they undoubtedly are saddled to-day, with the added responsibility. Having discovered those facts, I again conferred with the members of the Development and Migration Commission. I asked the members of it, as man to man, within what period, if any, they thought the Government could inform Britain that Australia could absorb the migrants to be absorbed under the agreement. I was told that that depended on seasonal, and a number of other considerations. 
I cannot now give the exact date; but conferences took place before and after the Government despatched the cable message to Britain. I have been investigating this matter ever since the new Ministry was formed. The members of the Development and Migration Commission were in the light of their experience unanimously of the opinion that Australia could not, absorb one migrant for every £75 spent on public works. Realizing these facts the only honorable course open to the Government was to ask the British Government not to accentuate our present difficulties or the position that had arisen under the £14,000,000 agreement. Under that arrangement 700 settlers were to be placed on the land in Victoria, but to-day only 200 arc on farms. We therefore, in these circumstances, asked the British Government to suspend the migration provisions until the Prime Minister could confer with the British authorities and lay down a new basis whereby the settlement of Australia by white people might be definitely assured. Such schemes as have been going on here are calculated to bring discredit upon Australia in the eyes of the people of Great Britain. The Government felt, therefore, that the only honest course to follow was to place the facts fairly before the British Government, and we did so through its representative in this country. Following a conference which the Prime Minister had with that official and the Development and Migration Commission, he despatched the cable to the British Government. 
Of course it can. 1 admit that there are vast open spaces crying out for settlement, but we had to pay regard to our obligations under the agreement. The Commonwealth had pledged its word to do certain things, and we had to face the facts. 
The agreement between the Commonwealth and the British Government did not directly concern the States, but it provided that the Commonwealth should enter into an agreement with the States and advance the necessary money. The British and Commonwealth Governments were the two partners; the Commonwealth was to borrow the money and our partner was to assist us to meet the interest bill. We were to lend the money at a low rate of interest to the States; but we found that, as a partner, wc could not satisfactorily carry out our agreement, because some of the States were not standing up to their obligations. 
Yes, but it was not anticipated that such a state of. affairs as had been disclosed would arise. The 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition (Senaror Glasgow) may be surprised to know that, at this moment, the Commonwealth Government is committed to advance to the Government of Victoria £1,228,725 without that State taking one solitary migrant. It is similarly committed to the Queensland Government to the extent of £221,625, and to the State of Tasmania to the amount of £53,625. These are our commitments and the taxpayers of those particular States are even now paying their proportion of the two-fifths of the interest charges for the development of Australia upon lines which are absolutely contrary to the provisions of the migration agreement. 
No, but it now has before the Development and Migration Commission a scheme for ring-barking, involving an expenditure of £600,000. What we have to consider, however, is our agreement with Britain. 
The States have an agreement with us, but if they broke it that would be no concern of the British Government, which would look to the Commonwealth to fulfill its part of the agreement. It is of no use for honorable senators to adopt an ostrich-like attitude. They should realize that at the end of ten years every penny advanced under this scheme will come back to the Commonwealth. We have lent the money to the States. The States become our debtors and Britain walks out. 
Yes. But if the position were allowed to drift as it has drifted for some considerable time, the Commonwealth Government would probably be called upon to write off an amount perhaps as large as has been written off in connexion with soldier settlement. 
No; but they might ask for relief or appeal for a grant in. aid. 
Not at all. Either the honorable senator has not been listening or I have not explained the position to his satisfaction. We are not worrying so much about the 3,000 people who have arrived in Australia during the last nine months, as we are in regard to our responsibility under the absorption provisions of the agreement with the British Government, and we have also in mind the fact that already there is in Australia an army of unemployed totalling 180,000. Even if only 3,000 people came to Australia in nine months, we could not at present expect to find employment for them unless we put public works in hand. There is no intention on the part of the Government to prevent the admission of migrants if they can afford to wait for work, but what we do say is that we should provide work for our own people before we encourage others to come to Australia and flood the labour market here.I do not think that even  Senator Glasgow  will dispute the wisdom of that course. 
Yes ; and the Government's proposal contains a saving provision that dependants of migrants will be assisted. What we are suggesting to the British Government is that our obligation to assist migrants to come here in search of work while we have more unemployed than we can deal with, should be suspended. 
No; but I should imagine that either they have displaced Australians or are out of work. 
I doubt that many farmers to-day are seeking labour. On the contrary, many of them are looking for rain or asking for drought relief. My impression is that, at the moment, there is not much chance of migrants finding work on Australian farms ; but the Government, if it is allowed to remain in office will do something to remedy this state of affairs. Instead of experimenting with the settlement of migrants on areas with a doubtful rainfall, it will endeavour to settle them in States with potentialities like "Western Australia; it will put them on areas with an assured rainfall. It will endeavour to bring about, what the British Economic Mission declared to be the only thing to save Australia and that is intensified production. 
This brings me to the complaint that was made that the Government proposes to interfere with the functions of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the Development and  Migration  Commission. Confusion has arisen in consequence of a statement which appeared in the Governor-General's Speech to the effect that the Government proposes to co-ordinate the departments. If honorable senators dispassionately consider the objects for which these two bodies were created, they will agree with me that the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research were both established in order to assist in the development of the Commonwealth. Scientists were employed not to study scientific problems which were of little or no interest to Australia, but to devote their attention to those subjects which were of vital importance to Australia's development. The Development and Migration Commission was established to discover means whereby Australia's great resources could be further developed. It was realized that in the course of its investigations it would be confronted with problems which the members of that commission or its officers could not solve, and that they would have to receive the assistance of scientific men. For instance, vast areas in Queensland and New South "Wales had been rendered valueless in. consequence of the spread of the prickly pear, which it was useless to at tempt to eradicate by manual labour. The scientific brain was applied to this particular problem, and after a time, a means, was discovered whereby large areas, which because of this pest, were waste land, could be rendered productive. It is appalling to note that production in Australia has been retarded to the extent of £20,000,000 owing to the prevalence of weed pests. Scientists have also been engaged in ascertaining the reason why Australian sheep have not been producing a maximum quantity of wool, and why Australian meat, on reaching the London market, is not equal to the Argentine product. The scientists of the council are assisting Australian development. "When the present Government suggested the co-ordination of these two bodies it was not its intention to amalgamate their activities;  buonly  to bring the work of both bodies under the one administration. I think if honorable senators will study the budgets of the last few years, they' will realize that there is need for the most rigid economy. "While a measure relating to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research was under consideration in this chamber some time ago,  Senator Duncan  uttered a word of warning when he was informed by the then Leader of the Government, that the measure provided for the appointment of only one officer. The honorable senator then said that he had heard of one man departments being created; he could recall similar instances where only one man was to be appointed, but it was not long before that officer discovered that he needed a secretary, the secretary a typist, the typist an office boy, and by and by the office boy found that he wanted to be a junior clerk. In this way departments grow and overhead expenses rapidly increase. 
I do. I assert that the progress of Australia depends upon its requirements being studied from a scientific and sane standpoint. We ought to eliminate waste in every form, and I trust that the Opposition will give the Government the assistance that it deserves in that regard. 
As I do not think there is one subject upon which  Senator Ogden  and I are likely to agree I suggest we had better agree to disagree. 
If the honorable senator will study the figures which I am about to quote he will see that there is some necessity for co-ordination. In connexion with the Development and Migration Commission, I may state that the administrative expenses, including the Commissioners' salaries, for 1926-27, were £109,745, while the amount it advanced to the States was £2,266,518. . When honorable senators remember that the principal work of the commission is to receive from the. Commonwealth-Treasury money to be advanced to the States for developmental work they will admit that the administrative expenses in that year were unnecessarily heavy. 
Is the honorable senator referring to passage money? 
For instance, there is in London an officer who holds several posts, and is costing in all £5,000 a year. 
 Mr. MacDougall. 
Let us take the figures for the following year, and consider what was done in this happy-go-lucky style. In 1297-28 £2,507,096 was spent in connexion with development schemes, whilst the administrative costs, including commissioners' salaries, were £124,000. In 1928-29 the expenditure for developmental purposes was £1,352,573, and the cost of administration £117,500. According to the estimates compiled by the late Government for 1929-30, £2,000,000, was to be expended, and the administrative costs were estimated at £112,000. 
Yes. Including passage money, estimated to be spent, it represents 12.28 per cent, of the £2,000,000.; 1.4 per cent, is borne by the States, and the 12.28 per cent, by the Commonwealth, so that the Commonwealth has the most to lose. With these figures before the Government it was its duty to see if it was not practicable to remove some of this unnecessary burden from the shoulders of the taxpayers. 
In connexion with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, I find that the administrative expenses in one year were £9,128, the members of the council receiving £2,762, and other administrative officers £6,366. For the year 1927-28 £2,500 was provided for the members of the council - the scientists - and the other administrative costs represented an amount of £S,865. 
Yes. I could quote further figures to show that the administrative costs of the two departments under consideration are altogether out of proportion to the other expenditure. Administrative costs are approximately 13 per cent, and that is altogether too heavy. This is too heavy an expenditure but the explanation is easy. Honorable senators will realize the need for co-ordination when they learn that in one commission the commissioner has, in addition to the ordinary administrative staff, a secretary at £500 a year and a typist at £520. This has been going on for years. The administrative department of our Council for Scientific and Industrial Research comprises the chief executive officer, a very efficient and capable gentleman, one of the best we could possibly get for the job, a secretary, an assistant secretary, a chief clerk, an accountant and an assistant, all high salaried men. In addition, there are typists, messengers, office boys and caretakers. Finding this to be the state of affairs, my conscience compelled me to tell the Prime Minister that if we were to carry out the pledges we made to the electors we should have to make some endeavour to cut down overhead charges by co-ordinating some of the departments. There may be no need for co-ordination of the activities of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, but it seems to mc that the secretary to one could also act as secretary to the other, and that one accountant and one chief clerk could answer for both. In that way we could save certain salaries. The individual savings might not be very large, but when a number of economies are effected the total savings amount to something which may go towards decreasing the  enermous  expenditure which is required at the present time to cany on the activities of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. I trust, therefore, honorable senators will realize that when the Government took the step it did in respect to migration, it acted in the best interests of the people of Australia and Great Britain, and that its purpose in co-ordinating the administration of these two departments is not to stultify them but to make them, if possible, more efficient at the minimum cost to the taxpayers. 
That is a matter which is now being inquired into by a more competent authority than I am. It is impossible for me to say just now what we can save, but I think I have said enough to convince honorable senators of the need for investigation in the matter of co-ordination. In the GovernorGeneral's Speech, the Government announces that its purpose is to co-ordinate the departments wherever possible in order to save expenditure. All that is necessary, E submit, to satisfy honorable senators at this stage, is to quote sufficient data to convince them that the Government is justified in the action it is taking. 
I thank  Senator R.  D. Elliott for the very graceful compliment he paid to the ministerial party in the Senate and for the very generous manner in which he defined his attitude towards the Government. I hope he will be emulated by other honorable senators. As a matter of fact, with one exception, honorable senators of the Opposition who have already spoken are evidently prepared to give the Minis ters a "go," and I believe that so long as we follow the lines I have just outlined, and so long as we can put up as strong a defence against our. critics as I have put up this morning, the wishes of  Senator Dunn  for a double dissolution will not be satisfied. 
I have said that there is one exception among those honorable senators who have spoken, and from that one exception we have had very serious charges against the party I have the honour to lead in the Senate. At a time like this it is essential to have co-operation, one party with the other, in order to minimize distress in Australia., and, if possible, grant adequate relief. It is necessary to apply the combined brains of the ministerial and opposition parties in the matter of development. 
Of course, and perhaps more urgent to-day, but the point T wish to make is that, when there is every need for that co-operation, it is certainly not in the best interests of the country for an honorable senator to make serious charges, which he knows he cannot substantiate. I am referring to  Senator Ogden,  who said that the Labour party had sold itself to the picture interests. When I asked for proof of his assertion he said, " You are against the taxation of gross profits, and yet you collect gross taxation from the hotelkeeper." I think it is obvious to every honorable senator that the analogy that  Senator Ogden  drew was quite incorrect. It is true that the Labour party is opposed to any form of taxation on gross profits, but it does not tax the gross profits of the hotelkeeper. It taxes his whisky and beer. 
The hotelkeepers beer and whisky are taxed before they go into the bar, where they are sold at a price which covers what is paid to the manufacturer, plus customs or excise duty. Neither does the Labour party tax the gross profits of the distiller. Has not the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  heard of a distiller who may have in bond 2,000,000 gallons of proof spirit and has not sold the whole of it? We do not tax the gross profits. 
Of course; but only up to a point. We do not tax his gross profits. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows as well as I do, that if an excise duty of ls. a gallon is placed on proof spirit the distiller calmly passes it on to the consumer. 
On many occasions over the' wireless, I heard the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  say that he brought in his tax on entertainments in o*rder to prevent picture theatre proprietors from passing it on. Whom am I to believe? The Leader of the late Government, or the  Deputy  Leader in the Senate to-day?  Mr. Bruce  said definitely that he would not put a penny piece upon the picture tickets, although the picture show proprietors showed him that he could get £700,000 increased revenue in that way. He declared that he would place the tax on the gross profits and compel the American interests, and not the Australians who attend the theatres, to pay the increased taxation. 
We were told by  Mr. Bruce  that this most ingenious method was hatched by himself to prevent the exploiter from exploiting the unfortunate public. 

 Senator Ogden said that we were seeking to decrease the price of beer, and suggested that the Labour party had always been in the pay of the liquor trade. The Labour party is no more in the pay of the liquor trade than is a man who is in favour of prohibition or the Women's Christian Temperance Union. A certain party may think it is in its interests to spend money in securing the return to Parliament of  Senator Ogden,  because it knows that he is in favour of prohibition; but that does not suggest that he has sold his political soul to that party. 
I have not heard it. said ; but it is like the old story of " Who Killed Cock Robin?" Everybody put forward a claim to have had something to do with killing him, or making his shroud, or burying him. 
Of course, I admit it. There were other industries who feared the effect of the gross taxation proposed by the Bruce-Page Government, and also supported the Labour party. The last election was in the nature of an avalanche. It gave to thu Labour party the greatest vote it has ever received in Australia. The picture interests were not the only interests that were satisfied that thu Nationalists were becoming so desperate that there was every possibility of their becoming even more communistic than  Senator Ogden  suggests we are. 
When the honorable senator spoke of whisky, he suggested that the Australian product was poison which the Government was anxious to have poured down the throats of Australian workers. . It was a distinct libel upon a big Australian industry. The honorable senator would not be prepared to make his statement outside the chamber. 
Yes; but the BrucePage Government had lowered the preference margin between Scotch and Australian whiskies. 
When we get down to proportions we get into difficulties. As I understand the position the Australian whisky was left at a considerable disadvantage by the Bruce-Page tariff, and all that the present Government has done has been to restore the position as closely as possible to what it formerly was. When the leader of the party to which the honorable senators opposite belong was speaking in Sydney on one occasion he said, " If any Australian industry can prove to me that it is on its legs, and is  in a position to supply Australia -with, commodities, I shall prohibit imports" of such commodities. 
If  Senator Ogden  had his way he would put a prohibitive duty on Scotch whisky. 
The honorable senator might do worse. I do not know myself, because I do not drink whisky; but leading physicians tell me that pure malt whisky is a better product than the whisky we get from overseas. But the British manufacturers do not intend to allow the Australian distiller to collar the Australian market. They have already ' set about establishing their industries in Australia, giving employment to many people, and putting more money into circulation here. 
They did not. There is an old philosophical saying that every man is as lazy as he  dare be. These people are content with prevailing conditions provided that they can keep themselves in luxury in Scotland. It will be admitted that they have not been very much concerned about building up the industries of Australia. The Government, realizing that if the mountain would not come to Mahomet, Mahomet would have to go to the mountain, took the necessary preliminary steps to build up our local industry. 
I am unable to answer that offhand. 
I am informed that a great deal of Australia's whisky is sent to Scotland, where it is labelled and returned to us as good Scotch whisky. 
I see no reason why pot stills should not be established in Australia. I am informed that certain firms are making excellent whisky here. 
They saw the writing on the wall, and anticipated that a good Australian Government was about to assume office, which would practically prohibit the importation of products that could be satisfactorily manufactured in this country. I regret that these charges have been levelled against the Labour party. 
 I suppose that in time we shall become accustomed to occupying the ministerial benches, and honorable senators opposite acclimatized in their new environment. Up to the present, neither party is quite at home in its new setting. Honorable senators opposite should set a good and not a bad example in the interim. 
I assure the Opposition that this Government is not out to introduce any disruptive legislation. It has as its motto, " The good of Australia." I appeal to all parties to assist it in the troublous times through which Australia is passing, and am confident that if honorable senators opposite give their promised assistance the Government will do nothing which any senator need be ashamed to answer when next he faces his constituents. 
Although it is somewhat belated, I desire to join in the felicitations that have been offered to the Vice-President of the Executive Council, the Leader of this Government, and his stalwart colleague,  Senator Barnes,  on their elevation to ministerial rank. I do so with the greatest possible sincerity from the personal standpoint. From the political angle, holding the beliefs that I do, I can only regret their accession to office. 
After the tempered observations which have just fallen from  Senator Daly,  and his assurances that no disruptive action will be taken by the Government, I feel  a  little more comfortable in sitting on this side of the chamber. I consider that when debating the Address-in-Reply we should pass in quick review, and deal in broad outlines with the policy of the Government as indicated in  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech. We should not indulge in that detail which occasionally characterizes some speeches. On examining the Governor-General's Speech I observe that it contains eighteen paragraphs, in the main generalities and promises of conferences which, I assume, are to take the place of commissions. I trust that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  will find those conferences less expensive that those to which he has referred. The Speech contains very little indication as to the lines of policy that the Government intends to pursue. Obviously, the Government is confining itself to "safety first " methods. It has indicated to the people of Australia by a number of vague generalities, that it will inquire into various matters from time to time and the "meat," if I may so term it, is contained in a very limited number of paragraphs indeed. Perhaps the Government is not altogether to blame . for not submitting a well-defined constructive policy at this stage. It has had a very limited tenure of office, and the session has been somewhat forced upon it; but the people of Australia and a certain section of their followers were "promised bread, and instead have been given  a  stone in the shape of  a  speech containing eighteen paragraphs, in which there is very little promise of political, economic, or financial benefit to the country. 

 Senator Dooley, for whom we have such a high regard personally, suggested  that  previous elections had been characterized by every conceivable act of political trickery. I can only assume that the honorable senator alluded to the methods employed by the late Government party, when conducting elections during the last fourteen or fifteen years. Judging by the skill with which honorable senators opposite indulged in political machinations during the last election, they have nothing to learn in the art. On more than one occasion I have seen the Labour party, which allegedly stands for high protection and boasts of its Australian principles, allying itself with a low tariff party for the purpose of securing political advantage. Some may claim that that is all in the political game, but it ill becomes our honorable friends opposite to accuse the Nationalist party of trickery, when they proved themselves such adepts at the business last year, and at the previous general election. 
The Labour party did in two districts, that of Wakefield and that of Barker. By such tactics it almost defeated  Mr. M.  Cameron. However, that gentleman's efforts were successful, and, with the assistance of our friends, we restored Wakefield to its old political fold. 
Honorable senators opposite claimed that the last Government was endeavouring to put the clock back 25 years by attempting to destroy the principle of arbitration ; that it was trying to deprive the workers of their only means of receiving fair treatment. Those statements are on a par with many other false statements that were made during the last campaign. If  Senator Dooley  is going to describe our humble wiles as political trickery, it makes it difficult for me to find an apt term to describe the subtle methods adopted by him and his party. Every member of the late Government stood, and still stands, for the principle of arbitration. It made more than one effort to regulate and co-ordinate that principle, and in adhering to it and endeavouring to do something for the country, stood down at the last general election. But Ave stood down principally because of the gross misrepresentation emanating from honorable senators opposite, a misrepresentation broadcast throughout the electorates, My party's desire is that our arbitration system should operate satisfactorily ; that it should be uniform. When I examine the speech of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, I find it difficult to determine exactly where this Government stands in that regard. It is not indicated whether it intends to proceed along existing lines; to allow the Commonwealth and State systems to operate side by side, or whether it will move in the direction  followed by the late Government in 1926, and endeavour to secure a fuller measure of power to the Commonwealth, which would enable it, without constitutional limitation, to make binding any system of arbitration, and would prevent a section of our people being harassed by what I shall term a method of tossing with a double-headed penny. 
We had some references from  Senator O'Halloran  to the inefficiency of State Governments in the matter of land settlement and certain other suggestions with regard to unemployment. The land settlement that has taken place in all the States on the advice of the Development and Migration Commission, is likely to have beneficial results. The establishment of the commission has provided the States with the means of conducting a full and free investigation from every point of view of the various schemes which have been propounded. The commission's recommendations have been based on the evidence of experts. An effort has been made to avoid the mistakes of the past. Honorable senators have all seen, in the different States, public works of an absolutely nonproductive character. That has been possible because of the haphazard methods of the past. But to-day the economic development of the country necessitates the scrapping of such methods. We must now, as we ought always to have done, h ave regard to the productive character of the works upon which we propose to spend our money. Every scheme must be carefully examined from various angles, because it is only by so doing that we can hope to hold our own in the world race for production. While I do not quarrel with honorable senators opposite regarding the development of certain dry areas in South Australia and elsewhere, I remind them that all along the Labour party has been urging the greater development of this country. Adam Lindsay Gordon said much the same thing when he wrote - 
The people are crying aloud for the land. 
They've made it hot, but they'll find it hotter 
When they plough the limestoneandsow the sand. 
In parts of Australia land, which once was good for pastoral purposes, has been spoiled by attempts to farm it. The un fortunate people who have been settled on that land will probably have to be provided with land elsewhere. 
Honorable senators opposite' are almost dumb with wonder that the Labour party won the recent election. When I consider the reasons for the verdict of the people, I am reminded of an occasion when I arrived by train in one of the capital cities of Australia and went into a hairdressing saloon for a shave. While in the barber's chair, I listened to his dissertation on conditions in Australia. I asked him what he received as his weekly wage. I forget the amount now, but it was a satisfactory emolument with which he seemed well pleased. When I pointed out that the £1 notes which he received in his pay envelope were worth only about 14s. 6d. compared with their purchasing power some years before he propounded the extraordinary view that it was a good thing to have as many of them in the bank as possible, against a day when they would be worth 20s. That lad was fundamentally sound so far as he was personally concerned, but he was unsound economically. 
For the moment Australia is caught in an economic trap. I have no doubt that we shall escape from it, but at present the experience is not pleasant. Throughout the country there are hundreds of small shopkeepers and others who, because of the prevailing unemployment, are unable to receive payment for goods supplied and services rendered. I have heard some of these people say that they would be glad to see the Labour party in power, for it would spend a few million pounds more than any other government would spend, and that as the money circulated their book debts would be wiped out, after which they would " button up." That is a hopeless outlook. Sooner or later we must face the position. Indeed, we are facing it now. For the first time in her political and economic history, Australia has to face facts. I was glad to hear the Leader of the Senate say that the Government was giving earnest consideration to Australia's economic position. There is no royal road to wealth, either for an individual or a nation, except one of which most honorable senators are aware. The unemployment which prevails is due to the contraction of the loan market as well as to falling prices for our staple commodities. Seasonal conditions have, no doubt, contributed to present conditions; but he would be a bold man who would say that a return of favorable seasons would rectify matters within a year or two. We shall not get back to where we were as quickly as some people think we will. That we shall eventually regain our former satisfactory position I have no doubt, for I have abounding confidence in Australia's recuperative powers. But we must walk warily in the meantime. One paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech would lead us to think that next year conditions will be as satisfactory as ever. I can only express the fervent hope that they will be. But until that hope has been realized, I suggest to those who are in charge of the affairs of the country, that they will do well to walk in that prudent way which  Senator Daly  says the Government contemplates. 
The Speech contains .an almost pious reference to the trouble in the coalmining industry. The mover of the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply laid considerable stress on the straits to which the miners and their families had been reduced. Unfortunately, such suffering is inevitable so long as the mines remain closed. It might not be out of place to remind honorable senators opposite that had the trade unions with which the miners are associated been as prudent in the control of their funds as they ought to have been, there would not be such destitution on the coal-fields as now exists. Nor would there be any necessity to levy toll on the trade unionists of Australia to support the men at Newcastle. I notice that the Bill Posters Union stated recently that the unemployment problem of Australia could be solved by imposing a levy of Id. or 2d. a week on every fi received in wages by the workers of Australia. I invite honorable senators to consider the effect of such a policy. 
The Governor-General's Speech gives no indication of an early settlement of the coal trouble. The promises made by the Labour party on the hustings have yet to be fulfilled. It is true that conferences have been held; but so far they have not been very successful. The Labour party has had to resort, after all, to the course which the previous Government realized was the only possible one to adopt to get the coal mines working again. It is deplorable that fields containing probably the best coal south of the Equator are likely to remain idle unless something is done to reorganize the industry. 
I invite honorable senators to read  The Economics of Australian Coal,  by F. E. E. Mauldon, senior lecturer in economics at the University of Melbourne. A study of that book will make clear to them the difficulties confronting any one who endeavours to arrange anything in the coal-fields of this country. There is a risk that, unless something is done promptly, vested interests in other coalfields which have been developed elsewhere, might prevent a settlement between the parties. I suggest to honorable senators opposite that they apply to have deleted from  Hansard  all their references to the inaction of the late Government in the matter of settling the coal- dispute. Metaphorically speaking, they have had to eat their words. The coal trouble is no nearer solution to-day than when the former Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  endeavoured to solve it in Sydney. 
If ever there was an ill-considered action, a huge political blunder, it was the action of the Government in sending overseas a statement that Australia could not absorb any more migrants because of the prevailing unemployment. That cablegram can have only one effect. 
The honorable senator will realize its effect when next the Government goes on the London loan market. Let us consider the action of the Government from the point of view of its economic effect. The people in Great Britain will know nothing of the carefully prepared statement of the Leader of the Senate. All they will be concerned with is the effect of the proposals. They will be told that, during the last nine months, our excess of .arrivals over departures totalled only 4,000, and that even this number is beyond the absorptive capacity of the Commonwealth. Not one person in 10,000 in the Mother Country has any knowledge of the migration agreement; but when the Prime Minister's message is broadcast in the British press, when the people in England read that the absorptive powers of the Commonwealth are so limited, they will have a totally different idea of our potentialities. I cannot help thinking, therefore, that the Government's action is a blunder of the first magnitude, and that it will be detrimental to the interests of Australia. Steps should be taken as speedily as possible to remove the impression that has been created in the minds of the people in the Mother Country. I understand that already representations have been made by cable, and that the Prime Minister has transmitted certain letters on the subject to the Prime Minister of Great Britain; but I deplore deeply, knowing as I do the light in which Australia is regarded in Great Britain and on the Continent, that the Government should have committed this blunder. Its effect in the United States .of America will be similarly prejudicial to the interests of Australia. By our tariff proposals we are inviting business houses to establish themselves in this country, and yet this Government, in asking for the suspension of the assisted passages provisions of the migration agreement, is creating an impression that the Commonwealth is incapable of expansion.  From  the business point of view the Government's action is the worst advertisement that Australia has had for many years. 
I do not deny that we have our difficulties in the development of this country.  Senator Daly  this afternoon referred to some of them; but surely a step of this character was unnecessary. Our friends on the ministerial bench have come back from an appeal to the people flushed with victory; but they must know that all the promises they made during the election were so much political " eye-wash," and now that they are in office they should have regard to the facts.. I join with  Senator H.  E. Elliott in his condemnation of the action of the Government. ' It is only one of several that have been taken by the Ministry that will be detrimental to our best interests. 

 Senator O'Halloran last week stated that we should discourage the introduction of foreign migrants until all our own people are in employment. That, I suggest, is a somewhat narrow point of view, though it may be a gesture indicating we should first do something for those Australians who are unfortunate enough to be out of work. I wish that our friends opposite, in some of their" financial proposals, had really been as solicitous for the welfare of Australia as  Senator O'Halloran  would  have us believe they are. He went on to say that these foreign migrants send hundreds of thousands of pounds out of Australia every year. 1 can tell him of other foreign people who, while they do not come to Australia at all, extract several millions of pounds from the Commonwealth. And yet this Government, despite its protestations to legislate in the interests of Australia, allows them to escape, all taxation. I have heard the Scullin Administration referred to as a pro-Australian Government. To meet* its requirements it proposes to place an additional tax of £800,000, or it may be £1,200,000, upon the people of Australia. I suggest that, by taxing the foreign moving picture combine, it could relieve the Australian taxpayer of some portion of this added burden at all events. Obviously Ministers are not as good Australians as  Mr. Lang  was when he was Premier of New South Wales.  Mr. Lang  had no illusions concerning the people who are behind the American picture combine. In 1925, he introduced legislation which, unfortunately for the State of New South Wales, proved unconstitutional, designed to levy a tax upon the profits of the combine which levies such a heavy toll on the people of Australia. In introducing the Dill, which, I was glad to notice," was regarded by all sections of the people in New South Wales as eminently proper,  Mr. Lang  said his intention was to extract something from these people who, up to the present, have avoided taxation by the simple device of earning all their profits in America. The debate on the bill disclosed the fact that altogether about £1,000,000 was sent out of Australia annually in payment for the hire of American films. 
The proposal of the Bruce-Page Government followed the lines of the measure introduced in the New South "Wales Parliament by  Mr. Lang.  It was not intended to tax the proprietors of small picture houses, as was alleged by our opponents. 
The honorable senator's interjection is merely a clumsy way of suggesting that my statement is incorrect. For his information, I may say I handled the material dealing with the subject, and was responsible for placing the proposal before the BrucePage Cabinet. These people have evaded taxation for years, and it was our intention to require them to make some contribution to the revenues of the Commonwealth. If this Government were as loyal to Australia as  Mr. Lang  was when he introduced his measure, they would not hesitate now to impose a tax upon the moving picture combine. They prefer to tax industry. "We are to have a super income tax on incomes even as low as £200 per annum; but the great American moving picture interests, which extract such a huge sum from the Australian people every year, are to be allowed to escape. And this from a government which poses as pro-Australian - as a government which stands for the encouragement of Australian industry! It has been guilty of an act of craven treachery to the people of this country. The American combine conducts its business in Australia through incorporated companies, which, since they are unable to show a profit, are not called upon to pay taxation. The whole of their earnings are transmitted to America, and this Government tamely submits to the subterfuge, and allows them to escape. I leave the matter there, and ask honorable senators to draw their own conclusions as to the real character of the Government. Are we to understand that foreign interests are to be allowed to dominate the Commonwealth Government? I am aware that politics makes us acquainted with strange bed-fellows - that political exigencies sometimes require many strange things to be done; but for a party that boasts of its Australian spirit I know of no greater act of political treachery than the proposal of this Government to allow the American moving picture combine to escape taxation. 
The films are taxed at present. The Minister cannot get out of his difficulty in that way.  Mr. Lang  was " game " enough to levy taxation, and we proposed to follow his lead; but the Scullin Government has neither the courage nor the inclination to tax the combine. 
I am glad to learn that the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  is to be associated in his ministerial capacity with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, as he is a member of that profession, concerning which Edmund Burke, speaking of the late Lord Thurlow, said "He was bred to a profession. He was bred to the law - a science which, to my mind, does more to quicken and invigorate human understanding than all the other kinds of learning put together." 
I venture to suggest that when the Minister has made a closer study of the problems upon which the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is engaged, he will have an even higher regard for its work than he has to-day. It is pleasing to note that the Government realizes the importance of the work being undertaken by the council, and is endeavouring, in its own way, to improve the system under which it is operating. During the last Parliament it was my privilege to temporarily administer the two departments to which the Minister more particularly referred, and it is surprising to me to learn that  Mr. McDougall,  an officer in London, is in receipt of £5,000 a year. On closer investigation I believe the Minister will find that the information he supplied was incorrect. 
The impression left upon the minds of honorable senators on this side of the chamber was that he was in receipt of that salary. 

 - Mr. McDougall's services are utilized in connexion with certain activities associated with economic questions, the importance of which cannot be overestimated. He has represented the Commonwealth at Geneva on several occasions when difficult economic problems have been under consideration. In the consideration of important problems of that nature Australia must proceed warily, and I am afraid the Minister's statement this afternoon concerning this officer's salary will be misunderstood. Perhaps the Minister was including his travelling expenses, which would necessarily be heavy. 
I am very doubtful whether the policy of the Government to co-ordinate the administration of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the 'Development and Migration Commission will meet with the success it expects. The council, which consists of the  chairman, Sir George  Julius, a man of exceptional ability, Professor Richardson, of South Australia, who is an unrivalled authority in the matter of agriculture and kindred subjects;  Dr. Rivett,  as well as a prominent entomologist from New -Zealand, and other eminent scientists, is doing wonderful work. After the announcement which appeared in the press concerning proposals of the Government, I was expecting to hear the Minister approach this subject from a totally different angle, and to denounce the work of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. I am glad he has not done so, and I am sure that when he has an opportunity to further study the good work performed by these two organizations he will endeavour to increase their usefulness. Although the scientific officers associated with the council can at times be of great assistance to the Development and Migration Commission, there does not appear to be any reason why the administration of the two bodies should be co-ordinated. 
That has always been so. 
If the Government can save expenditure in that direction honorable senators on this side of the chamber will be only too pleased to assist. It would be exceedingly unwise to curtail the functions of either body in any form, and I am sure that is not the Minister's desire. 
The Minister will find, as I did, that he has to deal with gentlemen possessing peculiar ideas, and that it will not be easy to save money in the direction he expects. One would think from the Minister's utterance concerning the Development and Migration Commission that its only work consisted of giving effect to what is known as the £34,000,000 agreement, but it has other duties in connexion with the general developmental policy of Australia. 
Perhaps not. If the Minister examines the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States in connexion with developmental works he will find that there are many proposals which at first glance appear attractive, but which after investigation by the commission appear in their true perspective.. While we are all anxious to curtail expenditure wherever necessary, the Government should be careful not to impair .efficiency, particularly that of the two bodies mentioned. 
The  abolition of  cumpulsory  military training has been fully discussed by honorable senators on this side of the chamber, some of whom are more competent to deal with the subject than I am ; ;hut I venture to suggest that the Government is not displaying that democratic spirit which has characterized the Labour party in the past. In my callow days I was a contributor to  The Call,  a newspaper in New South Wales which now supports the Labour party, but which then supported the principle of compulsory military service. In those days I conscientiously believed, as I do today, that this country needs some such system to ensure that our young men shall have some training in the matter of discipline. Every one desires international peace, but I believe it can be obtained only by the mental inoculation of the people with the spirit of peace. Honorable senators opposite contend that compulsory military training has the effect of implanting a martial spirit in the young mind, but they should study this subject from another angle. By providing for voluntary training the Government is more likely to create a military caste than it would under a compulsory system. Before the Government proceeds further with its defence policy, it should consider whether a country which can absorb only 4,000 migrants in a few months will ever be able to provide adequate defence under a voluntary system. We must have the nucleus of an army in the event of international trouble, but that is something which I am sure no one wants. I trust that even now wiser councils will prevail, but in view of the promise which the Labour party gave to the electors to abolish compulsory military training, it is unlikely that it will retrace its steps. 
Reference is made in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to the introduction of a new tariff schedule. I do not think it can be denied that higher customs duties will have the effect of increasing the cost of living. Evidently the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  and the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Penton)  have studied that aspect of the question, as the manufacturers have already been informed that if prices are raised unnecessarily certain duties at present in force may be lifted. If prices are raised the operatives will approach the Arbitration Court for an increase in wages, which, if granted, will cause the manufacturers to again increase prices. 
That- Ministry guarantees that prices will remain stationary, and I am sure the Government has justification for saying that in some cases there will be a reduction in prices. It will be interesting to know what investigation the Tariff Board conducted before recommending the extraordinary heavy duty imposed upon imported whisky, a beverage so dear to the palate of some. The tariff schedule, however, can be fully discussed when it comes before this chamber. 
When announcements are made iu regard to currency, gold reserve, migration and similar subjects, there should be nothing vague or indecisive about them. People overseas are watching Australia. They are financially interested. We owe £524,000,000 in. London and £50,000,000 in the United States of America, and I am aware that the perfectly innocuous statement in the Governor-General's Speech, which I regarded as a gesture that steps were to be taken to allow the Commonwealth Bank to control the gold reserves of Australia, has created an unfortunate impression in America. I have seen cables from Australians in the United States of America urging that there ought to be some more definite pronouncement made immediately on the subject, because, as  Senator R.  D. Elliott said in his very excellent speech, credit is a very delicate pedestal. 
Without fear of the threats that reverberated through the chamber last evening, without any regard for consequences, 1 shall be prepared to give fair and full consideration to all measures the Government submits. I do not concede the point which my Leader  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  put, that the Government has had the endorsement of the people in regard to the continuance of both systems of arbitration. I think that they have arrived at a fine balance on the subject, and I shall reserve to myself the right to take whatever line of action I think fit when the proposals of the Government come up after they are considered in the proposed conference, representing all sections of industry, to be held in the new year. 
I congratulate  Senator Daly  on his elevation to the high and important rank of Leader of the Government in the Senate. I was always under the impression that it was a plank of the platform of the Labour party that one man should hold one job, but on this occasion there has been a drastic departure from that principle.  Senator Daly  has been given a great many jobs. He and his party can rely upon getting a fair deal from me and, I am sure, from every other honorable senator. 
I shall go a long way in support of any government that gives absolute preference to Australian goods. That has always been a plank in my platform. I invariably practise what I preach in that regard, which is a great deal more than some of my friends do. The other day I was addressing a gathering of very enthusiastic Australians at a luncheon, and they applauded to the echo my exhortations as regards preference for Australian goods. When leaving the luncheon room I took up a hat that looked very like mine; but found that it was not. It was made by people whom my friends designate as "dagoes." It was a Borsalino. In the search for my own I took up nearly every- hat in the room, and found that most qf them were either Stetsons, made in America, or Borsalinos. made in Italy. Their owners were nearly all supporters of the Labour party. I eventually found my own hat, which, of course, is good Australian-made - good enough for an Australian or any one else to wear. I hope that the Government will be consistent in regard to preference to Australia and Australian goods, but later on I think I shall be able to show that it is not shaping too well in that direction. 

 Senator Dunn, whose very vigorous speech last night I quite enjoyed, blamed the Nationalist Government for permitting the export of wattle seeds and stud sheep from Australia to South Africa, They were exported from Australia long before the Nationalist Government came into power, and the trade went on with unabated pace during several periods when Labour was in power. 

 Senator Dunn also claimed that already Labour had achieved one great thing. 
There had been splendid rains ! If it be true that Labour has control over the elements, I trust it will be in power for a long while, because, given a good general rainfall, Australia will be able to withstand for a time even the terrible batch of legislation Labour will produce - legislation which, in other circumstances, would prove very irksome to the taxpayers. 
When  Senator Dunn  was speaking about the embargo on the export of stud sheep, I was rather amused to hear him refer to me as a very large wool-grower or squatter. As a matter of fact I am a fairly impecunious farmer. For the past 37 or 38 years I have followed the profession of sheep and wool expert and have endeavoured to eke out an existence by working very long hours, much longer hours than my friends opposite have worked. Although I support the Government in the step it has taken to place an embargo on the export of stud sheep, this decision will, perhaps, hit me harder than any other man in Australia, because I am a breeder of stud sheep. An embargo on the export of the few high-priced sheep which the wealthy squatters may seek to send away, will not hurt them very much, but I have built up a nation-wide - indeed an international - demand for my Corriedale sheep. This year I have exported my stock to South Africa, Japan, United States of America, Chile, the Argentine and New Zealand, and I consider that I have not been doing any injury to Australia by exporting the comparatively cheap class of sheep I send away, very different from high-class stud merinos which are the key sheep, and the only class the export of which really matters. That I am prepared to support the Government in putting a stop to my litte trade shows how genuine I am in my desire to maintain Australia's predominance in the sheep and wool industry. The Government's decision may be too late. It may be a case of bolting the stable door after the horse has bolted. 
I am not quite sure. We shall have to find out by experience whether that is so or not. But  this attempt, belated or otherwise, to maintain Australia's pre-eminence in the wool industry, is worthy of a trial. 
The wool and sheep industry is pretty well the life blood of Australia. At the present time it is passing through a very difficult time. I have no desire to weary honorable senators with a dissertation on the romantic history of the development of the industry in Australia, but it is of preponderating importance to this great island continent. For the last six years, sheep have been responsible for over 50 per cent, of the total value of the exports of the Commonwealth. It is wrong to think that the wealth derived from this great industry goes into the pockets of comparatively few people - in the first instance at all events. The true position is that there are 80,000 families in Australia directly dependent upon wool-growing for their living, and the industry is responsible for providing a greater amount of employment' than any other, not excepting wheat-growing. A great deal of material is required to develop a sheep station or sheep farm, and much labour is also employed, not only on the station or farm, but in handling the wool in the stores and at the seaboard. I am pleased to see, of course, a great expansion in the manufacture of our wool in our own country. Although we have reached the very highest position in the sheep and wool world, we can go still further. We have, at the present time, 106,000,000 sheep, a few more than we had in 1891, but Australia can carry more. Some people outback will not agree with me, but I am a great believer in closer settlement, intense culture, the application of scientific methods, the use of superphosphates, the sowing of the right kinds of grasses, and the encouragement of irrigation; in fact the use of all that science teaches us it is advisable to employ in order to obtain from our rich soil the maximum amount of production. I am perfectly certain that Australia can carry a great many more than 106.000,0UO sheep, and that instead of only 80,000 families raising sheep in Australia we should have something like 160,000 families in the industry. We can vastly improve the general average of our flocks, provided that the facilities exist to market our product. There is no doubt that we should manufacture the whole of our clothing requirements in Australia. If that were done we should need additional woollen mills, and so the industry would employ more labour in Australia. ~ Honorable senators opposite, and their supporters, have claimed that Australia should manufacture the whole of its wool output. That is ridiculous. Last year, we produced a record clip of wool weighing 950,000,000 lb., and worth £65,000,000; but our industrial conditions are such that we cannot profitably manufacture for export, as our costs are greater than those obtaining in other countries. 
I do not think so, although I stand strongly against the importation into Australia of wool in any form. 
We are exporting wool tops to Canada and to Japan, but, generally speaking, we cannot manufacture woollens for export, with the exception of a few small specialities. 
I want honorable senators to realize the importance of the wool industry to Australia, and to appreciate the proud position that we hold in regard to it. Last year, Australia depastured 16 per cent, of the sheep of the world, but those sheep were so superior that they produced 27 per cent, of the world's wool and, on a value basis, one-third of the world's wool. That indicates that on the average the sheep of Australia produce twice the wealth that is produced by the average of the sheep in the rest of the world. That is due to our climate, to our soil, to our herbage, and to the wonderful pioneering work by men like John Macarthur and his successors, who blazed the trail and did the spade work which made this country what it is to-day. I pay my tribute to our pioneers for their marvellous work of the past 150 years, and for the work that their successors are still doing. 
 I support a policy of closer settlement, always provided that the land chosen is suitable for the purpose, and has an ample rainfall. Too often properties have been cut up which were producing high-class stud sheep and their maximum wealth output for Australia. When satisfactory land is cut up for closer settlement our stud masters must go to the interior of Australia, as they did in bygone days. At present sheep stations are being pioneered away north of Leonora, in the dry part of Western Australia, and are producing good wool, but the price of the product is to-day below cost. I hope that that will change. 
That is to be roved. This great industry, which olds such a pre-eminent position in the world, has been built up without any government assistance. In fact, the governments of Australia have persistently penalized the man on the land. Primary producers should not be subjected to a land tax, which is essentially a class tax. They should be encouraged to develop the country. I believe in and support an income tax, but I hold that a land tax penalizes the very people who are producing the wealth of Australia, and who enable more than half of our population to live in the cities in luxury, to visit American picture palaces and to ride in American motor cars. The Government should give relief to the suffering and Struggling men who have been fighting for five years against drought, and who are now producing wool, at a cost which is greater than the price that they receive for it. A gentleman said to me to-day that wool is increasing in value ; that it is selling at 36d. per lb. I admit that two bales out of a total of 3,000,000 bales did bring that price; but the average price of all the wool sold in Australia to date this season is ll£d. per lb., which is pence per lb. below the actual cost of production. 
I do not know of any other industry or business which is conducted more efficiently or more honestly. The people of Australia produce the best wool. Its get-up is better than that of any other country, whilst it is marketed more efficiently and more attractively than it is elsewhere, not excluding London. Buyers make their bids in open competition, and the business generally is remarkably well conducted. 
I would not admit that. There' may be a twenty-bale speciality of which one manufacturer requires only a proportion. He collaborates with another buyer, and they bid for the lot. But remember, they are merely two buyers, against whom are arrayed competitive buyers from other countries, and even from Australia. In addition, the wool firms employ experts to place a reserve value upon the different lots, whether the owner is present or not, and if that price is not reached the wool is passed in. While the average price of Australian wool is ll£d. to date this season, the average cost of production is between 14 and 15 pence per lb. It is a very serious matter that our great stable, national product is being sold in the markets of the world below the price of production. The high cost of labour and material is the reason for our high production cost. 
Many imagine that the burden entailed by a protectionist policy is borne only by the people in our towns. Actually that policy compels our primary producers to pay through the nose for everything they use. Yet they have to sell their product in the competitive markets of the world. In addition to the excessively high cost of material and wages, our primary producers have to pay heavy railway and steamer freights. The Commonwealth Line of Steamers was not worth a snap of the fingers to our primary producers, as it did not reduce freight rates on butter, wheat, meat, or any other primary product by any fraction of one penny. That Line was one of the most expensive socialistic experiments that this country has ever indulged in, and it was responsible for a loss of no less than £15,000,000. Even though the Government wrote down the capital cost of those ships by many millions of pounds, they were, at the time it was so wisely decided to dispose of them, costing the taxpayers of Australia £600,000 per annum, which would have been perpetuated, and perhaps increased. I trust that the Labour party will never dream, except in a nightmare, of again committing the people of Australia to the expense of conducting a socialistic shipping line. 
The reason why I am in favour of the Government's embargo on the export of stud sheep is that our greatest competition in the wool industry comes from South Africa. During the time that I have been in the industry the South African wool clip has increased from a very inferior one of a little over 200,000 bales to one of fine quality, and mostly of merino wool, of 900,000 bales per annum. That was due almost entirely to the unrestricted export from Australia to South Africa of some of our best merino sheep. It is estimated that over ft period of 30 years South Africa has spent only a little over £500,000 in Australia in purchasing sheep to build up its flocks; but, as the result of this, it has become our most serious competitor. It will remain our most serious competitor, because the cost of producing wool in that country is vary much lower than it is in Australia. I am a believer in the maintenance of- our very high standard of living and wages, but I realize that under prevailing conditions we cannot compete successfully with South Africa in the wool industry. That country has no land tax, and if a man there is breeding stud stock he is immune from income tax. The freights charged primary producers are very low, and, on account of the geographical position of the country, South African primary producers are able to market their products for about half the amount that it costs Australians. The cost of farm labour is only one-eighth of what it is here. Where a man . in Australia might demand 16s. a day, his prototype in South Africa would receive 2s. a day. It costs between £17 and £19 to produce a bale of wool in Australia, whereas in South Africa, because of the low price of land, immunity from taxation and other causes, the cost is claimed to be only £6. The Government has acted wisely in placing an embargo on the export of stud sheep. It may be that the embargo has come too late; but I hope not. 
In the light of the figures I have given, it might appear that Australia's wool outlook is hopeless; but that, is [ici not the case. We have better country, and better sheep; our wool is softer, better spinning, and higher yielding. Nevertheless, the wool industry in South Africa is expanding tremendously. I have been in South Africa and am intimately acquainted with the conditions pertaining to the wool industry there. I have always feared the competition of South Africa, because of the cheap labour available and the sympathetic attitude of the Union Government to the man on the land. Australia has also made a serious mistake in exporting stud merino sheep to Russia. I have not been to Russia; but I know that that country contains vast areas of good soil, comprising the largest wheat belt in the world. Prior to the revolution and the establishment of the awful Soviet form of government, Russia was the greatest exporter of wheat in the world. Lately she has had to import wheat, and when the Soviet Government imported seed wheat from America last year, the starving peasants ate it. 3 hope that they also ate the stud sheep we sent there, for, otherwise, Russia, with our wonderful sheep as a foundation, might build up vast flocks to compete against us. 
Our greatest competitor in merino wool is South Africa, although there is also danger of serious competition from Russia. 
South Africa has some excellent studs, built up from Australian stock, which they value very highly. The stud masters of South Africa are now petitioning the South African Government to place an import duty on Australian rams. They want » monopoly of the business of stud raia breeders. 
In addition to the competition of other wool-growing countries, the wool industry has to face very keen competition from artificial fibres, wrongly  termed  artificial silk and artificial wool. The seriousness of that competition is greater than most people realize. It is that competition which is the chief cause of the slump in wool values. No one can say when wool prices will recover. The so-called artificial silk is very attractive to women, although it is unhygienic. The consumption of that material last year was equal to the Australian wool clip, say 1,500,000 bales of scoured wool, or 3,000,000 bales of greasy wool. This so-called artificial silk comprises 80 per cent, wood, chiefly conifers, and 20 per cent, tin. The supply of pine trees is limitless, and one tree will make a very large quantity of artificial silk. Artificial wool also contains wood; but it contains no tin. These articles can be manufactured very cheaply. Artificial silk, sometimes known as rayon, can be produced for 5d. per lb. Even at the price manufacturers have been charging they have been able to produce attractive looking garments more cheaply than they could be made of wool, even at the low price of  ll&amp;d.  per lb., which is below the cost of production. 
Australia, whose staple product is wool, should lead a world-wide campaign to get the people to use more wool. Every Australian should set an example by wearing Australian woollen goods. We should preach the gospel of wool against the artificial products of other countries. Throughout the ages wool has been found to be the most healthful clothing for mankind ; and in the long run it is also the most economical. It is an animal product; a non-conductor of heat and cold, an absorber of moisture, and, in addition, it is non-inflammable. ' We have nature and right on our side. We have a good case for a " Use more wool " campaign. The right place to commence that campaign is among the creators of fashion in Paris, New York and London. We should cooperate with scientists, and designers and manufacturers of clothing to make woollen goods attractive to the women folk. We should show that wool is not only a more hygienic, but also a more economical covering than any other material. These artificial products are of vegetable origin; they are conductors of heat and cold, and are inflammable. Goods made of artificial silk and wool will not stretch ; or if they do stretch when wet, they have not that elasticity which wool possesses to enable them to regain their original shape. I exhort all Australians to do all that they can to safeguard our great natural and national industry. 
I greatly regret the misrepresentation for which the Labour party was responsible during the recent election campaign. The people were told that .the abolition of the Federal Arbitration Court, which many felt to be an expensive and slow tribunal, overlapping and clashing with State tribunals, was the first step towards a reduction of wages. Nothing was further from the mind of the late Government than any desire to reduce the standard of living or the wages of the workers. I am not whining about the result of the election. The Labour party made many promises to the electors that it will find it impossible to honour. The Government is in for a bad time, particularly in relation to its promise to provide work for the unemployed. I doubt if there is one person less in the ranks of the unemployed than there was before the election. The Labour party promised a working week of 44 hours in all industries. If effect is given to that promise, how can Australia expect to compete with the rest of the world where the working hours are much longer ? The people were promised industrial peace if a Labour Government was returned, but there is not yet peace in the coal-mining industry. No one is hewing the coal so necessary to the industries of this country. 
The Labour party had a great deal te say about the failure of the late Government to prosecute John Brown. The Scullin Government has been in office long enough to have instituted proceedings against him. Surely it has not made a beloved friend of the great coal magnate as it has the Yankee picture combine ! I should like to see John Brown prosecuted. I should also like to see the people of this country wake up and work. Work is the only thing which will bring success to Australia. Why do not the coal miners be more manly, and work for their women and children, instead of crying? They get higher wages than do miners anywhere else in the world and they have the best conditions. I believe in men working, not loafing. 
Order! I ask  Senator Dunn  not to adopt a heated manner in the Senate. If he desires to say anything, he must say it quietly, and at the right time. 
The victory of the Labour party was, in reality, a victory for the foreign film interests. Although the American picture combines are making huge fortunes out of Australia, they escape taxation They have friends here who also are making huge profits, and hiding them as well as they can, but they have not been so successful in that respect as the Yankees have been, for the Australian combines do pay some taxation, whereas the Yankee combines go scot free. The Bruce-Page Government prepared a scheme under which it proposed to obtain some contribution to the revenue from these foreign companies. Unfortunately for the Commonwealth, Labour was returned to power, largely because, during the election, it had the support and the financial assistance of the moving picture industry. Now, naturally enough, as a return for the wonderful propaganda launched by the picture interests, it has bowed down to the combines and is allowing them to escape taxation. A wonderfully effective propaganda was conducted by the combine in nearly all of the 1,200 picture theatres throughout Australia; and now the combine is to get its reward. 
The Government, by refusing to follow the lead of the Bruce-Page administration in this matter, will lose £600,000 of revenue which it must obtain in some other way. It has brought in a revised tariff schedule, the effect of which must be to increase the cost of living to the workers. The Government appears to have piled on duties with a steam shovel and without regard to their effect upon the people. It totally ignored the Tariff Board, which, in other circumstances, would have made recommendations concerning certain of the duties. On some items the duty has been increased to over 2,000 per cent. I am a protectionist but not to that extent; and certainly I should not dream of allowing the big American combines to go scot free. The Government's taxation proposals will hit heavily a considerable number of small shareholders in companies, and altogether they have been prepared in a ridiculous manner. I frankly admit that, in regard to many matters, the Labour party has always been disposed to give preference to articles of Australian manufacture, but this Government certainly cannot claim that it is giving encouragement to the Australian film industry, or that it is protecting Australian musicians. The heavy importations of foreign, chiefly American, films and " talkies," with their canned music, has had the effect of throwing many hundreds of Australian musicians out of employment. 
I wish now to say something concerning the migration proposals of the Government. I deplore deeply this policy of crying " stinking fish " concerning the potentialities of Australia. We are the worst advertised country in the world. I do not suggest that this Government is entirely responsible. Some blame must be laid on previous Governments. About the only news concerning Australia published in the newspapers of other countries deals with strikes, fires, floods, droughts, snakes, socialists and bad films. Some time ago we did produce an allAustralian film at a cost of about £40,000, but since it dealt with convict life in Tasmania - I refer to the film " For the Term of  His  Natural Life " - its only effect was to advertise to the world the extraordinarily cruel treatment meted out to British convicts in Tasmania over 100 years ago. It depicted an episode that is a blot on British history. Strange to relate, another book recently issued and edited by Lord Birkenhead deals with the first convict settlement of Sydney. It is a terribly sad story and will give a grossly inaccurate impression of this country. I am afraid the world at large will have an idea that many Australians are descended from convicts. Much rubbish also has been written about tasteless fruit, scentless flowers and sougless  birds. As a matter of fact, our fruits are the best in the world, our flowers are second to none, and we have a greater variety of bird life in Australia than in any other country. Not only have we a greater variety, but the majority of our birds are beautiful songsters. 
Surely we have had far too much of this inaccurate rubbish, this decrying of everything Australian, and we should resolve that for the future we must  advetrise  this wonderful country in a better way. But the Government has made a bad start. By its appeal to the British Government concerning the migration agreement, it has conveyed the impression to people in other countries that although Australia is a country with an area of over 3,000,000 square miles, it is not capable of absorbing a few thousand of our kith and kin, even with the assistance of a loan of £34,000,000 from the Mother Country at low rates of interest. Where would  Senator 
Dooley have been if this policy had been in force at an earlier stage in our history? He, like thousands of others, who have done well in this country, is a migrant. "What would have been his thought if, when he wished to come to Australia, he had been informed it was incapable of absorbing any more migrants? I say, therefore, that we should be exceedingly careful before we do anything that is likely to place Australia, in a false position in the eyes of the world. 
I know something of the difficulties that confront all governments in the development of land settlement schemes, and from experience can say definitely that the most economical and the most successful method is the share-farming system.. If I had the authority, I would compel every large land-owner in a suitable locality, if he declined voluntarily to encourage closer settlement, to make some portion of his land available for share farming. I am a firm believer in the share system, and I have had considerable experience in the business. I believe also that the great majority of the owners of large estates would come into line if the scheme were put up to them properly. They would be quite willing to allow, say,  10  per cent, of their properties to be developed under this system. If this Government really desires to bring about closer settlement, this is the most economical way to do it. In the Riverina, I have a property of  5,000  acres, the whole of which is now being developed' under this system. When  1  bought the place it was giving employment to only four people. It has been divided into seven share farms, and now there are about  40  people living on it. What I am doing in the Riverina, can be done by thousands of other landowners throughout Australia. I supply the land, clear it, provide the whole of the seed wheat and superphosphate. The share farmer supplies the labour and the power to work it, and we share equally in the profits from the sale of the produce. There are thousands of experienced farmers who would be only too glad to get on the land under these conditions. The men who are farming on my Riverina property had nothing to start with, but 1 knew they were good workers. When they asked me to help them to provide machinery, I said that I could not finance them to that extent, but J agreed to guarantee their accounts at the bank. This is a much better arrangement than for share-farmers to huy the machinery on terms and allow the vendors to exact exorbitant rates for the renewal of their bills. Without boasting, I can say that, in my small way, I have done a great deal to make it possible for worthy and experienced men to get land of their own. In almost every instance, up to the present, I have eventually been bought out by my share farmers, and I am hoping that the men on my Riverina property will before long be able to buy me out. The method which I have .adopted might, with advantage, be followed by the Government. 
Government in the direction I have indicated. If some large landholders made available for share farming 10 per cent, or 20 per cent, of their holdings, the Government could settle thousands of families, practically without capital, and enable them to engage in productive work. It would be useless for the Government to purchase established farms as was done in connexion with soldier settlement schemes, when the price paid was too high and the blocks too small. Practical men knew from the outset that many of the exsoldiers, who were settled on the land, could not possibly succeed. When land was acquired for that purpose the Government rushed into the market and as the result of competition the prices paid were often too high. The consequence was that persons to whom the land was eventually allotted had to shoulder unnecessarily high charges. 1 should like to know the Government's intention concerning the £1,200,000 now in the Treasury, representing the accumulated income arising from liquidations of ex-enemy properties. I trust that that amount, which has been handed down to this Administration by the BrucePage Government, will be put to some good use such as towards the reduction of our war debt or our national debt. As a patriotic and enthusiastic Australian, I trust the Government has no intention of utilizing this money on some socialistic scheme in connexion with dockyards or shipbuilding. The Australian people will always remember that already £15,000,000 has been lost in Commonwealth shipping ventures, and that after £8,000,000 was written off the Australian Commonwealth Lines of Steamers it was at the time of its disposal losing £600,000 a year. The Australian people do not want any more government enterprises of that kind. Socialistic schemes such as Labour government's favour have been tried in other countries and found wanting. I sincerely trust that the amount which I have mentioned will not be utilized in any fantastic socialistic undertaking such as we have experienced from Labour administrations in the past. 
I congratulate  Senator Daly  upon his selection for the important office of Vice- 

 President of the Executive Council, and  Senator Barnes  upon his appointment as Assistant Minister for Works and Bailways. I shall, no doubt, disagree with them on many matters of policy; but I wish them well during the time they are in office. 
I have closely followed the speeches during this debate, and particularly the remarks of the mover of the motion,  Senator Dooley,  and the seconder,  Senator O'Halloran.  The former referred to the higher Customs duties which the Government were imposing on imported goods. If the imposition of higher duties resulted in a reduction in the cost of production in Australia, the Government's fiscal policy would doubtless have the support of every honorable senator. Our experience, however, is that higher' prices, and an increase in the cost of living, have always followed the imposition of increased duties. Unfortunately, the Australian primary producer, who has to operate in one of the most highlyprotected countries in the world, has to sell his products in the open markets of the world in competition with producers in other countries where production costs and Customs tariffs are much lower than they are in Australia. I am afraid that the latest tariff schedule will have the effect of placing a further burden upon the shoulders of the primary producers.  Senator O'Halloran  did not mention the tariff; but gave the impression that the primary producers of Australia would derive lasting benefit from a Labour government. Since these speeches were delivered an amended tariff schedule has been introduced, from which it would appear that even higher duties than those originally intended are to be imposed. 

 Silting . suspended from 6.15 to S p.m. 

It appears to me that at the present time the Government is legislating solely for the benefit of the city dweller. The primary producer, upon whose efforts and work the prosperity of Australia is largely dependent, has been completely overlooked. 
I deplore very much the unemployment at present prevalent in Australia. It is a great pity that continuity of work for all who desire to work, cannot be secured, but the present trouble is largely due to the obedience which the workers have to render to the dictates of the union leaders or agitators. These men prevent their followers from accepting profitable work when it is offering, and although they profess to believe in arbitration, when awards are given which are not to the liking of the unions they are disobeyed, with the result that unlimited suffering and distress have fallen upon those least able to bear them. This was particularly demonstrated in the timber workers strike which commenced at the beginning, of the present year and was greatly aggravated by inflammatory speeches delivered by gentlemen who are now occupying prominent positions in the present Government. Instead of inflaming the minds of the men and inciting them to disobey the awards given by the Arbitration Court, I consider it was the duty of those gentlemen to persuade them to obey the award and proceed with the work waiting to be done. We also have the distressing spectacle of the great coalmining industry of New South Wales standing idle for practically twelve months, although it is of vital importance to all industrial enterprises in Australia that as much coal as possible should be produced at a reasonable rate. As a result of the trouble in the coal industry, a large sum has been lost in wages to the workers, and a great deal of capital has been lost to Australia owing to the necessity to import thousands of tons of coal. If the men bad been in full work all this time enjoying full wages, unemployment in industries allied to coal mining would have been greatlyalleviated. It is essential that coal should be produced at a reasonable cost so that our secondary industries, which are so important to the success and prosperity of Australia, may be carried on profitably. 
When dealing with migration,  Senator O'Halloran  accused the late Government of causing a certain amount of unemployment by bringing in migrants to Australia, but the honorable senator knows as well as I do that the Federal Government does not bring in any immigrants. It merely controls the entry of immigrants for whom the States have requisitioned.  Senator O'Halloran  and 

 Senator Dunn accused the late Government of having brought Southern Europeans into this country. As a matter of fact, these Southern Europeans, like all other immigrants, are requisitioned by the States. The greatest influx of Italians we have had took place in Queensland when the Honorable E. G. Theodore was Premier of the State. At that time  Mr. Hunter  was Agent-General for Queensland. Regarding immigration  Mr. Hunter  said that he "approved of a very large number of Italians being brought out by Queensland because they went into the north and engaged in the development of the sugar land, and because, as they got accustomed to the country, they become holders of small areas and developed into useful citizens." " They would," he said, " assist in solving the labour difficulty to a large degree because the large sugar estates would disappear in favour of smaller holdings which the Italian families themselves would work." When  Mr. Moore,  the present Premier of Queensland, was Leader of the Opposition, and challenged the then Government with being responsible for the influx of Italians,  Mr. Hunter,  who was in the Parliament at the time, said : - 
I thought then, and I still think, that the admission of a good class of northern Italians could and would prove advantageous to North Queensland, and particularly to the sugar industry, the' future of which,' because of the high cost of production, cannot be viewed with equanimity. 
It is quite evident that the influx of Southern Europeans, so far as Queensland is concerned, was due to the deliberate policy of the Labour Government of the day. The Italians who were thus assisted to come to Queensland by the Theodore Government naturally informed their relatives and friends in their home country of their improved conditions; hence the heavy influx of Italians that took place in Queensland at the time. In any case the late Federal Government did not assist one Southern European to migrate to Australia. It could not prohibit the entry of these people for the obvious reasons I have already stated, but it took very definite action towards limiting their number. 
It was a matter for regret to me to read in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government proposes to curtail the work of the Development and Migration Commission. Honorable senators, who have spoken already have dealt exhaustively with this matter, and I do not intend to devote much time to it, but I should like to say that had this commission been functioning earlier, and had its advice been asked by the late Government of Queensland before it embarked upon its socialistic State trading schemes, which, until the defeat of the  Labour  government in May of this year had been in operation for a number of years, the taxpayers of the State would have avoided a capital expenditure of £5,000,000, and would not now be paying an annual interest bill of £250,000. ' 
I am sorry to learn that the Government proposes to interfere with the operation of the Transport Workers. Act by the suspension of licences on the waterfront. This will leave the way open for a recurrence of the trouble that we bad on the waterfront for many years prior to last November. For twelve months past work has proceeded on our wharves uninterruptedly and efficiently. In Queensland the loading and despatch of our primary products overseas has been done with continuity and without trouble. 
Tha t is so. And the unloading of the goods used in the State has also been done without trouble and very efficiently. I, therefore, regret that the Government is running the risk of interfering with that continuity and efficiency by suspending the issue of licences to the transport workers. 
According to reports that have been given to me by various shipping, insurance and warehouse interests in Queensland, that is so. 
That continuity of work has greatly assisted the smoother running of industrial activities, and a far greater confidence in the State of Queensland is also evident. 
The abolition of the system of  compu sory  military training has been dealt with very ably by several speakers, and I shall not labour the subject. I regret the action taken by the Government, as I think thai the practice of training the youth of h country to be prepared to defend their homeland and their rights of citizenship not only builds up character and gives to our young men an independent spirit, but also creates that feeling of fellowship which was such a noticeable feature in the Australian Imperial Force during the Great War. I feel that retrogression to a system of voluntary military training will imperil the future morale ,of our young manhood. 
The sugar industry of Queensland is one of this country's greatest bulwarks in the maintenance of its white Australian policy. That industry annually pays about £6,000,000 in wages and it has the support of all sections in Queensland. Unfortunately, the events of the past few months have had a rather disturbing effect on those concerned in the industry. The southern States have maintained a constant agitation for the removal of the embargo upon the importation of black-grown sugar. On the other hand, Queenslanders, as loyal Australians, are urged to support the highly protected products of the. southern manufacturers. The Town and Country Union has persistently disseminated propaganda, the object of which is to effect the removal of the embargo on the importation of blackgrown sugar. A short time ago that organization issued a remarkable manifesto which purported to disclose the enormous burden imposed upon the sou then - States by the maintenance of that embargo. It contained a number of misleading statements, and I am very glad that the Premier of Queensland publicly answered those allegations and proved that they were entirely wrong. I view with very grave concern the reported announcement by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr. Snowden,  that he hoped before he vacated office that all duties on food-stuffs, including sugar and dried fruits, would be swept away. The preference that Great Britain has given Australian-grown sugar has materially assisted Queensland sugargrowers to dispose of their surplus output at a price which although not showing a profit lias assisted them to carry on successfully. I am particularly apprehensive in this matter because since the new Federal Government has placed a further embargo on .British goods coming into Australia, we must expect retaliation from Great Britain. I sincerely trust that this Government will gee that at the next Imperial Conference the preferential claims of Queensland will- be kept well in the forefront by its representative. 
No, but it will greatly affect British manufacturers who have been sending their products to Australia and accepting our goods in return. 
I should like to congratulate the Leader of the Government in the Senate on his appointment to that high office, and also  Senator Barnes  on his appointment as Assistant Minister. Although I shall endeavour occasionally to hit those honorable senators hard, I assure thom that I shall never hit below the belt, and that whenever their proposals  have my approval they will receive my heartiest co-operation. 

 I should not have addressed the Senate on the Governor-General's Speech, which is a somewhat vague and rather barren document, had it not contained some references to issues which vitally interest me, such as industry, migration, the grant to Tasmania, and defence. Honorable senators are assembled here after one of the most extraordinary elections in the history of the Commonwealth. It was an election that was fought on a clear issue. From the late Government's point of view that, issue was the manner in which industrial power should be distributed between the Commonwealth and States. The Bruce-Page Government was opposed to dual control in industry. Labour alleged, quite incorrectly, that wage reduction and the abolition of industrial regulation by the Commonwealth were the objectives of the late Government. Apparently, the majority of the people of Australia believed those entirely false allegations. That is evident to any one who gazes upon another place and notes its present composition. I consider that I was an extraordinarily lucky individual, politically, that I was not up for election on the occasion of the recent appeal to the people. There is not the slightest ' doubt, that, with the wave that then swept over the whole of Australia, I should have been cast aside as were so many of my colleagues in another place. Undoubtedly the panic caused by the allegations that the BrucePage Government was out to reduce wages was the vital factor. The public was also deluded with a multiplicity of lavish promises of every conceivable kind, which were to be fulfilled if Labour were returned to power. The multitude will not, by a long chalk, receive what it was promised. But it has plenty to hope for, and I sincerely trust that it will keep on hoping. Otherwise, when it realizes that it has been duped, it may become " hipped," and the result will be a sticky business. 
There was a time when the Labour party was content to fight its campaign solely on its ideals. On this occasion its high standard was scrapped, and the Labour party exploited every artifice and trick of low cunning in an endeavour to delude electors into voting for it. With the aid of its wealthy allies, whom it promises not to tax, it had ample funds to flood the country with a turgid stream of propaganda. Politics having degenerated into a vote-catching competition, it was inevitable that Labour should win at the last election, because it beat its opponents out of sight in the matter of promises. All those promises appealed, principally, to the meaner and more sordid traits of human nature. Let us examine some of those ante-polling-day baits for the unwary. I shall confine myself to only one or two instances, particularly one which hit me in " my own State, when I was working on behalf of my colleagues in another place. The Sydney  Morning Herald  reported the present Treasurer,  Mr. Theodore,  as having said that if Labour were returned to power the coal-mines would he reopened within a fortnight. Again, speaking at Balmain on 24th September, 
Labour's campaign director used these words - 
One of the first actions of a Labour Government will be to re-open the coal-mines. The John Browns of Australia must not be permitted to hold up the country to ransom. The coal-owners must open the mines, or the Labour Government will open them in the name of the people. 
What wicked humbug!  Mr. Theodore  knew, when he made that vote-catching promise, that the Commonwealth had no power to re-open the mines. 
The Governor-General's Speech offers no solution of the unemployment problem, although hundreds of unemployed workers were deluded into believing that the Labour party possessed a cure for that evil. I sincerely hope that the Labour Government will be much more successful than the Labour party in Great Britain has been in dealing with this problem. Last May, a Labour Government was returned in Britain, largely because that party promised to solve the unemployment problem there. Six months have passed, and to-day there are 90,000 more persons in the ranks of the unemployed in Britain than when the Ramsay MacDonald Government assumed office. Speaking again at Balmain,  Mr. Theodore,  the campaign director of the Labour party, said that the Labour party believed that with suitable measures, the unemployment problem was capable of solution. What did he mean by "suitable measures"? What is the policy of the Government in relation to unemployment? One of the worst ways of relieving unemployment is to spend borrowed money on unproductive works. 
Another of the levers used by the Labour party in Tasmania was that returned soldiers temporarily employed in the Postal Service, on whom notices of dismissal had been served by the late Government, would be retained in the Service under a Labour Government. Many of these men voted for Labour candidates.' But already their high hopes have been brushed,' for the  Sydney Morning Herald  of a few days ago contained a paragraph stating that some of them had already complained that they would have got a better deal from  Mr. Gibson  than they have from  Mr. Lyons.  It is hard for any government to stand up to such promises. If a political party makes wild vote-catching promises it must take the consequences when it finds that it cannot honour them. 
There was also a promise that a Labour Government would introduce a scheme of unemployment insurance. 3 suppose that we shall have to wait for that, for the Governor-General's Speech makes no reference to it. 
One would have thought that the Labour party had a sufficient grasp of the financial position of the country to refrain from promising any scheme of child endowment. But that promise was made although the party must have known that effect could not be given to it. 
Another sop to the electors was a promise to abolish the increased excise duties on spirits and tobacco. That proposal was popular, for many men like a drop of grog at times, and the majority of them smoke. I had a long talk with a wine and spirit merchant in my home town. He said that he would not vote for any candidate supporting the Bruce-Page Government, because that government would raise the duties on whisky. He said that if the price of whisky went beyond ls. a nobbier it would affect his business, and that therefore he would vote for the Labour party candidate. That gentleman was, no doubt, exceedingly pleased to receive a postcard I sent him. informing him that the duty on whisky imposed by the Scullin Government was 8s. a gallon - more than the Bruce-Page Government proposed. There was no ambiguity about these promises. The campaign director said clearly that Labour would not impose higher excise duties on liquor or tobacco. The report of his address shows that that declaration was received with cheers. He went on to say that the Labour party would not impose customs duties for the sole purpose of raising revenue. That party has burned its boats; there are not many new avenues for raising revenue to carry on the services of the country. 
But the promise that there would be no taxation of amusements was the most effective of all. Amusements were to be sacrosanct. I ask the Government, whose campaign director said that there would he no taxation on amusement, whether it intends to abolish the present amusement tax? The campaign director termed the proposal of the late Government with respect to the amusement tax, " a paltry and inglorious attempt to extract money from the children's entertainment." How atrocious to tax the children's amuse-: ments! 
Then there was the promise to reestablish the Commonwealth shipping line, with special reference to Tasmania. I was born in Tasmania, and am a patriotic son of that State; but I should be very sorry indeed to see that line resuscitated, for we all know that it was a bottomless sink into which public moneys were poured. Should the line be resurrected it is not difficult to imagine who would control it. Again the tail would wag the dog. I had some firsthand knowledge of the running of the Commonwealth shipping line when it existed, and I can imagine the nature of the service Tasmania would get from a government-owned and governmentcontrolled line. The business of governments is to govern, not to trade. The world is full of instances of the failure of governmentcontrolled enterprises. There seems to be some curse or blight associated with them ; invariably they are wasteful, costly, and inefficient. 
A newspaper paragraph informed us recently that the Government contemplates building ships at Cockatoo Island. Should it decide to do so, we can rest assured that they will take a long time to build, and be very expensive. 
That may be; but how long did it take to build them and what did they cost? Not only is there the example of the Commonwealth shipping line to guide us, but the Stateowned shipping line of Tasmania provides another lesson in governmental enterprise. That line was primarily intended for trade between Tasmania, Victoria, and New South Wales, with a subsidiary line to King Island and Flinders Island in Bass Strait, two island dependencies of Tasmania. It is somewhat amusing to think that two of the gentle men who a few weeks ago were proclaiming from the housetops the benefits which Tasmania would derive from a Commonwealth line of steamers, were members of a Labour government - one its Premier, and the other its Chief Secretary - which, in the interests of Tasmania, sold its State-owned ships. How can they, in the light of their experience, now say that the establishment of a Commonwealth shipping line will solve Tasmania's problems and give to that State a regular and frequent shipping service? 
Some of the electioneering pamphlets distributed by the Labour party contained the most scandalous misrepresentation of facts. Those which came under my notice were authorized by E. G. Theodore, campaign director of the Australian Labour party, Trades Hall, Sydney. They were excellent specimens of the depth to which men can sink when seeking to secure votes from electors whom they are attempting to hoodwink. One of these pamphlets had reference to the late Government's withdrawal of the prosecution of  Mr. John  Brown. Yet only yesterday the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  admitted, in reply to a question, that the present Government did not suggest, that there was any corruption whatsoever in the withdrawal of that prosecution. What I regarded as the worst of the lot was a green pamphlet entitled " What Labour will do for the returned soldier." On that pamphlet was the picture of a man - I presume he was a soldier in mufti - surrounded by a number of snakes, and on it there was a printed list of promises of what Labour would do for the " diggers." As an ex-State  president  of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, I have been . intensely interested for many years in the welfare of my " cobbers." In my State we have been working earnestly in the interests of all returned men, and, I hope also, in the interests of the Commonwealth, to see that returned soldiers get a fair deal - no more and no less. This pamphlet, which was circulated, during the campaign, was a particularly oily sort of thing. Palpably- it was .intended as a bribe to any deluded fool who took it at its face value. One of the promises made was that if Labour wore returned to power, disabled diggers need not worry about the future, because they would be provided with suitable jobs in the Public Service. That, I submit, was particularly despicable. I do not see how the Labour Government can give effect to that promise. I do not mind a fair fight. I am prepared always to take and give hard knocks, but I abhore anything in the nature of dirty business. 
Another particularly obnoxious pamphlet was headed " Crisscross words. The latest puzzle." I secured a number of these pamphlets and posted one each to the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and the ex-Attorney-General (Mi- Latham) because I thought it possible that legal action might be taken. It was the basest form of trickery that one could expect to find in any election contest. The pamphlet, which was deliberately designed to deceive the people, contained it number of quotations from  Hansard,  purporting to be extracts from the speeches of the  ex-Prime  Minister and ex-Attorney-General, and opposite each quotation was an extract, dated 1929, printed in quotation marks and purporting to contain statements by either the ex-Prime Minister or the exAttorneyGeneral in regard to arbitration. These extracts were wholly untrue, but they misled anyone who was not aware of the fact.. Opposite each statement were printed the words alleged to have been uttered by the ex-Prime Minister " The job is too big for me - arbitration must go." This was the most dastardly form of misrepresentation during an election campaign that has ever come under my notice, and I say, in all seriousness, it is ii pity that politicians cannot be prosecuted for obtaining votes by such dishonest practices. 
A lost fight holds uo interest for me, but I am always interested in the next fight. It is no use to indulge in recriminations once a fight is over, but I do protest that in the last campaign our opponents so degraded themselves as to broadcast incorrect and misleading statements concerning the Governor-General - the representative in this country of  His  Majesty the King. "We had some inkling nf this matter in this chamber before we wont to the country, in the form of. references to the visit of the Governor-General to the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. That visit of  His Excellency  the Governor-General was made the text of an election pamphlet, and the impression was given that the Bruce-Page Government, as well as the Governor-General, had been guilty of unpardonable extravagance. The facts do not bear out this allegation.  His Excellency  visited' the Mandated Territory in the aeroplane carrier  Albatross.  It was not a special trip to New Guinea at all, as the ship has to be maintained in commission and her crew have to receive their training. Every one knows it is advisable that, the officers and crew should have experience of cruising in tropical waters, and any one with the most rudimentary knowledge of aviation knows also that pilots should have flying experience in the tropics. The cruise was undertaken for that purpose solely. Had the  Albatross  remained in Sydney Harbour the cost of maintenance would not have been very much less than the trip to the Mandated Territory. Nevertheless statements were made that the visit of  His Excellency  the Governor-General had cost the Commonwealth £14,000, and as the campaign progressed, the figures rose, until the people were told that it had cost Australia £18,000, much of which, so it. was alleged, could have been saved if the Bruce-Page Government had 'exercised reasonable economy. The facts are that the visit of the Governor-General to New Guinea did not cost the Commonwealth anything.  His Excellency,  following the usual custom, joined the officers' mess and paid his own mess bills. This deliberate misrepresentation by our political opponents nauseates decent people. It is deplorable that  His Excellency  the Governor-General should have been dragged into the contest in this way. 
I am particularly interested in the Government's proposal to suspend assisted migration under the £34,000,000 migration agreement with the Imperial Government. For three and a half years, from 1922 to the beginning of 1925, T was State immigration officer in Tasmania, so I can speak with some knowledge on this subject. I have always maintained that we should not introduce more people than can be absorbed in Australia, but I question the wisdom of drastically and suddenly calling a halt. The broadcasting of a message that Australia cannot absorb any more migrants must re-act upon the Commonwealth in a most unfavorable manner. I listened with interest to the speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  this afternoon, and I still think that the Government's action was hasty and ill-advised. Had the responsibility to take action been mine, I should quietly have eased up on migration, but would not  have advertised the fact. 
It was, in my opinion, a grave error of judgment. I know there had been a great deal of kite-flying in the press over the migration proposals of the Government, and it was from the press that I learned of the Government's intention to suspend the assisted passages provisions of the agreement. I imagine also that the news was released for publication by some responsible authority. 
Another paragraph in the Speech of the GovernorGeneral that is of particular interest to me is the reference to the Government's proposal to authorize the payment of special grants to the States of South Australia and Tasmania. The former Government, it will be remembered, decided to grant Tasmania the sum of £250,000 per annum for five years to recoup the State for its loss of revenue under federation. I was hoping, that the present Government would go one better, because, during the last election campaign, Labour candidates persistently alleged that the Bruce-Page Government had treated Tasmania is a shockingly niggardly manner. The following is a copy of an advertisement published in one of the  Tasmanian  newspapers in the interests of the gentleman, who is now the Postmaster-General, and also the honorable member for Bass : - 
Messrs. J. A. Lyons for Wilmot and J. Guy for Bass are contesting seats in the Federal Parliament as a protest against the niggardly treatment of Tasmania by the Bruce-Page Government. The case for Tasmania, recently submitted to the Prime Minister, proved that a grant for £400,000 was necessary to enable the State to meet its obligations.  Mr. Bruce  calmly offered us £250,000 a year. The 
Nationalist Government has failed to provide adequate shipping communication, has failed to give proper encouragement to our industries and, in a word, has failed Tasmania by their niggardly treatment in offering us £250,000. 
I do not wish to rub this in too much, but I should like to know what the Government proposes to do. There have been many investigations into the financial position of Tasmania. In 1926  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer conducted an exhaustive inquiry into the affairs of the State, and submitted certain recommendations, and, as I have stated, during the election the people were led to believe that if Labour were returned the State would get more generous treatment than it received from the Bruce-Page Government. We ''find' now that it is proposed to adopt the 1 policy of the Bruce-Page Government" in this respect, but. the Government, in order to save its face, is to refer the subject to the Public Accounts Committee for inquiry. There is no need for that committee to visit Tasmania; it is an absolute waste of money. The Government has all the evidence it requires at its disposal, and if it needs additional information surely the present Postmaster-General  (Mr. Lyons),  who was Premier and Treasurer of Tasmania for five years, can supply it.  Mr. Lyons  told the electors of Tasmania that the Bruce-Page Government was not giving them a fair deal, and that it was impossible for that State to meet its liabilities unless it received a grant of at least £400,000 a year from the Commonwealth. Why does not  Mr. Lyons,  who is now a member of the cabinet, fight for the State of which he is a representative? 
There is no necessity for a further exhaustive examination when the fullest possible inquiries have already been made by other authorities, and the information obtained by them is at the immediate disposal of the Government. Surely the present PostmasterGeneral can enlighten the Government on any point that may arise concerning the disabilities which Tasmania is experiencing. When  Mr. Lyons  was. addressing the electors of Tasmania, he did not tell them that if a Labour Government was returned to power heavy additional taxation would be imposed. 
We were always trying to get the best we could, and with the assistance of my colleagues, I have for 3£ years been endeavouring to obtain justice for Tasmania. The present Postmaster-General, when addressing the electors in Tasmania, said that the people should return Labour members who were men of ability, and not take any chances by sending back the " mugs " who were followers of Bruce, and who would do all he told them. The present Government has dishonoured its promise to the electors, quite a number of whom believed that if a Labour Government were returned Tasmania would receive at least a grant of £400,000. 
I wish now to refer to the defence policy of the Labour party, which includes the abolition of compulsory military training. Section 119 of the Constitution reads - 
The Commonwealth shall protect every State against invasion, and on the application of an executive Government of a State against domestic violence.- 
During the 30 years I have been associated with the defence forces of Australia, I have held practically every rank from that of private to LieutenantColonel. The suspension of compulsory military training is a matter of profound regret to every good Australian. Ministers have declined to debate the subject on its merits, and find it preferable, politically, to connect their action in this respect with the depressed state of the public finances. This radical change is being brought about, not because of the need for economy - on those grounds it will not stand examination - but in order to obey the dictates of the political forces that push the Ministry from behind. I was quite relieved when I read in the Tasmanian newspapers, a statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr. A. Green)  to the effect that the defence policy of the Government would be considered by Cabinet, and that apparently nothing was to be done in a hurry. The Minister said that responsible officers would be consulted, and suggested that perhaps a more economical and efficient system would be adopted. The honorable member for Ballarat  (Mr. McGrath)  who secured only a minor prize when the distribution occurred, put the Minister for Defence in his place, and said that there was no need for Cabinet to consider the subject as compulsory military training would be wiped out before Christmas. The honorable member for Ballarat, who is not  a  member of the Cabinet, proved a more reliable prophet than the Minister for Defence, because three days afterwards it was- officially notified that compulsory training and camps were to be suspended, and all prosecutions were to be withdrawn. 
-Possiby Cabinet did consider it, but with the result that if Cabinet had not suspended compulsory military training, caucus would have suspended the Cabinet. Prior to the last general election we heard a good deal concerning the late Government having received a mandate from the people to deal with the arbitration system. Has the present Government received a mandate from the people to abolish compulsory military training? 
In the policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition as reported in the  Labour Daily  of Sydney, and what I may term the Labour Daily of Melbourne, the  Age,  the abolition of compulsory training was not mentioned. The then Leader of the Opposition emphatically intimated that his party was prepared to assume full responsibility for the defence of Australia. There are certain acts which a government must perform, the most important of which is the provision of adequate means' for the defence of the country. It is also necessary to ensure continuity of policy, and the building up of reserves of partially trained men. The first camp held after the termination of war was in 1923 - I am speaking of the 12th Battalion, under my command. Since then we have progressed steadily, and have  shown increased efficiency and enthusiasm. I was pleased to learn last year that our unit was 93 per cent, efficient. In connexion with that battalion, we have formed an athletic, a debating, and a very fine rifle club for members who have completed their training, and who are still more or less associated with the battalion. The results have been excellent, but there can be no continuity if there is a break in the elementary training. There are to be no more camps this year, and the position is becoming chaotic. It appears that all the excellent work undertaken during the last six or seven years is to be rendered valueless. 
I am a volunteer. 
My personality does not come into the question. I am but a pawn, just as I was in the Great "War. It is the national aspect we must take into consideration, and I regard it as madness to make a break in our defence system because of temporary financial stringency, which is the ostensible reason we have been given for the change. In times of distress a man does not cut down his insurance policy; it is the last step he would dream of taking; and the last step Australia should dream of taking is to cut down its defence forces. The falseness of this plea, this fatuous excuse, becomes very evident because there is no promise that training will be renewed when times are better. There are to be no training camps this coming year, and, as every soldier knows, we cannot get on without camps. We cannot get the young fellows to give up their time to military training without a camp. With eight days of continuous training, more can be done than in the rest of the year. 
Honorable senators of the Labour party talk about the suspension of compulsory military training. That is nonsense. What they really mean is abolition. 1 It is the beginning of the end of the prospects of the land forces of Australia becoming an efficient body which, if necessary, could' he used in the fighting line at fairly short notice. Yes, I am a volunteer. I was a volunteer 30 years ago when as a boy of seventeen I went into my first camp. I was a volunteer in South Africa for seven years. I served in Southern Rhodesia as a volunteer. 
All the talk we have heard about fancy uniforms is worth nothing. , A soldier's business is to be master of his weapons. Everything else is merely frill. The plea that a voluntary system can be carried on at a smaller cost at once loses all force if the volunteers are to be rigged out in fancy uniforms. With all due respect to  Senator Payne,  the kilt is no part of the national garb of Australia. We want to maintain a national Australian spirit in our forces. The plea for a fancy uniform cuts no ice. A man is not trained by being made to look pretty. Men say, " The good old volunteer." Whatever a man's reasons for volunteering may be, he must be a fairly decent chap, but under the voluntary system we allow the slacker, the shirker, and the waster to escape his obligation to fit himself to defend his country if necessary. As a matter of fact, we are going back to the "bad old volunteer days." Every soldier knows that the phrase, " One volunteer is better than half a dozen pressed men," cuts no ice. Last night, when I was listening to my honorable -and very gallant friend,  Senator Dunn,  reading so eloquently the  Marseillaise,  the French national anthem, I could not help thinking how appropriate was the Une, which the honorable senator read with such dramatic effect - 
To arms, to arms, ye brave! 
That sums up Labour's defence policy. We are now asking the brave to come along and take up arms. Universal training is such a democratic thing that I imagined it would appeal to honorable senators opposite. It does not make fish of one and flesh of another. 

 - Senator Rae is opposed to all systems of defence. He is perfectly honest about his attitude. He would abolish defence.  His  troubles about it. 
The honorable senator would wipe defence clean out. 
Of course, but it has no bearing on what I am saying at the moment. A voluntary system is a flabby sort of thing. Under it escape the very people we ought to train, so as to lead them to realize that, as citizens, they have responsibilities as well as those rights of which we are perhaps prone to talk over-much. 
There is a factor in this business which, although small, has an important effect upon our national life. When universal training was first introduced in Tasmania we had a rather uphill fight in the first year or two because the trainees were all a bit collar-proud ; it was quite a novelty to a lot of them. But the people in the Tasmanian towns know that when the system got going well the larrikin or push element disappeared. The boys had something else to think about. They had discovered the true team spirit and that there was more in the business than they imagined. 
Universal training was gradually approached from 1909 to 1910 and was eventually brought in by proclamation by the Fisher Government on the 1st January, 1911. But it was not done without seeking the best military advice obtainable. We had a visit from Lord Kitchener, who was, I believe, one of the greatest administrators and organizers the Empire has ever produced. He had a good look at what we had to offer him, the old militia system, which he regarded as a rather weak arm to be used should ever the occasion arise, and he recommended a system of universal training as being best fitted for a country like Australia, which did not desire and could not afford a professional army. Universal training was therefore proclaimed and it has been in operation for years and has not been a failure. On the contrary it has had a great measure of success. It stood the test of a long and bloody war. It was natural that, in 1918, and for a little time afterwards we should be rather war weary. We were licking our wounds, repatriating our men, and no one lad much enthusiasm to talk about defence. But that period had passed by 1923, when training was resumed and things, as  Senator Glasgow  well knows, have been steadily going on very well. We were getting splendid results and it is amazing that the present Ministry should have decided to abolish universal training apparently without consulting the Council for Defence or any other authority that would have advised it that a sudden suspension would mean chaos. Among the thirteen Ministers there is not one who has even the foggiest knowledge of war, and to abolish compulsory military training without consulting people who were in a position to know what would be the effect of such a step was most extraordinary. To my mind it is the most retrograde step Australia has vet taken. It is one thing to suspend compulsory military training by administrative act, and quite a. different matter to repeal the provision for it in the Defence Act. It is the inescapable responsibility of every citizen worthy of the name to be prepared if necessary to defend his country? We must hold our great island continent with our own hands. 
The statement attributed to the P#rime Minister is that the Australian Imperial Force demonstrated that we can take great hordes of untrained men, and, provided we have a nucleus of trained officers and instructors, turn them in a very short time into first-class battle troops. The Australian Imperial Force did not demonstrate it. As a matter of fact, its experience was quite the contrary. When the call came in August, 1914, universal training had been in existence for three years, and' we also had quite a large number of officers and non-commissioned officers who had seen a certain amount of service in Africa and elsewhere. Nevertheless, despite the time spent in training in Australia, plus the training we had in the desert of Egypt for some six or seven months before we made the landing in April, 1915 - and it was very hard, intensive training, so hard that lots of fellows in the infantry cracked up in Egypt : it was a case of the  survival of the fittest - we were far from ready to take our place in the line. We were not trained troops then. After the evacuation of Gallipoli we had more training in the desert, and more in France, and when our fellows hopped over at Fleurbaix in 1916 they were still a long way from the wonderful standard the Australian Imperial Force achieved in 1918, especially that of the artillery. It was not until then that we had that wonderful technique, war craft and mastery of the art that made the Australian Imperial Force famous. It is a most fallacious idea that in a short time we can take mcn without previous training, and with the best of instructors turn them into firstclass fighting units. It cannot be done, and I tremble to think what would happen if a rabble of men .not fully trained had to take the field. Its punishment would be dreadful. I have seen time after time what results from lack of training. I saw' it years ago as a trooper in Africa. In South Africa I saw Imperial Yeomanry of the new order, hastily trained, rushed into the veldt, to get it badly in the neck. They had not a hope against the wily Dutchmen, who were inured to the veldt. I saw similar instances in France. The braver that untrained troops are the worse punishment they receive from the enemy. That was noticeable in connexion with our friends, the Americans. We took them into action on the 4th July, 1918, at the battle of Hamel, and those splendid fellows, of fine physique, but as green as a salad, and lacking a knowledge of war craft, suffered terribly. Again, in October of that year, two Yankee divisions went in with us, and their ranks later were like a shambles. They lacked the necessary training. 
And how can we count on being granted time in which to train when the need arises? The Australian Imperial Force was extraordinarily fortunate in that it had time to train, and that was due only to the might and strength of that incomparable instrument of righteousness, the British Navy. I could dilate at great  length upon the subject of lack of training, but why should I labour it? I know the experience of my own battalion, through which over 6,000 men went in four and a half years. One hundred and eleven officers, and something like 3,500 men became casualties. On Gallipoli alone we lost 36 officers and 1,060 men. We came out of Bullecourt with five officers and 121 men. It was like the Phoenix rising from its ashes. Time and again our strength was renewed by the influx of partially trained reinforcements, who were steadied and stiffened by a nucleus of veterans, who survived and coached the new drafts. 
It is alarming to hear this fallacious reasoning from people who know nothing about  wai-,  and who have not been through the fiery furnace. It is impossible to take a rabble of untrained men, put them under a few instructors, and in a short time expect to have highly trained and seasoned warriors. That false reasoning has been disproved time and time again.  Senator Daly  said " Oh, but the next war will be a scientific one." The last was pretty scientific. I could talk for a long time about some of the scientific methods that were used. But machines do not fight. Tanks do not fight. Aeroplanes do not fight. It is the man who manipulate our tanks and our aeroplanes that count. It is the man who counts all the time, and if we in Australia are going to scrap our system of compulsory training, we shall become flabby. Are wo to be content to ask the old man, John Bull, to carry our burden ? Is that the sort of people we are? 
I am unaware that it had any immoral effect. It teaches the youngsters time citizenship. It gives them some idea of their responsibilities as well as their rights.  It  teaches them honesty of purpose, steadfastness, loyalty to. comrades, and the value of order, of method. That is most important.^ It teaches them selfdiscipline; self-control. That again is most important. It teaches them team work, efficiency, and the stern necessity for physical fitness. To suppose that a boy who acquires the virtues of selfdiscipline, the value of organization, the ability to obey in order later on to command, and to face fatigue without shirking, becomes innoculated with the germ of aggressive militarism is much the same as to say that if a young fellow takes boxing lessons he will become a truculent individual, a bully, a hooligan. 
We shall sadly miss the good effect of compulsory military training. And I do not think that a voluntary system will be cheaper. Actually, it will be more costly, and will not give the results, obtained under the old system. All sorts of difficulties will arise under a voluntary system. Under the compulsory training system we had the power to allot boys to the various arms of the service, and so were able to build up the different quotas satisfactorily. Under the new scheme there will be no difficulty in filling up the ranks of signallers and the wireless sections, as that appeals to the lads. Probably there will be no difficulty in enlisting gunners, as boys are fond of horses. But it will be extraordinarily difficult to obtain a quota for the infantry, although we shall all do our best. And the infantry is the backbone of all armies. Again, has the Government considered the attitude of the employer? Under the compulsory system difficulty was experienced with only a few employers, but I am apprehensive that under a voluntary system lads will be adversely affected in their civil vocations. 
Because I have spoken in this strain some honorable senators may conclude, quite wrongly, that I am a believer in war, a militarist. .Having been through two wars, I assure them that I am not a militarist nor am I a pacifist. I loathe the very idea of war. I am a firm believer in the League of Nations, and am one of the vice-presidents .of the Tasmanian branch of the League of Nations Union. I wholeheartedly support the League and what it means. I pray for the day when nations will renounce . war as an instrument of national policy. But," after all, the 
League of Nations is only a piece of machinery designed to obviate war. There are two mighty powers outside that League that I should like to see affiliated with it, the United States of America and the Soviet Republic of Russia. We in Australia are in a difficult position. A White Australia is a matter of faith with us. A great many of us also believe in a high tariff. Further, we are a very sparsely populated country. All those are factors that might cause war. The League of Nations does not believe in a White Australia, nor do I think that our old father, John Bull, has very great faith in that ideal of ,ours. If we throw on him the onus of our defence he might very justifiably turn round and say. " Well, you brought trouble on yourselves with your White Australia policy, in which I do not believe; why should 1 defend you ? " We must be prepared to stand on our own feet. It was nothing short of a national calamity to scrap universal training, animated as it was by a truly democratic spirit. To build it up, to foster it, to make it efficient will be not only to create a national asset, but to provide a great and noble aid in the moulding of the character of our young Australians. 
My first duty is to congratulate the Leader of the Government in this chamber on his meteoric rise to prominence in this country. There are not many countries in which a young man can rise from comparative obscurity - I say that not offensively - to be one of the foremost counsellors in the land. We had the pleasure of sitting alongside  Senator Daly  in his capacity as Leader of the Opposition for only the short space of three months when he was suddenly transferred to the other side of -the chamber as Leader of the Senate. If the honorable senator were inclined to look about him for a judge who would treat him leniently, he could not do better than select me, for I should be kind to him, and would temper justice with mercy. I should say that, for every month he was in opposition, he should have a sentence of a full twelve months in .the seat .of authority. In three years' time he would probably be ready to hand over the seals of office, and being then much tempered and improved as  a  result of his years of experience, and the sobering influence of responsibility, he would be a better citizen even than he is to-day.  I  give the honorable senator about three years in office before he makes room for  a  better man - I speak in a political sense. Having offered my congratulations to the Leader of the Senate I shall have pleasure in offering him advice from time to time, notwithstanding that my advice in the past has often been unheeded. 
The present occasion offers an opportunity to review the past and look forward to the future. It is an opportunity for both retrospection and introspection; we can look around us as well as within. The more we look within and try to reconcile our actions with the monitor within us, the better we shall be able to justify our actions. 
As a result of the election for members of another place, there has been a change of government, and with it a" change of policy in relation to ministerial representation in the Senate. As the days flit paSt, the folly of the Government in treating the Senate as it has done is becoming more and more apparent. This chamber is the true expression of the people of this country, yet in it the Government is represented to-day by only one Minister. Apparently for good reasons, his colleague,  Senator Barnes,  a man respected by all shades of opinion, is absent. It is a physical impossibility for one Minister to handle the business of the country in this chamber. In another place the Treasury bench is overmanned. What has the Senate done to deserve this treatment? Can any rational being say that it is justified? To leave the Senate with only two Ministers is not to play the game by the party itself, to say nothing of the undue burden thrown on the shoulders of one man by a party which professes to believe in fair play and equality of sacrifice. The Leader of the Senate has my sympathy. I protest against the affront which has been offered to this chamber. We do not want much consideration - a few small crumbs from the table of the party in' power ' would satisfy us - but we do not even get those crumbs of consolation. No more despicable treatment of the chamber could be imagined. And  a  so-called democratic party is responsible for it! I enter my protest, futile though it be, against the discreditable treatment of this chamber by the Government. 
I desire to correct an impression regarding this chamber which is altogether too prevalent. I have heard it said that the Senate has failed to fulfil its constitutional role, that it has not lived up to the expectations of the framers of the Constitution. Those who decry the Senate say that, instead of it being the custodian of State rights, it is merely an echo of another place. I remind those who speak in that manner of the old saying that, if you give a dog a bad name, it will stick to it. If in any community there is a man who is given credit rightly or wrongly for being wiser than his fellows, his remarks are repeated over and over again until they come to be regarded as almost a truism. The Senate has not failed. It is not merely the echo of another place. When a clash occurred between the two chambers some years ago, what was the result? The Senate was challenged, and had to appear before the bar of public opinion; but, notwithstanding the manner in which it had been abused, it came back triumphant. The government of the day and members of another place had to acknowledge the Senate as the standard expression of public opinion in this country. 
The Senate is still the custodian of State rights. Whenever the interests of a State have been at stake, the representatives of that State in this chamber have sunk their political differences and have stood firmly for the State they represented. When the sugar industry of Queensland was in danger senators representing that State between whose political opinions there was a gulf so wide that there was no possibility of spanning it, forgot their differences and stood as one man  in the interests of Queensland until their common object was achieved. On another occasion, when senators representing New South Wales felt that the interests of that State were at stake in connexion with the selection of a site for a federal capital, they, with the solitary and honorable exception of  Senator Rae,  stood solidly for New South Wales. Liberal and Labour pulled together on the same  rope until their joint aim was secured. When the country's fiscal policy of protection was being decided, was there any difference between the representatives of Victoria, who in other matters were keen rivals? Victorian senators knew that the policy of the people of that State was protection, and they pulled together to give effect to that policy. Again, when South Australia proposed to hand over the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth, the six representatives of that State in the Senate - men of warring political opinions - united until success crowned their efforts. The same thing happened in the case of the Western Australian senators in connexion with the transcontinental railway. 
These facts stand out like Wilson's Pro.monotory to show that senators holding different political views have sunk their differences when occasion has demanded it. The facts of current history refute the superficial criticism of those who say that the Senate has failed. If this chamber has at all failed to do what the framers of the Constitution expected - and I deny that it has - it has done so in obedience to a mandate from the people. Among those who took a prominent part in the framing of the Constitution was  Sir Josiah  Symon, who afterwards represented South Australia in the Senate. But the time came when, although he was an outstanding figure, he was, as it were, ground between the two party machines of the day. The electors of South Australia refused to return him as an independent candidate, notwithstanding that they fully appreciated his preeminence.  Senator Cameron,  from Tasmania, was one of the most respected members of the Senate; but the time came when he, too, suffered the same fate as  Senator Sir Josiah  Symon. What attitude did those journals which now criticize the Senate adopt in the past? They ranged themselves beside the party machine; they used their influence to send here men who were a part of that machine. The press of Australia sounded the political death knell of  Senator Sir Josiah  Symon and  Senator Cameron.  Yet those journals now condemn the Senate for doing what they themselves commenced. When I am told that the Senate has failed, I am reminded of the old exploded shibboleths about the " teeming East " and "an Englishman's home being his castle", and the like. There is no " teeming East " but there is a " teeming West ". We have heard much about the overflowing population of the East; but, as a matter of fact, the " teeming " population of the world is to be found not within the Asiatic boundaries, but in the European countries. So it is a palpable absurdity, in these days, to talk about the " teeming East ". That story is in the same category as the legend that " an Englishman's home is his castle." It is certainly nothing of the kind, if he happens to owe money on it. Rather is it the other fellow's castle then. 
With regard to the recent election contest, all I can say is that we know the result and must accept the verdict. It is true that the result has not been reflected in this chamber, but undoubtedly it has in another place, and to a marked degree. I venture to say that, if the Labour party had been in possession of the Treasury bench, and had members of that party dared to express independent opinions on important issues as was done by certain Nationalists their fate would have been somewhat different from the fate of those members of the Nationalist party who were responsible for the downfall of the Bruce-Page Government. I tremble to think of what would have happened to them had they dared to take an independent stand on a vital issue. The iron discipline of the party would quickly have brought them to heel. Not so with members of the Nationalist party. But, after all, there are compensations in the thought that a member of this party may exercise liberty of thought and still live unmolested. Why should free-born men in this free and democratic country be penalized for the exercise of this privilege? Why should liberty of thought be denied . to any individual by a coterie of leaders, who arrogate to themselves that right? It passes my comprehension how men who claim that right should seek to withhold it from any of their fellow men. That is not freedom; it is only a base imitation of true liberty. The essence of liberty is the free exercise of the Godgiven right of every man to state his views fearlessly, and without fear of the consequences. I hope, therefore, that the Commonwealth will derive some benefit from the change, even though the party to which I belong is for the time in the cold shades of opposition. 
The right of every man to the free expression of his views is the very salt of our social system. Particularly is this true when it is so intimately associated with the government of a country. "What right has any party, with freedom emblazoned on its banner, to debar any member of it from the free expression of his personal views? No wonder Danton, the soul and spirit of the French revolution, said, " Better be a' fisherman than meddle in the art of governing men." 
well remember an outstanding illustration of the vindictiveness with which this freedom-loving Labour party treated a man of my acquaintance, in the State which I represent in this chamber. Long before the Labour party came into existence in this country he was an earnest preacher of the doctrine of true socialism. As time went on, he joined the Labour party in Western Australia, and, when I was working in the mines there, he contested one of the goldfields seats in the State Parliament. I knew him to be one of the most loyal and devoted men that ever walked in shoe leather. When the war came, because he dared to express his individual opinion, and because it was not acceptable to his party, he was cast aside with ignominy. When finally the poor fellow was sacked at Midland Junction, he endeavoured to make a living carting vegetables round the district, but these people would not even deal with him. In due time, when death claimed him,  they  would not even go to his funeral. Thus, as we see, spite and vindictiveness outlived even life itself. These are facts which stand out as a living witness of what is. possible in an allegedly free democracy. 
What happened to cause the people to reject the Nationalist party in view of the fact that barely twelve months previously they had returned it to power with a substantial majority? It is difficult to understand what one might term the mentality of democracy, and I am afraid that if we endeavour to ascertain the reason for the change we shall engage on a profitless enterprise. I recall that in 1913, the Fisher Government was defeated notwithstanding the fact that it had given legislative effect to all its pledges. Democracy on that occasion said to Labour, "Well done. You have done all that you undertook to do ; nevertheless you are not considered fit to enjoy a further lease of power, so for the time being you must surrender control of this country to others." This cuts both ways. The party that is victorious to-day may, without any apparent reason, be vanquished to-morrow. 
It is, as 1 have said, almost impossible to state definitely what caused the ignominious defeat of the Nationalist party, but I suggest that there were a few palpable contributory causes. In the first place we should keep in mind the general feeling that is abroad in regard to the relation of the government to the individual and, on the other hand, the relation of the individual to the government. The position is entirely different from what it was 25 to 30 years ago. May I remind honorable senators that in those days the average Australian citizen was not disposed to lean upon the Government to anything like the same extent that the average Australian to-day looks to a paternal Government for help in any and all circumstances. This, 1 suggest, indicates a very sad declension in moral standards. The average Australian of to-day does not stand so upright as did the average Australian of 30 years ago. The pioneering spirit of those days appears to be missing. There is less inclination, unaided by the Govern ment, to . face the dangers arrayed against us, and emerge triumphant from our troubles. Nowadays, if anything' goes wrong we blame the Government. My advice to young Australians is that , they should stand upright and at all costs work out their own material salvation, without looking to the Government for so much direction and assistance. 
This changed mental outlook is, I think, one reason why the Nationalists in this chamber are on your left,  Mr. President.  But there are other reasons. We have been told that at former elections the Nationalist party was successful because, as the result of some unholy  alliance between the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and industrial leaders, disputes and strikes were fomented on the eve of those elections. These disturbances, we were informed, ensured the return of Nationalist candidates. The baseless allegation of our political opponents has always been that the party of which I am a member has been instrumental in engineering strikes on the eve of an election as a means of securing political advantage, or if we have not engineered them as alleged, that we get the benefit of those strikes when they occur. We have frequently been told that we were successful at the poll on two occasions, simply because an industrial disturbance was in progress. But what was the position during the last election? Was not a strike in progress? The waterside workers were on strike when we made a successful appeal to the people some time ago; but the timber workers were flagrantly defying an award of the Arbitration Court during the last election. If the Nationalist party depends upon a strike to carry it to political victory, how is it that the timber workers' strike did not assist it on the last occasion, when an appeal was made to the people? The only answer is that the reasoning of honorable senators opposite, and those with whom they are associated is faulty, and that the party, of which I am a member, mounted to the peak of popularity, where it remained until quite recently, by the , inherent merits of its policy. If strikes were responsible for our success at the polls on two previous occasions, why did not the timber workers' strike carry us to victory recently? Why did not the same cause produce the same result? 
If they are not already chronic, we are rapidly reaching a position when we shall be able to say that, industrially, Australia is in a state of constant turmoil. The occurrence of strikes impinges upon the true welfare of this country; nothing can more seriously interfere with the prosperity of the nation than a disastrous strike. To-day strikes are illegal, but a few years ago they were justified, because the workers had not an arbitration court before which they could appear for a rectification of their grievances in the matter of wages and conditions. In days gone by the strike was the workers only effective weapon; it" was their only means of obtaining social justice. Years ago when men had no arbitration court, to which to appeal, strikers received the financial support and sympathy of the people, and the consequence was that a strike was of short duration. The public very often kept a strike going; that was the case in connexion with the strikes in which I was engaged. How is a strike maintained to-day? Does the public subscribe? I venture to say it does not_contribute a penny piece. The contributions made to-day are received from the trade unionists of Australia, who are now so opulent, that they can subscribe funds in a way that was impossible in the "nineties." That is the main reason why industrial disputes are so prolonged, and so disastrous, as they are today. An observer at some of the political gatherings in the Sydney Domain, the Yarra Bank in Melbourne, or the Botanic Park in Adelaide, must admit that the contributions received from the public at such gatherings are insignificant. But during the big strikes of 1890 and 1893, as  Senator Bae  will remember, public money was subscribed in thousands. That is not the case to-day, because a strike is not only a deliberate violation of the law, but also disastrous to the whole community. 
I cannot agree with the honorable senator. 
In dealing with the result of the last election, I intend to refer to what I shall designate " a few odd things." An odd thing is something that is opposed to ordinary reasoning or common sense. During the recent contest, every Government candidate dealt very fully with the attitude of the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  towards arbitration. It was circulated throughout the whole Commonwealth that the Bruce-Page Government intended to smash arbitration; but a remarkable feature of the campaign was that others who had openly expressed their opposition to the principle of arbitration escaped unscathed. My respected friend,  Senator Rae,  has placed his opinion on- record in the  Pan-Pacific Worker,  the official organ of the PanPacific Trade Union Secretariat, concerning which I shall speak later. On page 16 of that publication  Senator Rae,  in the course of an article headed " The Curse of Arbitration," used these words - 
It is impossible to estimate the moral harm done to the Australian working class by the ill-considered action in accepting arbitration as a solution of labour's problems. 
When an election for the Senate was held in New South Wales a few months ago  Senator Rae,  who thus denounced arbitration, was placed at the top of the poll, but at the recent election  Mr. Bruce,  whose opponents declared that he was out to smash arbitration, was placed at the bottom of the poll. How are we to account for this topsy-turvydom?  Is it because we are at the Antipodes that principles thus work backwards and forwards, just as trees shed their bark instead of their leaves? If two men are guilty of the same offence, is one to be placed in prison and another to go scot free? 
No; but the conditions prevailing on both occasions were similar. One candidate, who referred to arbitration as a " curse " escaped scot free, and another was hounded out of public life. Is that fair play? The same offence should warrant the same penalty the world over. Why was not  Senator Rae  put at the bottom of the poll, along with  Mr. Bruce?  I have not time, however, to deal with the idiosyncrasies of  Senator Rae  and the vagaries of democracy in the State that he represents. 
Burning wi,th anxiety, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  directed . attention to industrial conditions in Australia, and referred to the intention of the Government to restrict the admission of foreign migrants into the Commonwealth. The clear inference is that the Australian workman is suffering as a result of the presence of so many foreign migrants in our midst. I shall not argue the point. Let the charge stand. We have a right, however, to consider the attitude of the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  towards migration when he was leading the Government in Queensland. When the workers in that State made certain representations to the Government concerning the presence of a large number of Southern Europeans, what was the attitude of  Mr. Theodore  and his lieutenant on that occasion?  Mr. Hunter,  a colleague of his, who had just returned from London, is reported in the Brisbane press of the 18th November, 1922, in this way - 
Regarding migration,  Mr. Hunter  said that he had approved of a large number of Italians being brought out to Queensland because they went to the north and engaged in the direct development of the sugar -fields. As they became accustomed to the country they became land-holders, and had assisted in solving the labour difficulty to a large degree. 
Not content with expressing that opinion and placing on record his belief in Italians coming to this country, "in large numbers," he followed it up by saying, on the 16th April, 1925, that- 
I thought then, and still think, that the admission of a good class of northern Italians would, and will, prove advantageous to Northern Queensland, and particularly to the sugar industry, which, because of the high cost of production, cannot be continued without adequate labour. 
The opinion  Mr. Hunter  formed in 1922 was confirmed three years later. He believed that Southern Europeans were necessary to assist in the effective development of the cane fields. When he reported in favour of their introduction in large numbers, a pamphlet was circulated in the Italian language by the Queensland Government, of which  Mr. Theodore  was a member,, beseeching these men to come to this country. And they did. I do not find any fault with them. I am only trying the impossible - to square, in the case of those gentleman, precept with example. It is interesting, indeed, to compare the attitude of  Mr. Theodore  on that occasion with the policy of the Federal Government of which he is now a member. 
Do years make any difference in the nature of a principle? 
Does time make any difference in the moral behaviour? Can a man who supports a principle 10-day be right in opposing it tomorrow? The last election was fought to a great extent on this issue. The Queensland Government of which  Mr. Theodore  was a member, was responsible for the issue and circulation of a pamphlet in the Italian language, a copy of which 1 saw when in Queensland. It was distributed amongst the southern Europeans so that it could be despatched to their friends in Italy, and was framed in such a way that they would regard Australia as a land of hope, promise and opportunity. The State Labour Government welcomed them with unfeigned pleasure, but.  Mr. Theodore's  friends charge these nien with being foreign migrants, deliberately introduced by the Bruce-Page Government to break down wages. Those already here are here largely as a result of his own handiwork, yet he and those with whom he is associated, have the audacity to charge the Bruce-Page Government with having induced a large number of foreigners to this country.  Mr. Theodore  and his friends did this; the charge has been proved up to the hilt. Where do we stand? When  Mr. Bruce  says- " We shall curtail foreign immigration, and not assist these people as  Mr. Theodore  has assisted them " he is condemned, and  Mr. Theodore  gets a halo put on his brow for doing worse than the same thing. Is that fair play? Let the " punishment fit the crime." Why should  Mr. Bruce  be condemned for doing something for which the Theodore Government was extolled? Fair play is bonny play. 
Latter-day Labour men have to earn a living, and they do it mostly by condemning capitalism, but they never miss an opportunity to get some of that which tarnishes one. When some gentlemen in this Federal Parliament set out in the commercial world to supplement the wherewithal by which they live, they bought a mining property and sold it again to the Government. That is to say, Jim Smart and Bill Boodle bought fl valueless mine in Queensland for a song, and when they wanted to get rid of it they could not find any customer more accommodating than themselves in their respective capacities as Premier and Treasurer of the State. They were Ministers of State, sworn to protect the taxpayers' interests. Could there be anything more slimy than that? They sold the mine for £40,000 to the Queensland Government - these spotless Labour men. Yet nothing was said, nothing was done, except to put them higher in the popular favour. If that had been done by Nationalists I venture to say that if all the water in the River Murray were turned into ink, and red ink at that, it would not be sufficient to pen the objurgations of honorable senators opposite regarding their action. Yet a Labour man can boodle as long as he likes and nothing is said about him. Is that fair play? Yet this barefaced - I am stuck for adjectives for the moment - bit. of smart practice - because, after all, there are no rogues in this country, they are only smart men- * whereby the money of the taxpayers of Queensland was thrown into the coffers of Jim Smart and Bill Boodle, is forgotten because it was done by Labour men. 
My idea is to ask  Senator Rae,  or any one else, whether it is fair play that a man because he is labelled " Labour " should be able to play these tricks and escape scot free, whereas if any member of the other party did anything remotely approaching this sort of thing, he would be condemned to everlasting perdition. The honorable senator who should be the first to get up and denounce this smart practice, is, however, tongue-tied. He has not the courage to permit his sleeping instinct of justice to assert itself. 
The party that is now temporarily in the ascendant has in the past, either as a whole or in part, done things for which it has condemned others and has escaped censure. It has had in its platform from the first a plank which it has kept carefully in a shed until the white ants have riddled it. It is known as the nonalienation of Crown lands. Is that plank brought out of the shed and used? No. It is good enough to tickle the ears of the groundlings for the purpose of obtaining votes, but not good enough to put into proper practice. "We have heard the Bruce-Page Government condemned for having sold the Australian Commonwealth line of steamers, a step which I . opposed, but what did the Tasmanian Labour Government do in similar circumstances? When it became necessary for the Tasmanian Government to buy ships for its intrastate trade and for trade with the mainland, ships were purchased, but when a Labour Government got hold of them they were sold. When the Bruce-Page Government sold a line of steamers which was losing money to the extent we have heard mentioned to-night, it was condemned from Dan to Beersheba, but when a Labour Government did exactly the same thing it escaped censure once more. Where is the justice in that? 
What happened in connexion with the Western -Australian State implement works? They were established largely by my help to give the settlers of Western Australia a chance to secure implements at a reasonable cost, and at the same time to provide capable workmen with good wages. They were established by a Labour Government when Labour was Labour; when it kept its word; when it did not have time to sing the Red Flag - it was too busy doing good work for the people. But what did latter-day Labour do with those implement works? It passed an act in the Western Australian Parliament to enable it to share the control of the works with the Westralian Farmers Ltd. Was that not abandonment of duty on its part; a clear swinging away from the policy the party had openly declared its intention to uphold? Yet no punish? ment followed. If the Nationalist party had done the same the air would have resounded from North Cape to Cape Leeuwin, with Labour cries about the iniquity of a party that would sell a State-owned concern. But members of the Labour party can do this and nothing is done. Even in this chamber we have had the spectacle of ex-Senator Gardner voting consistently against protection, although I understand it is a leading plank in the Labour party's platform. He voted freetrade on every occasion, but nothing was done to him. 
But when a poor man like myself happens to do something that is not palatable to the Labour party, it says " Off with his head." I am vigorously attacked and hounded by the coterie that hangs out at the Trades Hall. 
I have said before that, in order to bring out better conditions in this country, we must above all purify the ranks of trade unionism by sowing some seeds of wholesome thought, earnest praise and worthy desire amongst them. Latter-day Labour men are not condemned for their actions; they can, so to speak, steal a whole mob of horses, while we must not look over the fence. Bui if we step off the chalk-line, the full power and strength of their language is employed to take advantage of the credulity of the people in order to accomplish their miserable ends during election time, and so secure our condemnation. 
It is no pleasure to me to refer to these things, but I do so in the hope of kindling a spark of remorse in their consciences so that they may say, " How can we live any longer the false life that we have been, living? Let us follow the example of those who sit opposite us and speak from the bottom of our hearts and according to the dictates of our consciences." But they will not do that for the simple reason that they have not the courage of honorable senators who sit on this  side  - men who care not for the consequences of their actions, believing that what they do is in the interests of the community. I ask the members of the Government to speak spontaneously and not as the other fellow dictates. They are preparing the way for an incoming tyrant; they are serving a demagogue who trades upon the susceptibilities and the gullibility of the people. The words of Aristotle ring true to the present day. that the essence of liberty in every country is the right of every man to express his true opinion without being punished for so doing - without being made to feel that he is an outcast, and without having his bread and butter snatched from him. That kind of treatment is not liberty at all. It is the love of liberty that has produced the great champions of the worker? in the public, life of this country to-day. 
I have already commented on the fact that the late Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  was cast down for alleged interference with the Commonwealth Arbitration system, and  Senator Rae  was cast up for precisely the same reason. He has a halo, while  Mr. Bruce  has a pitch cap. Who among the Government supporters has not said that the Bruce-Page Government wanted to reduce wages? Let me remind honorable senators opposite that by reducing wages we destroy the product of the worker. What did the Nationalist Government do for the workers of Australia? It held office for some thirteen years, and during that time spent something like £100,000 in the appointment of commissions for the purpose of ascertaining in what way the worker was being ill-treated, and the best remedy to apply. From the Basic Wage Commission, which cost £20,000 in 1918, up to and including the child endowment scheme and the Coal Commission in New South Wales, there has been an earnest desire to give the bottom dog in our community a fair deal by bettering his conditions and removing the ills from which he is suffering. Is that an evidence of want of sympathy on the part of the Nationalists for the worker of this country? 
What did the Nationalist Government do for the public servant? Let me tell the public servants of the Commonwealth that they need not expect successfully to play one political party against another for the purpose of extracting a larger share of patronage than that enjoyed by any other section of the community, because, if they do, the time will come when the community will ask itself seriously whether the public servant is to be any longer the whitehaired boy of society. The Public Service treated the late Government shamefully. I was in this Parliament when the subject of superannuation was under consideration, and the Government, which has now been rejected by the Public Service, then pledged this country to the expenditure of millions of pounds so that no public servant should be impoverished or uncared for when the time came for him to retire from the service. Then again, in addition to conferring upon the Public Service the benefits of arbitration the Government instituted a child endowment scheme. This party brought down a measure to give child endowment to our civil servants. I voted for that measure, and assisted to pa.ss it. As honorable senators know, that scheme has been a drain upon the resources of the country for the past ten years to the tune of about £250,000. That was because we desired to have a contented Service, which would give of its best, and also recognize its benefactors. Instead, during the last election, public servants broadcast resolution after resolution, openly declaring their intention to jettison their benefactors. I remind them that the spirit of gratitude does not run along such lines. If a good turn is done to any man, if he really is a man, he will harbour goodwill towards his benefactor and reciprocate when the occasion arises. 
And what has the Labour party done with regard to old-age pensions? It smashed trade unionism, and it has reduced wages. It seeks to nationalize this, and to nationalize that. What is not nationalized is abolished, and what is not abolished is nationalized. It is much the same thing, because that which is nationalized is, if not abolished, at least brought to a dead end. I suggest that instead of using the term " nationalized " the Labour party should substitute that of " abolished " for most things, and the world would then know where it stood. 
We have been told that the Nationalist party intended to abolish the old-age pension. On the contrary, it gave the highest rate of pension in the world. The Labour Government, under the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, was in power for four years, and did not add a brass farthing to old-age pensions. The Nationalist party, which does not parade its friendship to the poor and the needy, gave three increases in that pension in five years, involving an expenditure of £13,000,000. Yet it is claimed that this party would grind the faces of the poor. Assuredly when Ananias went to death and destruction he was not buried either personally or spiritually.  His  spirit still lives, and animates many of our opponents to-day. They treat the truth in a scandalous fashion. Actually 

 Senator Rae and his colleagues would smash arbitration as they said we had smashed unionism and would reduce wages. 
SenatorRae. - That is just what the honorable senator would do. 
I am not supposed to reply to interjections, but fortunately everybody knows what Paddy Lynch is, and has been. That is more than can be said of the Labour party. Its followers have their own means of supplementing their incomes, whereas I run a farm in Western Australia and employ labour at top wages, wages far higher than the farm can afford to pay. Honorable senators opposite find it impossible to square example with precept. They are very accommodating when it suits them, but they charge the highest rates. If anybody asked me where the best rate of interest was paid, I would advise him to consult a Labour man. These gems of democracy, while indignantly declaring against the bloated capitalists, draw their own satisfactory dividends. I know of one poor devil of a timber company grinding out dividends for these latter-day saints, which has to bear their opprobrium when the occasion is fitting. They are like the Yankee on the railway station, who sold Bibles at one end and playing cards at the other end. They get it both coming and going. I know of one delightful member of the party, who renders " The Red Flag " with great relish. That gentleman has avaried constituency. When he is addressing the "red" section he clears his throat and calls them " comrades," telling them how the capitalists are grinding their faces. Herod was charity in comparison. Then he goes down to his farming constituency. Of course, he does not clear his throat there and call the electors " comrades." He tones down his voice nicely, and says, "fellow farmers." Then he goes down to the shipping centre, where he is a big commercial magnate. There he does not clear his voice and address his constituents either as " comrades " or " fellow comrades." He terms them " gentlemen," and indicates when he is signing the dividend warrant for 10 per cent., that he is sorry, that but for Labour legislation that dividend might have been15 or 10 per cent. I say a thousand times, " Good luck to him." But I do envy the charming way he has of taking down the electors. I know another gentleman of the latter-day Labour party, who never voted Labour in his life until he voted for himself. Meeting him as a fellow railway passenger on the night of the elections, I fancied that there must have been a death in his family, he appeared to be so concerned; his face was so long. I asked him what he was concerned about, and consoled him, telling him, for heaven's sake, to cheer up and havea whisky or a cup of tea. I told him that, as far as possible, I would see that his interests were not harmed. He was troubled about the elections. 
And what about John Brown, of whom during the recent election we heard more than we have of Captain Cook, who discovered the country? Why was not the game played in this case? Every one knows that the subject has been threshed threadbare ; but it did a discreditable service. I refrain from using a harsher term. The John Brown episode was used throughout the Commonwealth to influence votes, and it did obtain votes by false pretences, through an unmanly repetition of this base allegation against the Bruce-Page Government. During the election campaign it was not possible to get a hearing from the people when one wished to tell them what was stated in the  Labour Daily,  of Sydney; that the prosecution against John Brown had been withdrawn so that the conference then sitting might have an opportunity of reaching a settlement and getting the mines open. The  Labour Daily  went further, and said that both sides to the dispute desired the prosecution to be dropped. Both sides included the miners. Nobody else was concerned but the mine-owners and the miners. The  Labour Daily  was fair enough to declare that both sides desired the withdrawal of the prosecution, as being the only course which  Mr. Bruce  could pursue if he desired to be regarded as a friend of the miners. Why did not any honorable senator opposite bear witness to that truth? Do they not realize that some time or other the truth may have to he told to save them? Are they incapable of playing the game? Can they not see that, if such conduct took place on an Australian football field, if a person engaged in the game indulged in such foul play, he would very quickly find himself outside the ring fence? But it is different with politics. In most enterprises there are rules of conduct laid dowu. There are rules for the athletic field. There are rules in the business world, which, if a man transgress, his fellows will no longer trade with him. There are rules for the bench, and for the bar; but, in the field of politics no rules can be applied for regulating the conduct of participants. The result is that those engaged in politics who are prepared to leave the demands of truth on one side have the best of the game all the time. That is why we on this side have only to wait for the turn of the tide, for the people to be properly disillusioned, when they will realize that the elaborate promises made by Labour at the elections cannot he fulfilled, and that the charges made for the purpose of lifting Labour representatives into' place and power are utterly false.We are the victims of those false charges; but the day will come when those who made them may themselves be victims of the same conduct - I will not say in the political field ; but perhaps in private life. There isno reason why a person in public life should not adhere to the demands of truth, justice, honesty and uprightness as other persons do in private life. There is no reason why we should not have some honesty in the public life of the country, as in every other sphere. I ask leave,  Mr. President,  to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I wish to inform honorable senators that, owing to business coming forward from another place, I expect that I shall have to ask them to sit on Tuesday of next week. I shall confer with the Prime Minister during the adjournment, and inform honorable senators later. 
.- Will the Leader of the Government inform honorable senators when we may expect the reprinted tariff schedule, showing the comparison between the old and new duties? 
Is it the intentionof the Government to bring down the bill dealing with banking and the gold reserve this session, or after Christmas? 
I understand that the bill dealing with the gold reserve is now before another place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.8 p.m. 
On the 22nd November  Senator Foll  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Has  Mr. William  Mahony been appointed to a position in the Cockatoo Island Dockyard ? 
Is this the same  Mr. Mahony  who was member for Dalley and who is reported to have resigned to make way for  Mr. Theodore,  the present Treasurer? 
I am now in a position to furnish the following replies: - 
A  Mr. William  Mahony is at present a casual employee at Cockatoo Island Dockyard, being engaged in the capacity of assistant in the ambulance room. He has not been appointed to a position on the Dockyard staff. 

 Mr. Mahony was at one time a member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Dalley. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the Government's published decision to suspend migration to this country, with which is linked up the £34,000,000 migration scheme, will the Government supply particulars of any public works and land settlement schemes entered into with the State of Queensland under this agreement and the costs of such schemes? 
Will the Government's modification of the Migration Scheme alter any agreements made with Queensland to the prejudice of that State? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
A public works scheme to determine the resources of the State of Queensland for the purposes of agricultural development - cost, £30,000. In addition, a ring-barking scheme involving an expenditure of £600,000 is at present under consideration. 
The suggested modification if agreed to by the British Government will not prejudice. Queensland or any other State. 
I have on the notice-paper the following questions: - 
Is it a fact that restrictions on communication by sea with the State of Queensland are seriously hampering the progress of that State through the operation of the Navigation Act? 
If so, will the Government consider  the  advisability of repealing  that  part of the Act which imposes this disability on Queensland? 
I regret to state that it has not been put in the exact form intended. I desire to ask - 
Whether in view of the fact that restrictions on communication by sea with the State of Queensland are. seriously hampering the progress of that State through the operation of the Navigation Act, will the Government consider the advisability of repealing the part of the Act which imposes this disability on Queensland ? 
The Government was not aware that the honorable senator wished to put his question in the amended form. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Fenton)  has supplied the fol lowing answer to the honorable senator's questions as they appear on the noticepaper :  - 
So far as I am aware this is not the case. If, however, the honorable senator can cite an instance of this nature an inquiry will he made as to the facts. 
See reply to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the position with regard to the proposed aerodrome at Western Junction? 
Has the site been purchased? 
If so, will a sufficient area for Aero Club purposes be immediately made available to the Tasmanian section of the club? 
Is he aware whether the delay in affording facilities for flying is adversely affecting the future prospects of the club? 
Inquiries will be made and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that - 
the Attorney-General has said that the only remedy for bringing to an end the recurring troubles in the coal-mining industry of Australia is the nationalization of coalmining; 
the report of the Mines Department of New South Wales reveals that in the present coal-working area of 1,000 square miles in that State there are 20,000,000,000 tons, or according to the present rate of extraction enough to last for 2,000 years ; 
there is a further area of 15,000 square miles of potential coalbearing country in that State of which no attempt has yet been made to calculate the contents? 
If so, will the Government recognize the opportunity there is here for setting up a State coal-mine to be worked directly or by proxy alongside that of John Brown, and so bringing a lasting peace to the industry? 
The Honorable the Attorney-General has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
The Attorney-General expressed himself in general terms favorably to the nationalization of coal-mining. 
and (c) The Attorney-General is not familiar with the terms of the report referred to nor the extent of the coal-bearing country in the State of New South Wales. He has noted the suggestion made for consideration in due time. 
Last evening when I obtained leave to continue my remarks, I was about to direct attention to certain outstanding events in connexion with the public life of this country. I now invite honorable senators to consider the record of  Mr. Theodore,  the present Treasurer. As every one knows, for some years he was the Premier of Queensland, a State which for thirteen years enjoyed the doubtful blessings of Labour rule. When he was in power in the northern State, he defied the wishes of the people and abolished the Legislative Council, which has always been regarded by Labour as the chief obstruction to the attainment  of  its political ends. Notwithstanding that the people, by a majority of 50,000  or  60,000, decided against the proposal,  Mr. Theodore  was not deterred. He took prompt steps, when he had the necessary majority, to abolish the Upper House in the Queensland Parliament. And what has been the result?  Mr. Theodore  and his party enjoyed the confidence of the people for many years. Labour was returned on three successive occasions, but there came a time when the people were ripe for a change, and after thirteen years of Labour administration, they rejected Labour candidates. 
Before the inception of Labour rule the production per head of population in Queensland was higher than in any other State. Under Labour rule, however, it sank from the premier position among the States to a bad second lowest, the increase in production per head during this period being only about £4 as compared with £25, £35, or £40 in the case of New South Wales. When it suits Labour leaders, they conduct their affairs in a strictly business way; but when it does not suit them to do so they dodge that necessity. 
The budget statement presented by the Treasurer the other day emphasizes that, owing to the lean season which is now being experienced throughout Australia, and because also of the unwillingness of foreign buyers of our surplus products to pay the price expected, the Commonwealth is in for a bad time financially. It is reflected in the finances of the  Commonwealth,  and the Treasurer has drawn special attention to it in his budget speech. In Queensland, under Labour rule, the production per head declined so seriously that the position of the workers in that State is far from enviable. Taxation, on the other hand, increased from £1 8s. 2d. a head in 1914-15 to £5 2s.1d. a head in 1926-27, an increase of nearly 400 per cent. All this bears witness to the fact that under Labour rule the worker in that State has been too long in the wilderness of neglect. The decline in his material well-being is further reflected in the records of the State Savings Bank, the deposits per head being the lowest in the Commonwealth. Thus, judged by these three tests, Labour has failed even in a magnificently endowed State like Queensland. There is no State in the Commonwealth to equal Queensland, and only a fraction of our people realize the extent of its fertility. I am certain of my facts when I speak of Queensland's resources. I have first-hand knowledge for I have walked through large portions of it. Nature must have been intoxicated or doped when it endowed Queensland with its wonderful natural resources which, in comparison with the other States, are truly magnificent. 
I have already referred to the result of the engagement on the political battleground of Queensland a short time ago, and when, by the way, it was discovered that in one centre there were 22,000 more voters on the Queensland State roll than there were on the Federal roll. The records showed that 60 voters were accommodated in one particular boarding-house which, when inspected, was found to contain only six beds. Apparently ten occupied each bed; that possibly accounted for the extra number of electors to which I have referred; when, however, the last appeal was made to the people, thousands of persons who had never previously voted anything else but Labour, gave their support to the Nationalist candidates. The reign of Labour rule brought such dire results in its train that they had no hesitation in voting for the anti-Labour candidates in an endeavour to restore Queensland to a financial position such as should properly be enjoyed by so fertile a State. The people realized that the time had arrived when they must abandon support of those for whom they had previously voted, who had been the means of bringing this rich territory to an impoverished state, and even to the verge of bankruptcy? The electors in no uncertain way tossed out many of their former representatives, and sent their baggage with them. 
When a rich State such as Queensland cannot any "longer stand prodigal Labour rule, surely we are justified in assuming that other States not so richly endowed by nature can not stand it  either. As every one knows, the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  was for some time a prominent figure in the public life of Queensland ; but it cannot be denied that as the result of the administrations led by him and his predecessor this veritable Garden of Eden has been reduced to a stricken land, where taxation has mounted to such an extent that the people cannot afford to pay more. Under proper administration the people of such a fertile State should be prosperous, and the taxation per head of the people lower than in any other State. Public opinion was so incensed and outraged that the electors sent these people about their business. Under the Theodore regime Queensland has been reduced to almost a state of bankruptcy, and by reason of the Labour government's policy the people lost confidence in their leaders and sent them about their business. 
Dealing with this matter from a business viewpoint and with strict regard to commercial principles, we can imagine the Commonwealth as a huge business undertaking with six interstate branches conducted by branch managers. If a branch manager of this all- Australian undertaking had to submit a financial statement to his general manager to the effect that his branch was on the verge of bankruptcy, what would the general manager do? He would immediately dismiss him. But this gentleman who brought about financial chaos in the State which he controlled for years, has not been sacked. Nothing of the kind. He has been made, shall I say, the  deputy  general manager of the central organization where, if he applies the same principles which he employed in the branch business, bankruptcy will probably face the whole concern. On the other hand,  Senator Barnes,  a worthy member of the Government, and one of its representatives in this chamber, has reached his present position and popularity amongst his fellow men by virtue of his proved qualities. He has brought the Australian Workers Union, that tremendous organization, of which he is the  president,  not to the verge of bankruptcy, but to a state of prosperity. That is an instance of how principles are reversed, and is in keeping with what I said at the outset, that it is past compre hension why the Labour party should ever have committed some of the acts of which it is guilty. 
I should now like to say a word or two concerning the White Australia policy - a policy that is dear to every Australian who loves his country - and the attitude of Labour to it. What is the principle ingredient in the store-house of Labour's household - an ingredient which it has used with so much effect in the past? Trade unionism, as every one knows, is the backbone of the Labour party; if it were removed its frame would collapse. What has the Labour party done in regard to this vital and cardinal feature of public policy? Let me quote from the  PanPacific Worker,  the official mouthpiece of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat. On page 4 of the issue of 15th January, 1929, I find this paragraph - 
The Australasian Council of Trade Unions is officially affiliated with the Pan-Pacific Trades Union Secretariat. The Australasian Council of Trade Unions was officially represented at the Shanghai session of the Secretariat in February, 1928. The Australian Trades Union movement was, in fact, the initiator of the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat. 
How does the trade union movement treat the White Australia policy?  [Extension of time granted].  I thank honorable senators for granting me an extension of time, But as there have been some murmurs from the opposite benches, I presume some honorable senators are afraid to hear what I am about to quote. It is, however, very gratifying to me to be able to express my views in silence after the experience I had during the election campaign. A paragraph concerning the PanPacific Trade Union Secretariat contained in a pamphlet issued by the Labour Research and Information Bureau of Sydney reads - 
We are less concerned with . . . the anti-working class campaign unfolded by our open class-enemies than by the need of counteracting the poison of reformism, class collaboration and rank nationalism and jingoism spread by a certain brand of so-called leaders within our own Labour movement. We have in mind such men as Grayndler and Bailey,  Mr. and Mrs. Tom  Walsh and others. They are the people who are openly opposed to unity in our ranks (Messrs. Bailey and Grayndler have cynically rejected the Australasian Council of Trade Unions' proposals for trades union unity). They are people who work hand in hand with the bosses in promoting " class " peace and " industrial peace " schemes  (Mr. and Mrs. Walsh and Co.)  to the detriment of our working-class interests, and to the joy and direct benefit of the capitalist class. . . It is to offset the pernicious activities of these reptiles in our own ranks and in order to make it clear to all workers of this country that their interests as a class are indissolubly bound up with those of the workers of other countries, most immediately with those of the Pacific countries, that this pamphlet has been written and published. 
A little later we have these statements : - 
We find men, Labour leaders in our own trades unions, who would deliberately perpetuate the dangerous division of the working class into " white " and " yellows ", and " tans " and "blacks ". 
And then come all the jackals of our labour movement who attempt to confuse and disorganize our working class with the two wild cries of " White Australia " and " class peace. " 
This comes from the Trades Hall in Sydney. Does it not deserve our very serious attention ? Disparaging references are also made in this pamphlet to the Labour Office at Geneva, to which  Australia  'has sent its representatives. I quote now the opinion of  Mr. E.  C. Gibson, one of the Victorian trade union representatives, who opposed the motion for the affiliation of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions with* the PanPacific Secretariat. " There are three white men on the Red Executive and a heterogeneous mob of Asiatics with unpronounceable names, who have got the impertinence to lay down a policy for the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. If you will blindly accept that, that is your responsibility, not mine." -  Sydney Morning Berala"  report, 23rd July. We presume that the " three white men referred to by  Mr. Gibson  are Messrs. Garden, Ryan and Jeffrey. 
The Sydney  Worker,  of the 20th June, which, I am glad to say, expresses a robust Australian opinion, states - 
In 1925 the Red International Labour Union in Moscow decided that the time was ripe to organize the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat in China, in order to establish " methods of contact " between the Chinese and other workers, and to set out the " fighting tasks " of the Communist unions in the various countries bordering the Pacific. It was further decided that the official launching of the organization should be performed by the Labour Council of New South Wales, as an affiliated section of -the Red International Labour Union. The Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat is a purely Communist organization. It functions solely in the interests of the Communist International, and is financed from Communist sources. The members of its executive are all members of the Communist party. The organization is openly hostile to the " White Australia " policy, and is pledged to fight against this and other planks. 
And again in the same newspaper of the 20th June, 1928, this appears - 
What is the Federal Labour party going te do about this state of affairs? Is it going to face the electors at the forthcoming Federal elections handcuffed to the Communistcontrolled Australasian Council of Trade Unions, which in turn is pledged to piebald principles? Or is it going to repudiate it, lock, stock and barrel, and drive it back into the Communist camp, to which it rightly belongs? 
I could go on and on quoting matter of a similar type. I have also heard of  Mr. Theodore  receiving money from  Mr. Garden;  where he got it I do not know. It is, however, recorded in the Sydney  Sun  that he received money for prosecuting the labor political campaign prior to the last general election. 
I have clearly linked up the trades union movement as represented by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions in Australia with the Pan Pacific Trades Union Secretariat and have shown its views on public questions which are vital to the welfare of Australia. Do we sleep or do we dream? "What is likely to happen? During the recent election if a Nationalist candidate breathed or sneezed on the White Australia policy he was vigorously attacked; but organizations with which the Labor party are associated are endeavouring to bring our White Australia policy to the dust. It is high treason to the White Australia policy, and the party knows it; yet this kind of thing goes on and on. I sometimes wonder whether it is worth while for a man to maintain his self respect. With such things happening, it almost seems a waste of time to be decent. Yet an overwhelming majority of the people who themselves believe in the White Australia policy are prepared to support this kind of thing. .That policy is the only thing which preserves the six and a quarter million people in Australia from being reduced to the low-level standards of other countries. The Labour party, however, can do these things and make these statements concerning this vital policy, and not one word of censure is heard, but should the Nationalist party even sneeze at the same thing, there is an outcry. 
We frequently hear from members of the Labour party that that party's ultimate object is the socialisation of industry. 
The honorable senator's interjection saves me the necessity of proving my case. It is possible to assess to a fractional part of a penny the product of capital in this country. The incomes of the people can be determined with as much exactness as can the profits of a fish shop in Brisbane, the Newcastle steel works, or even Kidman's cattle stations. If the incomes of all the people of Australia were averaged how much more would a man getting less than £150 a year receive? Honorable senators opposite will probably be surprised to know that it would be only 10s. 5d. Will they foment a revolution for 10s. 5d.? 
The net profits of Australian manufacturing concerns are well known to the authorities. If, during the period 1914 to 1918, when it was alleged that a great deal of profiteering took place, all the profits then made by the manufacturing industries of Australia had been divided among the employees in those industries, their average income would have been increased by from 7s. 4d. to lis., an average of 9s. 2d. But if that. 9s. 2d. had been paid to the employees there would not have been a penny piece left with which to purchase a brick or a sheet of iron to extend the factories in order that more employment might be provided. I ask  Senator Rae  whether he is prepared to start a revolution for 9s. 2d. If not, why go on in such an irresponsible fashion? It is not worth while to cause a " nine and tuppeny " revolution. These are facts ; yet some men find it convenient to ignore them. If they took notice of facts, their case would be as flat as a tyre that is punctured. 
In one part of the world dreams have come true. Russia is now an industrial paradise - the Mecca of industrialists! There is a new form of society there. 
What is happening in that paradise ? On page 450 of the  Soviet Union Year-Book  1928, published in Moscow under the authority of the Soviet Government, the following appears: - 
During the last few years the number of unemployed has increased from 848,000 in 1924-25 to 1,354,000 in 1926-27, in spite of the fact that industry and transport are absorbing large numbers of workers .... The average wage paid to the unemployed workers is about 1 rouble 50 kopecks per day. 
A rouble is worth about ls. 10d., and a kopeck about one farthing or a third of a penny, according to the rate of internal exchange. Thus it will be seen that a worker on the roads in Russia receives about 3s. 3d. per day. In another portion of the book there is a declaration regarding the formation of the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. It commences - 
Since the time of the formation of the Soviet Republics, the States of the world have divided into two camps: the camp of Capitalism and the camp of Socialism. There - in the camp of Capitalism - are national enmity and inequality, colonial slavery, and chauvinism, national oppression and pogroms, imperialist brutalities and wars. Here - in the camp of Socialism - are mutual confidence and peace, national freedom and equality, a dwelling together in peace and the brotherly collaboration of peoples. 
I emphasise the word " equality." Let me show the equality that exists in that elysium! Even the Soviet Government cannot get on without revenue. Apparently there are some persons in Russia whose incomes are fairly considerable. On page 404 of the publication I have mentioned particulars of the scale of taxation are given - 
Incomes up to 1000 roubles pay 3 per cent.; from 1000 to 1200 pay 30 roubles, and 5 per cent, on the amount above 1,000 roubles. . . Taxpayers with incomes of 24,000 roubles and above are taxed at 8330 roubles and 54 per cent, of the amount above 24,000 roubles which last is the highest rate of income tax. 
An income of 24,000 roubles is equivalent to about £2,400. Apparently even in the land of equality there were some persons receiving that high income at a time when the workers on the roads got only 3s. 3d. a day. What do honorable senators opposite think of that as an instance of equality? 
If there is any place in the wide, wide world where a fight for equality might be justified, it is 
Russia. When I read about that country, I think that- some of the men who are wasting their time fighting a shadow in Australia, where the lowest wage is four or five times that paid in the free laud of Russia, should don a red shirt, tie bowyangs round their trousers, and transfer to Russia. They stop here only because they know in their heart of hearts that Australia is the grandest and freest country on God's earth. They do not believe 25 per cent, of the things they say on the public platforms of this country - and in making that estimate, I am dealing liberally with them. I could go on almost indefinitely in the same strain. I could, for instance, say a great deal about rates of interest. The Federal Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  complains that he has to pay  £5  14s. 4d. per cent, for the money he wants. But the Soviet Government has to pay a great deal more. In that land of liberty and equality, that Mecca of all the deluded peoples of the earth, the rate of interest is from 8 per cent, to 12 per cent. 
But the saddest aspect of that land, which so many regard as an earthly paradise, is seen in the conjugal relations of its people. The sanctity of the married state is the foundation of society. But what is the position in Russia? Any certificate given by a religious body is ignored. Should John Smith wish to marry Mary Brown, he merely says - " I take this woman for my wife," and the woman says, " I take this man for my husband " and the deed is done. Thereafter they are regarded as a married couple. It is so easy. And it is just as easy to secure divorce. Should a man tire of his wife, or desire to change her for another, he merely expresses his desire, and on his "sayso" alone the marriage is dissolved. That is in Russia. 
It is not. When in a so-called civilized country this almost barbaric form of promiscuity obtains, it is time to consider where the world is drifting. When religious principles are tossed to the wind and ignored in a socalled court of law, something is wrong. Was it for that that the Redeemer came to this earth and was crucified ? In Russia a handful of illiterates, with' no respect for the traditions of the past, formed themselves into a body of iconoclasts and overthrew the ethical and religious foundations of society. If there was a possibility of a handful of similar undesirables dominating the affairs of Australia and reducing this country to the depths to which Russia has been degraded, 1 should prefer to see it sunk beneath the waves and never recovered. 
Let me examine the economic position of this country. First of all, what does " economic " signify ! It means successful national housekeeping. Australia, the last discovered of Britain's possessions, has a heritage that it is difficult accurately to measure in point of potential wealth. The Commonwealth  Year-Booh  indicates that our urban . population is 62 per cent, of our total population, while that of Canada, certainly a country of greater civilized age, has an urban population of only 49 per cent. And here pre the comparative figures of wheat production of the two countries - 

<graphic href="122332192911294_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

In 1926, 25 years later, the position was - 

<graphic href="122332192911294_6_1.jpg"></graphic>

From practically the same beginning as Australia, Canada now has a wheat yield almost three times greater than ours. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I listened with some attention to the speech of  Senator Lynch.  In it he wandered, figuratively, all over the world, and resorted mostly to abuse. In turn, scoffing, sneering, and laughing, he fulminated against the world in general, and the Labour party in particular. The honorable senator quoted from the whitebook, the blue-book, the red-book, the green-book, and the black-book. And then he floundered into the quagmire of illusion; and wondered pathetically how the apple got into the dumpling. The honorable senator endeavoured to besmirch the Queensland electoral system, claiming that it had been abused by a certain section of the community. I was a member of the special committee of investigation which visited Queensland and exhaustively inquired into similar charges made by individuals as irresponsible and as irrepressible as  Senator Lynch.  The  chairman  of that committee, the ex-member for Macquarie,  Mr. Manning,  a political friend of  Senator Lynch,  recommended that a witness should be prosecuted for perjury for making allegations similar to those which emanated from .  Senator Lynch.  I wonder how the honorable senator would have fared had he given evidence before us.  Senator Thompson  was also a member of that committee, which heard witnesses throughout Queensland, and was unable to find any proof of irregularities. 
So far as we could discover, no one voted who was not entitled to do so, which proves how groundless are  Senator Lynch's  wild charges. 
That may have been so, but there was no evidence of improper practices. If any people in that State were aware that illegal voting had occurred, they should have made it known to the committee. 

 Senator Lynch also made some sweeping charges concerning Russia. I have heard and read a good deal about that country, some things to .its credit and others of a most damnable character. Neither I, nor  Senator Lynch,  knows which version is correct. It is yet merely a matter of guesswork. I have come to the conclusion that those who write and talk most about Russia know least of it. I am waiting to learn something authentic about that remarkable country. In all probability serious mistakes have been made in its administration, just as in other countries, including Australia. Those who never make a mistake achieve nothing. 
We heard from  Senator Lynch  a good deal about revolution. Revolution is foreign to the Labour party of Australia. Only an idiot would preach it in this country, where the glorious freedom of the franchise affords us ample opportunity to right our wrongs. The only way to bring about any needed reform is by educating the people. All desirable innovations must come through knowledge, and not by force. What is gained by force must be held by it. 
The honorable senator also dilated upon our White Australia policy. Who has done more for that ideal than the Australian Labour party? That party introduced the principle, in1 spite of the gloomy forebodings of its opponents, who dragged forth the bogey of international complications. The late Andrew Fisher and his Government said, "Never mind about international complications. It is imperative that Australia should have such a policy, and we shall proceed to put in into practice." 
He may have approved of the ideal, but it was first put into practice as the result of effort by the Labour party.  Senator Lynch  referred to the alleged cast-iron laws of the Labour movement, but he omitted to say anything about the rigid discipline of the Nationalist party. No longer can that party claim to be the apostle of freedom of action, or that it is not caucus bound. It has even gone to the length of expelling its founder.  Senator Lynch's  greatest worry was how, in the name of fortune, the Labour party achieved its great victory at the recent general election, and he displayed considerable ingenuity in advancing various excuses for the defeat of his party. I shall give my version of the downfall of the Bruce-Page administration. First, it is an accepted truism that no leader can lead his party successfully to victory unless he has the absolute confidence of his followers. I admit that  Mr. Bruce  began well, from a Nationalist viewpoint, but as time passed he began to revel in his newlyacquired power; he became a dictator. He adopted a Czar-like attitude and, instead of consulting the wishes of his followers, used the mailed fist and forced measures of his own choosing through Parliament. Had he retained a proper perspective of the importance of his position and shared the obligations of office with his colleagues, there would not have been an election, and a Labour party on the Treasury bench. " Had he pursued a wiser and more democratic course he would have discovered that he was a vote or two short in some of the measures that he proposed to introduce. 
But his party was. 
It was that attitude that brought about his destruction and the downfall of his party. 
The honorable senator's party has not. Immediately the principle of freedom of action was put into practice by some members of the Nationalist party they were expelled. 
Actually, there is not as much freedom of action in the party opposite as there is in the Labour party. The Nationalist party brought to heel the recalcitrants in its ranks and cast them out. Even though honorable senators opposite and their colleagues in another place had promised the electors of Australia that they would stand by the principle of arbitration,  Mr. Bruce  ruled otherwise, and they had, perforce to obey. 
I shall be generous to the honorable senator and disregard his interjection. Undoubtedly the extreme ideas of the Bruce administration brought about its downfall. There is no room for extremists on either side. They are a menace to progress. When  Mr. Bruce  became an extremist on the conservative side, he met his downfall, and in his fall dragged down his administration and his party. The pathway of a politician is seemingly very slippery. He is in to-day and out to-morrow. As  Senator Lynch  says, public opinion is very fickle. But it is also very democratic. Once a man becomes an extremist he soon finds himself among the "outs." 

 Senator Payne spoke in very distressful tones about the manner in which, at the recent election, the Public Service employees had worked and voted for Labour. Their reason for doing so is not far to see. The bill that was introduced just before the election to deprive the Public Service employees of their right of appeal to the Public Service Arbitrator was sufficent  to induce them not only to turn against the Nationalist party, but also to work for the return of Labour. In my humble opinion 95 per cent, of the employees of the Commonwealth Public Service voted for Labour at the election, because they considered that the Bruce-Page Government had become extreme in its ideas, and in many ways demonstrated that it was opposed to the freedom of the public servant. The opinion of the Public Service organizations on the bill, which was introduced by the Bruce-Page Government is set out in the following : - 
The bill is termed " a bill for an act relating to the settlement of certain matters arising out of employment in the Public Service." 
It would be much more honest to term the measure " a bill to dispossess postal and Public Service employees of their existing arbitration rights, and to throw them to the tender mercies of a hostile and autocratic Public Service Board." 
The bill is a scandalous frame-up on postal and Public Service employees, which is designed to deprive these employees of the right of appeal to any tribunal in respect to the arbitrary decisions of the Public Service Board relating to conditions of employment apart from salaries or wages. 
The bill is flagrantly dishonest inasmuch as it professes to give employees the right of appeal to an arbitration tribunal for the settlement of differences relating to their employment, whereas it does no such thing. 
It would be much more honest for the Government to move for the straight-out repeal of the arbitration system relating to postal and Public Service employees, without the substitution of a " sham " tribunal, possessed of very limited jurisdiction, such as it proposes to set up. 
The bill has all the appearances of having been drafted at the dictates of the Public Service Board and postal officialdom, nominally the employers, who, jealous of place and pay, are prepared to sacrifice the employees on the altar pf their own personal ambitions. 
The bill also provides that registered postal and service unions shall cease to be registered organizations after the expiration of three months from the commencement of the act. 
These unions must thereupon apply for reregistration to a committee termed a " registration committee ". 
The appointment of this committee is unnecessary, and the manner in which it is to be constituted is grossly unjust. This unjustly constituted committee is calculated to lead to considerable dissatisfaction, and is a serious challenge to the principle of " freedom of association ". 
Organizations now registered should not be required to apply for re-registration. Furthermore, proceedings of this nature should be left entirely to the judiciary. 
The bill is wholly rotten, and it would require a multitude of amendments to make it any way acceptable to the interests of those it professes to serve. 
I cannot for the moment say, but I take it that it was the secretary of one of the federal organizations. 
It is worth a good deal. I  quote  it to show why the public servants at the last election voted against the Nationalist party, and worked for Labour. In the circumstances it is not surprising that they did. 
I have taken very little interest in military matters; they do not appeal to me, but I have no quarrel with those who, like  Senator Sampson,  take a keen interest in them. It is characteristic of  Senator Sampson  to do so. From his youth upwards he has studied militarism from many aspects, and to-day he thinks it a splendid idea to hold on to compulsory military training. He may be right, I do not know, but the Labour movement, which was responsible for placing compulsory military training on the statutebook of Australia is now of opinion that it made a mistake in doing so. 
I think it does. If it still thought compulsory military training good, why should it be seeking its abolition? It has exercised its right to alter its opinion on the subject. 
That is not so. No one can claim that I belong to the extreme section of the Labour movement. 
The honorable senator knows that he is not honest in making that statement. He has often heard me speak, and he knows perfectly well that I belong to the moderate section of the Labour movement. It is my personal opinion that military training should be of a voluntary character. If the future proves that Labour is wrong in its present attitude it will probably take the opposite stand. 
It may be; but many people think that the days of " form fours " have gone by, and that future wars will be fought on scientific lines. Of course, no one can say with any degree of accuracy on what lines the next Avar will be fought. It may be by the use of electricity or poisonous gasses and such like means; but I should say that the tendency will be to get the biggest guns to enable an army to stand off the greatest distance from his enemy and blow him to pieces. Although  Senator Sampson  says that he is not a militarist, I claim that, unconsciously or otherwise, he is. I agree with him that the League of Nations is a fine body of people watchful to do the right thing. I used to think it was a useless body that would accomplish nothing; but I have since changed my opinion. I now think1 that, eventually, it will bring peace to a war-stricken world. 
Much has been said about arbitration.  Senator Payne  went to great lengths in an endeavour to prove that Labour does not believe in arbitration, and  Senator Lynch  quoted a great deal from the literature of the Pan-Pacific crowd. As a matter of fact Labour has nothing to do with that particular section of the community. The laws of the party prevent communists from joining the Labour party, and if there are in the ranks of Labour men who term themselves communists, I do not know how they overcome the laws that debar them from membership. If  Senator Lynch  holds Labour responsible for what is done by the Pan-Pacific section we might just as reasonably hold him responsible for something that has occurred in Ireland- 
Labour does believe in arbitration. It has always been a principle of the Labour movement. I have said some very queer things about people who have broken the arbitration laws of Australia. When these laws have been amended by the present Government I trust they will prove more acceptable to employer and employee. After all, it is a matter that affects both sides. A law must be binding upon all parties. No party can have it all its own way. If it is right for the " boss " to accept the terms of an arbitration award, it is equally right for the worker to accept those terms, even though they may be against him. If one side is not prer pared to accept an award, why have arbitration at all? I believe that 95 per cent. of the unions of Australia obey awards. All the trouble has been caused by the 5 per cent. of the trade unionists who disobeyed the awards of the court. 
SenatorFoll. - Those trade unionists who obey subsidize those that disobey awards of the court. 
It may be as the honorable senator states. This Government proposes to amend our industrial legislation, and will, I believe, prevent lawyers from appearing in the Arbitration Court. With all due respect to my leader  (Senator Daly)  I think that this will make for economy and be more satisfactory to trade unions. 

 Senator Ogden declared that the moving picture combine had spent hundreds of thousands of pounds in propaganda and advertising for the purpose of securing the return of Labour. Why did not the party to which  Senator Ogden  belongs get some of the money which he alleges was spent so freely during the campaign? I have no doubt that in previous elections his party was helped by those connected with the film industry. Naturally the moving picture combine used its influence to swing votes in favour of the party which was most likely to assist it. 
I think it did. In fact, to be honest, I know that it did. 
The Labour party itself did not get any money from the picture show proprietors in South Australia. On the contrary it had to pay for the hire of picture show halls in which to conduct meetings. 
It did not give the Labour party any financial assistance. But it did spend money in displaying advertisements on the hoardings everywhere. 
Several honorable senators opposite have criticized the increased Customs duties imposed in the revised tariff schedule introduced in another place last week. 
The Labour party made no secret of the fact that, if it were returned to power, it would use every endeavour to build up Australian industries, and Customs duties have been increased to that end. It has been stated that even these higher duties will not prevent imports. Of course they will not if we continue to borrow abroad on the same scale as hitherto. If we raise a given sum of money overseas, we must expect imports to the amount of the loan. For example, if we raise £20,000,000 in Great Britain, we must expect to receive £20,000,000 worth of manufactured goods, though the whole of the imports may not come from the Mother Country. Great Britain may have financial relations with India, China, Japan, or some other country, and to balance the trade position, some of our imports in payment of a £20,000,000 loan from Great Britain, may come from those other countries. But from whatever source they come, we may expect imports if we continue to borrow overseas. This is not the way to build up Australian industries. No one, I hope, is stupid enough to believe that Australia or, for that matter, any other country, can become absolutely selfcontained in the sense that it can dispense entirely with imports. We cannot hope to dispose of our surplus productions unless we are prepared to accept in return and in payment for them, some importations. There must be reciprocity in all trade relations between the nations of the world. But we can improve our financial position by raising within the Commonwealth all the money we require. It might be objected that this would have the effect of raising interest rates. Even if it did, the interest payments would be made to our own people, and we should be able, in this way, to reduce the flood of manufactured goods coming in from abroad. There can be no doubt that our credit resources are ample for all our needs: During the war, When the total of the money available in Australia was only £53,777,126, we succeeded in borrowing from our own people no less a sum than £300,000,000 for war purposes. Actually we did not raise that amount in cash, but we drew upon our credit resources for it. Will any honorable senator say that we couldnot do the same in time of peace? 
To the best ofmy recollection, our war loans had! a currency of about five years. Since then the credit has been released again, and numerous' conversion loans have been negotiated. In 1926-27 we imported £164,000,000 worth of manufactured goods. At least £80,000,000 worth could have been manufactured in Australia. If they had been manufactured here the industries concerned would have given employment to an additional 100,000 people, and at least 300,000 persons would have been benefited directly or indirectly, from the increased volume of employment. The wages bill alone would have meant the circulation in Australia of millions of pounds. 
Our present financial position is most unsatisfactory, owing to the maladministration of the Bruce-Page Government. When that Government; came into power there was an accumulated surplus of over £7,000,000, and when it was defeated a few weeks ago, after having been in office for six and a half years, there was a deficit of over£3,000,000. 
Perhaps it did, but it increased bur financial obligations in the Overseas money market, and the figures show that the Commonwealth went to the bad to the extent of approximately £11,000,000. Some people appeared to fear that immediately the Labour party came into power it would turn Australia upside down, but disaster has not yet overtaken the Commonwealth. If the present Ministry is given a reasonable chance to administer the affairs of this country in accordance with Labour ideals, the peoplewill have good reason to rejoice that they rejected the BrucePage Administration. 

 Senator McLachlan yesterday had something to say concerning the waterside worker's' strike, and claimed for the Bruce-Page Government that it had brought about peace on the waterfront. If the ruining of business people in Port Adelaide means peace, then the honorable  Senator was  right. 
 Senator McLachlan  stated that the volunteer workers at Port Adelaide were more efficient in the loading and discharging of ships than were the members of the Waterside Workers' Federation. The record of work done byvolunteers and the regular waterside workers on the steamer  Nolisment,  at Port Adelaide in March of this year, does not bear out the honorable senator's statement. The following are the particulars of the number of bags handled by the respective gangs: - 

<graphic href="122332192911294_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

Cargoes; loaded by volunteers in Melbourne have had to be re-stowed on arrival at Port Adelaide. Take one case among many, that of the  City of Canberra.  On 
Tuesday, 2nd April, a gang was engaged from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. re-stowing wool loaded by volunteers at Melbourne, while other gangs were employed for eight hours. For the information of  Senator McLachlan,  who referred to this subject, I should like to say that the waterside workers at Port Adelaide have been treated very badly by the representatives of British ship-owners. It was agreed when the licensing system was introduced that a fair proportion of the work would be given to the waterside workers; but during a period of three months no less than £44,000 was paid to volunteer workers, who do not live in the Port Adelaide district. The effect of this has been that practically all that money has been spent in the metropolitan area, with serious disadvantages to the business people of Port Adelaide. 
That is so. But the business people of Port Adelaide, who were not in any sense responsible for the dispute, have been seriously penalized, and in some instances compelled to discontinue business. During the period in which £44,000 was paid to the volunteer workers, the amount earned by the waterside workers was £47,000, but the average for the waterside workers was £31, and that for the volunteers £88. .The representatives in the Federal Parliament were asked by the business people of Port Adelaide to endeavour to bring about a better system. Visitors to Port Adelaide are struck by the number of empty shops, business in which has been discontinued owing to the disastrous effect of the volunteer system. As the waterside workers have made a mistake, which they have since regretted, there is no reason why they should be further punished. 
-I think they will, but they should not be further punished. From figures I have quoted, it will be seen that the volunteers are quite unable to perform the same volume of work as is done by the waterside workers, and the services of the- volunteers would be dispensed with by the South Australian Stevedoring Company if it were mot for the influence of British shipping interests.  Senator McLachlan  should visit Port Adelaide and make the same statements as he made in this chamber yesterday. 
-There is no basher gang in Port Adelaide. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in asking a question at this stage. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.^5 to 2.15 p.m. 

I agree with.  Senator Payne  that much of the existing unemployment is due to the high cost of production. But what is the reason for that high cost? Wages in Australia during the war period and since have always been chasing the prices of commodities. If at the commencement of the war action, had been taken to deal with profiteers who raised the prices of commodities unnecessarily, the cost of production might have been kept down. After all, wages should be judged, not by their nominal value, but by their purchasing power. No one would be injured by a reduction of wages so long as there was simultaneously a corresponding reduction in the price of commodities. In 1914 the purchasing power of the pound began to decrease. That was the time when the Government of the day ought to have taken action in the interests of the people of Australia. I know firms .in South Australia, which bought galvanized iron at about £16 per ton before the war, and sold it later to returned soldiers and others at £80 a ton. No attempt was made to prevent actions of that kind. If anyone is to blame for the present state of affairs it is the Government which controlled Australia during that period. Many merchants showed their patriotism by exploiting the public. 

 Senator Sampson had a good deal to say yesterday about militarism and patriotism. If raising the prices of commodities to returned soldiers and others is patriotism, the less of it we have the better. There is not a great deal of genuine patriotism among our people; at least, very few of them seem to be overburdened with it. Most of the citizens of Australia would be the better for a little genuine patriotism. When  Senator Sampson  said that  Senator Rae  would abolish the military system lock, stock and barrel, he was somewhat unfair. When it was pointed out to him that  Senator Rae  lost two sons in the war, the honorable senator ought to have apologized. No father could have made a greater sacrifice for his country. 
Honorable senators opposite have said that Australia's credit has been injured by the Government's cable to the British, authorities suggesting a suspension of assisted migration. Has not Britain admitted her inability to solve her own un- employment problem? Was not that the reason underlying the offer to Australia of £34,000,000 at- a low rate of interest? 

 Senator Guthrie said that he hoped the proclamation placing an embargo on the export of stud sheeep  had not been issued too late. I agree with him that action ShOUld have been taken years ago. Australia has built up her wool industry by careful breeding, and we should not be too ready to lose the advantage we have gained. I admit that climatic conditions have much to do with the splendid quality of our wool; but, in the main, careful breeding is responsible for its preeminent position. Unfortunately, there are in our midst some breeders of sheep who would enrich themselves at the expense of the nation. Australia would do well to heed the example set by the Government of South Africa in not making available to the world the means of competing with its own people. 
Many Australians are not fair to articles of Australian production. In many establishments in our capital cities a person who asks for Australian-made goods is likely to be told that there are none in stock. That has been my experience on several occasions. But, when I have started to walk out of those establishments rather than buy imported goods, I have been shown Australian-made goods in abundance. Nor is the purchaser of commodities always fair to the products of his own country. Australians will go into, a shop and take the first article offered, although it may come from a foreign country, without even asking to be shown Australian-made goods. Only by placing Australia first can we hope to build up our industries. Australia should be manufacturing the whole of her woollen requirements, instead of only about 25 per cent, of them. We are already employing many thousands of people in the manufacture of woollen goods, but if Australians would only buy and wear the other 75 per cent., the industry would provide three times as much employment as it now does, and there would be a greater circulation of wages, to the immense benefit of the whole community. 

 Senator Guthrie has told us that picture show proprietors are importing tinned music. It would be a wise step to pass a law to prevent this importation. 
Loss of employment means depriving a man of his purchasing power. Unemployment is like a snowball; the further it goes the bigger it grows, and the greater drop there is in the purchasing power of the citizens. It is, therefore the duty of the Government to endeavour to provide employment for its people. An army of unemployed is an economic waste. I am hopef ul that the Government will be able to do something to relieve the unemployed problem. The remedy cannot be found in a day. Already an endeavour has been made to do something to relieve the position by increasing the duty on goods that can be made in Australia, in the belief that it will help to build up Australian industries. The Government, trusts that the manufacturers of Australia will play fair and will not take advantage of the increased duties to increase their prices. I see no reason why they should. As a matter of fact high protective duties should lead to increased production and as we all know, mass production means reduced costs. It would be most unfair on the part of the manufacturers of Australia to raise the price of the Australian manufactured goods. I am inclined to think that they will be patriotic enough not to do so, but that on the contrary it will be their endeavour not only to build up their own industries, but also to help in the establishing of others that will provide employment for Australians. 
.- Unlike some previous speakers, it is not my intention to take up much of the time of the Senate in discussing the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, particularly because I realize that ample opportunity will be afforded to honorable senators to discuss the programme of the Government, when the Budget, the Estimates and various measures are under consideration. 
Like other honorable senators, I congratulate  Senator Daly  on the position he occupies as Leader of the Government in the Senate, and I hasten to assure him that when I used the term "half-baked Ministers " the other day, it was not with any idea of casting a reflection upon him or upon the office he holds. I was trying to convey the impression that I thought the Government had not- treated the Senate fairly in alloting  to it only two Ministers, neither of whom holds a full portfolio. The work that the representatives of the Government in the Senate will have to do during the years the present Government will be in office, will, I am sure, be sufficiently arduous to require, the services of more than two Ministers in this chamber. I think the Government should have alloted three Ministers to the Senate and that one of them should have held a full portfolio. The Bruce-Page Government was represented in the Senate by four Ministers, and one of them was Minister for Defence. This is the first occasion since I have been a member of the Senate on which a Government has not been represented in this chamber by a Minister with a full portfolio.  Senator Barnes  has been considered by the Australian "Workers Union to have sufficient ability to warrant his re-election as its  president  year after year, yet  Mr. Scullin,  apparently, does not consider he is worthy of a portfolio. 
I am considerably disappointed at the Speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General. In view of the promises made a few weeks previously by the Leader,  Deputy  Leader, and every member of the Labour party, I expected that it would contain a comprehensive programme. Instead of that it was a very short document containing practically no solution of the problems that Labour said it would solve if given the opportunity to form a government after the last election. In the first place, I feel sorry indeed for the thousands of electors of Australia who, during the election campaign, accepted the promises of the Labour party in good faith, believing that if it were returned to power it would take immediate steps to remedy many of the social and economic evils that exist in this country. What a disappointment it must be to Labour supporters to find that the party in which they placed so much faith has done practically nothing to carry out its election promises. The Governor-General's Speech is painfully short and shows that the Government have been hard put to frame a constructive policy. It is remarkable that Government supporters have found so much to talk about during this debate, but that, of course, can be explained to some extent by the fact that on the Address-in-Reply honorable senators are given an absolute latitude to speak on any subject. The penultimate paragraph of the policy speech states that shortly after the Christmas recess the Government will submit a more detailed statement of its legislative programme. I trust that the' Government will then take steps to give effect to its promises made at the last election. 
One cannot help being struck with the silence of the representatives of New South Wales, both in this chamber and in another place, in respect of the Government's attitude towards the coal-mining industry. At the end of last session I took the opportunity to listen to the impassioned appeals of the representatives of the coal-mining constituencies in this Parliament, and what impressed me most was the way in which they charged the Bruce-Page Government with being responsible for the coal deadlock. I cannot help comparing their attitude then with their attitude to-day. Senators Dunn, Rae and Dooley, particularly, -at the end of last session, urged upon the Government the pressing need to bring to an end the frightful conditions existing on the coal-fields. To-day they sit calmly and silently behind the Government, saying not one word in protest of its inaction. It makes one wonder what has caused this change of front. Why are honorable senators behind the Government so inactive? 
The honorable member's activity is not yet apparent to me. The members of the Labour party, when speaking on the hustings, promised from every platform that if they were returned to power, inside of fourteen days after the election prosperity would return once more to the coal-mining industry. I question, seriously, whether it was right and proper for candidates to make election promises which evidently they did not intend to carry out. Nearly two months have elapsed since those promises were made and the coal mines are still closed down. What has the present Government done that was not done by the BrucePage Government to bring about an end to the coal deadlock? I recognize that the Commonwealth Government is somewhat embarrassed and hampered by the limitation of power under the Constitution, but honorable senators, like  Senator Daly  and other prominent members of the Labour Government, were sufficiently acquainted with the Constitution to know that they were not acting fairly to the electors in stating that within fourteen days of the Labour party being returned to power the mines would reopen and the coal districts once more return to their former prosperity. The Labour party knew perfectly well that because of the limitation of powers under the Constitution it could not possibly carry out its election promises. 
When great national issues are at stake it is a pity that a party descends to the use of subterfuge and misrepresentation in order to win an election. The Bruce-Page Government did its utmost to bring the coal dispute to an end. The Labour party was aware of that, but for political purposes it censured that Government on every occasion for its alleged inaction. That was the deciding issue at the last election. I am pleased that  Senator Daly,  in answer to a question by  Senator H.  E. Elliott, admitted that the late Prime Minister in withdrawing the prosecution against John Brown did so with the best of intentions, and in order to bring about the opening of the mines. I think  Senator Daly  said that there was no question of corruption on the part of the Bruce-Page Government. Why was not that attitude taken up prior to the election, when the late Government was doing its utmost to bring about peace in the coal industry? The position in regard to the coal industry remains unchanged, although the Labour Government has been in office nearly two months. Much of the difficulty of the coal industry has been brought about largely because the coal-mining business is being conducted from the wrong angle altogether. Not only in Australia, but also in every other part of the world, there are far too many people engaged in the coal industry, and far too much coal produced. What this Government should do in the interests of the coal-mining industry is to absorb in other occupations as many as possible of the coal-miners and others engaged in the industry. During recent years there has been a tremendous reduction in the consumption and utilization of coal for fuel purposes. Oilburning vessels are gradually taking the place of coal-burning vessels, and this has resulted in a decreased consumption of millions of tons of coal. Unfortunately, the production of coal has not been reduced. In fact, during the last ten or fifteen years new mines have been opened, and the number of workers in the industry has been considerably increased, with the result that the production largely exceeds the -consumption. 
A far greater quantity of coal is being produced in Queensland to-day than previously. The coal mines there are working full shifts to produce coal for the other States and for export. A great deal of it is being sent to the southern States, so that industries which would otherwise be compelled to close down may continue to operate. I trust that during the next session of Parliament the Government will pay close attention to the production of byproducts from coal, and, if found necessary, give some assistance to those companies that are prepared to use those by-products. 
I am glad to hear it, and I hope that that portion of the Government's policy will be given effect next season. Let me make one suggestion, the adoption of which, although it may be considered fairly revolutionary, would enable us to absorb our surplus coal. To-day the most favoured mode of transport throughout the world is by the internal combustion engine. We have become accustomed to seeing thousands of motor cars about the streets of the cities and in the country districts. They are using millions of gallons of petrol, all of which has been imported into this country. This is a matter of great importance to Australia. I do not wish to discourage the work that is being carried out in the Roma district; but, from what has transpired up to the present, it seems problematical whether we shall discover flow oil in Australia in the near future, and I suggest that we should concentrate on the manufacture of a substitute fuel from the by-products of our primary industries. It should not be constitutionally impossible for the Government to introduce legislation requiring the addition of 5 per cent, of substitute fuel oil to every gallon of petrol used in the Commonwealth. An addition of 5 per cent, may be considered somewhat small; but it would be a start, and it would stimulate the industry. I understand that legislation . along these lines was introduced in France some years ago. 
I do not know what is the law in France to-day; but some years ago, at all events, a measure was introduced requiring the owners of all motor vehicles to use a certain percentage of oil fuel locally manufactured. 
If we adopted this proposal and encouraged the manufacture of power alcohol from sugar cane, and the manufacture of benzol from coal, we should be doing something to safeguard the interests of this country. In northern Queensland to-day there is a distillery producing a spirit known as " Shellkol," for use in motor vehicles, and I understand that it is now being introduced in the southern districts of that State. Every one who has used it speaks well of it, declaring that it is more efficient than pure benzine; that it does not carbonize so readily, and that, when it is used, it is easier to keep all induction pipes free from grit and other particles that obstruct the free flow of the spirit. It should be possible for the Federal Government to do in a large-way what is now being done in Queensland in a small way. I suggest that the Government should introduce legislation requiring all owners of motor vehicles to use a certain percentage of this substitute fuel, which is being sold at the same price as imported petrol. We all know that the Newcastle steel works is producing a large quantity of benzol as a by-product in the manufacture of coke, and any one who has travelled down the south coast of New South Wales must have observed millions of gallons of benzol being sent skywards in the smoke from the coke ovens in the various coal-mining districts. But I am afraid that we shall not make any substantial progress in the development of these by-products until federal legislation makes their use compulsory in all internal combustion engines. If we had flow oil wells in Australia the incentive to manufacture a substitute spirit would be lacking, because, no doubt, the profits from the sale of flow oil are much larger than those from the sale of manufactured products. If federal legislation were introduced along the lines I have indicated a vast area of country in Queensland" which at present is lying idle would be put under cultivation for sugar cane, not for the purpose of manufacturing sugar but for the production of power alcohol alone. At present the Government will not allow that country to be brought under sugar cultivation, because already our production of sugar is greatly in excess of our needs. It is regrettable that because of this overproduction in sugar such a large area of fertile land is not being utilized. If we could start with a compulsory addition to petrol of 5 per cent, of power alcohol or benzol, it should be possible to build up a very important industry in the northern State. As the distilleries became more efficient and production increased, the Government could raise the percentage until eventually we should be producing sufficient for the whole of our needs. I make the suggestion in the hope that the Government will give it careful consideration. With the information available in the statistical branch it should be an easy matter to ascertain how much petrol is imported and what the suggested new industry would mean to Australia. 
I am glad to have that assurance from the Leader of the Senate. Anything that the Government may do in the direction indicated will have my heartiest support. A great deal of work has been done in the Roma district, and although flow oil has not been discovered there yet, I am hoping that eventually those interested will meet with success. I would point out, however, that even if flow oil is struck, there is a limit to the quantity that may be available, whereas if we build up the manufacture of power alcohol and benzol there would be practically no limit to our output, and moreover, in the case of the manufacture of power 'alcohol we should ensure the settlement of hundreds of thousands of acres of fertile land in Queensland. 
The possibility of utilizing the prickly pear in that way was carefully investigated by scientific authorities some time ago, but it was found that the cost of handling was so great that the alcoholic content of the pear was not sufficient to make the scheme economically sound. In any case I believe the destruction of the prickly pear by the  cactoblastis  is the best way of dealing with that problem. Many other primary products might also be grown for the manufacture of power alcohol. There is no reason why, eventually, we should not be able to produce the whole of the motor fuel required for internal combustion engines in Australia, and incidentally we should provide employment for a large number of people. 
There is another matter to which I should like now to direct attention. I regret that in his references to the Empire Marketing Board yesterday the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  should have attacked a public servant in the person of  Mr. MacDougall. 
I regret that the Minister mentioned the gentleman's name before the whole of the facts were before us. It is a pity that his otherwise excellent speech was marred in that way. I have made inquiries, and I find that  Mr. MacDougall  is- held in high esteem in Great Britain.  His  advice with regard to Empire marketing problems is eagerly sought by a large number of people in the Mother Country as well as in other parts of the British Empire. It was only after I had left the chamber last evening that I found on my table a statement issued by the Minister for Markets and Transport  (Mr. Parker Moloney)  indicating what had been done in London in connexion with the marketing of Australian butter. Honorable senators who have any knowledge of this subject will recall that prior to the appointment of the Butter Export Control Board Australian producers experienced great difficulty in obtaining a decent price for their butter because of the lack of any organized system for the marketing of our primary products in Great Britain. 
I do not wish to go into details in connexion with the matter, as I understand the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir William Glasgow)  intends to make a statement on the matter on the motion for the adjournment. I raise the point merely to direct attention to the benefits which the Australian primary producers have received as a result of the operations of the marketing organizations in Great Britain, with which  Mr. MacDougall  is associated. In conversation with  Senator Sampson,  and other honorable senators who have visited Great Britain recently, I have been informed that this gentleman has rendered great service as a member of the Empire Marketing Board, and in other directions. 
His advice is 30ught generally in connexion with the marketing of Empire products, and he has numerous duties to undertake. I trust that no ill-considered action will be taken by the Government which might have the effect of depriving Australia of the services of this gentleman. I have been assured that he has performed wonderful work in assisting the disposal of Australian primary products, and that in connexion with butter particularly the marketing conditions are infinitely better than they were prior to the advent of the Butter Export Control Board. Before the establishment of that organization, Australian butter was sold in Great Britain at a lower rate than butter from New Zealand, and although it was generally conceded that the quality of the Australian product was quite as good as that exported from New Zealand and Denmark, Australian butter producers were at a great disadvantage owing to the absence of a proper marketing system. Years ago, there were practically no cool storage facilities overseas for Australian primary products, and consignments of Australian butter were often placed on a market which was flooded with Danish and New Zealand butter. The result was that not only was our own market affected, but the glut had a serious effect upon the prices realized for the New Zealand and Danish product. Under the organized marketing organization set up by the Bruce-Page Government, a better system of selling now obtains, and if there should be a glut on the London market, the Australian consignments are now held over until such time as' they can be marketed at a profitable price. Further, the provincial markets of Great Britain are exploited. Australian butter is not sold only in the London market; provincial centres are now able to obtain supplies. 
When the tariff schedule is under consideration in this chamber, it is not my intention to oppose every high duty, or to support others which may appear low. I have always been a consistent protectionist; but I sincerely trust the Government, in the pursuance of its fiscal policy, will not do anything to injure the marketing of Australian products overseas. As  Senator Hoare  stated, there should be a spirit of compromise in the matter of trade between countries. We are looking to Great Britain's millions to purchase our wool, wheat, dried fruits, wine and other products; but, if we are to impose high duties on British products, we cannot expect Britain to purchase our goods to any considerable extent.  Senator Hoare  said that the British people purchase our primary products only because they cannot obtain their equal from any other source. 
That is not so. Surely the honorable senator recalls the effort made by the previous administration in the interests of the Australian wine grape-growers to get the Imperial Government to grant a preference, which would enable their product to compete with the cheap wine from Portugal and other European countries. As a result of the representations then made, concessions were granted by the Imperial Government, which were of benefit to the Australian producers. We have also received from the British Government a certain amount of preference in connexion with Australian sugar, and my colleagues from Queensland will agree with me that that preference has been of great assistance to Queensland sugar producers in disposing of their surplus stocks. 
Australia has been a good customer to Great Britain, and has given considerable preference to her products. I am extremely anxious that nothing shall be done to injure the present trade reciprocal arrangements between Australia and the Motherland. Our primary products exported overseas are the life-blood of Australia. In giving such prominence to our primary products, I do not wish to discount the value of our secondary industries, which I shall always endeavour to assist. 
For a considerable time the British Government has granted a certain preference to Queensland sugar. 
That is a much lower price than that at which it is sold in Australia, but I remind honorable senators that Queensland sugar marketed overseas has to be sold at London parity. The representatives of the Queensland sugar industry are hopeful that the present preference will be increased not by a heavier duty being imposed on foreign sugar, but by reducing the duty on Australian' sugar. If we adopt the attitude of practically prohibiting the importation of British goods into Australia, and also suspend assisted migration, what consideration can those engaged in the sugar industry hope to receive from the British Government? 
The Government is taking a somewhat narrow view of the subject of migration. Do honorable senators opposite suggest that migration should be totally suspended until every one in Australia is profitably employed ? 
Most of the migrants who come to Australia have been nominated, and those that have been assisted consist principally of domestics and boys.I ask  Senator Daly  how he thinks we are going to obtain a market for the products of our secondary industries with a population that is practically stationary. It is our duty to extend a welcome to our own kith and kin from overseas. A few days ago when it was announced that the United States of America had imposed an increased tariff upon some of our primary products there was a great outcry, and it was said that we were not getting a fair deal, considering the large quantities of American goods we buy. 
Yes. There is always an outcry concerning the adverse trade balance between Australia and America. I shall support any action taken by this or any other Government to remedy the adverse trade balance with the United States of America. How is that country in a position almost to dictate to the world? With all its faults, the United States of America must be admired for the progress it has made in its industries and for its economic strength. Its greatness did not result from the adoption of a narrow-minded policy. It threw open its doors to the people of other countries, and by increasing its population it made it possible for its industries to develop. 
Canada also encouraged people to settle in that country. She had in London officers who were authorized to offer employment to migrants. The payment of about £2 covered the passage money to Canada of people with agricultural experience in Great Britain, and landed them on their farms. They were given the freehold of 160 acres of land, and every encouragement to go ahead and make good. That system is still in operation. I agree with  Senator Rae  that we should not go to the cities of Britain for migrants, and place them in our outback country; but that does not mean that we should close the door to all migrants. 
The difficulty was in finding markets for our products. Migration depends on requests from the State Governments. 
If that is so, it is the first I have heard of it. Not every migrant will settle in the country; some of them will drift to the city and find employment there. Australia cannot develop by adopting a dog-in-the-manger policy. I regard it as a privilege to be an Australian citizen, for no other country offers such, great opportunities. We should not confine those opportunities to the 6,000,000 or 7,000,000 people now in Australia. We are building up a number of secondary industries in this country, but where are we to find markets for their products? Already in the boot and shoe manufacturing industry, saturation point- has been reached. Some of the factories are already working short time because the production is greater than the demand. With the exception of a few exclusive lines there is practically  no importation of boots and shoes. 
That is our great difficulty. When the home market has been satisfied, production must cease, for our goods cannot compete with those of other countries in the world's market. What solution of this difficulty do the economists opposite suggest? 
That' is obvious, but there was over-production in the boot and shoe industry before unemployment became so prevalent. The outlook is not particularly hopeful for our secondary industries unless we can do' more than supply our own requirements. If we increase the home market by increasing our population we shall improve the position to some extent. The United States of America has a home market of about 120,000,000 people. Their requirements must be met before there can be any fear of over-production. 
That may be; but when the home market there has been supplied, the industries have reached a stage which enables them to export their product at a price which will compete with those of other countries. Therein lies the difference between Australia and the United States of America. It cannot be said that American goods find a market in other countries because of the low wages paid in the country of manufacture. Artisans and skilled workers in the United States of America receive wages which are as high as those paid in Australia. Most of them own their own motor cars. I see no prospect of Australia emulating the greatness and prosperity of the United States of America unless there is a substantial increase in our population. We must make it possible for our goods to compete in the open market with those of other countries. If we could increase our population to 12,000,000 persons, our unemployment problem would soon disappear. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to refer to a matter which might give rise to a misconception in the minds of those persons who read  Hansard.  The cause of such possible misconception was an interjection which I made through the Chair while  Senator Lynch  was speaking. 
I point out that no honorable senator can make an interjection through the Chair. Interjections are disorderly. The making of an interjection with the statement that it is made through the Chair does not make it orderly. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW  (Queensland) [3.44]. - Yesterday the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  made a statement regarding the emoluments received by a person in the employ of the Commonwealth Government in London. In reply to an interjection, he said that the person referred to was a  Mr. MacDougall  and that he received emoluments amounting to £5,000 a year. At the time I felt that that was an exaggeration, and I have therefore ascertained the true position.  Mr. MacDougall  is the London representative of the Commonwealth on the Empire Marketing Board and on the Imperial Economic Committee. For those duties he receives £1,000 per annum. He also receives £500 a year from the Development and Migration Commission and a similar sum from the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. As Vice-Chairman of the London agency of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board, he receives a further £500 a year from that body.  Mr. MacDougall  is a very efficient officer, one of the ablest exponents of the policy of imperial preference and inter-empire trade. He has secured a lot of useful publicity in English journals, including the London  Times  for able articles which he has contributed on economic questions affecting Australia.  His  pen is absolutely tireless and his articles are exceedingly instructive. As an advocate of inter-Empire trade and preference to the dominions he has made quite a name for himself.  His  work at the Economic Conference at Geneva. in setting out the Australian viewpoint that the tariff should be regarded as a matter of domestic concern was invaluable.  His  knowledge also was invaluable to the ex-Prime Minister at Imperial Conferences and I am sure that when the present Prime Minister goes to London next year he will find in  Mr. MacDougall  a very wise counsellor. In making statements from the Government benches Ministers must be accurate. The other day  Senator Daly  asked us to give the Government credit for sincerity, but if he is to justify our trust in him to that ex tent he should see that the information he supplies is correct. The statement he made in regard to  Mr. MacDougall  was most misleading. 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW.That impression was justified by a statement appearing in the press this morning which I do not think  Senator Daly  has taken steps to contradict. If on inquiry at the Commonwealth offices he found that his statement in the press was wrong, in justice to the officer concerned and to the Senate, I think he should have contradicted it. 
.- Yesterday I asked whether the Government had received from the Hobart Chamber of Commerce a communication stating that a consignment of motor cars, fully equipped, had arrived in Melbourne prior to the tabling of the new tariff schedule in the House of Representatives and that these cars were on a through bill of lading to Tasmania. I then asked whether the Tasmanian importers would receive some consideration with regard to the duties payable on these cars in order to place them on an equality with the Victorian importers. The reply I received was to the effect that the communication had been received, but my attention was drawn to the fact that an Act of Parliament provided that the duty liable to be paid was that which was ruling at the time when the goods were entered for home consumption. Our tariff applies to Australia as a whole, and not to any part of it in particular, and although I am aware that the" Customs Act provides that the duty applicable to any goods is that which is ruling at the time the goods are entered for home consumption, that is, when the entries are passed, yet under the Constitution the Federal Parliament's power in regard to taxation does not allow it to discriminate between States. We certainly have to take the Customs Act as we find it, but we have also to take the Constitution Act as we find it, and I suggest, therefore, that the matter should be investigated immediately in order to see whether it is not contrary to the letter, if not the spirit, of the Constitution that there should be discrimination with regard to the rate of duty imposed on goods arriving by the same vessel in Australian waters and in the same Australian port, some destined for one State and some for another. I trust that even now, notwithstanding the fact that the Customs Act provides that the duty ruling at the time of the entry being passed is that which has to be paid, some provision will be found by which the Minister for Trade and Customs can afford the relief which the Tasmanian importers seek. The Tasmanian importers are engaged in the same business as the Melbourne men, and consequently any considerable increase in the tariff on motor cars immediately places them at a disadvantage in the circumstancesI have outlined. 
 The matter referred to by  Senator Payne  will receive the consideration of the Government. 
With regard to the point raised by.  Senator Sir William  Glasgow the statement I made in the Senate yesterday was based upon information supplied to me. 
I am blaming no one. If the honorable senator would listen ho would hear what happened, but the trouble is that when anyone tries to tell  Senator Ogden  anything he invariably walks out of the chamber. I was dealing at the time with the matter of co-ordinating the work of departments with the idea of bringing about a reduction in the cost of administration. After mentioning the Australian organization and the British organization, I went on to point out that in addition to the Australian, we had the MacDougall organization, and I said that the cost of having  Mr. MacDougall  in London was £5,000. I made inquiries again this morning to see whether that figure was correct, and was again informed that it was accurate. 
I did not use the word " emoluments ". 
If anything Isaid gave the impression that the return to  Mr. MacDougall  was £5,000, such was not my intention. When  Senator McLachlan  was speaking yesterday I made perfectly clear what I had previously said, and  Senator Sir William  Glasgow is quite welcome to inquire into the accuracy of my statement. What I said was that we have in London the Development and Migration organization, the High Commissioner's office, and  Mr. MacDougall,  and that  Mr. MacDougall  was costing the Commonwealth £5,000. 
I did not mention emoluments. 
I do, so far as the actual emoluments paid to  Mr. MacDougall  are concerned. 
But it does not alter the point I was making that the late Government allowed these three organizations to exist side by side in London practically doing the some work, and that when a  man  is appointed to a branch  of  a department he gets a secretary, an accountant, a chief clerk, and a typist. Whatever  Mr. MacDougall  did at Geneva, or elsewhere, may be necessary, and if so his services will be retained, but my complaint as a Minister was that if  Mr. MacDougall  is necessary, certain other officers in London are not necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council, upon  notice - 
What effect will the cable sent by the Prime Minister to the British Government in connexion with the suspension of the migration agreement have upon the carrying out of the land settlement scheme known as " The 3,500 Farms Scheme " in Western Australia? 
On receipt of a reply from the British Government, a statement will be made to Parliament on this and other matters in relation to the £34,000,000 agreement. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a statement in the  Sydney Sun  of the 27th November to the effect that  Dr. W. 
Robertson, Director of the Division of Veterinary Hygiene, has submitted a report refuting many of the allegations made against Alsatian dogs as sheep-killers, and suggesting that it is the intention of the Government to lift the embargo against the importation of Alsatian dogs into Australia? 
Has such a report been received from  Dr. Robertson,  and, if so, will the Minister lay it on the Table of the Senate? 
If it is a fact that legislation providing for the sterilization of all Alsatian dogs in Western Australia, owing to their depredations amongst sheep, is now being considered by the Parliament of that State, will the Government consult the various State Governments, and particularly the Government of Western Australia, before removing this embargo ? 
In view of the severe injury sustained by the primary producers of Australia through imported pests, and notably through the depredations of the fox, the rabbit, and the sparrow, will the Government have full official inquiry find investigation made before considering the removal of this embargo? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
The press statement referred to has come under notice. The report to which it relates was prepared by  Dr. Robertson  for the information of the late Government, and, in response to numerous requests, it was decided to make it available for general information. 
I lay on the table a copy of  Dr. Robertson's  report. 3 and 4. The late Government imposed a prohibition, for a period of fire years, on the importation of Alsatian dogs. No steps to remove the prohibition will be taken except after full inquiry and consideration. 
On 28th November  Senator Sampson  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
What were the numbers of (a) officers, (b) non-commissioned officers, on the strength of the Citizen Military Forces on the 1st July, 1923, and 1st July, 1929, respectively? 
What were the numbers of (a) officers, (b) non-commissioned officers, on the 1st July, 1910, in the Commonwealth Citizen Forces on the active list? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: -  1. (a) Active list including unattached list- 

<graphic href="122332192912031_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

No information is available in regard to the strength of non-commissioned officers, but the following numbers  were  provided on the establishment for the dates mentioned - 

<graphic href="122332192912031_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

2. (a) Active list including unattached list, 1,818. 
No information is available in regard to the strength of non-commissioned officers, but an establishment of 4,177 was provided for 1st July, 1910. 
On 29th November  Senator Sampson  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
What is the position with regard to the proposed aerodrome at Western Junction? 
Has the site been purchased? 
If so, will a sufficient area for Aero Club purposes be immediately made available to the Tasmanian section of the club? 
Is he aware whether the delay in affording facilities for flying is adversely affecting the future prospects of the club? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
The position is that a site has been purchased, and the proposals for the development of the area as an aerodrome are being referred to the Parliamentary Works Committee for their consideration. 
See answer to No. 1. 
If the project is approved, immediate action will bo taken to make available to the TaBmanian section of the Aero Club an ares sufficient for club purposes. 
Although delays in anordiug facilities for flying near Launceston will necessarily restrict the immediate activities of the club, it is not thought that the present unavoidable delay will appreciably affect the future prospects of the club. 
.- On Friday last I made some reference to the industrial trouble on the northern coal-fields of New SouthWales. It is gratifying to honorable senators to learn that as a result of negotiations during the week-end there is every likelihood of a settlement of that dispute. I am sure we all hope that these negotiations will lead to a lasting peace in the industry. I cannot, however, let the occasion pass without drawing attention to the way in which the unfortunate coal-miners have been misled during the last -five or sis months. Months ago they could have obtained terms of settlement, even better than those they are now likely to secure. But they were told to wait until a Labour Government was in power, and they would get better terms. No more dastardly form of conducting an election campaign could have been adopted. 
Those who were responsible for these statements, including the political leaders of the miners themselves, were fully aware of the constitutional limitations of the Commonwealth with regard to the control of industry. They must have known that it would be in the interests of the miners to accept the terms, offered previously, but for political purposes the men were gulled into the belief that if they held out long enough they would be able to exact better terms. Consequently they were kept out of employment for many months longer than was necessary. For this state of affairs I blame  Mr. Theodore,  the present Treasurer, and other leaders of the Labour party in New South Wales. It is disgraceful that any party should adopt such tactics for the purpose of securing votes. I sincerely trust that, as the outcome of the recent developments, we are about to enter upon an era of peace not only in the coal-mining industry of New South Wales, but in industry generally throughout the Commonwealth. 
I wish now to refer to the Government's proposal to abolish compulsory military training. I recognize that there may have been many defects in the manner in which compulsory training was carried out, but no fault could be found with the system itself. It is, I believe, generally' conceded that it does not take long to- knock the average infantryman into shape. 
At all events an infantryman may be prepared for war service in a much shorter time than is required for the training of technical Units such as the artillery, the signallers and engineers. 
Practically the whole of the First Division, which was regarded as the flower of the Australian forces, were men who had previous military training, and nearly all of them were recruited from the ranks of our citizen forces. The original Seventh Battery, of which I was a member, was officered entirely by men who had had experience in the citizen forces, and I believe that 90 per cent, of the battery were citizen force men who enlisted  en masse.  The compulsory system for the training of our citizen forces in operation at the outbreak of the war laid the foundation for the building up of that magnificent body of men known as the Australian Imperial Forces. Now that the Government has decided to abolish compulsory military training, I am afraid it will be difficult to provide for the adequate defence of the Commonwealth, especially as regards the technical units. I can assure  Senator Sampson  that in my reference to the infantry  I had no desire to belittle the glorious work which our infantry did during the war. All I wished to do was to emphasize that time is required for the efficient training of artillerymen, engineers and other technical units; that a considerable term of apprenticeship is necessary before men comprising such units are fit to take the field. I trust; therefore, that if the voluntary system does not prove satisfactory the Government will reconsider its decision and revert to the compulsory training of our citizen forces. Though the Government's proposal may be regarded as a fine gesture of peace, it appears to me to be dangerous for Australia to be first among the nations to put into force this policy of world disarmament. The previous Government, I remind the Senate, was always prepared to meet other nations in conference to consider this important matter, and it did not incur unnecessary expenditure for defence purposes. What is the position in other countries? Our friends of the Labour party would have us believe that the spirit of- militarism is absent in Russia, where the spirit of social reform, so we are told, is so much in evidence. During the week end I read with interest an article in the  National Review  written by  Mr. J.  Baker White concerning the war policy of the Soviet Government.  Mr. White  states - 
The war policy of the Soviet Government may be divided into four sections -the building up of the armed forces in Russia; propaganda to produce the war atmosphere at home and abroad; war plotting abroad; and espionage. With regard to the first there are some striking details and figures available as to the recent increases in all branches of the armed forces in Russia. During the past two years the Soviet Government has been engaged in adding to the Red Army, which was reduced to a paper strength of 562,000, an enormous militia. Military service has been made compulsory for all men in good health, the periods of service comprising pre-military instruction at 19 and 20 years of age, active service from 21 to 25, and service in the reserve from 26 to 40. 
From this it is evident that every Russian subject is compelled to render military service for 21 years.  Mr. White  goes on to say - 
The pro-military instruction is given to 842,000 youths in 4,500 centres, the permanent army trains about 270,000 men each year, and the mobile territorial organizations a further 600,000 men. Russia is, therefore, giving effective military training to more than 870,000 men a year, and competent military experts have estimated that in the event of war the Red rulers would have at their disposal more than 10,000,000 men who had received military training. 
Large numbers of women are also being enrolled as Red Army auxiliaries, not only as nurses and canteen workers, but as operatives in the aviation and chemical warfare departments. Moreover, under the Soviet Military Service Act, in time of war all women between the ages of 19 and 40 are liable to compulsory service. Every effort is being made to equip this vastly increased army. The arsenals have been reorganized and, at present, are the most active section of the heavy industries; more preparations are in progress for chemical warfare, in its most horrible forms, than in any other country in the world; and militarist clubs, such as "Friends of the Air Fleet" and the " Friends of Chemical Defence," have been formed in all parts of the country. Particularly striking are the figures of the Soviet purchases of high-grade refined nitrate, used exclusively for the production of explosives. At the end of 1927,  The Times  reported that 50,000 tons had been bought from Chile during the year, while negotiations were in progress for more. In 1926, Russia's purchases only amounted to about 2,000 tons, and in prewar days to 12,000 to 15,000 tons a year. It is disquieting to note that the financing of this huge purchase of nitrate was arranged in Berlin. 
The Soviet Air Force is also steadily increasing in strength and efficiency by reason of extensive purchases of aeroplanes from Germany and elsewhere. Special funds are repeatedly raised among the Russian workers for the purchase of battle-planes, and the slogan of the Osoaviakhim (Air and Chemical Defence Society ) is : " Every town must have its own aeroplane and aerodrome." In the field of commercial aviation, which in Russia is part and parcel of the military machine, there is also great activity. According to an article which appeared in the  Pravda  of July 8th, the following air lines are in operation: - "(1) Two Western European lines, Moscow to Berlin, via Riga, and Leningrad to Riga, worked by the society ' Derluft,' in which the great German air concern Lufthansa plays a considerable part. "(2) TheUkranian air-way, uniting Moscow, via Kharkov, Piatigorsk, and Baku to Pehlevi in Persia. Here the German concern again enters into the picture, as it operates a line from Baku to Enzeli, Teheran, and so to Bouchir on the Persian Gulf, and another line from Teheran to Meched, Merv, and Bokhara. " (3) The middle-Asia group, operated by the ' Dobrolet ' society, the most important section of which is the line BakuKrasnovodskKhivaBokharaTashkentTermez, and so to Kabul. It is thus possible to get from one of the Soviet aerodromes in Asiatic Russia to the gateway of India in six or seven hours. "(4) The air system connecting Verhnedinsk with Ulan-Bator, the capital of the Mongolian Republic, and Irkutsk with Yakutsk." 
At present the Soviet air services cover some 11,427 kilometres, and plans are on foot for covering 30,000 kilometres, as soon as possible. On March 17th last, that well-informed French journal,  L' Illustration,  publisheda striking article and chart on the SovietcumGerman air activities in the Middle East, and pointed out that more than one Soviet aerodrome is well within striking distance of that vital link, the Suez Canal. A study of the chart proved this, and showed the extraordinary strategic significance of the" Red air activity. 
The extent of Russia's military preparations can, perhaps, be best gauged from the size of the military Budget, which increased from 244 million gold roubles in 1922-23 to 720 million gold roubles in 1926-27, and these figures do not include expenses for barracks, which are borne by the local budgets. 
UntilAustralia has received some guarantee of peace from either the League of Nations or the Disarmament Conference, or other nations have given a lead in the matter of disarmament, the Government should not leave the country at the mercy of any nation that cares to attack it. It has been said that Australia is safe so long as the British Navy controls the seas ; but the Scullin Government has told the people of the Old Country that Australia wants neither her goods nor her people. In the face of that declaration can Australia claim Britain's protection? 
The Government is  adopting  an unwise policy. No honorable senator wishes to see Australia in the throes of another war such as that which a few years ago convulsed the world ; but we shall leave ourselves open to grave dangers if, in the interests of economy, our defences are weakened. I feel sure, that however eager the people of Australia may be for economy in administration, they do not want Australia to be left defenceless. I am no advocate of extravagance in administration ; but I claim that we should deal in a commonsense way with matters of disarmament and defence. I hope that the Government will not seriously weaken our defence forces. 
The Governor-General's Speech indicates that the Government proposes to re-establish the Commonwealth line of steamers. Notwithstanding that the object of the Labour party is the nationalization of industry, I trust that the Government will be guided by the experience of both State and Commonwealth Governments in connexion with State enterprises. Before the Commonwealth Shipping line was disposed of, it cost the taxpayers of this country about £750,000 a year. Whenever governments in Australia have launched out in enterprises of this nature, the result has always been a loss to the taxpayers. 
That- is an untimely interjection. If .the honorable senator refers to the disposal of the Commonwealth steamers, I remind him that they were sold; at what at the time, was full market price. The same remark applies also to the disposal of the State cattle stations in Queensland. It is true that those stations were sold for less than they cost; but that was because the purchase price was ridiculously high. Any stationowner would be glad to dispose of his holdings on terms similar to those made by the Queensland Labour Government. If there is any scandal in connexion with those cattle stations, it is that their former owners became wealthy by their sale. Australia's experience in the nationalization of industries has been such that I hope the Government will not embark on further State enterprise. Australia is not the only country which has made the colossal plunder of engaging in State-owned shipping enterprises. The United States of America and Canada have also experienced very heavy losses in the same way. It is infinitely better to allow those who have a knowledge of shipping to carry on the business than for governments to endeavour to engage in such trading enterprises. 
I wish now to refer to the unfair position which has arisen in connexion with the introduction of a new tariff schedule. This is not a party matter. A  similar  position arises whenever a new tariff schedule is brought down. An overseas vessel loaded with a valuable cargo of merchandise, having completed the discharge of a portion of her cargo at Sydney, leaves to complete discharge at Brisbane; but, after her departure from Sydney, and before her arrival in Brisbane, a new tariff schedule may be tabled, with the result that consignees at Brisbane are compelled to pay, in some instances, a much higher duty than the Sydney consignees. That places the Brisbane business people at a great disadvantage. I believe an understanding was once given by a Minister for Trade and Customs that an effort would be made to place this matter on a more equitable basis. It would seem reasonable to provide that when an overseas vessel has once reported at any branch of the Customs Department, the ship's cargo shall not be subject to higher duties consequent upon the introduction of an amended tariff schedule before the discharge is completed. Under the present circumstances, consignees at certain Austraiian ports are placed at a great disadvantage.  Mr. J.  Allen, when speaking in Brisbane quite recently, said that on a certain quantity of cotton piece goods duty to the amount of £235 was collected in Sydney, but on a similar quantity of material from the same shipment £341 was collected in 
Brisbane. The Brisbane Chamber of Commerce passed the following resolution : - 
Jil view of the promise of the previous Go vernment to amend the Customs Act to remove unconstitutional, and, therefore, illegal, collection of new duties with every tariff change, from what the commercial community and public of Queensland have suffered for years, this Chamber respectfully asks you for a Parliamentary pronouncement that, pending the passing of such amending legislation you will, as regards the present tariff changes, authorize a refund of all additional duties paid on good9 from all ships which have 'reported at any of the branches of Customs before November 22nd last. 
A very strong case has previously been made out in support of an amendment of the Customs Act on the lines suggested. 

 Senator Cooper referred to the proposed suspension of the issue of licenses under the Transport Workers Act, which is a subject of great importance to the Queensland people, particularly as, during the past twelve months, there has been more industrial peace on the waterfront in Queensland than there has been for many years. During the cane-crushing season there is usually a good deal of industrial unrest on the waterfront, particularly at Cairns, Townsville, Bowen and Mackay; but, since the licensing system has been in operation, there has been an almost entire absence of industrial trouble. The primary producers and residents of North Queensland generally view with alarm the proposal of the Government to dispense with the licensing system. When in Bowen a few weeks ago, I was informed that, under the Transport Workers Act, there had not only been continuity of employment ; but a considerable reduction  in  the cost of handling cargo on the waterfront. A stevedoring company at Townsville also announced quite recently that, owing to the continuity of operations and the expeditious manner in which cargo was now being handled, the company was able to reduce handling costs, which is of great advantage to the primary producer.  [Extension of time granted.]  I have been assured by many of those engaged in the industry that since the present system has been in operation there has been a marked improvement, not only at the ports where licences are issued, but also in those which are operating under the old system. In ports where the licensing system has not been applied the militant element now recognize that if there is any unreasonable delay or undue interference that system, may be introduced at those ports. Generally  speaking, the  conditions on the waterfront in Queensland during the past twelve or fifteen months are infinitely better than they have been for many years. As the wool-growers, sugar cane growers, millers and storekeepers and residents generally have  derived wonderful benefit from the licensing system, I earnestly hope the Government will not institute a change which may have the effect of bringing about general industrial disorder. 
One paragraph of the GovernorGeneral's Speech states that immediate steps will be taken to amend the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In reading that statement one would almost imagine it to have been made by the late Government, because it has been the policy of the Nationalist Government for the last six or seven years to amend that act so as to make it more workable and equitable. The late Government, when amending the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, was told by the members of the Labour party that it was trying to interfere with our industrial legislation in order to reduce wages and to lower the conditions of the workers. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  and his followers are well aware, that the limitations placed upon the Commonwealth Government under the Constitution make it impossible for us to make the Arbitration Act really workable. In spite of that, we were "bitterly attacked inside and outside of this chamber when we tried to improve our industrial legislation. The Prime Minister himself has said that he does not believe altogether in the principle of arbitration. He preferred round table conferences between employers and employees to bring about a settlement of disputes. That is the. very thing that honorable senators on this side have been preaching for years. Yet, when we endeavoured to remove the duplication and overlapping of Federal and State industrial awards, the Labour party misrepresented the position to the people to such an extent as to bring about the overthrow of the late Government and the return to power of the Labour party. Fortunately, the people have already recognized that, in voting for the Labour candidates at the last election, they made a grave mistake. That is shown by the fact that at the Victorian elections, last Saturday, the votes cast for the anti-Labour forces were far in excess of those cast for the Labour party. It is very gratifying to us to know that, even within a few weeks, the people of Victoria have recognized that they were misled as to the real issue of the recent federal election. 
The people are being burdened with additional taxation, and under the new tariff the cost of living is likely to be increased. This Government has repeatedly stated that it proposes to reduce imports into this country so as to encourage Australian manufacturers. With that principle every senator on this side is in hearty accord, provided, of course, that it does not interfere with the export trade in our primary products. This Government, which is pledged to economy, is proposing to expend, during its first year of office, £600,000 more than the expenditure set out in the budget of the late Government. The Treasurer is relying on his budget to bring in an additional customs revenue of £1,200,000. Yet, at the same time, he is gulling the people by tolling them that he is going to reduce the imports into this country. One thing is a complete contradiction of the other. I trust the Government will not continue the propaganda with which it deceived the unfortunate coal-miners of New South Wales, who were told that, under a Labour Government, peace and prosperity would return to. the coal-mining districts. I trust that as the session proceeds, and as the members of the Government gain more experience, they will realize their sense of responsibility to the community and cease to try to make good fellows of themselves by making rash promises which they are fully aware can never hp carried out. 
As the result of the recent federal elections, the Labour party has been returned to power with a big majority in the House of Representatives. I regret the passing of the Bruce-Page Government, because of its sincere efforts to further the interests of the Commonwealth, and particularly the country dis tricts. Western Australia has suffereda great deal under federation, so also have Tasmania and South Australia, and they afford a striking instance of the failure of federal legislation, because so early in our history, no less than three States - those with the smallest populations - have to receive disability grants contributed mainly by the richer States of the Commonwealth to enable them to function properly. 
No. That is one thing that would absolutely destroy the outlying States of the Commonwealth. I advise the States that are receiving assistance from the Commonwealth to-day to make every effort to retain their powers and privileges, because the more the government of Australia is placed in the hands of the Commonwealth Government at Canberra, the more will those States suffer. 
I oppose it wholeheartedly. During the election campaign I found that the people in the outlying parts of Western Australia were of the firm opinion that the best new? from Canberra was no news at all. I am one of those who regret that the effect of federal legislation has been to create this anti-federal feeling in the smaller States. It seems to me that benefit or suffering has come upon the members of the federation according to their geographical situation. That is to say, States close to the Seat of Government or having a large population, have benefited, while those with small populations and further removed from the Seat of Government, have suffered, Western Australia being the greatest sufferer because it is furthest removed from the federal capital. 
It is true, however, that the BrucePage Government displayed a certain measure of practical sympathy with the outlying members of the federation that had not previously been extended to them, and gave evidence of its desire to assist them by the appointment of commissions to inquire into the disabilities suffered by Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. The independent and impartial tribunal which inquired into the position of Western Australia had as its  chairman, Mr. Higgs,  an exTreasurer of the Commonwealth, and it recommended the payment of an annual grant of £450,000 to the State. We received that full amount for one year, but for the following three years the grant has been reduced to £300,000, two thirds of the amount recommended by the commission. In the meantime, and particularly during the months in which a Labour Government has been in power in the Commonwealth, the disabilities of Western Australia have been enormously increased. Although the States would be pleased to have increased grants I think they would prefer a fairer deal by the removal of the causes of the disabilities they suffer. It stands to the credit of the Bruce-Page Government that it made an effort, belated though it was, to deal with the vicious circle created in Australia by the imposition of high customs duties. We all recognize that a higher tariff means higher industrial awards, with consequent higher prices and higher cost of living, and that a higher cost of living leads to still higher industrial awards. Unemployment is always lurking in the background of that vicious circle, increasing at a faster rate than the cost of living. It follows, therefore, that the higher the cost of living the more unemployment there is; every increase in customs duties leads to an increase in the cost of living and production and. thus greater unemployment is brought about. 
The Bruce-Page Government, before its defeat, had begun to realize that the false economic position which had arisen in Australia was due largely to the operation of the tariff, the overlapping of State and Federal arbitration awards and the provisions of the Navigation Act. It came very properly to the decision that federal arbitration should be abandoned. We know the result when the matter was put before the people, mixed up as it was with taxation of picture shows and a number of other side issues. It is significant, however, that three Governments, those led by  Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hughes  and  Mr-. Bruce,  have asked the people by direct referendum to give the Commonwealth Parliament additional power over industrial affairs and the people have always said "No," with a very loud voice. On the last occasion the Labour leaders in the State arena in Western Australia were foremost in advising them to say " No."  In my opinion they were right in doing so. 
Belatedly  Mr. Bruce  also began an economic investigation into the operation of the tariff, and he promised a proper scientific revision of our protection policy, which, while perhaps giving more adequate protection to key secondary industries would also ensure that the great primary industries of the Commonwealth, which are also key industries, should not. suffer from the pronouncedly grievous burdens imposed on them by a high tariff. He also promised a review of the operation of the coasting trade provisions of the Navigation Act, with a view to their abolition, so that the primary producers of Australia might obtain cheaper freights, and the people of the Commonwealth might travel from one point to another on our vast coastline in British vessels employing white labour. This they are not permitted to do at present. If a person chooses to pay for a trip from Fremantle to New Zealand, he may travel on an overseas mail steamer from Fremantle to Melbourne or Sydney so long as he does not ask for a refund in respect of the portion of the journey which he does not take beyond either port. But that, of course, is too heavy an expenditure for a great many of the people of Australia who wish to travel from one part of the Commonwealth to another. 
There is no doubt that during the last election campaign the very sound policy of the Bruce-Page Government in regard to these existing burdens on the people of Australia, was misconstrued and misrepresented as an attack on the wages of the workers. Not one of its proposals could be so interpreted. On the contrary a sound economic industrial policy would give the workers better wages and a better purchasing power, just as the workers in United States of America and Canada have a greater purchasing power with the higher wages they receive. 
But the conditions in the United States of America are very different- from those in Australia. Primary industries must have a proper measure of consideration. "We have not, for instance, the great waterways that are available to the primary producers of the United States of America or the dense population of that country. 
The people of the Commonwealth were evidently not ready for the change the Bruce-Page Government asked them to face. The Australian democracy was not quite prepared to make an apparent sacrifice, which would really amount to an advantage, but I think, already the conviction is growing that the Bruce-Page Government was right in the steps it was taking in regard to these three important burdens on the community. 
I was not a member of the party led by  Mr. Bruce,  but I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the loyalty he displayed to the agreement he made with the Country party. The Government that carried on the administration of Australia for something like seven years, was formed of Nationalists and members of the Country party, and I must say that throughout the whole of that period, the former were always fair and square in their relations to the Country party. The Government did not do all the Country party wished it to do, but I am satisfied that the best results from the point of view of the people generally can only be obtained by co-operation between the Nationalists and the Country party in the administration of the affairs of Australia. 
I congratulate  Senator Daly,  VicePresident of the Executive Council, and  Senator Barnes,  upon attaining the high and honorable positions which they occupy in this chamber.  Their Government has been elected by the people, and it seems to me that any legislation it submits is entitled to our fair consideration. I shall, therefore, be pleased to assist Ministers in the conduct of business in the Senate, but it will be my duty, I anticipate, to oppose a good deal of the legislation brought forward. I am sure thathonorable senators will not forget that the Senate is a chamber of review, and also a chamber for the protection of the rights of the individual States. In these cir cumstances, therefore, I need i &gt; express the hope that there will be ne factious opposition to the Government in this chamber. The new Government will be judged by the people by the legislative fruit it produces, hut the crop in sight so far, I cannot help thinking, must be disappointing to a great many of the supporters of Labour who carried it so enthusiastically to victory at the polls on the 12th October last. 
Let me take as an example the very first action of the Government, which I regard as a blow at the prestige of the Senate. This is the more democratic chamber of the federal legislature, because honorable senators are elected by the whole of the people of their respective States on the most democratic franchise in the world. Yet we find that whereas under the late Government four Ministers were regarded as necessary to handle the legislation brought into this chamber, the majority of whose members were all sympathetic with the administration of the day, to-day the new Labour Government has only two Ministers in the Senate. Thus two men are to do all that four capable and industrious men found -a difficult task. The plank in the platform of the Labour party, " one man one job," has been absolutely violated in these appointments. That each Minister in the Senate should be called upon to do two men's work I regard as an insult to the Senate, particularly when we know that we have in the Senate Labour men more capable than some of those in another place who have been elected to ministerial rank. The fact that we have only seven members of the Labour party in this chamber seems to me to be a good reason why we should have at least four Ministers. It is an easy matter for Labour Ministers in another place to get their measures through that chamber. They have a big majority behind them, and if a bill has been fully considered and decided upon in caucus, it should pass through another place quite easily, even without full explanation.. But in this chamber, where there are only seven Labour members out of 36, it will be absolutely necessary for every item of legislation to be properly explained,  which seems to me to be a fairly good reason why the full number of Ministers should have been retained. 
The Government is grossly overworking  Senator Daly  and  Senator Barnes  by allotting to them a task which was previously undertaken by four active and industrious Ministers. Of course, there is a reason for it, a straight out reason to be found in the Labour platform. "We all know that the Labour party aims at the abolition of the Senate, and, with the object of vesting complete legislative authority in. the central government, is in favour of delegating to the provincial governments only such powers as the central government might deem fit.  Senator Dunn,  in the course of his speech last week, strongly advocated unification in accordance with that plank in the platform of his party. That, I submit, would be a complete repudiation of the federal bond. The States of "Western Australia and Tasmania, for certain, would never have entered the federation, but for the fact that the form of government contemplated offered complete protection in the form of equal representation in the Senate to every State without regard to its population.  Yet now we have one of the great political parties in the Commonwealth, only 29 years since the consummation of federation, treating the Constitution as a scrap of paper, by advocating the abolition of the Senate. We may, however, take comfort in the thought that, before such a drastic alteration can be effected, the government responsible for the proposal must secure the approval, not only of a majority of electors in the Commonwealth, but also in a majority of the States. And this, I venture to say, will never be obtained. 
I should not have complained but for the action of the Government in reducing the number of Ministers in this ' chamber. This policy, in my opinion, has been adopted to belittle the importance of this branch of the legislature with a view to its ultimate abolition in the terms of one of the planks of the Labour party's plat form. Therefore, from the States' point of view, it is important that the sovereign rights at present enjoyed by them should not be impaired in any way. Under the existing Constitution, the States have wide powers, and are able to administer all local and domestic affairs far better and more economically than would be possible by the Commonwealth Government from Canberra. The State Governments are responsible for administration of Crown lands, land settlement, railway construction, education, police, and nearly the whole of the domestic services affecting the every-day life of their people. The Federal Government should confine its attention to those legislative powers entrusted to it under the Constitution, and not seek in any way to interfere with the sovereign rights of the States. The people of Australia deliberately chose the federal system of government in preference to unification, and I sincerely trust that the sovereign powers enjoyed by the States will long be retained by them. 
I turn now to the Government's proposal to abolish compulsory military training. One reason for federation was the. need to provide for the adequate defence of the Commonwealth. It was felt by the people that this important function should be entrusted to the government of the nation. Though we may differ in our views upon party politics, we are all agreed that the security of the Commonwealth should be our first consideration. I am sorry, therefore, that this Government's first action was to abolish compulsory military training as one step in the direction of  destroying the splendid system of defence initiated by the late Andrew Fisher and the Labour Ministry of his day. Also, I regret exceedingly that, before taking this drastic action, -the Government did not consult the Council of Defence . Evidently the Labour party of to-day is animated by changed ideals, since it has deliberately set about to destroy the temple of national safety erected by a former Labour Ministry. 
As I have not the necessary technical knowledge I am not criticizing the action of the Government from a military point of view ; but I listened with great interest to the speeches made in this chamber by three generals, and also by LieutenantColonel Sampson, and I have no doubt, from what those honorable senators said, that the Government's action is entirely wrong from a military as well as a civil point of view. 
As a layman, I believe it is necessary to instruct our young people to use . the rifle. This task will be rendered the more difficult if it is left till they reach the age of maturity. We have indisputable evidence that the physical training and discipline afforded under the compulsory system have been of inestimable value to the youth of Australia, and I am assured, upon high expert authority, that in the Australian Imperial Forces' training camps _ the value of the initial training in military drill was demonstrated to a very marked degree. It is not in keeping with the sentiment of the people of Australia that the Commonwealth should urge the Government of Great Britain to continue with the work on the Singapore naval base, which is so essential to our safety and defence, and at the same time destroy the well proved system of instilling the first principles of military defence into the manhood of Australia. What does the Government propose to set up in its place ? I have given this subject a great deal of thought, and I know of nothing that can quite take the place of that physical training, which, hitherto, our young men have received under the compulsory system. It has occurred to me, and I offer it as a suggestion to the Government, that the boy scout movement might be subsidized with the idea of making it more attractive. Whatever is done, the Government should institute some system of physical instruction to  compensate  the youth of Australia for what they will lose through the abolition of compulsory military training. 
I do not blame the Labour party for endeavouring to give effect to the several planks of its platform; but I consider that, on . such an important subject as this, the party should 3eek to achieve its purpose in a constitutional manner. During the last election campaign, we heard nothing of this proposal to abolish military training, though, as I have said, it is one of the planks of the Labour party's platform. Therefore,' I contend that if the Government wished to make the change it should first have sought the approval of both Houses of Parliament. By abolishing compulsory military training without a direction from Parliament, the Government has done the wrong thing in the wrong way. Though the safety of the nation is involved, the Government, without any reference to Parliament, and without even consulting the Council of Defence, by its administrative act ha3 struck a blow at our system of defence. Here again I protest against the Government's policy in overlooking the Senate and allowing such an important matter as this to be decided by the dominant party in the House of Representatives. 
I come now to the third administrative act of the Government - the suspension of . the licensing system under the Transport Workers Act. The system should have been retained though the form of licence might have been simplified to make it less objectionable to many of the workers. The transport workers' licence could have been made similar to the miner's right. If this had been done, I have no doubt that it would have been the pride of those holding it to retain it unblemished for a number of years. We have to thank the Transport Workers Act, and* the Bruce-Page Government, which passed it, for the peace which we now enjoy on the waterfront. 
Yes, and I may tell the honorable senator that the issue of licences was a burning question at Fremantle. 
I understand that no licences have been issued at the port of Sydney, but I cannot speak for other seaports in New South Wales. The licensing system has not been adopted for the port of Albany. The waterside workers there took no part in the dispute on the waterfront, though mischief makers from the Eastern States came over, talked about the brotherhood of man, and endeavoured to persuade  them to cease working. I am pleased to say, however, that they kept work going at Albany, and many of the men earned very good money for the support of their wives and children. For this reason, as  Senator Rae  knows, it was considered not necessary to institute the licensing system at Albany. 
I have no doubt that the men did make good wages. At all events they earned very much more than those who went on strike at seaports in the other States. As I have said, the operation of the Transport Workers Act made peace possible on the waterfront, after many years of turmoil. 
From the point of view  of our primary producers this peace was absolutely essential because the uninterrupted export of our primary products to overseas markets is essential to the welfare of the Commonwealth. We have had peace on the waterfront now for the last eighteen months, and yet one of the first acts of this Government was to suspend the licensing system. If, unfortunately, industrial peace is succeeded by industrial unrest, the responsibility must rest with the Government. It is true that during the last election campaign, Labour candidates declared in favour of repealing the act; but that has not been done, and again I say that, in suspending licences, the Government has done the wrong thing in the wrong way. Its proper course was to bring about the change, by legislative, instead of an administrative, act. I, therefore, charge this Government with having failed in its duty, through not allowing the Senate an opportunity to express its opinion on this important matter. 
I now desire to refer to the suspension of the migration agreement referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. The Government has suggested to the British authorities that, in view of the unemployment prevailing in Australia, the £34,000,000 migration agreement should be suspended insofar as it applies to assisted passages for migrants. It is a serious thing to seek to vary an agree ment honorably entered into. The agreement provides that for every £1,000 received by a State Government it will provide a new farm, or that for every £75 advanced one migrant will be absorbed. It is further provided that one half of the farms thus established shall be allotted to assisted migrants, the remainder to be made available to our own people. This agreement has been of considerable benefit to several of the States. To Western Australia it has been of incalculable value, for that Sta&gt;te, so far, has received more money under the agreement than has any other State. Consequently, Western Australia's loss in the event of the agreement being suspended will be the greatest. Already £4,4S9,000 has been spent in Western Australia, under the provisions of the agreement, on public works, railway construction, advances to group settlers - many of whom are migrants - and water supply. Under the agreement that State has already saved £600,000 in interest; the ultimate saving will be about £1,300,000. Every railway now being constructed in Western Australia is being financed by money obtained from Great Britain under the agreement. In addition, big rock catchment water supplies are being provided. Apart from the direct benefit resulting from the expenditure of this money on reproductive works, the indirect benefit is immense. The action of the Government in. seeking the suspension of certain clauses of the agreement is tantamount to asking that the whole of it be suspended, for, in view of the difficulties experienced by the Home authorities, it can hardly expect them to continue to advance money if it fails to carry out Australia's part of the agreement. 
It is left to the British Government to decide whether, in the meantime, it will continue to pay the money. 
There are many big schemes to which the Commonwealth is not yet committed. It is not committed to the 3,000 farms scheme, notwithstanding that already a good deal of work has been done in connexion with it. Anticipating approval, the State Government put settlers on the land. The suspension of the agreement will affect developmental works already carried out as well as others which have been proposed by the several States, particularly "Western Australia. Indeed, the public works programme of that State cannot be carried out without the assistance of the Federal and Imperial Governments as provided for in the agreement. It is not necessary for me to point out that if, unfortunately, work in connexion with those schemes is suspended, further unemployment will result. Before despatching that cable to Britain, the Federal Government should have consulted with the State Governments, because they are the parties chiefly affected. One would have thought that the Government would at least have ascertained the views of  Mr. Collier,  the Labour Premier of Western Australia, on the subject before cabling to the Home authorities. 
I mentioned Western Australia because that State has taken greater advantage of the agreement than has any of the other States, and also because I thought that that spirit of fraternity which at one time existed between members of the Labour party would still be sufficiently alive to suggest that a colleague who had been in office for seven years, and whose Government had taken advantage of the offer of the British Government under the agreement, should be consulted.  Mr. Collier  had more knowledge of the agreement than had any Federal Minister, with the possible exception of the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  who administers the department concerned. I shall read to the Senate views expressed by  Mr. Collier  as soon as he heard of the despatch of the cable to Britain and of the action proposed to be taken to co-ordinate the work of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. In this connexion I can only express the hope that the Government will not add to the duties lo be performed by the latter body by entrusting to it the administration of the Federal Capital Territory. One does not know where this co-ordination will end. In a recent edition of the  Western Australian,  Mr. Collier  is reported to have said - 
Without expressing any opinion on the broad matter of policy as to whether the Development and Migration Commission should be abolished or retained, I should like to say that its work in Western Australia has been very valuable and of great assistance to the State. Every proposal submitted to the commission by us has been examined most thoroughly, and for the past twelve months it has been making a careful study, of the land settlement project known as the 3,000 farms scheme, with which is associated the construction of many hundreds of miles of roads and railways and some important water supply works. If approved under the Migration Agreement, this big project can be carried out within five years, hut without the assistance provided for under the agreement the State would probably be unable to complete it within twenty years. Of course I cannot speak for the other States, but, so far as Western Australia is concerned, we have been greatly assisted through the investigations of the commission in our task of developing the State. 
I believe that  Mr. Collier  is right; the Federal Government was not justified in tampering with the agreement without first consulting the States. 
I am unable to say. Even since I entered the Senate I have been endeavouring to ascertain the cost. 
I am aware of that. I should say that the cost would be at least £5,000.000. 
Yes ; and I have also considered, with far more earnestness and pleasure, our less absorption responsibility if, instead of our being required to absorb one migrant for every £75 advanced, we put one migrant ona farm for every £1,000 advanced. Every migrant placed on a farm provides employment for others. From an Australian point of view, it is a good policy to place men on the land. 
It has been done to some extent in the group settlement scheme of Western Australia. 
Benefiting from experience, the State should do better in the future. Although that scheme was costly, it has settled more than 2,000 men on the land. I believe it to be a good policy to place men on fertile land. 
The honorable senator is speaking of something with which I am not acquainted. The first agreement with Great Britain was negotiated by the then Premier of Western Australia,  Sir James  Mitchell, when he was in London. He conceived the plan of placing on some of our empty lands a number of unemployed worker in Britain then in receipt of the dole,and giving them an opportunity to make good in Australia. Subsequently  Mr. Bruce,  when Prime Minister, made a bettor agreement than any previouslynegotiated on behalf of any State. Existing State schemes became"agreed undertakings," under the agreement negotiated by  Mr. Bruce.  The three States which hod individual agreements with the British authorities - Western Australia, Victoria, and South Australia - came under the Commonwealth scheme, and reaped the benefit of the better conditions offered to the Commonwealth by the Home authorities. 
No. Those losses were borne by the States. 
Where farms cost more than £1,000 the excess amount became the liability of the States. 
If a migrant could not meet the loss, the State undertook to meet it. I agree with the Minister's suggestion that, in fairness to the State which had the courage to launch the undertaking, the whole of the expenditure should be brought under the provisions of the agreement. Over 2,000 group settlers in the south-west of the State of Western Australia are transforming that portion into a productive area. The system has been expensive to the State Government, inasmuch as it has to meet a large amount of expenditure which is not covered by the agreement. If honorable senators opposite wish to obtain evidence of the value of migration and land settlement in the matter of providing employment, they should visit the south-western portions of Western Australia, where the group settlements are located. A few years ago Busselton was a small and quiet, but beautiful, seaside resort, with little active rural development in progress. 
SenatorRae.  -  Have only Crown lands been taken up? 
Mainly, but not entirely; a few estates were purchased. Since the group settlers have been placed on the land near Busselton, that town has developed to a remarkable extent. New buildings have been erected, additional businesses established, large quantities of butter are being produced, and there appears to be progress and prosperity on every hand. I think I am safe in saying that within a period of two or three years, the town of Busselton has doubled its population. This has had the effect of providing employment not only in the immediate locality, but in other parts of the State. It is only natural and proper that we should make our vacant Crown lands available to Britain's surplus population, and it is to be regretted that there are not larger areas of suitable wheat lands available for settlement. 
It is interesting to note that it was not until 1890 that Western Australia was granted responsible government; Western Australia being the last of the Australian colonies to be removed from the domination of Downing-street. When the request was made, a large body of public opinion in Great Britain was opposed to handing over one-third of the Australian continent, consisting of nearly 1,000,000 square miles which, at that time, was actually owned by Britain, to a small population consisting of 48,502 persons. There was a good deal of opposition - which was actively expressed in the House of Commons - to the proposal in Great Britain, and this was based, I believe, on the contention that this huge area of Crown land should be kept for British settlers. A select committee, consisting of  Mr. S.  H. Parker,  Sir Alexander  Cockburn-Campbell and Governor Broome, was appointed to lay the case before the British Parliament. At that time an assurance was given by them, and it has always been a State policy since, that those Crown lands would be held in trust for the people of Australia and of Great Britain. It may be that the Australian Labour party is not versed in our history in this respect, but this is undoubtedly one of the many obligations we owe to the Mother Country which has always treated us with unfailing generosity. 
It was a generous act, not only to give us, at. that time, the self-government that we desired, but also to hand over to 48,502 people without any restrictions whatever, an area of nearly 1,000,000 square miles, to be settled in the way we thought best. It is a trust which the successive governments of Western Australia, including the present Government, have always honoured by providing land, in small areas, for settlement by white people of the British race, as opportunity offered. It seems that the Federal Labour party wish Australia to adopt the role of an ungrateful child who has persuaded its mother to make it a gift and then forbids her to enter the home. 
I trust the nominated and assisted migration system will continue since it appears to be the best that we can adopt. Under that system the nominator guarantees the migrant em ployment or support for, I think, a period of two years. In Western Australia, the Government grants, free of cost, an area of 160 acres of land to any migrant who will occupyit. The only charge made is the cost of the survey. A land settlement, migration and development policy is the only one which can make the State prosperous, and it is a policy that is being carried out by the present Labour Government as it was by its predecessors. 
It depends upon the locality and quality of the land. Most of the group settlers in the south-west of the State were placed on less than 160 acres at the outset; but in the poorer areas the Government have increased the area. In the wheat belt, a man requires 1,000 acres of land, and the average size of the blocks consist of about that area. A settler is given 160 acres free of cost, and the balance is made available to him on easy terms extending over 20 or 30 years without interest.  Mr. Collier,  in the" remarks I have read, referred to the 3,000 farms scheme, which has been established on land which comprises a considerable area of good sheep and wheat country, and where the State will not be faced with the losses which occurred in connexion with the group settlement scheme.  Mr. Collier  has said that under the migration agreement the scheme can be carried out in five years, but if the assistance, which that agreement provides, is not available, it will take twenty years to do the work. I, therefore, ask honorable senators to consider what the position of Western Australia will be if the operation of the agreement is suspended. 
It is true that promises have been made to the effect that the scheme will be proceeded with; but it is necessary to remember that a good deal of preliminary work in connexion with surveys, road-making, and clearing has already been carried out under the agreement. If the agreement is suspended at this stage, the position of hundreds of settlers between Southern Cross, Ravensthorpe, Esperance, Albany and the great 
Southern districts will be very serious. These areas were made available for settlement after the Lands Department had advertised the properties, and the Agricultural Bank had advanced large sums of the State Savings Bank's funds for their improvement in anticipation of the work being brought under the Migration Agreement. The settlers have also spent their own money in improving the land in absolute good faith, and not one of them would have been on the land or have spent his own or government money had it not been for the promise made that these areas would be opened up by roads and railways and provided with a water supply under the migration agreement. Many of these settlers have done a good deal of preliminary work, and it will mean their ruination if there is any repudiation or serious amendment of a definite undertaking between the Imperial, Federal and State Governments. I, therefore, trust that the Commonwealth Government will be very careful before it interferes with the developmental work in the matter of railway and road construction and water supplies which the authorities have been carrying out under the agreement. The most effective way in which to defend Australia is to provide for the occupation of its empty spaces, and an active policy of land settlement and development which has the approval of the State Labour Government should be allowed to continue. 
I wish now to refer to a paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech in which reference is made to a revision of the tariff schedule. Since the speech was delivered a new tariff schedule has been tabled, in which higher duties are imposed on no less than 221 items. These duties are now in force. The schedule appears to be in a veritable drag-net; nothing has been overlooked. Not only have luxuries been heavily taxed, but very heavy duties have also been imposed upon the necessities of life. 
The main complaint in Western Australia against successive Federal Governments is the manner in which Customs duties have been increased. It would appear that if the Bruce-Page Government in this regard chastised the 
Western Australian people with a whip the present Government is subjecting them to the sting of a scorpion. Included in the list of commodities on which higher duties are to be imposed we find clothing, textiles, metals, machinery, oils, paint, paper, crockery, petrol and motor trucks. Nearly everything required by the man on the land has to bear higher duties, and this will have the effect of increasing the price to a majority of the Australian consumers. The cost of living and the cost of production will be seriously increased, and these higher duties will be a crushing blow to primary production - the true source of Australia's national wealth. 
Those engaged in the pastoral, agricultural, mining and timber industries have to sell their products in the markets of the world; but the articles they require to assist them in production can only be obtained under the new tariff at prices which will make it almost impossible for them to compete in the overseas markets. It is quite clear that the cost of producing wheat, wool, metals, including gold, must be increased, and that the extra cost will fall very heavily upon the shoulders of the consumers. Further, I am afraid that the new tariff will have the effect of accentuating the drift of population to the big cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, and will certainly increase unemployment, particularly in the country districts. I intend to oppose the whole of these increases in duty. 
I hope that the Government will deal with the schedule immediately, because it is quite unfair to collect these increased duties, for perhaps, months before ascertaining whether the Parliament of the Commonwealth, and particularly the members of the Senate, approve of them. This action shows a callous disregard for the interests of those engaged in the primary industries of Australia, and I am sorry that before the Government introduced the increased tariff, it did not see fit to weigh carefully and have regard to a warning that the Premier of Western Australia  (Mr. Collier)  issued on this very subject. I was at a gathering at Narrogin on 18th October, and at that time it was apparent that there would be a change of government. At that gathering  Mr. Collier  made some remarks which he, to some extent, directed at me. He actually said that he hoped that I would keep in mind what he said, and I told him that I was entirely in agreement with bis views and that I hoped that his triumphant colleagues, when they took over the reins of Government of the Commonwealth, would agree with him, as thoroughly as I did on that occasion. This appeared in the  West Australia  on the 19th October - 
Speaking at the reception in the Town Hall, Narrogin, this morning, the Premier  (Mr. Collier),  said he sometimes felt that a very considerable portion of the people did not realize that Australia was dependent almost entirely on the wealth produced from our primary industries. When people realized that a fall in the price of wool meant a reduction in the national income of about £30,000,000, they appreciated the importance of the primary industries. He hoped that members of the Federal Parliament would be mindful of the fact that prosperity was not brought about in the cities, but that Australia's future progress and prosperity depended entirely upon the manner in which Parliament realized that it was the primary industries that were the source of its wealth. The party that endeavoured to place burdens or difficulties in the way of those engaged in primary industries was doing a dis-service to Australia. 
If I spoke in this chamber for a week, I could not put the position more clearly and emphatically than did  Mr. Collier  when he threw out that warning to the Federal Parliament, and to the members of his own party, who on that date were about to take over the reins of the Commonwealth Government. 
The tariff has been largely increased in spite of that warning, and in spite of the report of the Big Pour, who came out from England without receiving any payment for their services, and gave us their views on the tariff and other subjects. This increase in tariff has been made despite also the report of the Economic Advisory Committee consisting of Messrs. Dyason, Brigden, Giblin, Copland and  Mr, Wickens,  whose most interesting book was tabled only a few weeks before the change of Government took place. These five great economists made their report after prolonged research, and following the example of the Big Four, they made it without fee or reward. They showed conclusively that the high tariff policy has been disadvantageous to the 
States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, and also to Australia generally. They estimated £36,000,000 annually as the cost that the old tariff put upon production in Australia. I am afraid that under the new tariff that enormous sum will be heavily increased. That must certainly be most disadvantageous to Western Australia. 
The royal commission that inquired into the disabilities of that State under federation made two outstandnig recommendations in respect to the tariff. The first of these was - 
That the State of Western Australia shall, during a period of 25 years and thereafter, until the Parliament otherwise provides, have the absolute right - (a) to impose its own Customs tariff as in pre-federation days, provided the State of Western Australia shall not impose higher duties upon the importation into the State of Western Australia of any goods produced, or manufactured, in, or imported from other States ofAustralia, than are imposed on the importation into the State of Western Australia of the like goods produced or manufactured in or imported from other countries. 
To impose its own excise tariff. 
This commission, composed of very capable men, said that the only real relief under federation that could be given to Western Australia would be to permit it, for a period of 25 years, to have its own Customs tariff. Unfortunately, that recommendation cannot be carried out under the Constitution without the approval of a majority of the States. This it is practically impossible to obtain, because it is not likely that our brethren in the Eastern States would permit us to take an action of that kind. 
That is so. I admit that such an action would be against the spirit of the Constitution, one of the first provisions of which is that there shall be interstate freetrade. Had that recommendation been given effect, it would have done more than anything else could do to put Western Australia upon its feet, and make it independent of any other part of the Commonwealth. The second recommendation was - 
That until the State of Western Australia is granted the right to impose its own Customs and Excise tariffs, the Commonwealth shall pay to the State a special payment of £400,000 per annum in addition to the 25s.  per capita  payment made in accordance with clause 4 of the Surplus Revenue Act of 1910, the aforesaid special payment to include the special annual payment now being made to the State of Western Australia in accordance with clause 5 of the said act. The above special payment of £450,000, to commence on the 1st July, 1924. 
As a result of that report we received the sum of £450,000 only for one year, and then the grant was reduced to £300,000 per year. After that ' recommendation was made, the Financial Agreement came into force. I was one of those who opposed it. The 25s. per head capitation grant was, in consequence, reduced. Now, on top of that, the tariff has been considerably increased. If the Commonwealth wished to honour fully that recommendation and put Western Australia in the position that the majority of the commission wished it to occupy, it would probably cost £900,000 a year. The way we can, and should, be assisted is not so much by the payment of large sums of money, as by placing us upon a better economic basis by permitting our primary industries to be relieved of the tariff exactions that are being put on them year after year by the Federal Government in the interest of the wealthy manufacturers of the Eastern States, resident largely in Sydney and Melbourne, and their employees. It is true that our secondary industries in Western Australia are comparatively unimportant, but we shall not be able to make them important while we have severe competition from the established manufacturers of the Eastern States. South Australia, as well, is suffering all the disadvantages and none of the advantages of the high tariff policy. Every State of the Commonwealth has a vigorous land settlement policy, which is described in every Governor's Speech at the opening of Parliament. We find, for instance, that every State has spent millions of pounds on settling returned soldiers on the land, and quite properly too, because nothing but the best should be given to our returned soldiers. The policy of the respective States is to say, " Go on the land young man." It is peculiar, however, that concurrent with that  instruc- 

 Senator E. 
 B. Johnston. tion is the levying of taxation by the Federal Government through the tariff on everything that affects the settler from the moment that he goes on the land. I have had a great deal to do with land settlement in Western Australia, as I represent a country constituency. I have repeatedly seen men going on land that is naturally waterless, heavily timbered, and quite unproductive until substantially improved. A great deal of it is simply the home of the dingo and kangaroo, and it takes brave men and women to settle in parts remote from railways, and to face the discomforts of a pioneering life outback. When the settler decides to go on the land, the first thing he requires is a motor truck in addition to food, stores, equipment, clothing, tools and axes, and the prices of the whole of these requirements are being increased, because of the exactions of the tariff. It is also evident that railway freights must go up, because of the increased cost of living following in the train of the increased tariff. 
I should be pleased if all our implements were made in Australia provided their price was reasonable.  Mr. McKay  is very glad to get protection for his industry at Sunshine, but, then, he complained to the royal commission on the Navigation Act that the coastal provisions of the act were oppressing his industry. He said that in Western Australia he had to charge for agricultural machinery from 10 per cent, to 12£ per cent, more than in Victoria. He was compelled, he said, to take that action much against his will, be-' cause of the high freights brought about by the operation of the Navigation Act. This vicious circle does not please any one.  Mr. McKay  wants a protective tariff, but he also wants to be relieved of the taxations imposed by the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. Western Australian settlers suffer in this way. They not only pay high prices for the protected article manufactured in Melbourne, but also bear an additional increase of from 10 per cent, to 12£ per cent, on the price to the Victorian farmers, because of the oppressive incidence of the Navigation Act. 
We certainly entered federation with our eyes open. To-day we are the victims of a granted prayer. We desired a federation" and we got it in the neck. We have the Massey Greene, the Pratten and the Fenton tariffs, and from the point of view of every one engaged in the pastoral, agricultural, and other primary pursuits, each one of those three tariffs has imposed greater and increased burdens upon production. Petrol, for instance, has just had a third penny in extra taxation placed upon it. Perhaps some members of the Labour party regard the petrol tax as a luxury tax upon joy riders, and from that point of view it would certainly be proper. 
Petrol, however, is absolutely essentia] to the farmers and settlers of Australia. They must have it, not only for their transport but also for a large portion of their farming operations. To-day, ploughing and harvesting are done very largely by the use of tractors. Petrol is needed for the motor vehicles which enable new farmers to make a start. It is only by their means that farming operations can be carried on at a distance from a railway line. The man who will be the worst hit by a tax of 3d. a gallon on petrol will be the one who is situated furthest from an existing railway. 
Not only is the motor truck absolutely essential for the transport of wheat; it is also largely employed for the transport of stock as.well as the everyday requirements of the farm, particularly the new farm. I have with me a cutting from the  WestAustralian  referring to the economies of motor transport and pointing out that bullocks have been brought down by motor transport, eight at a time, from Roy Hill Station 300 miles to the railhead, and thence carried by rail 600 miles to market in Perth, where they have realized £17 a head. Honorable senators will, therefore, see how essential petrol is to new settlement, as well as to farmers and pastoralists already established. All primary producers should be granted a rebate of the tax of 3d. a gallon placed on petrol. 
Gold-mining is an industry of vast importance to Western Australia. At Wiluna a mine is being developed at a capital expenditure of £1,000,000, which promises to be the largest in the world. The people of the State are pleased to note that a good deal of the capital invested has come from the Rand in South Africa for the first time in the history of the gold-mining industry in Australia. When I look at the 221 items of tariff increases, super-imposed as they are upon an existing high tariff, I find that they are all a direct tax upon the gold-mining industry. Not one person engaged in gold mining or in any other primary industry derives the slightest benefit from this tariff. It is no wonder that the people engaged in gold-mining have asked for a bonus on the production of gold. Although their proposal might not stand a strict economic test, it has been brought before this Parliament on many occasions by the gentleman who is the only representative of the gold-mining industry in another place, and who is now Minister for Defence  (Mr. A. Green).  The people on the Kalgoorlie goldfields and at Meekatharra and Wiluna are hoping that the present Government will afford them the relief they have so long advocated in this direction and . which has been given to other industries. 
The tariff increases show a ruthless disregard for the interests of 'the primary producers, but the worst feature about them is that, so far as I have been able to ascertain by a series of questions which have not been directly answered, they have not been made as a result of any recommendations by the Tariff Board. On that board we have men of science and understanding, whose task it is to study with care the relation of every alteration to the tariff schedule as a whole and its. effect upon all industries. I certainly think that no increases should be made except as a result of recommendations by the board. It appears to me, however, that the Government's haste to increase the tariff in all directions may have the effect of destroying the whole basis of the existing tariff schedule. 
If the Tariff Board is not to be consulted, why retain it? The Government seems to have a passion for the destruction of existing institutions. I have already pointed out its anxiety to abolish the Senate and State rights. The Labour' party seeks the abolition of Upper 
Houses. The Federal Labour party has suspended or abolished compulsory military training and the licensing provisions of the Transport Workers Act. It is also attacking the gold standard, and the migration agreement seems to be in danger. It will not hurt very much to add another little bit of destruction by abolishing the Tariff Board, if, in future its recommendations are not to be followed, and the tariff is to be ruthlessly raised as a matter of Government policy without regard to the possible economic effect on the whole schedule. 
I am afraid the new tariff will react more heavily on the wage-earners and workers than on any other section of the people. The basic wage-earner, who predominates in the community, will certainly find the cost of living heavily increased. He will have large increases, up to 50 per cent., imposed on the cheap clothing he buys for himself, his wife, and his children, particularly on cotton goods, socks, shirts, and hats. 
I have already pointed out that with every increase in the tariff there has been a practically corresponding increase in unemployment. Of course, that is not what honorable senators of the Labour party wish. They think that these tariff increases will lead to the employment of more factory hands in the great cities, and thus increase employment in Australia. The increases will do nothing of the kind. Each increase in the cost of living reduces the purchasing power of the community, because the cost of production is increased, and to that extent decreases the measure of employment in the Commonwealth. That is the view I have been sent here to express. The people of Western Australian feel that the Australian policy in regard to tariff increases is wrong, and they are fortified in that view by the report of the commission on the finances of Western Australia as affected by federation, and by the opinion expressed by a number of economists that a high tariff policy is injurious to Australia, and particularly to the States of South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. At any rate, when the basic wage-earner finds that in addition to having the cost of living in creased, he is out of a job through the increase in the cost of production, I am sure he will notthank the government of the day for the new tariff schedule. 
I hope that the number will not be increased, but I am firmly convinced that the best way to get that180,000 people back at work in the country districts would be to reduce the tariff, and thereby reduce the cost of production in the directions I have already indicated. 
I do not want the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  to take my criticism as applying wholly to his Government - previous Governments have ruthlessly increased the tariff - but the present Government happens to be the latest and worst offender, and therefore is the subject of my theme at the moment. 
If the tariff is to be increased in every direction the primary producer is entitled to come into the vicious circle.  [Extension of time granted.]  The Government has entirely disregarded the warning issued to it by  Mr. Collier,  the Labour Premier of Western Australia, and the people engaged in primary production throughout Australia will all have to pay increased tribute to the secondary industries at a time when many country districts are suffering from droughts, and from the low price of products. It is no wonder that many country towns and districts are stagnating while the drift to the big cities continues, and, in my opinion, will grow apace under the artificial stimulus of the new tariff. 
I do not desire to say any more, because I shall have opportunity to deal with the tariff items at a later stage. The balance of the GovernorGeneral's Speech is inclined to he nebulous, but I hope that every item in it will receive fair and full consideration on its merits. We in this chamber are certainly in a position to prevent any great injury being done to the people of Australia by the legislation brought forward, unless they are previously consulted; but I hope that drastic action will be unnecessary. I feel sure that all honorable senators will deal with the Government's proposals on lines that they believe right, and on lines that will make . for the happiness and true welfare of the people of the Commonwealth. 
.- I congratulate the Leader of the  Senate  (Senator Daly)  upon his political good fortune. Very shortly after his election to this chamber he was elected Leader of the Opposition and now, after the appeal to the people, he occupies the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council. He is one of the luckiest men I have ever met in politics. I am pleased to be able to add that I consider he is performing the duties of his office most efficiently. I wish, however, to protest against the treatment of this chamber by the present Government. Ever since I have been a member of the Senate we have had at least one Minister with a portfolio and two assistant Ministers. On one occasion when, owing to the illness of  a  Minister, the business of the Government was in the hands of his two colleagues, the strain proved too great for them. The decision of the Government that 'it should be represented in this chamber by only the Vice-President of the Executive Council and an assistant Minister is an insult to the Senate itself. It is not as if the Labour party lacked members with administrative ability. Our old friend  Senator Rae  has been identified with the Labour movement for nearly the whole of his life. He was in the Senate many years ago, and surely has the necessary qualifications, yet he is thrust aside as if he were nobody. Then we have also  Senator Digger  Dunn, who announced himself as one of the young members of the Labour party. Why has he been overlooked? We are told from time to time that youth is going to regenerate the world. Why was not  Senator Digger  Dunn entrusted with the task of regenerating the Labour party? I am surprised that he has been ignored.  His  military training should have fitted him for administering the Defence Department, and if he had been selected, the Labour party would merely have been following the practice of having the Minister for Defence in this chamber. Other members of the party in the Senate chamber also were qualified for ministerial positions, but apparently  Mr. Theodore  was the power behind the scenes. He has for so long ignored the upper branches of our legislatures that, apparently, he decided the Senate should not nave adequate representation in the Ministry. 
When he was Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Theodore,  in defiance of the wishes of the people, abolished the Legislative Council. We understand that he has similar designs on the Senate, but I warn him that if he has any such ambitious scheme as that in his mind, the task will be beyond him. The people will never agree to the abolition of this chamber. I do not say that Queensland is the most important State, but it is second in size to Western Australia, and its potentialities are unequalled in any other State. Yet the only representative it has in this Ministry is an assistant Minister. It is not fair that Queensland should be ignored in this way. 
Ministerial representation in this chamber should not be determined by party strength. The Senate represents not the State political parties, but the States. 
The election' of  Mr. Theodore  to this Parliament, and his appointment to the Ministry cannot be regarded as a compliment to the people of Queensland. They were very glad to get rid of him. It is unfortunate that electors for the division of Dalley did not know the present Treasurer as well as we knew him in Queensland. In that State he has left a trail of financial and industrial trouble that will take a long time to obliterate. 
The attitude of the Labour party to arbitration, during the election campaign, indicated that it was attempting to ignore economic facts. The appeal to the people was the direct result of two industrial disputes, during which the principle of federal arbitration was deliberately  violated by not only the rank and file of the industrial movement, but also the leaders of trade unionists throughout Australia. Scarcely a day passed without denunciation of the court and its awards. A good deal of attention was focussed upon the timber strike, which was the outcome of an award by Judge Lukin. The bush timber workers were not in any way affected. They had always worked 48 hours, but an upheaval took place because workers in city timber mills were required to work longer hours. Honorable senators opposite consistently ignore the fact that very little timber is now being used in the erection of big modern buildings. For the most part, they consist of steel frames and concrete or bricks. Even the window frames are of steel. In the majority of modern buildings, the only timber used is to be found in the doors, though in some there is a thin layer of flooring over concrete. The effect of this modern practice is to paralyze the timber industry. Our hardwood timbers are too heavy and our pines are unsuitable for concrete casing, so practically the only structural timber used is Oregon, which is imported. I say, therefore, that  Mr. Theodore  and other Labour leaders, who urged the timber workers to defy the award of the Arbitration Court, were ignoring plain economic facts. 
In the coal industry, the position is much the same. The men engaged in the northern coal-mines of New South Wales have been on strike for the last ten months. A day or two ago there was an announcement that their leaders had agreed to a reduction of 9d. a ton in the hewing rates, so all they have gained, after ten months idleness, is 3d. a ton on the offer made by the mine-owners at the beginning of the strike. It is a scandal that Labour leaders should have urged the men to continue on strike in the face of the economic facts of the industry. Coal is not now used so largely as it was a few years ago. Crude oil fuel is displacing it in steamships and in many other means of transport.  Mr. Theodore,  during the election, declared that if Labour were returned the coal-mines would be re-opened in a fortnight. Of course that was impossible. Even when the tribunal, which was appointed by this Government to investigate the position, made a recommendation, it was rejected by the miners, so it is safe to say that this Government has humbugged the miners at every turn. The settlement, which now appears to be probable, could have been achieved six months ago, if the men had been in a reasonable frame of mind, and if their leaders had been desirous of ending the dispute. The high cost of coal, as we all know, has an important bearing upon other industrial activities. A reduction of 5s. a ton in the price will do much to relieve the economic pressure in a number of other industries. 
That is an old tale. I do not know of any such action, and I am sure that  Senator Daly  knows less about the matter than I do. The evidence does not show that there has been any watering of stock. In any case, to prove that there had been watering of stock would do nothing to solve present conditions. 
During the election campaign, there was almost a continuous cry fromthose persons who delight to sit in the back corners of halls, "What about John Brown ?" The Government has not the courage to prosecute John Brown ; but, supposing it had, and he were prosecuted and fined £1,000, what would that matter to him? It certainly would not open the mines. 
We must take things as they are. All the commissions of inquiry which have investigated the coal industry, including the Hibble tribunal, have reported to the same effect. There has been no evidence that the miners were returning profits greater than from 2s. to 2s.1d. a ton. A good deal has been said of the misery and privation experienced by the coal-miners and their families; but if they would agree to a slight reduction in their wages, the mines would be re-opened and the miners again placed on their feet. 
Instead of trying to heal the breach between the coal-miners and the timber workers and their employers, the Labour party encouraged the men to break the law. I desire to direct the attention of the Senate to the following resolution, carried by the Parliamentary Labour party- 
Sir: 
I desire 'to convey to you the terms of a resolution that was carried at a meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party on 14tl August - 
This meeting of the Federal Parliamentary Labour party congratulates the rank and file of the miners and timber workers on their splendid unity against the general attack on wages and hours. 
Yours, &amp;c, 
Norman  MAKIN 
Secretary, Federal Parliamentary Labour party, Canberra. 
The passing of that resolution was an entirely wrong thing for a political party to do. The Labour party has now been in power for some weeks, but the coal-mines have not yet been re-opened. 
The Governor-General's Speech contains no reference to the action ,of the Government in suspending compulsory military training. I well remember the convention held in Queensland, at which, the then Labour party decided on a scheme of compulsory military training. Among those present were  Mr. Watson, Mr. Holman,  and  Mr. Hughes.  The arguments then advanced in favour of compulsory military training apply with equal force to-day. Australia is as worth defending to-day as it was then. If it was then right, that in a democratic country every citizen should take an equal share in its defence, it is right to-day. At a later convention held in 1918 the present Prime Minister,  Mr. Scullin,  said - 
The alternatives of knocking out Citizen, Forces for home defence were disarmament and standing down helplessly, Britain sending out her own army and navy, or a hybrid volunteer system, which would create military caste. Surely, in viewing those possibilities, the least objectionable of all was the maintenance of a citizen army. ... He wanted conference to understand that if ever a certain power sought to invade the fair land of Australia, he would not hesitate to conscript the manhood of Australia to defend the hearths and homes of this young democracy. . . . He realized that sending untrained men into a fight meant leading them to a shambles, in which they became a menace to themselves and all those around them. Let the age for training be raised, if delegates liked; let it lie physical training at first, and military training in manhood; but he urged them not to lose sight of the vital question at issue. Let them vote so as to keep Australia free - free in the face of the warlike spirit of the world. 

 Mr. Scullin's address was followed by one delivered by a. gentleman who has devoted the greater portion of his life to the Labour movement - I refer to  Senator Rae.  Speaking at that convention,  Senator Rae  said - 
He had always advocated, since the compulsory system of home defence had come into force, that there should be a citizen army. He did this because he feared aggression from outside, and, believing that to be a possibility, he had come to look upon the compulsory system of training as part of a system of national education. . . . Whilst the danger of foreign aggression existed, it would be folly to abolish the defence laws, which had beel brought in for the protection of Australia. 
I have listened carefully to the remarks of honorable senators opposite, but I have not yet heard one sound reason for altering the opinions the Labour party then held. I am not an advocate of war - indeed, I have a great deal of sympathy with the endeavours now being made for world peace - but I cannot understand the reason for the change of attitude on the part of members of the Labour party in matters of defence. If Australia is worth living in, it should be worth defending. 
If Australia is worth defending, our young people should be trained to defend it so that, should the occasion arise, they may be fit to take their part. Probably the objection of the Labour party to compulsory military training is based on the assumption that it encourages a military spirit. I do not believe that it does anything of the kind. I have not yet met one young man who has become a militarist because of his training in the Citizen Forces. The military spirit will always be apparent in some whether the volunteer or compulsory system of training is in operation. In this democracy we should welcome anything which will assist the development of Australia's manhood, and particularly a system which gives all young men an opportunity of meeting on the same footing. Under the compulsory system of training every man is the equal of his companions; it is a method  which dispenses with class distinction. The Leader of the Government in the Senate said that his party was opposed to the compulsion of youths who had not a vote. That, however, is only claptrap, as votes have nothing whatever to do with compulsory military training. Is it not the responsibility of a young man who has not reached the age at which he is entitled to vote to train for the defence of his country? It has already been proved, beyond doubt, by military experts in this chamber that compulsory military training has had a very beneficial effect upon the physical development and discipline of our young men. What was the attitude of the members of the basher gangs during the timber workers' strike? Their first incentive was to strike the other fellow. 
Do the members of the Timber Workers Union belong to the underworld? Those who took part in those scandalous outrages were supplied by the trades hall authorities with pieces of iron piping which they concealed in their clothing for use against deserving workers. 
The law does not destroy the spirit within a man. The voluntary system is likely to be more expensive than the compulsory system, and the defence policy of the Labour party is more likely than that which preceded it to bring about that class distinction to which it so strongly objects. It will have the effect of encouraging the banding together of those possessing a military spirit and entirely separating them from other sections of the community. . 
I wish now to refer to the attitude of the Government in declining to tax the gross receipts of the moving picture combines - which action was largely responsible for the return of the Labour party at the last elections. 
It was. The Government is taxing the people by the imposition of heavy Customs duties, and by means of very high income and land taxation rates; but at the same time it is declining to tax the American picture combines which supply the films to Australian exhibitors. The Bruce-Page Government endeavoured to impose a tax upon these combines; but whenever an effort has been made to tax them it has been found that the profits go to the combines in America, and therefore can not be taxed. During the last election campaign the members of the Labour party were acting as the agents of these big American interests. As pointed out by  Senator Ogden,  the Labour party, which was once opposed to combines in any shape or form, is now openly assisting them instead of relieving the very heavy burden which the workers have to shoulder. According to the budget, taxable incomes of individuals from £201 to £1,500 are to bear a super tax of 10 per cent., from £1,501 to £3,000 15 per cent., and from £3,000 upwards 20 per cent. The taxation on companies is to be at the rate of 20 per cent. It is astounding that the Labour party, which has always been so opposed to combines, should practically have given an undertaking that if returned to power it would not tax these picture combines, while at the same time it is imposing an additional burden upon every other section of the community. With the exception of a few big showmen in the cities there are very few exhibitors in Australia who are making a living, and in some cases suburban and country showmen are actually losing money. Australian people who are using Australian capital will have to pay the heavy income taxation rates I have quoted, while the American combines who lease their pictures to the exhibitors here at such high rates that they are hardly able to carry on, will escape taxation. 
During the election campaign the Labour candidates said it was the intention of the Bruce-Page Government to impose an amusement tax which would have the effect of increasing the price of children's tickets. That was never intended and the statement was a gross misrepresentation of the position. The Labour party received substantial financial assistance from the picture combine, without which it would not have been able to obtain the publicity it did. Although the coffers of the Labour party were empty owing to the strike of timber workers and a previous election it obtained such publicity by the way of cartoons and propaganda generally that it received a greater measure of support than it ever anticipated. Where did the money to pay for these cartoons, and advertising generally, come from. It did not come from its own political supporters, but was supplied by the picture interests. The first proposal of the BrucePage Government was to impose a tax of 5 per cent, on the total receipts from charges for admission. Under this the small showmen would have escaped, as there was an exemption of £100, which would have benefited all but the big city showmen. If taxation were imposed upon the gross receipts it would come out of the money which the combines are making in Australia. As the result of the advent of the Labour party these big American interests are avoiding taxation which they should be paying, while some small showmen will have to pay at least 20 per cent. tax. 
The sooner the Labour party wakes up to the ' real position and imposes taxation upon the gross receipts of these American combines the better it' will be for Australia. The theatres in which " talkie " films are projected are seriously interfering with those in which silent films are screened, and also ruining the legitimate drama and practically every other form of entertainment. The money which these concerns are taking from the people is all going out of Australia, and the Labour party will not raise a hand to prevent it. Do honorable senators opposite call themselves the f riends of the working man when they refuse to tax combines which are charging 7s. 7d. a seat as is charged at the State Theatre in Sydney on a Saturday night. The taxation of gross receipts could not have been passed on, although the entertainment tax on tickets is in most cases borne by picture patrons. Moreover, the price at which a film is leased to a showman is determined by the financial position of the house requiring it. The com bine squeezes the utmost out of the exhibitor every time. There are very few British films being exhibited, and if the present policy is persisted in, it will be even more difficult for British producers. It was the proposal of the Bruce-Page Government if returned to tax the picture combines to the extent of 12-J per cent, on its gross profits - on the money that went to America for the purchase of films - and thus encourage British production. The decision of the present Government to allow these American combines to escape is in conformity with the Treasurer's attitude when he held office in Queensland. He is quite accustomed to extracting money from this class of people, and despite the fact that  Senator Daly,  the other day, endeavoured to repudiate the suggestion that  Mr. Theodore  is connected with the wealthy interests, I emphatically state that that gentleman has always been connected with them. In one instance the present Commonwealth Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore),  the late Premier of Queensland  (Mr. McCormack)  and  Mr. Fihelly,  acting as a subcommittee of the Labour party, took certain action during an election campaign in Queensland. I had left the party just previously, because the element that  Mr. Theodore  and  Mr. McCormack  represented wanted to boss, with the industrial unions, the whole political show. I refused to obey the dictation of a section that wanted to boss the political Labour party altogether. There was no trouble between the members of the party and myself in connexion with my resignation. I was head of the executive for years, and I know, therefore, a good deal about its finances. I was asked to stay with the party until the State elections were over, but I refused to do so. What took place was this : The present Treasurer of the Commonwealth entered into a contract with the Licensed Victuallers not to interfere with licences for three years in return for the payment of so many thousands of pounds. 
About £10,000. Portion of that sum was used in connexion, with the Labour party's campaign, and I should like to ask  Mr. Theodore.  through  Senator Daly,  what became of the remainder. I am not making that statement under cover of the Senate. I said it on the public platform of Queensland, and I am prepared to return to that State to repeat it to-morrow.When the election was over this money was distributed, but even in that connexion  Mr. Theodore  took down one of his own mates -  Mr. T.  J. Ryan. When the conference took place at Rockhampton and  Mr. McCormack  was removed from the executive, he took up the balance-sheet and said : " This is not a balance-sheet ; it is only humbug." I invite  Senator Daly  to ask  Mr. McCormack  to explain what he meant by those words. They are to be found in the records of the conference.  Mr. Theodore  has always been behind the liquor trade. He has a thrifty nature, and he left Queensland worth thousands of pounds, while his fellow-politicians were worth practically nothing. Where did the money come from? Many other concessions were granted to  Mr. Theodore.  He is behind the picture combine, and his refusal to impose the amusement tax proposed by the late Government speaks for itself. I base my statements upon facts. 
Not one. I do not deal in brewery shares. The honorable senator might ask  Mr. Theodore  how he came to have over 8,000 £1 shares in timber companies that were receiving concessions from the Queensland Government, and getting it into New South Wales, while at the same time the timber workers, backed up by  Mr. Theodore,  were out on strike. 

 Mr. Theodore, when in Queensland defended the Italians that had settled in that State. I am not blaming him for his action, but I ask why his change of front? He is to-day a member of a Government that is proposing to restrict foreign immigration to Australia. I prefer that immigrants of my own. race should come here, but I have nothing to say against the Italians that are already settled in Queensland. They make very good citizens ; not all of them, of course, because there is always some scum in every race.  Mr. Theodore  and  Mr. McCormack  strenuously defended the Italian settlers, even in defiance of members of their own party.  Mr. Theodore  has now changed his views in respect of foreign migrants, but where would he be to-day had his father been turned out of Australia, because he came from Southern Europe or next door to it. I do not object to Italians coming here so long as we have room for them. The Treasurer's attitude is nothing but camouflage and his words so much humbug, and no doubt the people of Australia will find this out for themselves before the term of office of this Government expires. A great many members of the Labour party will discover, as did the Labour members in Queensland, the perfidy and ruthlessness of  Mr. Theodore.  There is not a grain of Labour feeling or sentiment in him, and there never has been. He has used the movement for his own ends and to help him to realize his ambition. He is not far from his goal, and I am waiting to see whether he reaches it eventually. In Queensland he sacrificed his colleagues to further his own interests, and 1 guarantee he will do the same thing in the federal arena. I advise the members of the Labour party to ascertain carefully the extent of  Mr. Theodore's  connexion with the licensed victuallers and various combines. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator Dooley,  who moved the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, started off by saying that the Bruce-Page Government was defeated because it had been responsible for destroying the principles of arbitration. No statement could have been more incorrect. The Bruce-Page Government was at no time opposed to the principles of arbitration. On the contrary, it would have taken all arbitration powers under the control of the Federal Parliament, and it made several attempts to do so. Some years ago it asked the people at a referendum to give additional industrial powers to the Commonwealth Parliament, but the people turned its proposals down. 
That is so. The Bruce-Page Government then made an endeavour to introduce amendments into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with a view to making it more workable. That it did not prove to be more workable was due to the fact that no assistance was obtained from the other side. There was no possible chance of enforcing awards ; the men simply flouted them, and the Government thereupon asked the States if they would hand over to the Commonwealth Parliament the power to control arbitration. The States declined that request, and I believe they were right in doing so. In my opinion industrial matters should be controlled by the States. Nevertheless I supported the Government in the attitude it took up. Seeing how apparent it was that there should not be two arbitration authorities in Australia, the one overlapping the other, the Bruce-Page Government then offered to abolish federal arbitration, and allow the States to control industrial matters. If that had been done, it would have led to a reduction of industrial turmoil. This gave the people another opportunity to express a voice on the matter, and their verdict was that the Federal Parliament should control arbitration, and that the Labour party should administer the affairs of the Commonwealth. 
I understand that Labour's present proposal is to revert to the attitude taken up by many of us who have always advocated the system of boards of conciliation. In any case the Nationalists will give the Government more assistance in carrying out the arbitration law of the Commonwealth, with a view, to ensuring peace, than was given by the Labour party to the late Government, and any measure that is introduced for the purpose of ensuring that both workers and employers shall be fairly treated, will meet with the approval of honorable senators now in Opposition to the Government. 

 Senator Dooley also said that the Federal Government was responsible for the volume of unemployment in Australia. It is one of the worst features of Australian life that men. who want to work cannot obtain employment. It is a national waste and a tragedy to the men who are thus situated. The cause of all this unemployment is to be found in artificial legislation. Any tariff increase means an increase in the cost of living. Each increase in the cost of living means an increase in wages. Each increase, in wages creates a demand for a higher tariff, and in the end the working man is no better off than before. It is this vicious system which is responsible for our unemployment, yet the new Government has further increased the tariff. There are troublous times ahead. 
Ministers are not to be blamed for taking any step that they think will relieve unemployment. It is usually the practice to borrow a few pounds and spend it on a job to give relief to unemployed, but that is not the way in which the problem should be tackled. The only remedy for the unemployment evil is to produce something and sell it at a price at which people can afford to buy it. At present, the product of labour will not sell abroad at a price which will pay for the cost of the labour. Wherever we go in Australia we find three things uppermost - work everywhere, plenty of money to do the work and no dearth of labour. There are opportunities, for work everywhere. There is land to be cleared, scrub to be cut, houses to be built or repaired. The banking returns show that there is plenty of money available. There are £215,000,000 on deposit in the Savings Bank. That is not ail money deposited by the workers. A great deal of it represents the money of the people who are afraid to put it anywhere else. The other banking returns tell the same tale. Why is so much labour walking about seeking employment and unable to obtain it? It is because people lack confidence. They are afraid that they cannot get a return for the money they spend if they pay others to clear the land or do any other essential work. I am afraid that until we can produce articles at a cost at. which people can afford to buy them, we shall never get rid of our unemployed. 
The Labour plan to relieve the position is to raise the tariff and make in Australia everything Australia wants. I am an Australian and I believe in using Australian goods, but the action the Government has taken in this respect will simply add costs to people who cannot pass them on. I am of opinion that the new tariff will give more employment in the big cities, especially in Melbourne and Sydney, and, in that respect, it may do some good; but what about the farmers?  Mr. Scullin  tells us that we shall have to make more goods in Australia and the people will have to pay for them. But what will be the position of those people who cannot pass on the added cost? The costs of those who have to sell their products outside Australia for whatever they can get for them will be increased, and I am afraid that, in consequence, they will be put right out of business. The tariff cannot be of assistance to those who produce wool and wheat, our staple commodities. On the contrary, the producers of wool, wheat, fruit and other primary products, cannot stand additional burdens, and the policy that increases the amount of labour in the big cities will have the effect of throwing out of work, in country districts; thousands of men who are doing infinitely better and more essential work than those who are employed in the cities. If the Labour party has no better method of solving the unemployed problem than that of increasing the tariff, all I have to say is that I do not think it will prove successful. The farmer, who has to sell his product in the open market and has no say in the price he gets for it, also finds that he has very little say in the price he pays for everything he requires. The amount he pays to the man he employs, or for the plough he uses, the food he consumes or the clothes he wears, is increased by this artificial legislation. 
The honorable senator is touching upon a very big subject. It is hard to say just how land values are fixed. I think it will be generally admitted that at present they are too high if land is to be taken simply on its productive value. There is a school which says that land values are based on the price the land will bring on the market. But we know that many people place a fictitious value on land because they want to acquire it for some special purpose other than that of making a living on it.They may like a par ticular area, or a block may be acquired by a man because it adjoins his own. On the other hand it might not be a good thing to reduce land values at one fell swoop. It might deprive many people of all the equity that they possess in the land and the last situation might be infinitely worse than the first. 
I have not been speaking of the effect of the tariff upon land values, but I may say in passing that I am not of opinion that any reduction of the tariff would alter the position in that respect. Many people are working their land for what they can take off it, and the only way in which they can get more work for the wages they pay, so that the product of the land may be sold at a price at which people can buy it, is to reduce the cost of production by reducing the tariff. 
The honorable senator is also opening up a big problem in referring to soldier settlement schemes. As a matter of fact, all the governments of Australia, Commonwealth and State, were pushed into those land settlement schemes by a public which was intensely sympathetic with the soldiers, but utterly irresponsible in the matter. The governments realized that if they did not buy land on which to settle returned soldiers, others would be got to do so. In my ministerial capacity in the State of Tasmania I had a fair amount of experience of purchasing land for soldiers. I had, on many occasions, to act practically as agent with both buyer and seller against me, the seller sitting down, knowing well that he would get the price he wanted, and the buyer pressing me to buy at the seller's price. The governments were forced into that position. But many who talk of the price paid for land for soldier settlement forget the price at which produce was selling in those days. For wheat 10s. a bushel could be obtained, for butter as much as 3s. a lb., and for a calf £5. 
Yes. It is easy to play the game backwards, and say now how foolish every one was then. The governments certainly did lose a lot of money over soldier settlement, but plenty of private capital was lost in the same way. Individuals bought land and stock, and made just as many losses as were made in connexion with soldier settlement. I could give numerous instances of this; but, of course, these persons were not governments, and the public generally did not hear anything about their failures. There are two sides to the question of the losses sustained on soldier settlement. 
Increases in cost, following the increased tariff, will be very harmful to the fruit industry, which looms so largely in Tasmania. At one time applegrowers could ship their apples to London and do very well on a return of 8s. or 9s. a case. To-day it costs the applegrowers 8s. or 9s. a case to send them to London, and the apples do not bring in any greater return than in previous years. The new tariff will therefore bring about unemployment in the apple-growing districts of Tasmania. Growers will try to do without fertilizers. They will try to dispense with the labour that they should employ. If we increase the cost of everything the apple-grower uses, his food, his clothing, sprays and so forth, and he gets no more for his apples, the result of the tariff, so far as he is concerned, is not difficult to estimate. The manufacturer, on the other hand, does not care how much his costs are increased. He simply raises the price of the article he is producing and so passes on the extra cost. It is quite impossible for the farmer or the fruit-grower to do this. 
I am not a freetrader, but I say that the tariff has gone far enough. We have been going round in a vicious circle. Following an increase in wages we get an increase in the cost of living, then a demand for higher tariff, a further request for increased wages, and so it goes on. It is about time we called a halt and endeavoured to do a little more work for a change. 
The fruit industry in Tasmania provides a great deal of employment for not only the growers themselves, but also the saw-millers, box-makers, and other workers, but lately the cost of everything has been increasing at such a rate as to threaten the stability of the industry. 
That is so, and, unfortunately, we appear to be making no effort to improve matters. We all agree that to retain the export trade, the quality of the product sent overseas must be unchallengeable. In this connexion I wish the Minister to note that some time ago there was a revision of the various standards of fruit intended for export; and experience has shown that the enforcement of the new regulations is going to damage the Tasmanian apple industry. It should be remembered that Tasmania is not in the same position as the fruitgrowing States on the mainland. The growers in South Australia, Victoria or Western Australia have big cities in which to market their surplus product, whereas the Tasmanian grower must ship the whole of his output either to the other States or to Great Britain. Last year, as I have said, revised regulations to control the export trade were drawn up as the result of a conference of inspectors from all the States, with the exception of Tasmania. Unfortunately, Tasmania was not represented by an inspector from its own agricultural department, though I do not think that this was the fault of the State Government. A Commonwealth inspector, however, was present. One regulation agreed to provides that the ends of all export cases must be planed. I agree that an export case planed in this way will look much better, but I wish the assistant Minister  (Senator Barnes)  to bear in mind that the majority of Tasmanian orchardists have to obtain their cases from bush mills which have not the facilities for planing, and while the cost of the work, if done in a city mill, ought not to be more than  id.  a case, the price at Tasmanian bush mills, if they were compelled to put in the machinery, would be very much higher. Another regulation prohibits the export of plain grade apples. These, I may inform honorable senators, are apples in which a certain percentage may have a blemish not exceeding in the aggregate ½ inch in diameter. They realize just as good a price in England as some of the better grades, and we have to dispose of them somewhere. I am aware, of course, that this is not the place for the discussion of the technical aspects of the regulations, but I wish to emphasize that a regulation of this nature will press heavily upon certain growers in Tasmania, and I strongly urge the Government to obtain the advice of the State Fruit Advisory Board, appointed by the department and the growers, before these regulations are given effect. I believe in standardization, and when I was a member of the State Parliament, I was instrumental in passing legislation to this end. I was the first to provide for it. 
Another matter to which 1 direct attention is the request for a bounty on evaporated apples. If our growers could dispose of another 200,000. cases of dried apples, the position of the industry would be materially improved. The return to growers of dried apples is only 2s. per 50 lb. which equals about one bushel and a quarter of green apples and makes 6 lb. of dried apples, so the price works out at only 4d. a lb. American growers land their evaporated apples on the London market at from 5½d. to 6d. a lb., so that the price received by us allows only 2d. for processing. 
1 do not think there is, but the lowest price at which Tasmanian evaporated apples can be landed on the English market is 7¼d. or 7½d. a lb. If the Government could see its way to provide a bounty of between £3,000 and £4,000 our growers would be able to carry on. One of the Parliamentary committees, of which I am a member, proposes to visit Tasmania in the course of a few weeks, . and I believe it should be instructed by the Government to inquire into the condition of the apple industry in that State. Few people realize how extensive are the operations of our orchardists and what splendid machinery they have installed to carry on their business. So keen are they to exploit every avenue in the export trade that they have sent tons of cores and peelings to Germany, where there is a market for that by-product of the industry, and our growers have been content with a profit of a few shillings a ton. I sincerely hope that the Government will see its way to grant a small bounty for the assistance of the industry. 
I also direct attention once more to the position of our berry fruit-growers, particularly the growers of black currants. Because sugar is too dear they are unable to process the fruit. If they could get sugar at anything like export parity, this class of fruit could be sold to jam manufacturers for export. This year, I am sorry to say, the great bulk of theberry fruit will fall to the ground. Recently a deputation, of which I was a member, waited upon the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  with a request that he should make representations to the Queensland Government to allow Tasmanian jam manufacturers to obtain sugar at £15 or £16 a ton for the processing of our berry fruits and he promised to do so. I appeal to the present Prime Minister to do the same. At present they have to pay over £30 a ton for it. 
A few hundred cases were shipped to the mainland last year, but there are the difficulties in connexion with the development of that trade. The fruit has to be packed in small boxes and all work has to be carried out at the highest possible speed owing to the risk of fruit being ruined by heat or rain. Apparently the only hope is for the growers to market the product for jam manufacturing purposes and this could be done if sugar could be obtained at export parity. Our growers deserve all the assistance which the Commonwealth can give them. They are not making a decent living wage, and this year they are absolutely faced with ruin because the processers have informed them that unless sugar can be obtained at export parity, they cannot buy the fruit. 
Turning again to the revised standards, which I mentioned a minute or two ago, I should like the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  to note that the new regulations which provide for the elimination of a number of varieties will do serious injury to a number of growers in Tasmania. I am aware that the newer varieties of apples sell better than old varieties, but we have in my State three or four wellknown kinds, that are a good marketable product, and should not be interfered with. One in particular, called "Crows egg" grown in Southern Tasmania, commands a good price in the English market. An orchardist of my acquaintance ships between 800 or 900 cases every year, and always obtains a satisfactory price in London. Some time ago, an Englishman arrived in Tasmania and bought an orchard comprising mainly this variety of apple. He has been working it for four or five years, and is making a good living on the place; but he informed me that if this variety is eliminated from the list of export apples permitted under the regulations he will have to abandon his property and return to England. I am sure that these revised standards have been drawn up without a complete knowledge of the splendid varieties grown in some of the colder fruit-growing localities, and I therefore urge the Minister, before the regulations are gazetted, to seek the advice of the Fruit Advisory Board in Tasmania., because I am sure this Ministry docs not wish to do anything to injure Tasmanian orchardists. 
We shall have other opportunities to discuss a number of other subjects that are mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, so I. shall conclude my remarks by again urging the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  to give close attention to the various aspects of the apple export trade, to which I have directed attention to-night. 
It is over fifteen years since I last addressed members of this chamber. Since then many great changes have taken place. One that strikes as being particularly significant is that many of those who then were associated with the party to which I belong, are now in opposition in this chamber, and I have noted that, in the discussion this morning, the most virulent attacks on the Ministry have come from them. 
I can only conclude that they feel some remorse for the position in which they find themselves and endeavour to salve their consciences by trying to lay the blame on their former colleagues, who stood to their guns. But I have no intention of dealing at length with that aspect of the debate. Suffice it to say that I would rather have remained outside this chamber for another fifteen years than continue to be a member of it by the means which kept some of them in this Parliament. There has been considerable criticism of the Governor-General's Speech, but I have not found any disposition on the part of honorable senators opposite to get down to fundamentals. They have indulged in more or less carping criticism regarding statements alleged to have been made by Labour candidates at the recent election. One of the charges made by several honorable senators opposite is that Labour candidates made wilfully inaccurate statements, in order to gain votes. Although I was not a candidate at the election, I must share my responsibility for the statements made, because I was one who spoke on behalf of candidates for election to another place. Not one wilful misstatement has been sheeted home to us. 
I believe that  Mr. Theodore,  who has not long been a federal member and probably lacks knowledge of the Constitution, honestly thought that it could be done. Indeed, the very fact that the coal-owners consented to meet the miners in a further conference soon after the new Government assumed office, is evidence that the election had some effect even on the coal situation.It has been said that the Labour party accused the Bruce-Page Government and the Nationalist party, generally, of an attempt to reduce wages. I cheerfully admit that I made that statement, and I am prepared to back it up. Indeed, facts - not mere opinions - bear out the statement. From the very inception of the coal trouble the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  was avowedly on the side of the coal-owners. Another wing of the Nationalist movement -  Mr. Bavin  and his' Government in New South Wales - also openly sided with the coal-owners throughout the dispute. I go so far as to say that both  Mr. Bruce  and  Mr. Bavin  were practically the instigators of the coal-owners' demand for reduced wages. 
It is not what they could have got, but what the coal-owners demanded. Their demand was for an even greater reduction than the miners are now being forced to accept. It is well known that  Mr. Bruce  and  Mr. Bavin  were in close consultation on numerous occasions regarding the coal trouble, and that they stood, determinedly, for a reduction in wages. 
They insisted on the miners making a greater percentage reduction than the owners were called upon to make. In the coal industry in New South Wales, it has been the custom for many years, for the owners and the miners to share in any advance in the price of coal. If the price of coal improves by ls. a ton, the miners get 3d. and the owners 9d. a ton of that increase. On this occasion the deduction was to be ls. per ton each. The contract miners, whose only capital is their labour, were to accept a reduction of ls. a ton, and weekly hands ls. a day, whereas the coal-owners were to accept a reduction of only ls. a ton. For the purpose of showing that a reduction of ls. a ton was a great concession on the part of the owners, a determined effort has been made to prove that their profits were so small that they could not possibly forego a greater amount. 
It was nothing of the kind. If the honorable senator does not know better, I can only excuse him on the ground of ignorance. 
The findings of the commission are not worth 2d., because it was a purely faked concern. From its inception the commission has steadfastly refused to take evidence in public, or to have the owners' profits disclosed, and, "consequently, no confidence can be placed in its findings. The present Government has so little confidence in the commission that it will terminate it as soon as possible. I am not a coal-miner, but at one time I was a member of the coal-miners' organization, and paid levies in support of those on strike, as I would do again if the necessity arose. There is one mine in northern New South Wales the shares in which were of a nominal value of £10. When those shares had been paid up to the extent of £6, the company decided to regard them as fully paid up. On those £10 shares, paid up to the extent of only £6, a 100 per cent, dividend was declared for several years. Another mine in New South Wales has repaid more than twice over in bonuses the whole of the capital invested, and until recently paid big dividends on capital which did not exist, because it had all been returned to the shareholders. 
And mines are purchased accordingly. There is no more reason for regarding a coal-mine as ' a perpetual asset than that the labour of a man who toils in it should be so regarded. Is not a man's labour a wasting asset? Day by day as he toils in the mines he loses his energy until he eventually reaches a position in which he can earn no more. 
We have been told that the miners make big wages. Indeed, altogether fancy rates have been published as their earnings. In every industry in which piece-work obtains some men make big wages for a limited period. But the average wage of a coalminer in most years is considerably below the basic wage. 
If they did not work short time voluntarily they would do so compulsorily because of intermittency of employment. All the talk of their high wages is so much bunkum when the average earnings of those engaged in the industry are considered. The average wage, and not exceptional cases, is the only fair basis of comparison. If a man makes big wages on piece-work, he does so only by the expenditure of more than average energy, and, consequently, he is the sooner incapable of earning anything. Some men, who appear to think that their great strength and energy will last for ever, tear out the coal at such a rate that they outdistance the average man and make exceptionally high wages; but their term of usefulness ceases much earlier than is the case with men who work more rationally. Many miners become broken down early in life from that cause. Honorable senators should also remember that mining is a dangerous occupation. Every hour of every day that a man is underground he takes his life in his hands. There are, unfortunately, numerous instances in which men have forfeited their lives while working in coal-mines; while accidents of a minor character are so common as to appal those not acquainted with the industry. Whatever wages the miners make they can never be more than they deserve. 
Nothing of the kind was ever shown. What was claimed - and that is an entirely different matter - was that if a lower price were charged for the coal there would be a greater demand for it, and therefore more employment. That was a purely hypothetical statement. In Great Britain after the long coal strike in 1926, hours were lengthened and wages drastically lowered ; but many thousands of miners are still unemployed. Indeed, the remedy there was worse than the disease. 
In almost every avenue of employment the position is the same. 
That seems to be so, because they are not so massed together. In the rural industries more men are seeking work without any prospect of getting it than ever before in the history of this country, but because they are scattered, their plight is not so obvious as is that of the miners. 
A good deal has been said about issuing what some of us call " dog licences " to men to entitle them to work at certain occupations. The suspension of those licenses means that no more men will go into that overmanned industry for the time being. The Government hopes soon to abolish that degrading method of industrial servitude on the part of a worthy class of men. 
Their case is different. I have never said that the late Government was entirely responsible for the unemployment that existed during its regime, nor do I now claim that the present Government can abolish the evil. Unemployment is an integral part of the capitalistic system which, I freely admit, I am out to destroy. 
Nothing worse could be substituted. The keystone of the capitalistic system is unemployment. The system would break down in no time if there was no unemployment. On the other hand, when unemployment becomes rampant, as it is now, it becomes a danger to the very system which creates and fosters it. The system is one which does not create wealth for the primary purpose of conserving the needs of the people, but wealth in the form of goods or commodities for selling at a profit. When such commodities can no longer be sold at a profit those who control them in effect refuse to produce, and, consequently, the system breaks down. 

 Senator J. B. Hayes referred to the imposition of high customs duties; but we have to realize that high tariffs cannot possibly lead to a perfect order of society. They become necessary in one country largely because of the adoption of high tariffs in other countries. To a great extent they are measures of retaliation, and, as  Senator J.  B. Hayes said, while the tariff may have the effect of increasing the number of employees in city industries, it cannot benefit every one to the same extent. The honorable senator referred to its effect on the fruit-growing industry in Tasmania; but I point out that if protective duties lead to more people being employed in the big cities, the home market for primary products must necessarily increase. Whilst protective tariffs are imposed for the benefit of those directly concerned, they are of indirect benefit to many others. I would not for a moment pin my faith to the piling up of tariffs as a means of founding a new social system; they mean only a temporary alleviation of the troubles from which the system suffers. 
The subject of arbitration has received a good deal of attention during the debate. For the past twenty years we have heard the same old story concerning the manner in which industries of this country are suffering as the result of the awards of arbitration courts and similar tribunals. Some honorable senators have quoted au article which I wrote in the journal referred to by  Senator Lynch  -  The PanPacific Worker  - in which I decried arbitration on the ground that it practically took the fight out of the workers and caused them to lean on the courts and their officials for those improvements in industry for which formerly they had to fight in order to obtain the wages and conditions to which they are entitled.I am not going back on what I said. I was strongly in opposition to the arbitration policy of the Bruce-Page Government which wished to skittle arbitration without putting anything in its place. Honorable senators opposite have said that that Government was not opposed to arbitration, but sought either to have it entirely under Commonwealth control, or hand it over to the States. We must recollect that the Bruce-Page Government made arbitration impossible by creating a num ber of penal offences, and making criminals of unionists in this country who dared to do what they are free to do in Great Britain and other civilized countries. 
They were intensified tenfold and twenty new offences were created by the last Government's repressive legislation. 
They never operated effectively against those whom the honorable senator represents. 
I dispute that. On the contrary, they have operated largely against the workers, and to a very slight extent against the employers, for the simple reason that, while the employers may be summoned and taken to court for breaches of an award, they can always get even by reducing hands and wholly or partially closing down their works, thereby throwing the whole crowd out of employment. While there is' one section of the community, which owns the means of production, the land, the machinery and capital, it will always have the big end of the stick, irrespective of the arbitration laws that are passed. 
I bitterly opposed it, and lent my services towards a movement to defeat it. While in favour of the Commonwealth Government having complete industrial powers, I thought the late Government's proposal was the most absurd and reactionary that could be conceived. Instead of giving this Parliament greater powers, that Government would have shackled Parliament by taking the power to appoint a body to create industrial conditions, without giving Parliament the power to alter the conditions under which the tribunal worked, regardless of any situation whichmight arise. If that proposal had been carried, it would have been possible to obtain an alteration of the system only by another referendum. If the BrucePage Government had used its ingenuity and power to devise the worst possible way in which to bring about an alteration, it could not have 'been more successful than it was in suggesting what it did. Perhaps honorable senators have forgotten the fact that these proposals were defeated by a much smaller majority "than former proposals of a similar nature. From the time when the Fisher Government first submitted proposals for an amendment of the Constitution in regard to industrial matters, until the last occasion, the majority against such proposals has always been smaller. I am certain that if the Bruce-Page Government had submitted a sensible and rational scheme, it would have been carried, and the Labour party would have assisted it. 
If I had my way, I would make the Constitution alterable by the Parliament. 
Practically. The less we shackle ourselves with constitutions and laws, the better it will be for the people. Have honorable senators considered the enormous trouble there has been in connexion with an amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America ? Modern development in science and industry has made it an obsolete instrument of government, and it would be radically amended but for the insuperable obstacles. 
Not the final right; but I would give the people authority to ask for a referendum. I would be in favour of giving the Commonwealth Parliament greater powers than it possesses at present, and particularly would give the people the right to challenge any law and compel its submission to the electors. 
Indirectly. On every occasion when a referendum has been rejected by the people, those who have proposed the question submitted to the people have, at an election shortly afterwards, received the confidence of the people, which shows that they are capable in connexion with a single issue, of dealing with it free from the personal equation. 
There are very few subjects upon which all parties could agree. In the matter of arbitration I may say that I believe that the workers of this country should get what has  systematically  been denied to them. They should get it both ways. They should have the right to arbitration if they please, and also the right to reject arbitration and strike if they think fit. 
All criticism of trade unionism which I have heard during the debate has been of a carping nature. There has been no recognition on the part of honorable senators opposite of what all the greatest public men of this and the last generation regard as the greatest factor in the elevation, not only of the material, but of the moral and mental standard of the working class. No one contends that unionists are perfect or that they are superior to those in any' other walk of life. There has been considerable criticism of the little mistakes that unionists have made; but their critics have ignored the fundamental principles of unionism and the part it has played in industrial affairs during its long and chequered career. Trade unionism has succeeded in preventing unscrupulous employers, who, if not in a majority, lead the majority, from beating the workers of this and every other country down to the lowest possible level. It has been organized labour that has put up a fight for better conditions than, those which they possessed. Whatever unions do, I am always behind them, not only with verbal support, but with whatever funds I can make available to assist them. 
SenatorRAE.  -  Unionists are always accused of doing the wrong thing; they are charged with errors of judgment and being led by agitators. There are some who say that everything associated with unionism is rotten and that those who assist them are associated with the criminal class. 
I say emphatically they can do wrong, but we should not consider only the errors which the workers make. We have to decide whether fundamentally trade unionism is or is not a valuable institution. There is no more valuable institution in this or in the Mother Country for improving the condition of the great masses of the people than trade unionism. Those who desert us are called scabs and blacklegs. We use these terms of opprobium advisedly to express our contempt for those who do not give allegiance to the class to which they belong. 
I did not support certain members of the party represented by honorable senators opposite who sought the fleshpots of Egypt. 
SenatorFoll.  -  They were assisted by the Labour party. 
We did what any other party would have done. We did not fire our guns at those who were incidentally helping us. No one has heard me or the other members of my party praising those honorable members of another place who deserted their party; that is their business. If by refraining from helping to wipe them out, we incidentally helped ourselves, no one can say that, in a political fight, we adopted an unusual course, but we would not take them into our ranks even if they desired to come. 

 Senator Colebatch, who, I think, has made the most valuable contribution to this debate, referred to Soviet Russia. The honorable senator approved of two principles in the constitution of that country, one of them being that it should be not only a responsibility but a privilege for a person to prepare himself to defend his own country. The second was that every citizen should give service to the community on the principle that he who does not work neither shall he eat.  Senator Colebatch  commented on those two principles in order to eulogize the system of compulsory training which our Government has seen fit to suspend. The honorable senator got very near to being just on that occasion ; he just missed the point, which is that the obligation on the part of the people of Soviet Russia to be prepared to defend their country exists because of the second principle to which the honorable senator has referred. When the honorable senator uses his influence to try to bring about a similar condition of affairs in Australia this party may reconsider its attitude in regard to military training. I consider that a man is a fool to prepare himself to defend this country on behalf of its capitalists. If I were of military age I should not raise a finger to assist those individuals, from who we not only reap no benefits, but receive disadvantages, by reason of the heavy burdens that we have to carry on their behalf. Prior tothe Great War, no politicians would have dared to restrain the liberty of the people by introducing such measures as the Crimes Act. the Transport Workers Act, and a certain amendment of the Industrial Arbitration Act. Those actions were scandalous infringements of our liberty. 
Liberty, like many other principles, is an abstract thing which does not exist in its entirety. We enjoyed a much greater measure of freedom before the war than we now do. Then there was no question of attacking the freedom which has since been lightly thrown away, with scarcely a protest from those concerned. 
Take, again, the ban by the late Government on working class literature. That was a direct affront to every adult worker in Australia. The Government took to itself absolute power to dictate what should be read and what adults should be forbidden to read, just as a father might do with a little child whose mind was immature. We were told that we should not be permitted  to read anything considered by the Government to be unfit for us, on the principle that we might run amok after absorbing the proscribed literature. That was a denial of freedom to which no past generation would have submitted without raising the greatest outcry that has ever been heard in the country. Unless our own Government quickly repeals that infamous embargo, I shall be as bitter in my attack upon it as I am upon the last Government in the matter. It is an inconceivable insult to every adult in Australia. 
I did not say that. Those who associate the censorship of obscene with that of political literature, forget the existence of one fundamental difference. Theoretically, it may be claimed that no one has any more right to dictate whether I shall read a moral or an immoral book, than he has to say that I should not read a revolutionary treatise. But here is the difference : The political literature to which I have referred can, by its composition, only appeal to adults. Young children would not' understand the import of the words contained in such works, whereas obscene literature is couched in such language that it appeals particularly to the minds of the young, and to their detriment. That is the difference between literature of a seditious 'and revolutionary character, and obscene literature. That difference is quite wide enough for a broad distinction to be drawn between them, and what should be done in one case is no criterion, of what should be done in the other. 
I come now to the assertion that the Labour party received assistance from the picture interests during the last general election. Personally, I very seldom patronize picture palaces, as I do not like the ordinary type of picture. I believe they do more harm to the morals of the young than any other method of propaganda. T have nothing against Americans individually, although collectively I think that country is the most jingoistic power on earth. It is most callous in its disregard of the needs of other nations. We owe the United States of America nothing. That country has done every thing possible to shut out our few exports by raising a high tariff wall, whereas, unfortunately, our people use a great deal more of their products than they need to. I am not speaking out of sympathy to Americans, whether they be regarded as  monopolists or otherwise. Although it is claimed that the New South Wales picture interests, after raising a great outcry against the imposition of the proposed amusement tax, were about to fall into the arms of Labour. I point out that, for some mysterious reason, about three or four weeks prior to the recent election, we heard no more of their protests. Personally, I did not know of any one receiving a red cent of their money. The campaign director for the Labour party convened a meeting of those concerned immediately after the election, and made an appeal for money because our funds had, on the strength of our good name, been overdrawn by £12,0.00. The followers of the party liquidated that debt by means of donations from trade unions and sympathisers. The opposition of this party to the proposal to impose that amusement tax was raised from the outset, before the proprietors of the picture concerns had time to make any outcry. It is our belief that, in spite of the assurances of honorable senators opposite that the tax would not be passed on, the people who patronized the picture shows would have had to pay it, and the vast majority of them are workers and their families. I believe that even the workers are entitled to a little amusement sometimes. 
I desire to say something about the attacks made upon the Labour party in regard to Soviet Russia and communism. I say cheerfully that if any one reads the objective of the Labour party, the socialization of industry under democratic control, he will find no fundamental difference between that and communism. Both aim at exactly the same goal. 
It is. If honorable senators will read  Free from Bias,  with their minds freed from theological prejudice, they will find that the founder of Christianity was a Communist, if he was anything. The early church was purely communistic both in regard to its teaching and the practice of its followers. So far I can see there is nothing of a criminal character or that condemns a man to obloquy in the profession of communism. I have never been a member of the communistic party, but I ' believe that that body has the same right to place its opinions before the people, and to endeavour to secure their support, as has any other. I object to the tendency on the part of those who happen to be in the majority to persecute and practically to dub as criminals all those who differ fundamentally from themselves. 
That is purely a matter for the Labour party to decide. I am not a member of its executive. That party, in my opinion, is definitely opposed to the capitalistic system. The doom of that system is approaching. That is proved by the chaos that exists to some extent in every country of the world, whether it has an arbitration system, a strong organization of labour, or otherwise. 
Honorable senators opposite have been trying to attribute the ills of this country to the alleged evils of high wages, due to Australian industrial awards. Honorable senator after honorable senator opposite b»s claimed that our production is being harassed, that our employers are upset; that those who can do so will invest their money elsewhere rather than put it into industry, owing to the evil effects of arbitration. Yet, what is the position of the United States of America, with all its huge resources, its wonderful advance in scientific and technical matters, its enormous population, its home market, and its practical lack of trade unionism? There unionism exists only amongst the highly skilled artisans; they are the only people to receive high wages, and they do not represent more than 5 to 10 per cent, of the workers of that country. In spite of the individualism for which the United States of America is famed, and of its claim that every man there may do as he likes and invest his money as he desires,- recent statistics disclose that unemployment in that country is practically on a par with unemployment in Great Britain. We know that the number of unemployed in Great Britain is great, and that even since the advent of the Ramsay MacDonald Government it has increased. So that even if we take individualistic countries like the United States of America or semi-socialistic countries like our own, or even if we regard Asiatic countries where cheap labour exists at about 10d. a day, and where there are millions of workers, we find that unemployment is rampant, with its attendant wretchedness, destitution, vice and crime. We also discover that those conditions are in the main attributable to the failure of capitalism to support in decent comfort the people of the community. Until that system is abolished, no efforts can be more than palliatives of existing conditions. We cannot hope fundamentally to cure those evils until we deal with fundamental causes. The fundamental causes of these evils is that while we have capitalist production we have anarchy in distribution while we talk about giving a basic wage and settling things on systematic lines we over look an important fact. Take a case where inquiry is being made into what should be the basic wage. Witnesses from various sections of the working class are examined. They bring into the court articles of wearing apparel, and the prices of these articles are compared.  Evidence is taken to show just how much clothing women and children require to live decently, how much food they consume, and even what it costs to purchase toothbrushes, powder puffs, and so forth. Evidence is taken as to how much they spend on newspapers, amusements and life insurance. All these confidential details are gone into exhaustively to ascertain the minimum amount on which an employee can live. At the same time employers are totally exempt from examination of a similar character. We do not know whether they live on .turkeys and truffles, or whether they give 50 guineas for dresses or cloaks. No evidence is taken to show what dividends they draw, what incomes they enjoy, or what they spend on pleasures or vices - there is nothing to show what it costs to maintain them in  their positions. Until both sides are treated equally in this respect, until both are subjected to the same humiliation, I object to one class being signalled out in order to ascertain the minimum amount on which it can maintain sufficient energy to earn more dividends for the employers who are exempt from these humiliating investigations. 
I want honorable senators opposite to know that we are not out as a class to beg concessions from the employers. We are out to get them. And if we cannot get them by one means we shall get them by any other means available. We are under no obligations to employers. Whenwe work for a man we give him considerably more than we get in return in the shape of wages. Otherwise he would not employ us. The dignity of the workers is as great as that of honorable senators opposite who, whether they are workers or not, in their official positions, have the powers of wealth, money, and influence behind them. 
It is a question of principle also. It may be hard work to sign cheques. The criterion is whether one is doing useful work - whether the work which is done is useful or serving a social purpose. 
Brains are certainly employed in directivity, and there are plenty of brains going to waste among the workers for lack of opportunity. I do not say that brains used in directivity should be disregarded, or should go unrewarded, but I say that there are many speculators and investors, and people who have been fortunate enough to have wealth given to them by wealthy relatives. 
There are quite enough of them to have a share in the shaping of the destinies of those who are economically beneath them. It is influence and not numbers that counts. 
Considerable criticism has been levelled against the Government in regard to certain matters that have arisen out of the recent election campaign, and one is the case of John Brown. The Government has been twitted with having withdrawn the prosecution against him. But honorable senators opposite have missed the point of our objection to the action of the previous Government in regard to the John Brown case. The BrucePage Government prosecuted the timber workers and fined them as heavily as the law allowed, and it prosecuted Holloway who stood behind the timber workers. 
It would have meant no hardship to him, because others would have clubbed to pay the fine. 
The honorable senator's interjections are assisting me. They show that the Government was bad in its intentions but lacked the courage to carry them out. If the fine was a legitimate one it should have been collected. If it was not legitimate it should never have been imposed. 
Of what use is it to quibble about the matter? It was the  Government's  instrument that imposed the fine. If the Government had not taken action in the first place the fine would not have been imposed. 
The honorable senator must know that it is out of order to comment on judges. 
But I wish to revert to the John Brown case. What  We  objected to was that while unionists who committed breaches of the law were fined and promptly dealt with - whoever the judges were it was certainly the Government that instituted the prosecutions - while the transport workers were dealtwith at very short notice and given no time to retrace their steps, the BrucePage Government withdrew its proceedings against John Brown, although longdrawn out and exhaustive inquiries had ascertained that there was a prima facie case against him and a summons had been issued. There may not be one law for the rich and another for the poor, but there is certainly one rule for administering the law in the case of the rich and another for administering it in the case of the poor. The Labour party does not believe in the penal provisions of the Arbitration Act. It has no desire to prosecute either John Brown or the timber workers. Its decision in the John Brown case is therefore not inconsistent with its policy. There is, however, another point. The proper time to proceed against John Brown was immediately the offence had been com mitted. If the psychological moment is allowed to slip by it is a mistake to launch a prosecution at a later date. 
It was almost a crime for the BrucePage Government not to take the steps which the present Government has taken to stop immigrationwhen we had thousands of people unemployed in Australia. It is not a question of whether our immigrants are Southern Europeans or Britishers. While we leave our doors open to those who like to come here voluntarily, with certain necessary restrictions, of course, we should do nothing to encourage, still less to spend our own scanty income in assisting, people to come here when we have no means of absorbing them. Honorable senators opposite admit that there are many unemployed in Australia. No one can deny that there are tens of thousands of them. The old story that every fresh migrant makes more work for the people already here if carried to its logical conclusion would mean that the most thickly populated country would be the safest to receive immigrants; that England and Belgium should be better off than Australia, and that China and India should be rolling in luxury and affluence. As a matter of fact the whole question is whether immigrants can be absorbed. If they can be absorbed in the industries of a country without displacing others they add to the national wealth. If they cannot be so absorbed they simply add to the national poverty and to the national disgrace that people cannot obtain means of livelihood in a country with the vast potentialities that Australia possesses. There can be no greater indictment of the absolute failure of the presentday system than the fact that unemployment is rampant in all countries. 
I turn now to the Government's migration policy. Why should we invite other people to come here and share the starvation which our unemployed are facing? Why should we induce people living in other countries to break up their homes, sever all their associations and family ties to come to Australia only to be thrown on the scrap heap when they get here or else filch a job from some one else who has to be displaced in their favour? There could be no greater tragedy than that. Surely no one suggests that any person would leave his own country and come to Australia merely for the pleasure of travelling. 
So far as Southern Europeans are concerned, the only objection I have to them is that, being ignorant of our language and accustomed to conditions worse than our own, they can be used themore readily to break down our standards of living. It is for that reason that I consider it dangerous for this, or any other, country to have too great a proportion of foreigners in times of acute industrial depression. It is a fact that they are being used to break down our industrial conditions. It is alleged, in some instances, that if they are in work, they are getting the award rates of wages. We have ample proof to the contrary, but, unfortunately, the evidence would not be accepted in a court of law. In many instances these foreigners are alleged to be working at award rates, but actually they are sharing a contract with one of their own countrymen, and not getting standard wages. These things are being done, even by some of our own people. They are supposed to be getting a certain wage, but they have to allow the boss a rebate, so that actually they are not in receipt of the award rate. If this can be done with our own people, how much more easily may it be done in the case of foreigners, who are unable to speak the English language? Unless we can first make provision for the employment of migrants, without displacing our own people, it is criminal on our part to induce them to come to Australia. I hope, therefore, that steps will be taken to prevent any assisted migration until the whole of our own unemployed are absorbed, and that is not likely for some considerable time. 
One of the chief reasons for the unemployment that exists to-day is the growth of mechanical inventions. The world is becoming so mechanized that if one half of the adult workers were tipped into the Atlantic or Pacific oceans, the industries of the world could be still carried on by those that were left. 
SenatorFoll. - Was not some of the trouble due to the increased output from the Ruhr coal mines? 
I have heard people talk about the class war as if the term were invented by trades hall agitators whose one desire is to ensure their own livelihood. The class struggle is as old as humanity itself; but it has been intensified in modern times because of the enormous increase in production and the remarkable disparity between those who own and those who do not. This class struggle is going on, and will continue until the working class subdues the other class ; until we reach that stage in our social evolution mentioned by  Senator Colebatch,  when he who does not work neither shall he eat; when there shall be no wealthy investors, and no John Browns who can indulge in the maintenance of expensive horse-racing establishments while their employees starve. The working-class movement will continue to organize and solidify its ranks, till it has the power and the strength to overthrow the existing conditions. 
That brings me to the consideration of a subject which our opponents wrongly describe as socialism - the undertaking of enterprises by the State.  Senator Poll  said that State enterprises are never successful, but always result in losses. I could name several shining successes of Government enterprises in Now South Wales, and could support my claim by official figures which honorable senators opposite would not dispute. 
The time is ripe for drastic alterations to our Constitution. I object to handing over control of arbitration to the States because it would mean not one system but half a dozen different systems. The time is ripe for an increase and not a decrease of the powers of the Commonwealth. Industry is so widespread and so interlocked, not only between State and State, but also between country and country, that the sooner it can be placed under one authority the better. There should be another democratically elected convention to revise the Federal Constitution. The recommendations of the convention would, of course, have to be submitted to the electors for their approval or otherwise. That would ensure a proper security, while providing that elasticity which is necessary to meet changing conditions. In the United States of America there is, in. addition to the Federal Constitution, a constitution for each of the several States. Some of them were granted in the days of English  monarchs,  when those States were British colonies; but after the War of Independence they were revised. A number of those State constitutions provide for their own periodical revision by an elected convention which may make whatever amendments are deemed wise. A similar provision in our constitution would be a great advance on the present hide-bound constitution under which we live. 
Parliament of New SouthWales over 30 years ago, I was a critic of the Federal Constitution when an enabling bill was introduced into the State Parliament by  Sir Henry  Parkes. I then condemned the more or less unnatural and hybrid form of the Constitution which embodies some portions of the Constitution of the United States of America with a number of British principles, without blending them. I am still of that opinion. The recent decision that the British dominions are practically independent nations is an additional reason for the revision of our Constitution. We should know exactly where we stand in relation to the other dominions and the centre of the Empire. It would have been well had the British Parliament passed a short act declaring that the selfgoverning dominions were independent. There could have been an agreement for the settlement by arbitration of any disputes that might arise. Those who believe that the British Empire is different from other empires, and will survive where they have crashed, are hugging a delusion. There cannot be a political or economic union, of widely scattered countries where there is no physical union. The differences which exist between the component parts of the British Empire are already revealing themselves. Our recent decision to prohibit the exportation of stud sheep was directed chiefly against another part of the Empire having the same rights and privileges as we have, and a similar constitution to our own. That embargo was directed chiefly against South Africa, because it was felt that that country was a potential rival to Australia in the wool industry. For the same reason the Government of South Africa some time ago refused to allow ostrich eggs to be exported to Australia. 
In the limited time now at my disposal I wish to deal with a subject of great importance, and one which has been discussed at length during the debate - I refer to compulsory military training. Quotations from utterances made by me and by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  in support of compulsory military training have been made. I am not going to dispute the accuracy of those statements; but they were made a long while ago. 
Government, I endeavoured to have it made compulsory for politicians to undergo compulsory training; but, unfortunately, they, like parsons and priests, were specially exempt. They should be in the front ranks. 
I wish now to refer to some of the incidents associated with the early training of compulsory trainees. I mention, as an instance, the case of Harry Flintoff who was imprisoned for his refusal to train. According to an anti-conscription publication, I find that - 
Harry Flintoff did not drill or perform any alternative service during his first imprisonment. To some persons, his refusal to accept non-combatant duties may appear to be unreasonable. We ask such critics this question : " If you were holding the coats of two men fighting, would you not feel that you were aiding and abetting the fight?" And. again, " If either pugilist killed the others would you not, in part, be responsible for his death?" 
The whole question of non-combatant duties has been disposed of in a few sentences by Ley ton Richards, M.A., in a fine sermon delivered to his (then) congregation in the Collins-street Independent Church, Melbourne. He said :  - 
Do the framers of the act imagine for one moment that they can hoodwink conscientious men and women by a verbal distinction between combatant and non-combatant? An army is an engine of combat in all its branches. It is not against the mere firing of a rifle that conscience rebels; it is against the whole spirit and purpose of combat for which the military machine is called into being. 
There were conscientious objectors, such as quakers and others, who were instructed to refuse to train, and the question arose whether they should obey the military power or their parents. The value of parental control was thrown to the winds and the military control became the deciding factor. 
I ask honorable senators to extend to  Senator Rae  that courtesy to which he is entitled, and to refrain from interjecting. 
Great relief and not a little jubilation must have been felt by the military officers and heads of the Defence Department when Harry Flintoff's resistance was broken. One can imagine the "strong men"  amongst  them rubbing their hands - or more likely, tapping their canes against their leggings - and saying, "We told you so." Only a little firmness is necessary, all this foolishness will stop. 
In this jubilant spirit, and flushed with success, the Queenscliff officers, during the early days of June, 1914, took in hand the Quaker lad Tom Roberts, aged 16, for his first term of imprisonment of 21 days. Although no worse than that of several others - Flintoff, Size, Yeo, and Giles - the treatment of this boy was destined to give full publicity to the shameful happenings taking place under the name of military discipline in the military prisons. His affair, coming so soon after and so much resembling Flintoff's, could not he ignored, even by parliamentarians determined to whitewash conscription. 
Here, again, we prefer to let the lad's case be told rather than tell it. So the next paragraphs arc just a cutting from the Federal  Hansard  of 18th June, 1914.  Mr. Higgs  is speaking. He says - 
Only to-day I received the following letter :  - 125 New-street, Middle Brighton, 19th June, 1914. 
Dear  Sir, 
Finding I am unable to obtain justice from the Defence Department, I write earnestly appealing to youto kindly use your influence in connexion with the unjust treatment of our lad, who, through loyalty to his parents' views of Christian teaching, is undergoing solitary confinement in the cells at Queenscliff fortress. 
Tom is a lad of16, and was sent to Queenscliff on Wednesday last for 21 days, for refusing to train under the Defence Act. My wife and I are members of the Society of Friends, and hold strong views on the matter of militarism, which is a vital one in the religion of the Quakers, and, however you may differ from me on this point, I am quite sure, as a man, you will agree that this is not the treatment for a boy of 10, even if he had committed a crime. 
For continuing in his refusal the boy was placed in a cell next the guard-room on Thursday night, where he was confined until 11 o'clock on Saturday morning, and then courtmartialled. The military court then order him to be placed in the cell for seven days. He is locked in a cell 10 feet by 10 feet, built of wood, with an iron door. It has no window, the light coming in through a grating. He has a wooden stretcher; the mattress and blankets are taken away in the morning and not brought back till dark. He has half an hour's exercise in the morning, and again in the afternoon. He is on half diet; has not been allowed to read, nor to write to his parents. 
We were quite unaware of this treatment of him until we visited Queenscliff on Monday, when we found him looking worse than when seen five days previously. This we attributed to the mental strain of solitary commen t, a recent illness of a month in bed, and to the reduced diet - after lunch on Satin day he received only bread and water until breakfast on Sunday. 
The civil court ordered the boy into military custody, but surely it is going beyond the intentions of the citizen army for a court-martial to be allowed to step in after a case has been dealt with by the civil court. Furthermore, solitary confinement should never be ordered. The question may well be asked: Is this  a  citizen army, controlled by Parliament, or a military army, controlled by the Military Board? A Melbourne lawyer states that solitary confinement is considered inhuman, and only used in the case of refractory criminals of the worst type. 
My wife and I earnestly appeal for your influence in this distressing matter. . . . 
Yours very sincerely, (Sgd.) F. J.  Roberts. 
That letter only reached me to-day( continued  Mr. Higgs).  I understand that the boy has now been taken out of solitary confinement. All authorities are opposed to solitary confinement as a punishment, even for prisoners who have committed crimes like theft. Imagine a boy being  placed in a room by himself, and kept there day and night, without being allowed to read or write, for a period of a week. 

 Mr. Bamford. ; It is scandalous. 

 Mr. HIGGS. ; It is scandalous. I do not think that any member of either House would say that a cadet refusing to drill should be punished with solitary confinement. It would have been better to compel this lad to read than to prevent him from reading. Authorities in various parts of the world are challenging the wisdom of imprisoning as a means of reforming the adult criminal, and surely it is, to say the least, an abnormality to put into solitary confinement boys who, under the direction of their parents, refuse to drill. 
Previous to this, on being informed of the sufferings of young Roberts, I had asked the then Minister for Defence a series of searching questions.  Senator E.  D. Millen's replies indicated delays, but I was insistent - 
-I would press the Minister for a reply to the substantial part of my question. Ishe prepared to release the lad or order his release from solitary confinement, and prevent that barbarous punishment from being again inflicted upon offenders? 
We will upset your military system if you do not. The practice is barbarous, atrocious, scandalous. -  Hansard,11th  June, 1914 (page 1924). 
On the following day I again opened fire - 
Has the Minister for Defence any information to give the Senate, in pursuance of the promise he made yesterday to communicate first, thing this morning by telegraph, with regard to the detention of Cadet Roberts in solitary confinement, and my statement that he was committed by a court-martial subsequent to civil proceedings. 
I have caused inquiries to be made, and am informed that there was no court-martial. 
The action of the Commandant there was responsible for what had taken place. 
It has been the law ever since the Defence Act has been in force. 
That is the procedure that exists all over Australia to-day, and has existed for some time. I am not saying whether it is good, bad, or indifferent. -  Hansard,  11th June, 1914 (p. 1991). 
TomRoberts served his full week in the solitary cell. It was a windowl ess dungeon, badly ventilated.  His  father furnished the following statement, which he was prepared to put in the form of a statutory declaration, if necessary: - 
Three military officers adjudicated at my son's case, at a table in a room in the Queenscliff fortress, on Saturday morning, 6th June. Three military witnesses were called, and altogether there were seven persons present - six military officers and my son. A statement of the charge was made, and witnesses were called to give evidence, and then the sentence of seven days' solitary confinement was ordered. 
The door was looked for five days, and not until  Senator Rae  had brought the matter before the Senate was the chain used to keep the door ajar. 
My wife and I visited Queenscliff on the Monday. The boy had had half an hour's exercise in the morning, and again in the afternoon of the preceding day. This was subsequently increased to an hour, morning and afternoon. Also, after we visited him the letters he had written to us several days earlier were forwarded on. 
There is a good deal more, which I shall not read. That is only one of many cases. The argument that compulsory training provides valuable discipline is, in my opinion, absolutely wrong.When my sons were under military training, before they went to the barracks, they were taught bayonet exercises in which the dummy of a man was placed before them, and they were shown how to inflict fatal injuries. They were taught to do everything in an endeavour effectively to slaughter a man. 
SenatorRAE. - The system that teaches men to slaughter each other is a damnable one; to call that "discipline" is to misuse the English language. It is a damnable thing that men should be taught scientifically to murder each other. 
I think that the military razor gangs of the world have inflicted enough harm on the community, and that we should take steps to institute amicable relations between all countries. Instead of indulging that national egotism which boasts about its own virtues we should be prepared to meet other nations face to face in a friendly manner, and assume a decent responsibility. So long as the capitalistic system exists the League of Nations, the Kellogg and Locarno Pacts, can do nothing to prevent war. The League of Nations is the great illusion of the present age; it is a league that will precipitate the world into war. It is composed of all the victors of the Great War, the rabble from the Versailles Conference. 
SenatorCarroll. - It also includes the vanquished. 
I did not anticipate having to reply when I moved the AddressinReply in this chamber. But certain honorable senators opposite have deliberately misunderstood the position, or have failed thoroughly to grasp what I intended to convey when I referred to political trickery. It was my intention to make it apparent that, at the last election, the people had before them a clear-cut issue, devoid of all the misleading side-tracks that have been associated with federal elections for so many years. Time after time the Labour party has been accused of fraternizing with bolsheviks and communists; red herrings of all descriptions have been drawn across the trail. 
This party was accused of aiding and abetting in the strikes that so frequently occurred just prior to the holding of general elections. It was unfortunate for Labour that those troubles took place at such a time; but it was still more unfortunate that it should be accused of aiding and abetting them. The people of Australia were tricked by the Bruce-Page Government when it declared that it would deport Walsh and Johnson if returned to power. 
I also referred in  my  speech to the Bruce-Page Government having endeavoured to put back the clock 25 years. My reference was to its endeavour to abolish Federal arbitration. There is no question that had the Federal Government been returned to power, State arbitration would also have been abolished. 
I know that it was definitely agreed that it should be abolished if the Nationalist party got back to power. 
What proof have I of that? We know that honorable senators opposite stand for decreased wages and increased hours of labour. 
 Senator Ogden  stated that the miners were too lazy to work. 
There is no question in the minds of the people that the object of the Bruce-Page Government was to assist employers to lower the standard of the workers. Although I was not a candidate, I spoke in support of many members who are now representing the Labour party in another place. I pointed out that I was satisfied from the utterances of Nationalists that they could see no way out of the difficulty, but to reduce the cost, and to increase the hours of labour. By that they claimed that they would increase employment. 

 - Senator Sir Hal Colebatch has recently written a number of articles in the Melbourne  Argus,  and on Wednesday last one of those articles appeared, headed " The Economic Muddle." Although the hour is late, I shall read an extract or two from it, to show that the policy of reduced wages is endorsed by all honorable senators opposite. He writes - 
The One Known Remedy. 
I have said that from the suggested competition for a cure for unemployment, the one known remedy must necessarily be excluded.  Mr. Thomas  knows from experience what that remedy is. It was his sound appreciation of the economics of the position that led him to induce the railway employees of Great Britain to accept reduced wages as an alternative to unemployment. Reduced working hours mean only reduced production, reduced spending power, reduced prosperity, and increased unemployment. 
The honorable senator's argument from his point of view is all right. Further on in his article he writes : - 
Let those who know a better method put it forward - but in the name of national sanity let us abandon palliatives like working short time, paying doles to the workless, spending money on profitless relief works and bonuses to unpayable industries. 
It is really necessary to go through the whole of the article to convey the meaning intended, but the fact remains that the honorable senator's idea is that there is only one way out of our present difficulty. With others he recognizes that Australia is hard pressed. The Government also recognizes it and is doing its best to meet the situation, but the only suggestion advanced by the Nationalists is that a greater sacrifice should be demanded from the wage-earner.  Senator Ogden  has inferred that because the coal.miners and other workers are not prepared to accept a reduced wage or work longer hours and harder, they are necessarily lazy.  Senator Reid  has laid stress on the fact that the use of concrete and steel in building construction in the cities has displaced a number of carpenters. Industrial strife cannot be blamed for that state of affairs. A considerable amount of labour is thrown out of employment by the use of mechanical contrivances, which we all realize must largely take the place of the human machine. We have had instance after instance of men engaged in railway construction work being displaced by the use of mechanical navvies. But it is useless to say to the men so displaced that they should work longer hours or harder, or work for a reducedwage. The fact remains that they have no work to do, and as the machinery which displaces them is probably made overseas, Australia is thus losing, in the matter of employment, at both ends. If we have twenty menworking eight hours a day and find that we can dispense with ten of them by the use of machinery, the only logical conclusion is that if twenty men are to be kept in employment,- we must dispense with the machinery or call upon the men to work shorter hours, so that the work available may be distributed among all. It would be absurd to ask half of the number to work longer hours and harder in order that the other half might be kept at work. I am one of those who believe in the employment of machinery, but if it should not give a proper return, or if it should not prove of benefit to us, why cannot we follow the old method and keep our people employed on the old lines? The Labour party stands for improving the lot of the people. 
The Nationalist Government was in power for nearly seven years, and although it was well aware that there were thousands of Australians out of employment, it made no endeavour to prevent others from coming to this country. 
I heard  Senator J.  B. Hayes speak of the selling of apples. The trouble of the apple producer is that he is producing too many apples, and he has to ask the Government to help him to place them on the market and get him a price for his crop. If we are to. increase production generally, we are likely to strike the trouble of glutted markets. 
It appears that, at present, Australia cannot support 6,000,000 people. We have thousands of men out of work, and they cannot obtain work unless they take it at a starvation wage. 
The primary producer is in the same category as any other wage earner, except that he is the most poorly paid in the Commonwealth. 
The Government is doing whatever it can for him. We realize that he is in a most helpless position. Whereas the ordinary labourer, who works under an award of the Arbitration Court, has some idea of what he will get for his labour, the farmer has no idea of what he will get for his. He works long hours, and is certainly entitled to more than he gets, but he simply places his product on the market, asks the purchaser what he is prepared to give for it, and accepts the price offered. The trouble is that certain interests fix the prices of primary produce. The Government has at present no control over them, but it hopes in future to be in a position to exercise some control over the prices that will be obtained for primary produce. 
No project is too big for us to tackle. Starvation is staring many of our people in the face. Every day additional men are being thrown out of employment, and we cannot stand idly by. It is useless to keep on harping about bolshevism and about the control of the Labour party being in the hands of reds and extremists. Such talk gets us nowhere. In any case, it is merely political trickery, such as enabled the late Government to maintain its hold on the Treasury benches for years. The people can no longer be deluded into the belief that the Labour party consists of a lot of revolutionary madmen. It is no recommendation for the late administration that the new Government should have come into office to find great armies of men. starving in Australia. I hope that by the time the present Government has been in office for seven years, something will have been accomplished to remove all this unemployment. I shall be very disappointed if such is not the case. 
I am surprised to hear honorable senators belittling their own State. 
I doubt if there has been any improvement in Queensland as the result of the change of government. I know that immediately the Nationalist party secured control in the State, it allowed the squatters to reduce wages by abolishing the rural workers' award, and in !New South Wales there is no question about _ the Government's intention to abolish the rural workers' award, with the object of permitting bargaining to be resumed. That is to say, advantage is to be taken of the unfortunate position of the workers of Australia, who to-day are tramping the country in search of food. I have read articles in the press in which certain agents have stated that they can find employment for quite a number of people in country districts of New South Wales if the rural workers' award is swept aside and the workers are allowed to accept work at a small wage. Twentyfive years ago, before arbitration laws  were in operation, many men worked for low wages, and some for no return at all. It was not uncommon for men to work for a month or so for a road contractor, under the contract system - for which the Nationalist party stands to discover later that he had nothing with which to pay them, or that the cheques he gave would not be honoured by any one in a country town. Therefore a man working for such road contractors never had a remedy. That happened to me, so I can speak with some authority on the subject. In those days there was no arbitration court award and no eight-hours day. Employment was a matter of arrangement.  A  road contractor for whom I worked owed me money which I could not get. I .worked for fifteen days at the rate of 10s. a day, although at that time the ordinary pay was 8s. a day. One morning I discovered that overnight he had  gone to  the local storekeeper, who was really the contractor, and, having drawn the money owing to him, disappeared without paying me. 

 Senator Thompson. Such instances were rare. 
It was a common experience for employees of road contractors in those days. If an employee asked how much he was going to get the contractor would say that he would see what the man was worth, and it was a common experience for a man after working for three or four weeks, to be paid only portion of the wages owing to him, and to have to wait till the end of the contract for . the balance due. To put an end to that state of affairs the working class organized themselves into unions and decided to support a government that pledged itself to bring in legislation for their protection. Arbitration was then instituted, and from that day onwards the worker knew what his hours of work would be and also how much he was entitled to get. Although conditions to-day are not what we should like them to be, they are infinitely better than the conditions that obtained 25 years ago. Employers are legally bound to honour awards and to give employees reasonable working conditions.  Senator Foll  commented upon the silence of honorable senators supporting the Government concerning the dispute in the coal-mining industry. No one knows better than honorable senators opposite what steps have been taken to reopen the mines in New South Wales. This Government has left no stone unturned to overcome the difficulty. 
I have yet to learn that the mine-owners were prepared to compromise. I understood they were definitely pledged to stand to their original proposal that the minersshould suffer a reduction of1s. a ton or 12½ per cent. The terms of settlement are somewhat bettor than that. It is all very well for honorable senators opposite to declare that the miners should have compromised at an earlier stage in the dispute. If they themselves were in the position of the miners they would be equally reluctant to accept auy reduction in wages or an increase in the hours of labour. We should endeavour to view all these disputes through the eyes of those most intimately concerned. I say, therefore, that the miners very properly held out for the terms which their leaders had laid down. I know what all these reductions in wages mean to the workers. No matter how economical a man may be, he never has anything to spare from one pay day to another, especially if he has a wife and family dependent upon him, and he would be a spineless creature if he were not prepared to put up a fight in their interests. I am sure that  Senator Glasgow  respects every man who has the spirit to stand up for what he believes to be his rights.  Senator Foll,  in his references to migration declared that the Labour party took the narrow view. Others share the view held by my party. I quote the following from an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 10th January, 1929, dealing with the report of the British Economic Mission- 
The honorable senator has exhausted the time allowed for his reply. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to know if it is the intention of the Government, as foreshadowed by  Senator Rae,  in his speech last night, to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by abolishing all penalties, and if so, when the measure is likely to be introduced? 
As the honorable senator is well aware his question relates to a matter of Government policy. I can inform him, however, that the abolition of penalties under the arbitration law will be one of the matters considered by the Government when it is framing its Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
I have to inform the Senate that  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral has appointed the hour of 3.30 p.m. to-day as a suitable time at which to receive the Address-in-Reply. 
I propose to suspend the sitting of the Senate about 3.10 p.m. in order to allow the mover and seconder of the Address-in-Reply and such other honorable senators as wish to accompany me to proceed to Government House to present to  His Excellency  the Address-in-Reply. Conveyances will await the convenience of honorable senators at 3.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Did  an  inspector from the Wireless Branch of the Postmaster-General's Department visit Canberra recently in order to inquire into the cause  of  the disabilities entered by users  of  radio sets  in  the Federal Territory? 
If so,will the Minister indicate the nature  of  the inspector's report, and state the recommendations (if any) contained therein? 
Has any action been taken, following upon the inspector's visit, to relieve wireless licensees  in  Canberra from the inconvenience caused by leakage of electric current or other interrupting agents? 
Will the Minister state whether it is proposed to establish a relaying station at the Federal Capital in order that wireless licensees in Canberra and thesurrounding districts may obtain the full advantages for  which  wireless licences are  issued;  if not, why not? 
The Postmaster-General has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
The inspector reported that radioinductive interference was traced to certain mains of the Federal Capital Commission's electrical snpply system. The engineer of the Commission, who co-operated with the inspector, undertook to make the necessary alterations. 
The department is following the matter up and is in consultation with the officers of the Commission to ensure that the alterations  will  be carried out. 4.It is not intended to establish a subsidiary stution in the Federal Capital Territory, but the disposition of other stations which will be provided in due course will effect considerable improvement and result in a satisfactory service to all licensees in the district. 
asked the Minister representing- the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the small fruits industry in Tasmania has been practically ruined through the inability of the growers to process their crops on account of the high price of sugar; if so, will the Minister request the Public Accounts Committee while in Tasmania to inquire into the whole question with  a  view to according the growers some relief? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs furnishes the following reply to the honorable senator's question :  - 
So  far asI am aware such is not the case. 
If, however, the honorable senator can furnish any evidence to justify the implication contained in the first part of his question, consideration will be given to the question as to whether the effect of sugar prices on the small fruits industry of Tasmania is one which can properly be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the report dealing with the proposed amendment of the Navigation Act, which the Tariff Board have been inquiring into, yet been received by the Government? 
If so, did the report recommend that certain sections of the Navigation Act should be repealed ? 
If this was the case, is it the intention of the Government to give effect to these recommendations ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following, reply to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
No. 2 and 3. See reply to No. 1. 
The embargo applies to stud sheep of all breeds; but, as the honorable senator knows, the proclamation gives the Minister a discretion in the matter and the policy of the Government is really to prohibit only the exportation of stud sheep, such as merinos, that grow the finer classes of wool, and not sheep bred for the meat trade. 
On the 21st November  Senator H.  E. Elliott asked the following question,  upon notice - 
What is the present strength of the regular and other military and naval forces of Denmark,and when are they to be disbanded? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows :  - 
The strength of the regular and other military forces of Denmark is 10,892 all ranks. 
The strength of the naval forces of Denmark is - 5 coast defence ships; 1 small cruiser.; 22 torpedo boats; 1 patrol boat; 13 submarines ; 1 submarine depot and repair ship: 1 gun boat; 5 mining vessels. 
No informationhas been received by the Defence Department that a decision has been reached to disband the military forces of Denmark. 
On the 22nd November,  Senator H.  E. Elliott asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been directed to the utterance of the  President  of the United States to the effect that he was not prepared to disarm his nation as a gesture, whateverhe might do upon agreement? 
Did the Ministry consult any, and what officer or officers, before deciding to abolish compulsory training? 3, Will the Minister state whether any, and what nation,has abolished compulsory training without having a regular military force? 4, Will the Minister state whether, in the event ofan attack upon Great Britain, he proposes that Australia shall remain neutral? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
No. 
The suspension of compulsory military training is a question of Government policy. ' 
The Minister has no information to give the honorable senator on this subject. 
The Government will take the responsibility of meeting emergencies as they arise, and deprecates hypothetical questions suggesting attacks on Great Britain at a time when the British Government is discussing disarmament and the practical steps towards international peace. 
I have to announce to the Senate that, accompanied by the mover and seconder of the resolution, and . other honorable senators, I visited Government House and presented the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, to which  His Excellency  was pleased to make the following reply : - 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As honorable senators are acquainted with the circumstances which have led up to the introduction of this measure, it will not be necessary for me to traverse the ground which has already been covered by a report that has been printed and made available to them. This bill provides for a grant of £1,000,000 to South Australia, the payments to be spread over a period of three years. Financial assistance has already been granted by the Commonwealth to Tasmania and Western Australia. As in their cases, the ground of the proposed grant to South Australia is that that. State has suffered disabilities as a result of the federation of the States, though not ' necessarily by reason of legislation passed by the Federal Parliament. 
South Australia made a request to the Bruce-Page Government for a grant of £750,000 per annum, owing to the adverse state of its finances, resulting largely from the discontinuance of the  per capita  payments. That Government appointed a royal commission, the terms of the reference to it being - 
To inquire into and report upon - 
the effect of federation upon the financial position of South Australia ; and 
any special financial disability which affects that State as a result of federation. 
The commission was asked to say whether any, and, if so, what steps should be taken by the Commonwealth, or the State, to remedy any financial disability found to exist. The royal commission, in its report referred to the change in the position of the State's finances during recent years. It found that at the end of the financial year 1924-25 there was a surplus of £53,001, and, in the following year, a surplus of £13,151; that in 1926-27, instead of there being a surplus, there was a deficit of £1,050,049; and in 1927-28 and 1928-29, a deficit of £274,931 and £930,858 respectively. Among other things, the report states :  - 
It is apparent that the present unsatisfac tory financial position has gradually evolved over a series of years, and that the serious deficits in the. two years, 1926-27 and 1927-28, are due chiefly to losses on the railways and on works of a developmental character. 
Many of the railways in South Australia were constructed for developmental purposes, and the State had to find the interest on their cost. Consequently, the cost of the railways rehabilitation scheme rather crippled the State financially. 
I have not the figures before me; but I understand that that part of the rehabilitation scheme has proved a paying proposition. If every portion of the scheme had proved as satisfactory, from a financial point of view, as the new Adelaide railway station there would have been less necessity for an appeal to the Commonwealth for financial assistance. The commission found that the South Australian railways made a loss of £237,000 in 1925-26; a loss of £1,193,000 in 1926-27, and a loss in 1927-28 of £888,000. Those results exclude charges for depreciation. 
The rehabilitation scheme was inaugurated in 1923, and in five years a sum of £11,000,000 was expended on it. So far the anticipated savings have not been realized. Referring to this scheme the royal commission reported - 
We are satisfied we are at a disadvantage in that we are not in a position to offer any expert opinion on what is, after all, an engineering problem. We are satisfied that some substantial rehabilitation scheme was necessary, butit is open to question whether a modified scheme, which would not involve the huge expenditure actually incurred, would not have been more in keeping with the present and prospective traffic requirements of South Australia.  Mr. Webb,  Railways Commissioner, however, firmly maintained that the scheme adopted was inevitable, and in the end would prove to be the most economical. 
The Senate is in no better position than was the commission to decide either on the necessity for so. comprehensive a scheme, or to deal with the engineering problems involved. 
The principal increases in loan expenditure by South Australia during the nine years ended 30thJune, 1928, were - Railways, £12,262,000; developmental, £11,497,000; and loans on securities, £12,946,000. The commission questioned the wisdom of incurring an expenditure which, during those nine years, exceeded by £2,000,000 the total sum expended by the State on developmental work during the whole of its previous history. Although South Australia attempted in this way to develop its territory beyond its financial resources, it cannot be denied that the money was expended on developmental works. When it came to meeting the interest bill and balancing the ledger after the withdrawal of the  per capita  payment, the State found itself in an awkward position and had to approach the National Parliament for financial assistance. The losses incurred in connexion with soldier land settlement, as mentioned by the royal commission, has also been a factor. That matter, however, has since been dealt with in the report of  Mr. Justice  Pike, and is being treated separately. After a full investigation into the whole of the facts, the commission recommended a special grant of £500,000 per annum for two years, and a modification of the Federal Aid Roads scheme in favour of South Australia. It also recommended that its finding should be reviewed in the light of - 
Any reduction of loan indebtedness in respect of soldier land settlement as a result of the report of  Mr. Justice  Pike. 
Any variation of the river Murray water scheme; and 
Any concession in connexion with the Federal Aid Roads agreement. 
The royal commission stated that an exact calculation of the extent of the disabilities of South Australia was impracticable ; but expressed the opinion that that State was worthy of sympathetic treatment such as has been extended to "Western Australia and Tasmania. 
After having received the report of the commission, the Bruce-Page Government took up the matter and the Treasurer in that Ministry in his budget speech said - 
The Government, after having given careful consideration  to  the report of the royal commission, has decided  to  make a grant  of  £1,000,000  to  be spread over three years instead of two years as recommended. The Commonwealth proposal is  to  make certain cash payments and  to  take over the Red HillSalisbury railway, and the liability for interest and sinking fund in respect thereof. The annual liability is approximately £00,000 and forms part of the three annual grants referred  to.  The cash payments and the relief taken  together  will total £300,000 in 1929-30, and £320,000 in each of the two following years. If  the  Government of South Australia agrees  to  this proposal, the Commonwealth will, in effect, be contributing £00,000 to the revenue of that State each year after the year 1931-32. 
It will be seen that the previous Government's proposal was to make £360,000 available in the first year, £320,000 in each of the two subsequent years, and after 1931-32 to contribute £60,000 annually to the revenue of that State. The Government has carefully examined the matter in the light of the facts which were placed before its predecessors, and this measure gives effect to its decision to grant financial aid to South Australia. The Government believes that justice will be done to that State by making available a grant of £1,000,000 payable over a period of three years. Having carefully considered the matter the Government considers that assistance equivalent to the total amount recommended by the royal commission should be given South Australia, but it does not propose to impose on that State the condition that the Bed Hill-Salisbury railway shall be handed over to the Commonwealth. It is proposed that the payment of the sum of £1,000,000 shall cover a period of three years and be made as follows:  -  £360,000 during this financial year, and £320,000 in each of the two following years. The only difference between our proposal and that of the previous Government is that whilst the Bruce-Page administra tion attached a condition to its grant there is no condition attached to that which this Government proposes to make. By adopting this proposal the Commonwealth will not be in a worse position than it would have been in accepting that submitted by the previous Government. 
 What  was  the condition imposed by the Bruce-Page Government ? 

 Senator Sir WILLIAM GLASGOW (Queensland) [4.15].  -  This bill provides for the appropriation of a certain sum of money for the purpose of providing a grant of £1,000,000 to South Australia. Of that amount £360,000 is to be paid in the first year, and £320,000 in each of the two following years. As stated by the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly),  a royal commission was appointed by the late Government to inquire into the disabilities of South Australia, with a view to ascertaining whether the Commonwealth should grant financial assistance to that State. The Commonwealth has already made to Western Australia and Tasmania financial grants, to which conditions have been attached so that the late Government was not proposing to follow an unusual course in imposing a certain condition upon South Australia. I am sure honorable senators generally sympathise with South Australia in the difficult financial position in which it finds itself, owing to its heavy expenditure on the rehabilitation of its railways system and, to an extent, to unsatisfactory seasonal conditions. The condition proposed to be imposed by the previous Government was really an attempt to help South Australia by taking over the Red Hill-Salisbury railway and the liability for interest and sinking fund in respect of it. 
I shouLd like to set out briefly the negotiations between the Commonwealth and South Australia in regard to this railway matter. The late Government's proposal had some reference to the unification of our railway gauges. Honorable senators are aware of the great difficulties under which we labour in consequence of the varying railway gauges throughout the Commonwealth. In Queensland there is a 3 ft. 6 in. gauge, in New South Wales 4 ft. 8-J in., in Vic-  toria 5 ft. 3 in., and in South Australia 3 ft. 6 in. and 5 ft. 3 in. Between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie on the East-West line the gauge is 4 ft. 8$ in., whilst the gauge of the general railway system in Western Australia is 3 ft. 6 in. The BrucePage Government was very anxious to remove to some extent the disabilities due to the varying gauges, particularly in respect of the lines between the various State capitals. In 1920 a royal commission was appointed to inquire into the question of a uniform gauge. That commission recommended a standard gauge of 4 ft. 8£ in. ; that the Victorian railway system should be converted from 5 ft. 3 in. to 4 ft. 8^ in.', that that portion of the South Australian railway system of the 5 ft. 3 in. gauge should be converted to a 4 ft. 8£ in. gauge, and that a line should be built on the 4 ft. 8$ in. gauge from Adelaide to Port Augusta and from Kalgoorlie to Perth and Fremantle. The Commonwealth Government came to an agreement with the States of New South Wales and Queensland for the construction of a 4 ft. 8£ in. railway between Grafton and South Brisbane, to link up Sydney and Brisbane, but it realized that, in view of the heavy expenditure involved, it would not be desirable at that stage to proceed with the conversion of the 5 ft. 3 in. gauge railway between Albury and Melbourne and Melbourne and Adelaide. It was felt, however, that steps should be taken to get rid of what is the worst section in the whole of the railway system of Australia : the narrow gauge railway between Terowie and Port Augusta. Accordingly in 1926 the Commonwealth Government entered into an agreement with the Government of South Australia, which agreement was ratified by the Parliaments of both the Commonwealth and the State, to carry out certain railway changes in that State. 
Under this arrangement the Commonwealth agreed to continue the north-south line from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs ; the State Government agreed to give the Commonwealth a permissive right to build a railway on the 4 ft. S£ in. gauge from Red Hill to Port Augusta and to allow the Commonwealth during the construction of this line to lay, at the expense of the State, a third rail on the 5 ft. 3 in. line from Red Hill to a point near Port Pirie; while for its part the State Government undertook to lay a third rail on the 5 ft. 3 in. line between Red Hill and Adelaide at the expense of the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth "Government carried out its portion of the agreement. It has extended the north-south railway from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs, but so far nothing has been done by the State. I suggest, therefore, that in making this grant to South Australia the Government would be justified in laying down certain conditions, particularly if those conditions were so framed as to be of assistance to the State. Under the agreement to which I have referred the Commonwealth Government undertook to take over that portion of the South Australian railway between Red Hill and Salisbury and convert it from the 5 ft. 3 in. gauge to the standard gauge. It also proposed to construct a line on the 4 ft. 8^ in. gauge from Red Hill to Port Augusta. This arrangement would have relieved South Australia of a capital expenditure of £75,000 on the laying of a third rail from Red Hill to a point outside Port Pirie, and the Commonwealth Government would have been relieved of a capital expenditure of £250,000, representing the cost of laying a third rail between Red Hill and Salisbury. The State Government also would have saved an annual expenditure of £60,000, representing the loss in working the line between Red Hill and Salisbury. These railway proposals, if carried out, would have reduced the length of the journey between Perth and Adelaide by 72 miles, and would have enabled travellers to make the through journey on the standard gauge. The construction of a railway between Red Hill and Port Augusta would bring transcontinental travellers over the more direct route without changing trains at Port Augusta, and they would avoid the unpleasant journey  between Terowie and Port Augusta. Furthermore, it would facilitate railway traffic between Perth and Adelaide, and would make it possible to run one train a day. Altogether the arrangement would be entirely satisfactory to the people of South Australia. The BrucePage Government was at all times prepared to consider alternative proposals by the South Australian Government. Had the State submitted any scheme that would have enabled the Commonwealth to proceed with the work of linking up Port Augusta and Adelaide on the standard gauge and at the same time help the State, the late Government would have been prepared to give it consideration. 
Before it makes the second grant to South Australia the Government should confer with the State Government with a view to a solution of this difficult railway problem. It is scandalous that this annoying break of gauge . on our main trunk railways should be allowed to continue. Surely we have in the Commonwealth engineers with sufficient ability to formulate a scheme to overcome existing difficulties. All railway travellers in South Australia are agreed that the Terowie to Port Augusta section of the line is the most uncomfortable in the run between Adelaide and Port Augusta. It is unreasonable that they should haveto make a double change in such a short distance. The late Commonwealth Government sympathized keenly, as I am sure all honorable senators do, with the State Government in its present difficult financial position, which is due to a high capital expenditure incurred in recent years for the purpose of rehabilitating its railway system. Unfortunately, the State's troubles have been accentuated by the recent period of drought. Again I stress the fact that the aim of the previous Government always was to assist the State, and it was with that end in view that it entered into the arrangement which I have mentioned. Had the South Australian Government desired to make alternative proposals, it would have been quite prepared to consider them. I am sure all honorable senators sincerely hope that South Australia will soon overcome its difficulties, and that it will not be necessary for this Government to make a permanent grant to it. 
 The proposal embodied in this bill is one for which the Parliament and the people of South Australia have waited with a great deal .of interest during the past few years. The suggestion that South Australia should receive some consideration from the Commonwealth Parliament in the form of a special grant was first put forward by the Labour Government of that State in  1926.  .Because of an accumulation of difficulties, many of which were brought about by the application of the' policy decided upon by the Federal Government over a period of years, the financial position of South Australia, which had hitherto been sound, became involved. It was felt that while South Australia, by additional taxation, the practise of economy, and an endeavour to develop and increase production, might be able to set its house in order and atone for any mistakes arising from its previous policy, there remained a gap which could be bridged only by action on the part of the Federal Parliament. That gap is similar in nature to the one which this Parliament has attempted to bridge in connexion with the States of Western Australia and Tasmania, by granting them financial assistance. The adverse financial position of South Australia is due chiefly to the application of the protective policy of the Commonwealth, and its effect upon certain portions of Australia. I have no desire to be misunderstood in this matter. I am a protectionist, and look forward to the time when as the result of a policy of protection Australia will be a self-contained nation. I recognize that inequalities will occur and recur under such a policy, but it is the duty of the Federal Parliament to rectify those anomalies and adjust the inequalities by a distribution of the revenues obtained by the Commonwealth from the application of our protective policy. 
It must be obvious that the major portion of the advantages derived from the application of a protective policy goes to those States which have sources of power and other natural facilities which enable them to establish secondary  industries.  It must also be apparent that thi? burden of a protectionist policy falls most  heavily upon the States which depend principally upon primary production for their wealth. That is the position of South Australia. It is the position to a marked degree of Western Australia, and to a somewhat less degree, because of its hydro-electric resources, of Tasmania. 'South Australia is particularly unfortunate, because it has no source of power, because it is comparatively dry, having but one useful river and no other extensive sources of water supply, and because it suffers from a dearth ' of timber resources. The last disadvantage is so serious that in recent years the South Australian Government has been compelled to expend very large sums of money on afforestation schemes, in an endeavour to overcome it. 
In my opinion a protective policy confers" some benefit upon primary producers in a State where its effect leads to the establishment of secondary industries* The operation of those industries builds up big centres of population, and provides a local marker for a substantial portion of fanning produce, such as meat, butter, milk, eggs, and other products. Those commodities form the basis of profit on the average mixed farm in Australia. But such benefits do not extend to a purely primary producing State such as South Australia, because excessive transport costs and other obstacles place the primary producers in such a position that the secondary industries built up as a result of federation might as well be in Timbuctoo. However, I recognize, as must every thoughtful man, that the Australian t nation generally does benefit from a protective policy, and, provided that there is a readjustment of the financial results derived from its application, such as is suggested in this measure, there is no reasonable ground for complaint. To indicate that my reasoning is sound I shall quote the opinion of eminent economists, who are in a better position than I am to study the problem. My extract is from a memorandum that was submitted to the Constitution Commission by Professor J. B. Brigden and  Major J.  F. Giblin, who assessed the total cost to consumers of home-produced goods on account of the tariff at £38,000,000, for the period of 1925-26. The Adelaide  Register  quotes the following from their memorandum : - 
After very careful and prolonged investigation the authors of the memorandum arrived at an estimate of the cost of protection sufficiently complete and accurate to serve as a basis for their further estimate of the distribution of tariff effects They assess the total extra cost to consumers of&gt; home-produced goods on account of the tariff at £38,000,000 for the year 1925-26, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

This £38,000,000 of extra costs - "which we regard as subsidies paid by Australian consumers, the benefits of which are gained almost entirely in the States where they are received " - was held to benefit the industries of the States in the following proportions (in millions of pounds sterling) : - 
The total benefits were thus distributed in something like the following ratio - New South Wales, £13,000,000; Victoria, £12,000,000; Queensland, £6,000,000; South Australia, £2,250,000; Western Australia, £1,250,000; and Tasmania, £1,000,000. These figures show that the bulk of the benefit derived by the application of the policy of protection has been conferred upon the two more populous States of New South Wales and Victoria, and to a somewhat less extent upon Queensland. 
Upon turning to the incidence of protection or bounty assistance, we find that the position is somewhat the same in respect of primary industries, and that greater substantial benefit has been secured by other States than South Australia, although some seem to think that in the distribution of Commonwealth bounties, that State, because it has the greater part of the viticultural production of the Commonwealth, has been generously treated. This is clearly demonstrated by the following table taken from the same report : - 
Subsidies Received Through Protected Commodities, 1925-26 (In Millions of Pounds). 
It will be seen, therefore, that any assistance given to primary industries by the application of the protective policy of the Commonwealth has not counterbalanced what has been lost by the primary industries of South Australia in affording assistance towards the establishment of manufacturing industries. This is the disability that forms the substantial base of the claim made by the Labour Government of South Australia in the latter part of 1926 and the early part of 1927, for Commonwealth aid. That Government appointed a royal commission consisting of the then Premier,  Mr. Hill,  the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr. Butler,  who is now the Premier of the State,  Mr. Entwistle, Mr. Cornish  and  Mr. Stuckey.  These gentlemen were selected because they were specially qualified to conduct an investigation with a view to presenting to the Commonwealth Government a case for a grant-in-aid for South Australia. However, the State elections intervened, and the incoming Government did not press that inquiry to a conclusion. Later on another body was appointed consisting of  Mr. Stuckey,  the then Treasurer,  Mr. Melville  and  Mr.  Sincock,  the Secretary of the Public Works Committee, to prepare a case for presentation to the Commonwealth Government, and that body made out a case for assistance to the State to the extent of £750,000 a year, which, in my opinion, is approximately the amount which South Australia should derive in the form of assistance from the Commonwealth. Sooner or later, if we are to bring about a proper roadjustment of the financial relations between 
State and State, and between the States and the Commonwealth, the payment of approximately £750,000 a year will have to be made to South Australia. I realize, however, the financial difficulties which confront the present Government and confronted the late Government, and for the present,' like other South Australians, I am thankful for small mercies. 
During the debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  and, I think, one or two other honorable senators who followed him, said, that when I was speaking on the motion I indicated that the Government intended to pay to South Australia the full amount recommended by the Commonwealth royal commission ; that is, the Cook commission. I gave no such indication. I said that I was pleased the Government was about to pay the full amount which the previous Government agreed to pay, but without attaching any conditions to the grant. I am pleased that that is so, because this grant-in-aid is not a hand-out, or dole, or something which the Commonwealth generously bestows on the beggar, at the door. It is but bare justice to the State, something to which it is entitled, and something which it should receive. No condition, therefore, ought to be attached to it by the giver. Furthermore, if any action is to be taken in the future in regard to the acquisition by the Commonwealth of the Salisbury to Red Hill railway mentioned by the previous Government as  a condition of the grant of £360,000 to the State, many factors  must first be taken into consideration. In any case, the Government and Parliament of South Australia are better able to judge the effect of the late Government's proposal. For that reason I intend to quote the resolution adopted by the South Australian House of Assembly when the Commonwealth Government made known its intention to make the handing over of this portion of the State railway a condition of the grant to the State. The resolution submitted on the motion of the Premier,  Mr. Butler,  and, after debate,' carried unanimously, was - 
That this House strongly disapproves of the declared intention of the Commonwealth Government - (a) To reduce the annual amount of the grant recommended by the Commonwealth Royal Commission on the Finances  of 
South ' Australia as affected by Federation, and (6) to annex to the grant a condition not mentioned in the report of the royal commission that the State hand over to the Commonwealth the Salisbury to Red Hill railway. 
That resolution expresses the opinion of those most vitally concerned, the Government and the Parliament of South Australia. 
What are the grounds for the opposition to the proposal of the late Commonwealth Government? South Australia as a State has suffered more than any other through the lack of foresight of past administrations. Not only is it affected by having a different gauge running from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie ; it has the additional disadvantage of having breaks of gauge iu the State's own railway system. What is known as the South-Eastern system has a 3 ft. 6 in. gauge from Wolseley, where it intercepts the main system. We have a 5 ft. 3 in. gauge through the major portion of the State as far as Terowie on the eastern section and Gladstone on the western system. From Gladstone to Wilmington, from Terowie to Port Augusta, and from Peterborough to Broken Hill the gauge is 3 ft. 6 in. We have, therefore, three breaks of gauge on our main lines apart altogether from the break of gauge at Port Augusta. The Eyre Peninsula  system  which is a 3 ft. 6 in. gauge system, has no connexion with the main system of the State, and, therefore, does not create any problem for the moment. The effect of the Commonwealth Government taking, over the Salisbury to Red Hill railway and converting it' to a 4 ft. 8£ in. gauge would be to create two additional breaks of gauge on our main system, one at Bowmans and the other at Snowtown. It is said, I know, that stock can be taken to the metropolitan abattoirs market on a 4 ft.  Si  in. gauge as well as on a 5 ft. 3 in. gauge, but that would necessitate a complete relaying of an  extensive  yard system which now serves the metropolitan abattoirs stockyards, and would lead to a good deal of confusion, danger and expense. The worst feature would be the necessity for laying the third rail from Dry Creek to Port Adelaide, and throughout tho wharves at Port Adelaide, to enable the wheat from the territory served by that lino to be forwarded to the shipboard. Any honorable senator who has visited the Port Adelaide wharves and knows the congestion which already exist? there will realize that the introduction of another set of rails would lead to greater expense, inconvenience and further complications. A third difficulty would present itself in connexion with the interdistrict traffic. The proposal would mean that persons from Yorke Peninsula and the three North Peninsula towns of Kadina, Wallaroo and Moonta, travelling to Adelaide by rail would either be compelled to change trains at Bowmans, or travel via Hamley Bridge, by a route approximately 26 miles longer. There would be the further disadvantage of transferring all inter-district traffic at Bowmans and Snowtown. The present Government was well advised to make the grant of £360,000 to South Australia unconditional, and to reserve consideration of the advisability of handing this line over to the Commonwealth or of completing the line proposed under the BruceGun n agreement, which was adopted by both the South Australian and the Commonwealth Governments in 1924. That agreement provided for a third rail from Adelaide to Red Hill and Port Pirie, via Salisbury, the Commonwealth to continue the 4 ft. 8^ in. gauge system from there to Port Augusta. That is a matter which should be kept - as this Government has kept it - entirely separate from any grant to South Australia. It should be reserved for consideration in connexion with any scheme for the unification of the railway gauges. 
I want to disabuse the minds of honorable senators of any wrong opinions they- might hold regarding South Australia's efforts to balance the State ledger. It is true that the deficits in that State are the heaviest in Australia; but I remind the Senate that taxation is higher in South Australia, not only per taxpayer but also per head of the population, than in any other State. Governments and people in South Australia have made herculean efforts to balance the ledger. South Australia's unsatisfactory financial position is due, in the main, to the incidence of our fiscal policy, but. certain natural disadvantages have also contributed to it. South Australia has a dearth of natural water supplies. The provision of water in newly-settled districts is a costly undertaking. Another factor which contributed to South Australia's deficits was the decision of the Barwell Government in 1922, to bring from the United States of America a railways commissioner who endeavoured to give to South Australia a railways system which would serve the United States of America, with its large cities, big centres of population and huge tonnages to be moved. The result is that, while South Australia has a fine railways system - so fine, indeed that there are sufficient engines and rolling stock to shift in less than three months the tonnage required to be moved in a year - the State's finances have been adversely affected. 
To show the difficulties which h.ave confronted successive governments in South Australia in increasing settlement and absorbing a bigger population, I propose to quote from the first annual report of the State Standing Committee on Public Works, which, in 1928, superseded the Railways Standing Committee. That report, which was presented to the South Australian Parliament in May, 1928, stated - 
Under clause 28 of the Public Works Standing Committee Act the Committee are empowered to call attention to any matter connected with the public works or proposed public works of the State, of which, in the Committee's opinion, Parliament should be informed. The experience of the committee has been too brief for much information of this character to be gathered, but in connexion with the inquiry into the best means of developing Eyre Peninsula the committee were supplied with a valuable return by the Under-Treasurer  (Mr. R. R. Stuckey),  showing the result of the expenditure of loan money in that part of the State. 
Eyre Peninsula is a large tract of land varying in quality. A considerable portion of it is first-class agricultural land; a larger portion is second-class country suitable for mixed farming; and the balance is what is known as third-class country, almost entirely devoted to grazing. Settlement in that portion of the State has been confined almost entirely to the last 30 years, during which period the population of Eyre Peninsula has increased from 6,000 to 22,000 persons, and instead of there being practically no wheat production, the State is now looking to the peninsula to rescue it from the effects of the lean season which other agricultural districts are experiencing. Unfortunately, this area is almost entirely devoid of natural water supplies.  In addition, railway communication, roads, educational facilities1 and other public utilities had to be provided at considerable cost to the community. In this connexion the report of the Public Works Committee states - 
Up to 30th June, 1927, £5,422,359 had been spent from loan on railways, harbors, water schemes, roads, schools, &amp;c. The working expenses of the works constructed out of loan amounted last year to £272,415, and the interest to £254,824, and the revenue came to only £248,101, showing a net loss, after allowing for £10,842 profits on some lines, of £279,138, which has to be met by general taxation. The position for the year ending 30th June, 1928, will be worse, because the expenditure on the Tod River water scheme now exceeds £2,000,000. 
The Tod River scheme is a huge water conservation and reticulation scheme, which has been designed to serve a very large area of country. The principal main now extends for 200 miles from the reservoir, and reticulation mains have been laid on either side for many miles. The benefit of the huge expenditure incurred there has not yet been fully realized; but in a few years, when settlement has become more firmly established and production increased, South Australia should be well compensated for the money expended on the scheme. 
In a summary of his last annual report the Government Statist for South Australia,  Mr. W.  L. Johnston, gives figures which show that South Australia's position is far from being hopeless. He points to the settlement, which is taking place on Eyre Peninsula., and states that there is still a large area of suitable country there which can bp brought under cultivation. Referring tothe Murray mallee and the Murray valley lands, he shows that the population there has grown from 5,000 to 32,000 persons during the last 30 years, and that production has increased appreciably. In that area, also, considerable expenditure was incurred by the State in providing water for irrigation settlement, as well as railways for the development of the agricultural land south and east of the river Murray. 
I shall not now discuss the expansion of production on the irrigation areas, for that is a matter which depends on markets; but there is room for a much greater expansion of agricultural settlement. I agree with  Mr. Johnston  that , South Australia's hope for the future lies in the southeastern portion of that State. In his report, which is probably tempered by the knowledge that he is a public servant, he indulges in some criticism of governmental inactivity in relation to that district - 
The stagnation of the south-east for the past twenty years is inconceivable. There are to-day a quarter of a million sheep less, and the population of 22,000 shows little increase in that period. The years ahead must see this fine stretch of good country settled with a great increase of population. ' 
The present settled  farmholders  in this district report that more than  700,000 acres of  their holdings are suitable for agricultural cultivation, yet little more than 100,000 acres are cropped annually. With the  completion  of the drainage system it should support in the 50 years to come a population nearer 100,000 titan 22,000. 
I entirely concur with that statement, and believe that in a short time public opinion will force whatever government is in power in South Australia to take cognizance of the existence in this area of approximately 600,000 acres of good agricultural land which is not being put to its best use. Efforts must be made to subdivide these large estates which, even from a pastoral standpoint, are not at present producing as much as they were twenty years ago. According to  Mr. Johnston's  figures, that land is now carrying 250,000 fewer sheep than it was some time ago. I think honorable senators opposite recognize the position in which South Australia is at present placed, and will support the bill which provides a grant similar to»that which was to be paid by the previous administration, and to which. South Australia is undoubtedly entitled. 
Many members of the Federal Parliament, and of the public generally, were somewhat surprised when South Australia approached the Commonwealth Government for financial as sistance. The general impression has always been that South Australia is a fertile State, but that is not the case, and the prosperity it has previously enjoyed has been due more to the thrift and economy practised by its people than to its natural resources. The quantity of minerals available is very limited, the proportion of good agricultural land available for settlement is small, and the average rainfall, in comparison with the other States, low. South Australia consists of 380,870 square miles, of which only 69,410 square miles or 18.3 per cent of the total has an annual average rainfall of 10 inches, while 70 per cent, of the land in the other States has an average rainfall of 10 inches or over. The absence of a higher average rainfall over a large portion of the State is responsible for a scarcity of running water which necessitates heavy expenditure in providing necessary water schemes. The absence of a higher average rainfall has also the effect of depriving South Australia of forests, and consequently, the supply of local timber does, not approach that available in the other States, necessitating heavy importations for use in connexion with railway and general building construction.  Mr. Stow  Smith, the  chairman  of directors of Cowell Brothers Limited, in giving evidence before the South Australian Disabilities Commission, said that the duty paid by South Australia on timber imported from the United States of America, Norway and Sweden in 1926-27, totalled £157,979, which is equal to 5s. 5.76d.  per capita,  whilst the figures for the Commonwealth were £982,831 or 3s. 1.66d.  per capita.  Honorable senators will see that in consequence of the imposition of high Customs duties on timber in order to assist those States which have local supplies, South Australia is at a great disadvantage in comparison with the other States which derive some advantage from protection. 
A quantity is purchased from the other States which have local supplies ; but we are compelled to use a good deal of imported timber on which heavy duties have to be paid. Timber from the other States costs more in South Australia than it does in the State where it is grown; it costs more to  freight it from the east coast of Australia than it does from the west coast of America because of the operation of certain provisions of the Navigation Act. In a State where agricultural production predominates, a good deal of expense must be incurred in carrying out development works such as railway, irrigation and water schemes. For undertakings mainly of a developmental character the total expenditure per head of population at the 30th June, 1927, was, in New South Wales £3 ls., Victoria £19 14s. 7d., Queensland £13 8s., South Australia £52 17s. 6d., Western Australia £35 18s. 2d. and Tasmania £28 10s. 7d., and an average for all the States of £27 lis. 7d. Although many developmental works in South Australia, on which money has been spent, will not be reproductive for some years, they have been the means of encouraging settlement and will eventually be profitable to the State.  Senator O'Halloran  referred to Eyre's Peninsula, where one-fifth of the wheat grown in South Australia is being produced, although a few years ago there were practically no settlers in that area. One-fifth of the wheat produced in South Australia also comes from the Murray Mallee districts, where there has been a considerable expenditure on developmental works, including railways and water conservation schemes, upon which, up to the present, the State .is losing heavily, though every new settler placed on land is worth about £9 in taxation to the Commonwealth Government. 
That is true, but, up to the present, the State is not getting a sufficient return on public expenditure on public works in certain districts. On the west coast, for example, many settlers who have holdings of 1,000 acres or 2,000 acres have only 200 acres cleared and under crop. As time goes on, the area under cultivation will increase, and the State Government may then expect to obtain a better return on its capital expenditure for developmental works, which are necessary to make settlement possible. 
I am sorry to say that very few of the settlers are called upon to pay income taxation. Their incomes are not sufficient; but they pay taxation in another form. The royal commission which inquired into the disabilities of South Australia under federation drew attention to the fact that in South Australia the loan expenditure, on developmental works, per head of population, was second only to the expenditure in Western Australia. The figures are: - South Australia, £136.7; Western Australia, £162.6; Tasmania, £115.9; New South Wales, £94.6; Victoria, £88.8: Queensland, £105.4. It will be seen from these figures that loan expenditure for developmental works in South Australia constitutes a severe handicap on the State, though increased settlement is of substantial benefit to the Commonwealth revenue. 
The South Australian Government does not expect a full return on that expenditure for many years, but, as I have pointed out, it makes settlement possible, and in the course of a few years the position should be much more satisfactory than it is to-day. For the present, however, the State Government is obliged to impose heavier taxation to balance the ledger. In 1927-28, for example, South Australia had to find £2,051,647 by way of taxation to meet expenditure for public works pf a developmental nature, including railways, £887,605 ; country water works, £296,179 ; developmental works, £564,306; all other works, £303,557. 
If the honorable senator were conversant with the development of the west coast district of South Australia, where one-fifth of the wheat is being produced already, as well as a large quantity of wool, he would realize the need for expenditure on railways and country water works schemes. I have already shown that this heavy expenditure on developmental works has been responsible for the imposition of extra taxation upon the people in that State. The following figures relating to the taxation in the several States, to be found in the report of the royal commission to which I have already referred, show that in 1927-2S the burden was heavier in South Australia than in any other State: - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_13_3.jpg"></graphic>

These figures include motor taxation. I may add that it is only within the last few years that there has been any appreciable increase in taxation in South Australia, and recently the State found it necessary to impose taxation that staggered many people. 
But higher expenditure in South Australia, as I have shown, has been for developmental purposes. 
Railway expenditure, in recent years, has been the subject of  much comment  in certain quarters. The royal commission, after inquiring into this subject, stated that it was not in a position to say that, in the circumstances, railway expenditure in South Australia had been wasteful. 
Referring to the effect of high taxation upon industry in South Australia,  Mr. W.  A. Holden, of Holden's Motor Body Builders Limited, in giving evidence before the commission, stated - 
On the basis of last year's profits of £208,471, his company had been taxed £39,08S. Had the company been established in Victoria the amount which would have been paid in income tax would have been £15,635, and had; the company been in New South Wales, £26,059. 
As honorable senators know, increased customs duties imposed for the purpose of building up Australian industries benefit to a greater extent those Stateswith available coal deposits and other natural resources. As South Australia is not so richly endowed in this respect as some of the other States, the burden of taxation through the tariff falls heavily upon its people. On this subject the royal commission made the following statement : - 
After the most careful consideration of this evidence, our conclusion is that inequalities have arisen in the incidence of the general tariff policy of the Commonwealth. These inequalities arise, however, as we have already pointed out, from the natural conditions of the several States, each of which differs from the others in area, fertility, geographical position, climatic conditions and natural endowments generally. They are, however, inseparable from any policy aiming at the creation and maintenance of secondary industries over a large continent. It needs no elaborate statistics to prove that those States whose industries are primary and agricultural, and whose staple products depend largely upon the price ruling in the world's markets, must feel the burden of this general protective policy more acutely. South Australia fulfils these conditions more fully, perhaps, than any other State, and feels the burden correspondingly. 
The effect of the tariff upon industries in the States is clearly indicated in the following figures relating to secondary industries, in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia during the years 1908 and 1925-6 :- 

<graphic href="122332192912042_13_4.jpg"></graphic>

Figures dealing with the estimated value of manufactured produce per head of population during the same years, on the basis of 1911 prices, show also that South 
Australia has not progressed to the same extent as New South Wales and Victoria. They are - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

Production per head of population in 1908 was higher in South Australia than in either New South Wales or Victoria, but in 1924-25 the State had fallen to third place, the main contributing factors, in my opinion, being the high cost of coal for industrial purposes, the operation of the Navigation Act and the effect of the protective policy generally. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  referred to the finances of South Australia, and quoted figures from the budget speech of the State Treasurer. That statement did not set out the true position. If certain items had been included in the State budget the position of South Australia would have been shown to be much worse. 
Yes ; but expenditure also has been increasing in recent years. The royal commission, in a paragraph dealing with what it terms "unsound methods of finance," adopted by successive Governments of South Australia, stated that, in the evidence given by the State Under-Treasurer, the following facts were elicited: - 
The provisions for depreciation on wasting assets have been very limited. 
Large amounts of interest and administrative expenses in connexion with soldier settlements have been improperly charged to loan account. 
Certain interest on irrigation works have been wrongly capitalized, 
Contributions  to  sinking fund have been discontinued for a period of six years to 30th June, 1921. 
The deficits, as published, from 1914-15, to 1927-28 were shown as £3,292,845. and surplusestotalled £222,891. But had other amounts been added, such as sinking fund contributions suspended, £661,760; interest capitalized on irrigation works, £733,288; interest on soldier settlement losses, £1,642,692, administration on those settlements, £496,345; and depreciation of wasting assets, approximately £2,114,000, the total deficits would have amounted to £8,718,039. 
Honorable senators will, therefore see that South Australia, which a few years ago was proud of its financial position, has got into a very bad situation financially. The cost of coal has also had a very detrimental effect on that State, not only directly upon its railway finances, but also upon its manufacturing businesses. The operation of the Commonwealth Navigation Act has considerably increased the price of coal in South Australia, and it has imposed a tremendous burden on the South Australian railways. To indicate the extent of that burden I shall quote the average cost of coal sent to the various State railways during the year 1926-27. They are- 

<graphic href="122332192912042_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

And since then coal prices have increased. 
It would have been possible to do so at cheaper rates than those obtaining for Australian coal. Those excessive prices retarded the progress of industry in South Australia, and affected the price of gas and lighting. I am confident that honorable senators will appreciate that South Australia has its own peculiar and heavy burdens in addition to the many disadvantages suffered by Western Australia and Tasmania as a result of federation. 
I dare say that all governments have lost money over housing schemes, but I do not think that South Australia has lost more than any other State through such experiment. My chief regret is that although the South Australian royal commission assessed the disabilities sustained by South Australia through federation at £750,000 per annum, the Government does not propose to pay anything near that amount. Tasmania receives a grant of about £1 16s. per head of its population, while Western Australia was recommended for a grant of 24s. and received one of 16s. per head of its population. That assessment of the royal commission would give South Australia about 25s. per head, and the amount which the Government proposes to pay is only a fraction of this, and is insufficient when one considers that in addition to the disabilities suffered by the other two States it has no timber or coal resources, and is penalized in the matter of taxation. I trust that when the problem is reconsidered and the time comes for an extension of the grant, South Australia will be treated on a more favorable basis. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now road a second time. 
The object of this bill is the provision of funds necessary to complete the uniform gauge railway now inthe course of construction between Grafton and South Brisbane. This work was first authorized in1924, and it is anticipated that it will be completed in 1930. Under the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway Act 1924-1 926, the sum of £4,000,000 was provided to cover the cost of this work. A recent review of the position shows that an additional £350,000 is required. By agreement between the Commonwealth and the mainland States a royal commission was appointed in 1920 to report upon the unification of the gauges in those States. It was also agreed by the parties that the Commonwealth was to near one-fifth of the total cost, and that the five States should bear the remaining four-fifths upon a  per capita  basis. The proposal of the royal commission was a 4 ft. 8½ in. gauge, the first works to be undertaken being lines between - 
Grafton and South Brisbane; 
Adelaide and Port Augusta; 
Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, and the original estimate for the whole of these works was £21,600,000. A conference of Premiers held in 1921 expressed the opinion that the provision of a uniform gauge was essential to the development and safety of the Commonwealth. A general agreement as to the commencement of the proposed works for unification of the gauge was not then arrived at, but the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales and Queensland agreed to construct the Grafton-Kyogle section, the Commonwealth paying, for the time being, the proportions payable by Victoria, Western Australia, and South Australia, in addition to its own share. 
The standard gauge railway connexion between Sydney and South Brisbane will avoid the change of trains and the transhipment of merchandise at Wallangarra, it will save 100 miles and five to six hours on the journey, and avoid the heavy grades over the New England and McPherson Ranges. The present line runs to an altitude of 4,500 feet, whilst the highest point on the proposed route will not exceed800 feet above sea level. The traffic between Sydney and Brisbane is growing, and the present break of gauge at Wallangarra seriously hampers the transport of fruits and other perishable products. With a railway without break of gauge between Brisbane and Sydney it is anticipated there will be a big development in fruit, chilled meat, and other traffic. 
The work covered by the £350,000 provided for in the bill now before the House consists of - 
The relaying and strengthening of what was a light60-lb. unballasted railway between Grafton and Kyogle, a distance of85 miles. 
Construction of a standard gauge railway from Kyogle to South Brisbane, a distance of 95 miles. 
Part of the work was constructed by day labour by the Railway Commissioners of New South Wales and Queensland on behalf of the Railway Council, and the balance was constructed by the States of New South Wales and Queensland under contract, the conditions of the contract being such as would have applied to a private contractor. These conditions are set out in the schedules to the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway 
Act (1926), No. 34, of 1926. On the contract sections in both New South Wales and Queensland the Railway Council is carrying out by day labour the provision of water supplies, railway stations, and other works, and has supplied rails, fastenings, &amp;c, to the contractors in accordance with the contract conditions. 
About February last the Railway Council made very careful investigation as to the costs, and advised the Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States of New South Wales and Queensland that the sum of £4,000,000 provided for the works would not be sufficient; it was estimated that the provision of a further -amount of £350,000 was necessary for the completion of the work. The council reported that the works had been well controlled, and that the progress of the operations and expenses had been closely and continuously watched. Although under a number of headings the actual expenditure would be less than the estimate by £83,000, industrial and other conditions quite beyond the control of the council had caused the total estimate to be exceeded. The principal causes of increase and the amounts of the increases' given by the council is summarized as follows, namely: - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_16_7.jpg"></graphic>

The difference between the amount of £433,000 and the additional provision of £350,000, which will be saved by economies in carrying out the work in other directions, has already been referred to. Of the excess of £350,000, improved industrial conditions, directly and indirectly, amount to more than £164,000. Under the conditions of contract referred to, with the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland, provision was made for an adjustment for or against the contractor in the event, during the currency of the contract, of an increase or decrease in wages or a decrease or increase in hours of work, as may be fixed by an award of an arbitration court, or other industrial tribunal approved by the council. In the estimate of £4,000,000 provision was made to meet improved industrial conditions, but it was thought at the time that, generally, these conditions had reached the peak, and that any change occurring during the currency of the contract would probably be in a downward direction. Instead, wages increased and industrial conditions improved. 
The total cost of land resumptions, both in New South Wales and in Queensland, will amount to about £32,000 above the estimate. The number of resumptions, especially in Queensland, was very large and there was difficulty in correctly estimating the sum required for compensation, particularly in the case of city lands. The estimated cost of surveys, likewise, can only be approximated. There was much difficulty in locating the route of this railway, and the expense was, therefore, considerably beyond that which was provided for in the estimate. 
Dealing with the large item for additional quantities to those provided in the schedule of quantities in the contract specifications, &amp;c, the conditions of contract with the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland provide for payment on a quantity basis according to measurement, &amp;c, at the rate shown in the schedule of quantities and prices of the tender, and the total amount of the contract increased or decreased according to the actual measurements of the earthworks, bridge foundations, &amp;c, required to be -undertaken. The railway is through mountainous and broken country with a very heavy rainfall, and on account of landslips considerable quantities of earthworks had to be undertaken beyond the estimated amount on which tenders were called. Additional bridges, which had to be provided on account of landslips, &amp;c, proved to be more extensive than was provided for in the estimate. It was  also necessary to provide for watering stations, trucking facilities, &amp;c. beyond those provided for in the estimate. 
The works on the contract section in Queensland are just about completed. Those in New South Wales will not be in readiness for some months, the delay on that section being due, primarily, to the difficulty in constructing a very long tunnel at the border, notwithstanding that from the outset work has been carried on at both ends of the tunnel, and that for some considerable time three shifts have been engaged at each end. In the allocation of this additional money, Queensland will receive £60,000 and New South Wales £290,000. The Queensland portion will be spent on rails, materials and other works. Of the New South Wales portion, £143,000 will be utilized for the standardization of the existing line from North Grafton to Kyogle, £103,000 for the standardization of the section from Kyogle to the border, and £44,000 for rails, materials and other works. 
This railway forms part of the scheme for the unification of the railway gauges of Australia. It is manifest to those who travel frequently, that it is important that Australia should have a uniform railway gauge so that its people and its merchandise may pass freely from one end of the continent to the other without transhipment. 
The necessity of this appeals to  Senator Glasgow,  because he is a soldier. It also appeals to other honorable senators who, likewise, "are soldiers. But Australia is not ' bringing about the unification of the railway gauges to provide mainly for the rapid transport of troops, although that phase of the question is important. It is a matter for regret that the gentlemen who were responsible for the administration of the affairs of the Australian colonies years ago, did not have sufficient foresight to enable them to see that, one day, this continent would become one nation undivided by arbitrary lines. We, who come later on the scene, have the responsibility of completing in the most expeditious and economic manner possible the scheme for the unification of the railway gauges. This is a national question ; there is no party taint in this measure. It affects all honorable senators, for we are all here to serve the interests not of a section of the community, but of Australia as a whole. Many questions that come before us are controversial, and honorable senators then range themselves in different camps, railway  in this instance we can meet on common ground and act unitedly in the interests of Australia. Not only will this railway tend to remove the inconvenience caused by our present different railway gauges, but it will also assist to relieve unemployment; and in the desire to relieve unemployment, I feel sure that honorable senators are unanimous. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow) adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.10 to 8 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure does not involve an alteration of any existing principle. It relates really to only one section of the Arbitration (Public Service) Act, which originally provided for the appointment of a Public Service Arbitrator for a. term of seven years. Subsequent amendments provided that the term of office of the Arbitrator, who was at the time of hia appointment 58 years of age, should expire on his attaining the age of 65 years. Prior to the elections the previous Government introduced an amending Arbitration (Public Service) Bill; but the present Government proposes later to introduce a new measure relating to arbitration generally and in relation to the Public Service. In the interim between now and the time when such a measure will be ready for presentation to Parliament, the Public Service, if this measure is not passed, will be without an Arbitrator, since  Mr. Atlee  Hunt will have reached the retiring age. As the present Government has not had sufficient time to frame the necessary legislation to give effect to its policy, and as there are before the Public Service Arbitrator anumber of cases which have not been disposed of, chaos and confusion might easily result from the absence of this arbitral tribunal. The Government could have appointed another Arbitrator under the existing act, but it considered that as the whole of the legislation inthis regard is to be thrown in the melting-pot, there would be no justification for making a new appointment for a short period. In these circumstances, it decided that it would be better to continue the services of the present Arbitrator until such time as Parliament had an opportunity to deal with a more comprehensive measure. All this bill purports to do is to extend  Mr. Atlee  Hunt's term of office, which will expire when he reaches the age of 65 years, until the 31st May next, by which time the Government hopes to be able to place before Parliament its arbitration legislation for the Public Service. There is in the bill a saving clause which will enable the Governor-General, if the Government's proposals have not been finally dealt with by that date, to extend the term of the Arbitrator's office by proclamation. There is nothing contentious in the measure, and, as it is extremely urgent, I trust honorable senators will assist the Government in speedily passing it. 
I second the motion. The passage of this measure is so necessary that there seems little room for argument. Its object is merely to enable the existing system to be carried on until the Government is able to introduce a more comprehensive measure. The Government has not had sufficient time to frame the necessary legislation in this respect, and its difficulties have been accentuated by the position brought about by the Government which was supported by honorable senators opposite. 
The measure embodies a common-sense proposal submitted by common-sense men to enable arbitration in relation to the Public Service to be carried on until fresh legislation is introduced. It cannot be regarded as being in any sense contentious, and as I am sure honorable senators opposite wish the government of the country to be carried on as smoothly as possible I am confident they will assist in the speedy passage of the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow) adjourned. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to make a grant of £250,000 a year to Tasmania for a period of five years from the 1st July, 1929. The authority for its introduction by the Government is contained in Section 96 of the Constitution which enables the Parliament to make grants to the States. Since 1912 the Tasmanian Government has received several special grants from the Commonwealth. The first grant was a sum of £900,000 distributed over a 10-years' period which ended on the 30th June, 1922. That grant followed upon the recommendation made by a royal commission in 1912 and payment was made at the rate of £90,000 a year. A further grant of £85,000 per annum was continued in 1922-23 and 1923-24. In that year, following upon requests from Tasmania for further financial assistance, the Commonwealth surrendered to Tasmania the Commonwealth tax on lottery prizes which amounted to £111,000 per annum. It also made a special grant of £85,000 diminishing annually by £17,000. A further application was received from Tasmania in 1926 when a request was made for a grant of £545,000 a year for 10 years. The main grounds upon which this request was made were the disabilities of the State arising from high taxation, the Navigation Act, lack of secondary industries and the loss of population. The Commonwealth Government at that time commissioned  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer to conduct an investigation and report on Tasmania's financial position, but his recommendations were not adopted as they involved certain Commonwealth supervision over Tasmanian administration. An examination was then made by the Commonwealth Government, and the conclusions arrived at were that the position had been overstated in the requests which had been put forward by Tasmania. It was recognized, however, that Tasmania was suffering disabilities and the Commonwealth Government therefore made a grant of £378,000 for 1926-27 and 1927-28. The services of the Development and Migration Commission and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research were also availed of with the object of improving production in that State and the Commonwealth undertook to reconsider the position at the end of two years. As showing the effects of the financial assistance thus granted by the Commonwealth it is interesting to note that in 1926-27 Tasmania reduced its direct taxation by about £140,000. With this reduction, excluding the lottery tax, Tasmania's taxation was then about £3 12s. per head of population or 13s. 4d. below the Australian average whole. In 1927-28 Tasmania further reduced its taxation by £85,000 as a result of the relief which it gained under the financial agreement by applying accumulated sinking funds to the extinction of debts. With the aid of the Commonwealth Government, surpluses instead of deficits were experienced by Tasmania. In 1923-24 there was a deficit of £211,000; but in 1924-25 there was a surplus of £S6,000, in 1925-26 a surplus, of £28,000, in 1926-27 a surplus of £185,000, and in 1927-28 a surplus of £95,000. In 1928-29 there was a deficit of £90,000. 
I am not in a position to say, because I have not before me the State Treasurer's budget statements, but certainly they appeared as surpluses. 
I am afraid, then, that the honorable senator must- blame the Treasurer of Tasmania. Last year, when the matter came before the Commonwealth for review, an examination revealed that the main cause of Tasmania's financial difficulties was the cost of internal transport. Railways and roads imposed a burden of about £500,000 a year on the State revenue. With the consent of the Tasmanian Go vernment a technical committee was appointed to investigate the problem of internal transport. Pending the result of that investigation the Commonwealth made a grant of £220,000 for 1928-29. The reduction of £158,000 in this grant, compared with the previous grant of £378,000, was made after -an examination of the accounts of Tasmania. Allowance was made for savings of interest, amounting to £73,000, through the operation of the financial agreement, and for a saving of £53,000 in the provision for railway depreciation. Some allowance also was made for the surplus of £95,000 for 1927-28. The Transport Committee recommended the appointment of a Transport Board to control all transportation activities. It also submitted a number of other recommendations which are under the consideration of the . Tasmanian Government. The amount of .the grant is the same as was proposed by the Bruce-Page Government and announced in the budget, namely, £250,000 a year for five years. In addition, the Government has decided to refer the position of Tasmania to the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts for further investigation and report. That committee, which comprises members of all shades of political opinion, will be asked to report whether Tasmania is entitled to further assistance. 
The Government undertakes to make a grant of £250,000 a year for five years, but as the result of strong representations made by representatives of that State in this Parliament, the Government is convinced that -the financial position of the State should be further investigated. 
I do not think there is any possibility of the grant being reduced. The Government must have been satisfied that Tasmania was entitled to at least £250,000 a year, or this measure would not have been submitted. 
I am pleased to hear the honorable senator arguing strongly in favour of the Government's proposal. 
The Public Accounts Committee will make a recommendation as to the maximum amount of assistance which Parliament should give to the State. In this year's financial statement the State Treasurer presented a balanced budget on the basis of a grant of £250,000. He estimated a surplus at the end of this financial year of £2,824, and the only increase in taxation provided for was £7,500 for motor taxation. It may not be out of place if I quote the following extract from the State Treasurer's budget speech :  - 
While we appreciate the financial difficulties confronting the Commonwealth Government, we regret a more adequate sum to meet the State's requirements has not been made available. 
While Tasmania has, in common with the other States of the Commonwealth, been passing through a period of depression, we believe that the general outlook throughout the State at the present time, and the prospective developments in primary productions and secondary industries are such as to inspire a sound confidence in our future progress. 
I can assure honorable senators representing Tasmania that it is the intention of the Government to mete out justice to all the States. If the Public Accounts Committee reports that Tasmania has established its claim for further assistance, and if the Commonwealth is in a position to grant further financial aid, there is no doubt that it will be given. The bill is not of a contentious nature. It differs but slightly from the measure which was accepted as the policy of the party now in opposition in this chamber. I trust, therefore, that honorable senators opposite will assist the Government to give the bill a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir William  Glasgow) adjourned. 
.- Though there is no reference in the bill to customs taxation, I think I heard an ardent supporter of the Government, in the person of  Senator O'Halloran,  mention that the new tariff schedule introduced by this Government would mean an increase in the cost of living in South Australia, and that it would place an additional burden on the people of that State. 
I have no desire to misrepresent the honorable senator, but I have a clear recollection of references by him to certain disabilities which South Australia was suffering under federation, and certainly he mentioned the- new tariff schedule. 
I feel sure that  Senator O'Halloran  did state that the new tariff would help Victoria and New South Wales perhaps more than South Australia, because secondary industries are more firmly established in those States. I have been inundated with letters from a number of people advising me that the additional protection granted by this Government will lead to a considerable reduction in the cost of certain commodities owing to the encouragement of secondary industries in the principal' industrial centres. When  Senator O'Halloran  reads the report of his speech in  Hansard,I  believe he will find that he did say that South Australia would suffer certain disadvantages as a result of the protectionist policy of this Government. 
Well, I shall leave it at that. I could nothelp thinking, when I was listening to  Senator O'Halloran  and  Senator Chapman,  that those honorable senators would have us believe that. South Australia's claim for financial assistance was unassailable, and that in making this grant available the Commonwealth was not showing any special consideration to that State. Without wishing to make any unfair comparison between the various States, I think I am safe in saying that South Australia has received more benefits from the Commonwealth than any other State. If  Senator O'Halloran  will cast his mind back to some of the benefits granted by the Commonwealth to South Australia during the last few years, he will admit that his State has done exceptionally well. To begin with, the Northern Territory of Australia was taken over from it by the Commonwealth, together with the debt attaching, to it. From time to time South Australian representatives have stressed the tremendous amount of expenditure incurred by their State in developing the Northern Territory, but we know that actually this is not. so, as the debts were funded when the Commonwealth took over the Territory. The Commonwealth conferred a great financial advantage on South Australia when it relieved it of that vast empty space. Western Australia has not received anything like similar relief. 
T realize that there was a certain amount of disadvantage to South Australia, but nothing comparable with the disabilities under which Western Australia, with its huge unpopulated northern areas, labours. At the present time Western Australia is more entitled to financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government than is South Australia. Much of the financial distress under which the latter State labours is of its own making. I shall refer to that again later. I have heard South Australians claim that the Commonwealth Government robbed them of their heritage when it took over the Northern Territory. I am confident that no South Australian representative in this Parliament would advocate that the Territory should be handed back to the State. 
Undoubtedly it was. South Australia is particularly fortunate in the matter of its railways, as those running from Quorn to Port Augusta and to Alice Springs are conducted by the Commonwealth at a loss, to the great benefit of South Australia. 
They are running in the territory of South Australia and any benefit accruing from them goes to that State, while the losses incurred have to be borne by the taxpayers of Australia generally. In my own State of Queens land over 6,000 miles of railways are conducted at considerable loss, but we receive no advantages from the Commonwealth Government similar to those conferred on South Australia. I do not wish to be unfair to the representatives of that State, but they should realize that while we are at all times only too willing to assist their State, we cannot help remembering that 'many of the advantages that it enjoys are not shared by other States. 
I could enter into a lengthy debate on that subject, but I know that you,  Mr. President,  would not permit me to do so. I merely remind  Senator O'Halloran  that Australian consumers have been saved millions of pounds by the sugar-growers of Queensland, who have enabled them to purchase that product at cheaper prices than obtained elsewhere. The Commonwealth has also spent huge sums of money upon the River Murray watershed. I admit that three States share directly, and probably all the States indirectly, will share in the benefits that will accrue from the locking of the River Murray, but South Australia enjoys exceptional advantages under the scheme. 
Only a very small portion of Queensland is served by that railway. It runs from South Brisbane to the New South Wales border. It is part of the general scheme for the unification of all the railway gauges of the Commonwealth, a scheme that  Senator Barnes  this afternoon advocated as being desirable to Australia.  Senator O'Halloran  was only too ready to refer to the protection given Queensland grown sugar, but I remind him of the far greater privileges extended to his State per medium of the bounties on dried fruit, which are 300 per cent, greater than the duty on sugar, and are as much an embargo as that placed on sugar importation. I do not quibble at that, but I urge  Senator O'Halloran  to view the matter nationally. The wine-growers of South Australia also receive considerable assistance from the Commonwealth through the wine bounty. It ill becomes South Australian representatives to adopt such a stand-and-deliver attitude in this Senate.  Senator O'Halloran  stated that he did not regard this grant as a dole, but as South Australia's right. That State and its representatives have every reason to be grateful to the Commonwealth and to the other States for the very generous treatment accorded to it. 
Let me refer briefly to the grounds on which  Senator O'Halloran,  and, to a lesser extent,  Senator Chapman,  claimed that it is necessary for South Australia to come to the Commonwealth for a grant. First of all I reiterate that much of the financial difficulty experienced by South Australia has been of its own making. I fancy that  Senator Thompson  interjected while  Senator O'Halloran  was speaking that South Australia had indulged in prodigal expenditure.  Senator O'Halloran, Senator Hoare  and other South Australian representatives have very severely criticised the policy of the South Australian Government and of the Commissioner for Railways in South Australia in regard to their lavish expenditure in reconditioning the railways of South Australia. I could by reference to  Hansard  prove that some of the most severe criticism of that extravagance has emanated from South Australian representatives. Yet when, as a result of that extravagance, their State has to appeal to the Federal Parliament for assistance, those representatives attribute all the disabilities of their State to Federation. 
My impression is that  Senator Daly  quoted the report of the Commission to prove that much of the disabilities suffered by South Australia are due to the lavish expenditure on that State's railways. I point out .that nearly every State in Australia is in more or less the same financial position as South Australia so far as its railways are concerned. 
Railway losses constitute one of the principle reasons for its difficulties. The Queensland railways have an accumulated deficit. Millions of pounds have been lost on them not only through extravagance and mismanagement but also because a considerable proportion of the traffic previously carried has now other means of transport. If South Australia can demand from the Commonwealth Government £1,000,000 to be paid in three instalments over the next three years because of the losses on its railways, or because the Government of the State has indulged in an expensive railway rehabilitation scheme, why should not I, as a representative of Queensland, ask the Commonwealth Government to foot the loss on the Queensland railways? What is good for one State is good for another. 

 Senator Chapman gave as one of the reasons why the Commonwealth should make this grant available, the fact that, heavy taxation is imposed in South Australia. Are the people of any State more heavily taxed than those in Queensland ? I think that in every form of taxation Queensland - probably as the result of fifteen years of Labour administration - is the most heavily taxed in the Commonwealth, but its people are not coming to the Commonwealth Government for aid. So to speak, they are hitching , the belt up another hole and trying to find a way out of their difficulties without appealing to the Commonwealth for aid. Nevertheless, if South Australia is entitled to ask for Commonwealth assistance because of heavy taxation, or heavy losses on railways, or even on account of the developmental works referred to by  Senator Chapman,  which are not yet bringing in an income, Queensland is also entitled to ask for the same assistance. I have no desire to alarm the Leader of the Govern.ment iri the Senate, but I can assure him that if the policy of spoils to the victors is to be observed my voice shall be heard on behalf of Queensland. I should be quite prepared to vote for this money to be paid to South Australia if the State would guarantee to repay it when the developmental works referred to by  Senator Chapman  show an adequate return on the money spent on them. 
I do not think that the disabilities of the State to which this money is to be granted bear comparison with those of 
Tasmania or Western Australia. Tasmania suffers through being severed from the mainland and Western Australia because of its huge territory in the north, which is such a tremendous burden for a small population to carry. 
It may be an asset but it cannot be regarded as a tremendous asset until it is developed, and it cannot be developed without funds. While I do not intend to oppose this bill, I think a little honest criticism is good for those who think that the Commonwealth should hand out money whenever any State Government gets into financial difficulties. South Australia, as we know, indulged in a general railway development policy far in excess of what its financial position could afford, and mainly on that account finds itself in its present position. We must, however, come to a definite understanding as to the responsibility of the Commonwealth towards States that get into financial trouble. If, as a matter of course, when a State Government, through extravagance or maladministration, finds itself in difficulties, it can come to the Commonwealth Government and demand as a right, as  Senator O'Halloran  put it, that it shall be helped out of its difficulties by the people of other States, who perhaps are bearing a far greater burden of taxation than the people of the State that demand that assistance, the Federal Treasury will very speedily be depleted. 

 Senator MCLACHLAN (South Australia [8.53]. - Accepting the assurance given by  Senator Foll,  I am sure the Leader of the Government in the Senate must feel that this bill whose purpose it is to grant financial assistance to one of the constituent parts of the Federation is going to have an easy passage through this Chamber. I can only come to the conclusion that the observations that have fallen from  Senator Foll  have been prompted by a certain degree of fear regarding the possibility of too close an analysis of the present fiscal policy, and its application to the various States, a problem which, as I shall presently show, has already been probed by experts who made an examination of the economic position of Australia a few months ago. I do not think that this question of special grants to States should be discussed quite on tha plane taken by  Senator Foll.   Section 96 of the Constitution is evidence that the framers of the Constitution intended that there should be a certain amount of elasticity in respect of the power of the Commonwealth Parliament to grant assistance to any State or, if necessary, to withhold it. The language of the section is well worth repeating because it connotes a state of affairs which I am afraid is too often lost sight of in the hurly-burly of politics or in the consideration of measures which involve a certain amount of State interests. Section 96 reads: - 
During a period of ten years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions ap the Parliament thinks fit. 
The framers of the Constitution apparently comtemplated that during the transition period, which they fixed broadly at ten years, there would be difficulties encountered by some of the States and even then, foreseeing that Australia might possibly adopt a high protection policy, they left it to the good sense and discretion of the Commonwealth Parliament either to abrogate the provision entirely or to continue it. There has been no abrogation of it and thus it is the duty of the Commonwealth Government to ascertain in some proper manner whether a State ha's or has not suffered some disability. I have never yet been able to ascertain the proper principles that should guide the Commonwealth Government in coming to a conclusion in regard to the matter. 
Shortly after I entered this chamber, it was my privilege to hear a debate on a grant proposed to be given to Western Australia in 1926. To the average business mau hearing of a gram of some hundreds of thousands of pounds being given out of the coffers of the Commonwealth to a State which at the time was incurring tremendous losses on various enterprises just as the State of Queensland suffered tremendous losses on cattle stations, it would seem shockingly  bad business on the part of the Commonwealth. But as I understand the position it does not matter and has never mattered, what enterprise a State carries on, or how it comports itself in that regard, so long as the disability exists and the taxation that can be collected does not enable the State to make ends meet. In such circumstances the Commonwealth invariably comes, as it should do, to its aid. 
Extent should never enter into a question of principle. To my mind, section 96 is one of the most important in the Constitution, and as time goes on it may become still more important. We ' may find, in addition to. South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, that magnificent heritage, which is the boast of  Senator Foll,  on the doorstep of the Federal Treasury asking for financial assistance. In this connection I appreciate a suggestion made by a recent royal commission that, instead of allowing this business of granting aid to States to be dealt with as it has hitherto been dealt with, there should be some scientific method of adjusting it. I admit that the late Government in common with other Governments must accept responsibility in that regard, but I feel that in this chamber, which is the guardian of State rights, we should appeal for some more scientific method of applying section 96. I feel that the Government of the day, however it may be constituted, should act without paying regard to any consideration other than the application of the provision in the manner suggested by the Constitution Commission. Perhaps we shall hear from the honorable senator, who was a member of the commission, what principles should, in his opinion, be applied in determining the amounts of such grants. The idea of the framers of the Constitution probably was that, in the event  of federation injuriously affecting the finances of a State, assistance might be rendered to it by the Commonwealth. The report of the royal commission stated that the effect of federation on State finances had been investigated in relation to Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia, and that in each instance the position of the State was set out by representatives of the State. In one portion of its report, the commission points out that disabilities arising from federation had not been the crucial test in these matters. Under the heading, " Grants to States," the report states - 
It is to be observed, however, that in none of the reports abovementioned are the recommendations in favour of grants being made to States by the Commonwealth based solely on the disadvantages that those States have suffered  through  the unequal working of federal laws. 
We can assume that the framers of the Constitution expected the Commonwealth to be the bulwark of the States. It is obvious that the inability of a State to meet its indebtedness must reflect on the Commonwealth as a whole. Probably, the framers of the Constitution had that in mind when they provided in the Constitution for assistance to be granted to necessitous States. It is not pleasant to reflect what the position would be otherwise. Whatever their reason, I feel, as I did in 1926, that we should settle once and for all the principles upon which relief should be granted, and the factors which should be taken into consideration.  Senator Foll  reminded us that large sums of Commonwealth money have been expended within the borders of South Australia on railway construction, but he did not say that the railway on which the greatest sum was spent, although largely in South Australian territory, was built to serve another State. Moreover, the extension of the railway from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs is to assist in the development of Commonwealth property in North and Central Australia. The benefit to South Australia from the construction of that line will not be great. 
The royal commission which investigated this matter had in mind the creation of a permanent body, free from political influence and State bias, which would, to use the words of the late Alfred Deakin, be " the eye of the Commonwealth Parliament." It had in mind an independent body, which would lay down the broad principles upon which these matters should be determined. 
I remind the honorable senator that finance is finance, and nothing else. Reference has been made this evening to losses incurred by one State in connexion with its cattle stations. I am reminded that, some years ago, another State incurred considerable losses in connexion with certain sawmilling enterprises. Reference has also been made to losses on Government-owned steamers. Are such things to be taken into account when considering grants in aid to necessitous States? We have as yet no principle to guide us. 
That may be; but it is our duty to face the position. We are probably only at' the beginning of these requests for assistance. The trend of trade is towards the east of Australia. If it continues, New South Wales and Victoria will benefit, while the primary producing States must suffer still more, and we shall have to protect their interests. It may be a difficult problem; but it is not more difficult than that which would have confronted the Interstate Commission had it not been found that certain powers sought to be vested in it were unconstitutional. The Government should endeavour to lay down the principles upon which a permanent commission should be set up to deal with problems of this character, and not leave them to royal commissions, to which it is sometimes difficult to appoint suitable men, or have them decided by interested persons. I should like to see a body of a quasijudicial character set up to deal with such matters. 
The measure before us is, with one exception, similar to that which would have been put through by the BruceRage Government had it remained in office. The amount of the proposed grant is the same. The royal commission which investigated the financial position of South Australia revealed the weaknesses of the financial operations of that State; it commended the State for the work it had done, and its people for their courage; and it concluded by recommending a grant of £1,000,000, spread over a period of two years. Knowing the State of the Commonwealth Treasury, I can understand the reason for the Government's departure from that recommendation. The amount proposed to be granted to South Australia is all that that State can reasonably expect, in view of the straitened finances of the Commonwealth. The bill differs from the proposals of the late Government in one respect.  Senator O'Halloran  said that the grant proposed by the late Government had a string attached to it. In my opinion that " string " would have proved of greater benefit to South Australia than will an unconditional grant. Recently a body of experts, designated the Commouwealth Transport Committee, made certain investigations throughout Australia. It reported that in 1925-26 the loss on the whole of the State railways of Australia amounted to £2,700,000; that in the following year the loss was £3,500,000, and in 1927-28, £4,700,000. That represents a total loss of £10,900,000 for those three years. Depreciation is not included in the amount. I hold strong views regarding the construction of railways of other than the standard gauge. The agreement entered into by  Mr. Bruce  on behalf of the Commonwealth, and  Mr. Gunn  on behalf of South Australia, in connexion with a railway from Port Augusta to Red Hill, provided for a line of standard gauge. It appears to me that not only would the Commonwealth have effected a saving, but considerable benefit would have accrued to South Australia if the liability in connexion with the Red Hill to Salisbury railway had been taken over by the Commonwealth Government. The liability in the matter of interest and sinking fund is, I understand, approximately £60,000 per annum, and under the proposals of the Bruce-Page Government the South Australian Government would have been relieved of that expenditure for all time. I do not think anyone could seriously suggest that that section of railway in South Australia would pay working expenses for a long time, quite apart fromproviding interest and contributionsto a sinking fund. The proposal of the previous Government was sound, and if any difficulties had arisen in connexion with its working, they could have been adjusted by railway experts. It was a broad gesture on the part of the Bruce-Page Government of its willingness to assist in the direction of providing a uniform gauge between the capital cities, and would have been of greater benefit to South Australia than the proposal of the present Government. Although difficulties might have been associated with control of such a line greater railway problems are overcome daily in the United States of America where rival railway companies not only have running rights over each other's lines, but also carry each other's goods and adjust the profits. 
The proposal of the Bruce-Page Government was not in any sense complicated, and would, as I have said, have assisted a general unification of gauge scheme at least between South Australia and Western Australia. The Government of South Australia, prefers to receive the grant in the form now proposed, but as a South Australian representative I must still hold my own views in regard to its wisdom or otherwise in that respect. The proposal to make a financial grant to Western Australia in 1926, which was embodied in a measure introduced by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  and supported by the then Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  both Western Australians, appealed to me, although I was not altogether familiar with the details of Western Australia's claim. I have often thought that a tribunal should be appointed to act as an intermediary between the Commonwealth and the States in matters of this kind. Although I afterwards satisfied myself as to the disabilities which Western Australia is experiencing, I still contend that grants of this kind should be made after full inquiry by some properly constituted authority.  Senator O'Halloran  quoted from figures this afternoon relating to the effect of high Customs duties upon producing States such as South Aus tralia. In this connexion some interesting facts are contained in a volume entitled  The Australian Tariff - An Economic Inquiry,  compiled by Professor Brigden, Professor of Economics in the University of Tasmania until May, 1929 ; Professor Copland, Professor of Commerce in the University of Melbourne;  Mr. E.  C. Dyason, member of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne;  Mr. L.  F. Giblin,  Deputy  Statistician of Tasmania, in February, 1929; and  Mr. C.  H. Wickens, Commonwealth Statistician and Actuary.- That volume contains an analysis favorable to the claims of Western Australia, Tasmania and South Australia. It would appear that Western Australia has the strongest claim, that South Australia is next, with Tasmania following closely behind. In paragraph 8 of the appendix to this publication, which relates to the effects of tariffs upon State finances, it is stated that- 
The subsidies to production through the tariff are £30,000,000, which would average all round £0 per head of population. But if the £36,000,000 is distributed amongst States in proportion to the quantity of protected industry the amount per head will vary greatly from State to State as shown approximately in the following table. 
Subsidies to protected production per head of population in each State. 

<graphic href="122332192912042_26_8.jpg"></graphic>

Owing to the application of the protective principle South Australia is, with one exception, in a worse position than any of the other States. Reference has been made to the administration of the South Australian railway system and in this connexion the report of the commission states - 
The position of the South Australian railways from a financial point of view is unquestionably a serious one. It is clear that if the railways could be made to pay working expenses and interest on the capital debt the financial problem of the State as exists at present would be solved. In saying this we do not overlook the fact that the railways of all the States are far from being in a healthy condition economically. 
That is so. In a brochure issued by the South Australian Railways Department it is stated that- 
Despite the rehabilitation scheme to reduce working costs, freights and fares have been increased instead of reduced, and the reasons are: the High Court reversed a former judgment of the same court that the State railways were not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Arbitration Court. Federal Arbitration Court awards, the Navigation Act, and other causes entirely beyond the control of the railways commissioner, have brought about the following increases in the working costs: - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_27_9.jpg"></graphic>

These increases alone are equal to over 5.7 per cent, on the capital expenditure of £9,233,474 since the rehabilitation scheme was started. Coal has. increased in price enormously in consequence of the increased cost by miners' awards and the Navigation Act. The cost of coal to various State railways is as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912042_27_10.jpg"></graphic>

Compare these figures with South Australia's cost of 44s. lOd. 
This year. 
The statement continues - 
If South Australia could obtain coal at the average cost in New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia, a saving of £303,000 per year would be made in running costs, equivalent to 3 per cent, on the total loan expenditure since 1st July, 1923 to 30th June, 1928. 
The same remarks would apply to a number of other commodities used by the Railways Department. 
The Commonwealth authorities appointed the coal tribunal which has been largely responsible for coal being at its present high rate. Victoria had sufficient foresight to develop its .coal resources at Yallourn, without the assistance of which it would have been bled white' by the coal industry of New South "Wales. Unfortunately, South Australia has no alternative source of supply, and in paying the excessive prices charged is forced to increase the working expenses of its railway system to an alarming extent. 
The Government, which the honorable senator supports, is allowing huge profits earned here to be sent to America without bearing any taxation. Whether the appointment of  Mr. Webb  was wise or unwise, only the future can say. I would point out, however, that the rehabilitation scheme, costing £9,000,000, or as some say, £11,000,000, has been carried out so nothing can now be done about it. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  has observed, one portion of that big undertaking is paying fairly well, but up to the present, there has been no opportunity to ascertain whether the rehabilitation scheme will pay under ordinary conditions. Because of the abnormal seasons that have been experienced in South Australia, with the exception of the south-eastern portion of the State; ever since the work was put in hand, our returns from both wool and wheat have been abnormally low. 
My honorable friend should remember that the railway to Oodnadatta is not now a responsibility of the State. It belongs to the Commonwealth. The Railways Commissioner has indicated the position in which he now finds himself in regard to overhead expenses. He has pointed out that he has no power to reduce these overhead charges, some of which, at all events, are the direct consequences of  acts of this Parliament. Since the work was put in hand there have been two or three changes in the Government of South Australia, and, apparently, the commissioner has impressed succeeding Premiers with the desirability of continuing the work. In any case, this is a matter which concerns the State alone. If the South Australian railways had been paying there would have been no call upon the Commonwealth for financial assistance. "We have heard a number of statements from honorable senators concerning the drought-stricken areas in South Australia. The rainfall in the south-eastern portion is as good as in any other country, but though the land there is wonderfully fertile, it is practically undeveloped, because only now are we bringing science to the aid of our agricultural industry. There need be no fear for the future of South Australia. It has done much for the rest of Australia, and it has a record of which any other State might well be proud. Thousands of its farmers, who have been trained in a hard school, have migrated to other States and taught the people there the art of farming. South Australian flocks  and herds are second to none. The world's flock masters come to us to secure stud sheep, the export of which, with the approval now of  Senator Guthrie,  has been prohibited. There is still awaiting development an unexplored province in Eyre's Peninsula; but even there, as the Railways Commissioner points out in his report, losses have been sustained on the developmental railway lines that are running through it. There have been many follies in the history of Australia. From the Leeuwin to Cape Yorke you can see the handicraft of politicians in unproductive wharfs, jetties, and railways. In that respect South Australia is no greater sinner than any other State, although it is now appealing to this Parliament for financial assistance. This contingency is contemplated in section 96 of the Constitution. I strongly deprecate the policy of pitting State against State. The discussion of a bill of this nature should be conducted on a higher plane. Honorable senators should analyse the position and ask themselves whether, in all the circumstances South Australia is entitled to financial aid. The commission which inquired into the position of the State made a certain recommendation which is being given effect in this measure, with the exception that the relief is to be spread over a period of three years. There need be no alarm with regard to the finances of my State. It will recover, perhaps, more quickly than some honorable senators appear to believe. With the exception of one or two secondary industries, we depend in the main on primary production. I may add, however, that one of the secondary industries established in South Australia might surely be a pattern to a number of industrial concerns elsewhere in the Commonwealth, because when it received assistance in the shape of a higher tariff, it reduced, instead of increased, prices. I commend the bill to honorable senators. If the Government is not in a position to give that full measure of relief recommended by the commission, it is doing the next best thing - it is extending the relief over a greater period of time. I can usefully add nothing to what I have said. The State is in urgent need of the grant, because the seasonal conditions are such that a big deficit in the current year's accounts is inevitable. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH  (Western Australia) [9.42].  -  In supporting the second reading of the bill, I congratulate the Government on being, not more generous - the term is not applicable to the circumstances of case - but a little more mindful of the just claim of South Australia than was the Government immediately preceding it. Although this Government proposes to grant the same amount, it is helping South Australia without attaching any terms or conditions to the grant. It is not seeking to interfere with the domestic policy of the State.  Senator Glasgow,  when informing the Senate this afternoon of the measure of interference which was contemplated by the Bruce-Page Government, said that it was associated with the proposal for the unification of railway gauges in Australia. 
The commission not having been asked for an expression of opinion upon the question whether the railway gauges of Australia -should, or should not, be unified, offers no opinion on that subject. I feel, however, that I personally would hardly be fulfilling my whole duty if (apart from the relation of the subject to the question of national defence, of which subject 1 have no knowledge), I did not raise the question whether the advantages arising from the carrying out of the work would warrant the expenditure of the large sum of money involved at the present time, having regard especially to the high cost of borrowing and the equally exceptionally High cost of constructive work. 
Seeing that that portion of the railway which has already been put in hand is costing no less than 50 per cent, more than the estimated cost set out by this commission, I venture to suggest that « those remarks by the  chairman  of the commission are worthy of a great deal more consideration by the people of Australia than they have had.  Senator Sir "William  Glasgow, repeating what has been said over and over again, gave this House to understand that the commission recommended this work, whereas it did nothing of the kind. The commission said, ' in effect, "If you. are going to have a uniform gauge, have this gauge." They set out what would be the cost. The work already in hand has cost 50 per cent, more than was anticipated. I think it is well that the' people of Australia should understand that the commission urged the most extreme caution in putting in hand a work of doubtful utility at a time when money was extremely scarce, and when the cost of construction was exceptionally high. It was estimated that the line between Kyogle and South Brisbane would 
C03t somewhere below £3,000,000, whereas it has already cost £4,000,000, and it has been found necessary to advance another £350,000 for the purpose. 

 Senator McLachlan made reference to that section of the Constitution which refers to grants to States. It reads - 
During a period of ten years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
What do the words " terms and conditions " mean ? There are two interpretations, and I suggest that that advanced by both  Senator Sir William  Glas-  gow and  Senator McLachlan  is not the correct one. Their interpretation is that when the Commonwealth Parliament makes a grant to a State it can determine exactly how that grant shall be spent, what it shall be spent on, the details of the work, and everything else. The other interpretation of the words is that they refer to the terms of repayment and interest. 
It is not necessary to refer to that section to make a loan to a State. That is the " grants " section. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.But a grant may be in the form of a loan, perhaps without interest. Those who take that view as to the interpretation of the section say that you cannot, because of those words in the Constitution, interfere with the domestic affairs of a State in such a way as would amount to destroying the sovereign government of that State. My only regret in regard to this bill is that the Government did not go the full length of the recommendation by the royal commission and give South Australia £500,000 in each of the two years. 
I want, in touching on the general aspect of the question, to make reference to the remarks of  Senator Foll,  when he urged that prodigal expenditure was responsible for South Australia's appeal for this grant. I shall endeavour to show that the expenditure of South Australia, whether prodigal or otherwise, has nothing to do with the case; that the claim of that State is entirely independent of the amount of money saved or spent. -I should like to know whether it is as a representative of the State of Queensland, that  Senator Foll  criticizes the expenditure of the South Australian Government. Is it the State of Queensland that he holds up as a model of economy? If not, is it as a member of this Parliament that he levels his criticism? Is it the Federal Parliament that he holds up as a model of economy for the guidance of the State of South Australia? If honorable senators take a broad survey, not confining themselves to the Commonwealth or the States of Aus1tralia, but regarding the whole civilized world,  they do not need to go further than the top of this building to see a monument of prodigality in expenditure. I submit that it is not the province of this Parliament to inquire how sovereign parliaments carry on their business, or to criticize their methods. 
I do not think that this matter can be considered entirely by itself. The whole question of grants to States is involved. We know that, during the present year, a grant of £300,000 was made to Western Australia, and another of £250,000 to Tasmania. I suggest that it is peculiarly fitting that this question should be considered carefully and in detail in this Senate, which is elected to represent the States. What justification is there for that provision in the Constitution which gives the smallest and least populous of our States the same representation in this Senate as is enjoyed by the largest and most populous States? It was simply a necessary part of a federal compact to encourage the small States to come into federation, causing them to realize that, while as weaker members of the partnership they took a certain amount of risk, their interests would be safeguarded in this chamber. I know that there are certain elements in the political life of Australia to-day that would abolish the Senate. It should be abolished if it is not competent to safeguard the rights of the States. In my opinion, it has only two provinces, the reviewing of legislation, and the safeguarding of the rights of the States. If it becomes, as some people declare it is rapidly becoming, a purely party House, then I can see very little reason for its existence. ° 
I claim to be able to speak with some measure of authority on this matter of special grants to the States. As far back as 1917, when I was a member of the government of one of the States that has a small population, I made a very careful investigation of the effects of federal policy upon the industries and the public finances of Western Australia. That investigation was very widely published, and was ultimately referred to the Tariff Board for consideration. That board investigated it to some extent, and I understand that it reported that there was something to be said in favour of it; that it appeared to be well founded. The next step, taken after the lapse of a good many years, was the appointment of what is known as the Western Australian Disabilities Commission. On that commission there was no one in any way interested in the State of Western Australia. ^Honorable senators are aware what the findings of that commission were. Two of its members declared that Western Australia should be empowered to set up its own tariff. One went so far as to say that secession from the federation was the only hope for the financial solvency and satisfactory development of that State. Those are both extreme measures, and probably could not be put into effect. The commission was unanimous in finding that the State of Western Australia had actually suffered great disabilities in its public finance and industrial development by certain phases of federal policy, and that it was entitled to compensation at the rate of £450,000 a year, a compensation that it has never received. The next step was the appointment of a royal commission to investigate the position of Tasmania, and that body found that the 
State of Tasmania was actually suffering in its public  finance,  and its industrial development, because of certain phases of federal policy, lt recommended that a special grant .should be made to the State of Tasmania. The third step w,as the appointment of 'the .commission whose report we now have before us. I do not care what that ..commission may have said iai regard to prodigality of expenditure. The great point ds that it did find that the public finances and the industries of South Australia were prejudiced to some extent by certain phases of federal policy, and that if there is to be equity amongst the members of federation, compensation must be paid to South Australia. Then we had a fourth inquiry, probably not so exhaustive, but on whose report neither this nor any other Government can entirely ignore - the British Economic Commission. That commission indicated that the tariff policy of Australia falls with great severity upon the States of Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania.  
Reference has been made to the royal commission on the -Federal Constitution. 
It was no part of the business of that commission to inquire into the wisdom or otherwise of any feature of federal policy. It had nothing to do with whether a high protection was approved or whether we should have freetrade; but it was the duty pf that commission to inquire into the working pf our Constitution, to see whether any feature of federal policy bears harshly on any particular State. Reference was made, I think, by  Senator O'Halloran  to the con- . sidered statements of Professors Brigden and Giblin, two authorities whose opinions are worthy of some consideration. If honorable senators choose to look at pages 1700 to 1720 of the report of the commission, they will find their opinions, which are worth reading. They clearly set out the causes and the effects of the different results, as between States, of certain features of federal policy. At page 1704, will be found the opinion of these witnesses as to the cumulative effects of those features of federal policy, chiefly the incidence of the tariff, and the fact that so large a percentage of the federal revenue has been raised by means of customs and excise duties.  Senator 
O'Halloran quoted a number of details from their statement, hut he failed to quote what, in my opinion, is the most suggestive portion of the report. The honorable senator gave figures in round sums, but I venture to say that a clearer understanding of the position is obtained by taking the figures per head of population. Those gentlemen found that the following were the effects of federal policy on the different 'States : - 
Victoria gained £1 12s. 6d. per -head  oi  population. 
Queensland gained £1 8s. 4d. per head of population. 
New South Wales lost 6s. 8d. per head of population. 
South Australia lost £2 8s. 4d. per head of population. 
Tasmania gained £2 13s. 6d. per head .of population. 
Western Australia lost £3 0s. 9d. per head of population. 
These are annual losses. 
The- unequal effects between States are probably the most embarrassing consequences of the tariff, but they have their roots in the unequal effects between industries which are natural and inevitable causes of tariff protection. . . Assistance to protected industries has been provided chiefly at the cost of the export industries. . . We have shown that these industries are retarded, and their land values have been curtailed. The costs imposed upon them have been borne chiefly in the country districts and in the outlying States which are more naturally adapted for the export industries. 
. The tariff has, therefore, materially effected the relative prosperity of the different States. 
The established producers in these areas and States have undoubtedly been penalized by the tariff. From the point of view of the States themselves, the consequences are not less important. Not only have the incomes of the established producers been curtailed and, therefore, the taxation derived from land and incomes generally, but some production has been prevented, and the State revenue, which would have been received from that production, lost. This applies not only to tax revenue, but to revenue from various State services, and especially from railways. The cost of the tariff has prevented the full use of development utilities and the full response to State efforts to stimulate production. . . The different effects as between (say) Victoria and Tasmania, or Queensland and Western Australia, are very marked. The subsidies to production through the tariff are £30,000,000 per annum, which would, average £G per head of population, but the subsidies to Victoria and Queensland are twice as great as those to Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania . . . 
We next inquire in what proportion these subsidies are contributed by the different States. . . the burden per head of Victoria and Queensland is much below the general average, with the other States above the average, and Western Australia' particularly high. 
So it comes about that the same two States - Victoria and Queensland - both get the greatest increase to income per head and pay the least for it; New South Wales is in a middle position; and the other three States both receive least and pay most, with Western Australia in a somewhat worse position than South Australia and Tasmania. . . 
Finally, speaking of the three States, the committee says - 
Their taxable capacity is lowered, so that their rates of taxation have to he increased; industry is further encouraged to concentrate in the more fortunate States, and the cumulative effects which follow intensify the inequalities created by the tariff itself. 
Having perused with care each of the reports that have been issued on this question, and having had an opportunity as a member of the Royal Commission on the Constitution to make a personal investigation in every State, I do not hesitate to say that it can be proved that the annual losses sustained by the three States of South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania have always been more than double the highest amount ever given to them by the Commonwealth in the shape of special grants. 
This is not peculiar to Australia.  About two years ago a similar Disabilities Commission was appointed to inquire into the condition of the agricultural provinces of Canada, and came to exactly the same conclusion as the various Australian disabilities commissions. It said that a condition of affairs had been set up which must be remedied in the interests, not only of the provinces, but also of the Dominion of Canada as a whole. It is from that aspect that I wish to place the matter before the Senate. I am not dealing with the case of Western Australia, South Australia, or- Tasmania. I am speaking from the viewpoint of Australia generally, because this country cannot prosper except by the development of all its parts. If any feature of federal policy retards or destroys development in South Australia, Western Australia, or Tasmania there is nothing surer than that the manufacturer or business man in Sydney or Melbourne will feel it. I go. further and say that there is nothing surer than that he is feeling it to-day. The retarded development of these States because of these features of federal policy has been largely responsible for our present unemployment difficulty, and the depression we find i even in the bie favoured States on our eastern seaboard. 
I do not think there is anybody in Western Australia, South Australia or Tasmania that does not abominate the idea of special grants. We do not come to this Commonwealth as beggars. What we do is to set up our case and say, " We are entitled to this as an absolute right " ; and in every case, I have no hesitation in saying, the right has been established. But the unfortunate part about it is that although it may be possible by the making of these special grants to retrieve the position so far as the public finances of a State are concerned, absolutely nothing is done to compensate the industries that are suffering. And in that connexion the outlying parts of Victoria and New South Wales suffer almost as acutely as the States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. There can be no doubt the new budget will increase the difficulties of those States, but it will further accentuate the burdens that are placed on the primary industries in Victoria and New South Wales. 
It is extraordinary to suggest that a State like South Australia is not capable of absorbing additional population. At least that was the statement we heard from  Senator Dooley  the other day. Something must be radically and enormously wrong with our economic policy for such a condition of affairs to be brought about.  Senator Poll,  in a reference to the north of Western Australia described it as a great burden. What have we come to when we talk about a great, almost a mighty, territory of enormous resources as a burden in this rapidly becoming over-crowded world? It .is the most magnificent asset any country could have. If it is a burden, and we cannot do anything with it, the fault is ours, and not that of the territory. There never has been a time in the history of the world when the possession of a big area of land has been a burden. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Yes, but " one swallow does not make a summer." 
I entirely agree with  Senator McLachlan  that these special grants are only palliatives. They do not meet the position at all,, and I do not think that any of these ingenious subterfuges, such as the Paterson butter scheme and others of the kind, are going to compensate our primary industries to any extent or for any long period. They contemplate that the, greater the production the greater the difficulty in disposing of it. The whole position must be faced. It should not be a difficult matter to arrive at a satisfactory basis for- the distribution of Commonwealth revenue among the States. In distributing such revenue we should be guided by the population at the time of the distribution, qualified by the gains or losses sustained by each State as a result of federal policy, not by ' the absurd arrangement contained in the present financial agreement, which provides for distribution to be made for50 years on the basis of the population in 1926. A body armed with the necessary powers could arrive at those gains and losses without great difficulty. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Certainly not; nor would I make allowances for mismanagement by Federal Governments. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Our greatest losses will be those which will result from federal extravagance, due to the Commonwealth having had far more money than it could legitimately spend, and to government after government having defied the clear mandate of the Constitution to return to the States all surplus revenues. 
After five years from the imposition of uniform duties of customs, the Parliament may provide, on such basis as it deems fair, for the monthly payment to the several States of all surplus revenue of the Commonwealth. 
The High Court said, in effect, that there Was no surplus revenue to distribute. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The High Court said nothing of the kind. Every grant made to a State has been made under other sections. The High Court said that if the Federal Parliament appropriated all of the revenue there was then no surplus to be distributed ; but it has never said that the Federal Parliament is notbound to distribute surplus revenues to the States. The Constitution clearly contemplates that the Federal Parliament shall raise such revenues as it deems fit, and shall spend such revenues as are required for federal purposes, and hand the balance to the States. To the grave detriment of Australia, successive Parliaments, when in the possession of surpluses, have looked round for some way of spending them, instead of handing them back to the States as required by the Constitution. That is one reason why the cost of federation, instead of being merely the " price of a stick of tobacco," has become a very real burden on the people of this country. 
I am surprised that there should be any opposition to this bill from representatives of Queensland. I go so far as to say that, because of federal policy, one Queensland organization - the Colonial Sugar Refining Company - obtains, in each year, in illegitimate profits, a larger sum than the total amount which the (Commonwealth proposes to grant to Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania this year. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The Colonial Sugar Refining Company has a nominal capital of £5,800,000. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.I know that. If we go into the matter deeply, we shall find how much of the company's profits are made in Fiji - profits which are 'not subject to income tax in Australia - and what proportion of its profits are made in Australia, and so are subject to income tax. The company's balance-sheets show that the bulk of its profits last half-year were made in Australia. It would be interesting to know why profits can be made in that industry in Fiji without a subsidy. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Not on the profits made in Fiji. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The undistributed profits of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company amount to £7,000,000- a larger sum than the nominal capital. Dividends ranging from 12£ per cent, to 17£ per cent, are paid on the capital of £5,800,000. I point out that these profits are not earned, but are given to the company by Australian policy. Legitimate profits in such circumstances could only be on actual capital remaining in the concern. That would not be more than £1,000,000 at the outside. If we allow a profit of 7 per cent, it would amount to £70,000 a year as against the profit of about £1,000,000 a year now shown. Thus we arrive at a sum of £930,000 of illegitimate profit which is £20,000 more than the total grant proposed to be made this year to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.I do not object to profits being earned on reserves ; but I do object to profits being given to the company, especially when it means taxing the people of Australia an additional £1 per head per annum for their sugar. It might be said that it is necessary to protect the sugar industry. I would rather assist a primary- industry, giving work in the country, than a city industry which attracts people to the city, but I do not favour any industry being assisted to an absurd extent. 
-I take it that the honorable senator proposes to connect his remarks with the subject matter of the bill. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH It is paid by men working in other industries; by men struggling on poor land in South Australia or Western Australia ; by the miners in Kalgoorlie, who do not get one half as much per shift as the canecutters in Queensland receive. The price is fixed so high, that cane land in Queensland is valued at as much as £150 per acre. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.J do not care on what basis the jam is sold. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The sugar industry is not a protected industry, but an absolute monopoly, all competition with it being prohibited, and the price of its products is fixed by the Federal Government. It is entirely different  from other protected industries, inasmuch as the consumers of the products of other local industries, if not satisfied, can purchase goods manufactured abroad. That, however, is not the case in connexion with the sugar industry. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.What can they do with the sugar they produce ? It has to go into the pool. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The upshot of the whole business is that the more sugar they grow,  the greater will be the quantity which they will have to sell at a loss in the markets of the world, and the Australian consumer will have to be charged more for what he requires, in order to make up that loss. 
I should not have mentioned the matter in this connexion had it not been for the opposition shown io the bill by a Queensland senator. If there is one State in the Commonwealth that has benefited - I am only repeating the' findings of many investigators - by the Commonwealth policy it is Queensland. We are now going to have a further duty on cotton in order to  bolster  up another Queensland industry, which probably will, before long, be in a similar position to that of the sugar industry. It can be definitely established that the total amount of the grants to Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania is not equivalent to one-half of. the loss which these States have suffered from federal policy. Even when we have given this partial assistance to the finances of these States, we shall have done nothing towards relieving the tremendous  burden  we are casting upon those unprotected industries whose products have to be sold in the markets of the world. Unless we pay some regard to those industries, we shall inevitably find that not only will unemployment increase, but our efforts to build up a self-contained Australia by high tariffs will break down, because our manufacturers will not have a sufficiently big home market in which to sell their goods. Whenever any manufacturer overtakes th.&lt; demands of the home market provided by 6,500,000 people, we shall be faced, in the case of this industry, with conditions similar to those which have arisen in connexion with sugar - a complete inability to export the product except at a. loss. 
This simple little measure has led to an interesting debate, to which. I think, the most informative contribution has been that of the last two senators who have spoken. I shall not risk the displeasure of my fellow senators by making a long speech at this hour, but there are one or two casual observations which I wish to offer. I regret that I have not had an opportunity since this discussion arose to peruse the debates of the Federal Convention; but definite reasons were given for the inclusion of section 96 of the Commonwealth Constitution, and principles and reasons for its operation indicated. Obviously the method that we are now employing is more or less haphazard and casual. That was felt by the commission which investigated this matter. We do' not wish to set State against State, and I, therefore, regard  Senator Foil's  contribution to the debate, not as opposition to the measure, but rather as an effort to place before honorable senators another aspect of the subject dealt with in the royal commission's report. In the early stages of the debate those supporting the claims of South Australia appeared in the role of advocates rather than as judges. Instead of a judicial survey of the whole situation, they drew a doleful picture of the position of South Australia. I have always understood that the people of that State were frugal, thrifty, and industrious, and that the State had been built on the best possible foundation. We have been informed from time to time that the South Australian people have plenty of money to their credit in the Savings Bank, and that the accumulation of their savings is a definite indication of their State's solvency and stability. Yet that is not the impression gained from listening to the earlier part of the debate to-day. The disadvantages of South ' Australia owing to geographical position, climatic conditions, and absence of waterways, are set out in the commission's report. Those may be natural disadvantages, but they are not disabilities under which South Australia has suffered because of her entry into the federal union. Paragraph 54 of the report deals with the effect of federation on the State, and sets out the advantages she has derived as a member of that union. As honorable senators have no doubt studied the report, it is unnecessary to quote that paragraph. 
The matter is judicially surveyed by the commission. The appointment of independent investigating bodies is adopted in order that members may hear evidence, sift the statements made to them, and present a report. Much nonsense has been talked on public platforms about the number of such boards and committees which have been appointed. We are not likely to get the most successful results from the machinery of government, and members of Parliament will never be able to discharge their public duties properly if they are required to investigate personally every problem with which they are confronted. It is only reasonable that a government should use welltried and proved machinery for its inquiries, referring technical questions to bodies of experts, thus providing the legislature with the best advice obtainable. Obviously Parliament cannot conduct these investigations itself. Any other method would be unreliable and cumbersome, and would deprive us of advantages that are available to us. 
Yes. The Interstate Commission was provided for in the Constitution and the framers of that instrument had it in mind that the commission would be able to advise the Government in connexion with financial problems such as had caused the greatest difficulty during the sittings of the Federal Convention. It was only after a great deal of discussion that the provision, which was termed the " Braddon blot," was adopted to secure the financial stability of the States. The last Government very wisely, in my opinion, appointed a commission to advise this Parliament as to the best method of assisting South Australia. The personnel of that commission commends itself to me, and its opinion is likely to receive acceptance at the hands of honorable senators. The members of the commission were men experienced in public affairs, who had had considerable training in the sifting of evidence and in the conduct of investigations. They recommended a grant to the State of £500,000 per annum for two years. In moving the second reading of  the Tasmania Grant Bill to-night the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  indicated that the bill provided for a monetary grant to Tasmania for the next five years ; but said that grant was to be made without prejudice to the rights of Tasmania to claim a higher amount if it could prove a case for it. In the meantime the Government has arranged for the Joint Committee of Public Accounts to conduct an investigation to see what claims Tasmania can put forward to sustain a claim for a larger amount from the Commonwealth Treasury. What are we going to do in regard to this and other similar claims? We are now acting in  a  haphazard fashion in regard to these matters. It would be interesting to know why the Government has proposed a grant of £250,000 when £500,000 has been recommended by those who judicially investigated the whole matter. This commission has disinterestedly considered the pros and cons of the case. Paragraph 63 of the commission's report reads - 
In one respect we have to confess some disappointment. Remembering that this was the third State to make appeal for help to the Federal Government on the ground of alleged Federal disabilities, we had hoped to And, in the course of our inquiries, some formula or principle which could be readily applied to the changes arising out of the future financial relations of the Commonwealth and States. Although we searched diligently to this end, we are forced to confess that so far we have failed to find it. 
That is illuminating and informative. The appointment of a permanent commission was recommended - a point which was stressed this evening by  Senator McLachlan  - to study closely the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States, and to evolve some basis or working principle to guide this Parliament in determining important issues of this kind in the future. I should like the Government to give serious attention to that aspect of the case. It is imprudent merely to follow the line of least resistance, agreeing in response to the clamorous requests of the States to the payment of some amount fixed on a purely arbitrary basis. I am not saying that the Government has been so moved, or that there is a great danger of that happening. But instead of the Government following the recommendation of the commission which conducted a careful judicial investigation, and made a recommendation whose adoption should ensure the stability and solvency of the State, it has agreed to make a grant upon a basis which has not been disclosed to us. It is a definite obligation of the Commonwealth to preserve the solvency of a State since the credit and reputation of the whole Commonwealth are involved. The Commonwealth must come to the assistance of a State in need. 
There should be some check upon reckless expenditure. If a State destroyed its credit, the effect would be felt by the other States and Australia as a whole. The Commonwealth Government could not stand idly by in such circumstances. At the same time I believe that the greatest disability experienced by the States, apart from the incidence of the tariff, was caused by the unfortunate, though inevitable, entry of the Commonwealth into the field of direct taxation. It was never contemplated by the framers of the Constitution that the Commonwealth would do that. In addition to the already heavy land and income taxation, which is preventing the proper expansion of industry, this Government now proposes to collect a super tax, which will make the financial position even more difficult. Most of the States are faced with heavy prospective deficits. By increasing the rates of income taxation we may close that avenue of taxation to State governments. However, I shall not discuss further that aspect of the subject. What I wish to say is this: We should, as has been suggested by other honorable senators, adopt some principle, some formula, or appoint somebody for the investigation of the. position in a technical way. Any body entrusted with the investigation should present to this Parliament the result of its inquiries. There is practically no opposition to the present proposal. . In my judgment the case for South Australia has been abundantly proved, and is supported by the report of the royal commission. This chamber, I am sure, can confidently -accept it. T did not agree with the proposal of the previous Government to attach conditions  to the grant. I do not believe in unification, and certainly I do not wish to see unification brought about by financial strangulation. I agree with the view expressed by the right honorable W. A. Watt, a former Premier and Treasurer of Victoria, and a man who held high and responsible positions in this Parliament, when he coined that phrase, "It is not the function of the Federal Government to interfere with the domestic policy of the States." In other words, we should not use the financial power of the Commonwealth to dictate the policy of any State government. The temporary financial embarrassment of any State should not be a reason for seeking to impose our will upon it. The States have their sovereign rights, and they should be free to work out their destinies without interference or domination on the part of the Commonwealth. I support the second reading of the bill. 
I intend to support the bill. I recollect reading many years ago the debates of the Federal Convention which was responsible for the inclusion of section 96 in the Constitution. That provision, I remind honorable senators, was inserted as a measure of equalization, and it has been used, on many occasions, to help a lame dog over the stile, if I may be permitted to use a homely phrase. But my principal object in rising was to say something concerning a subject which has been mentioned in the course of the debate. I refer to the statement so often heard in this Parliament and State Parliaments that criticism by public men of financial or industrial conditions in the Commonwealth is sometimes calculated to injure the credit of the country. It has occurred to me that nothing I have ever heard or read was more calculated to injure the credit of South Australia than the plea made by  Senator Chapman  this afternoon. I was almost bathed in tears as I listened to his lugubrious story of the terrible straits to which South Australia has been reduced. The honorable senator told us that it had no coal, no timber, scarcely any water, and a rainfall not exceeding 10 inches over a considerable portion of its area. After mentioning all these natural disabilities, the honorable senator added that, whereas the accumulated deficit had been stated to be £3,000,000, an investigation had revealed the fact that, by some means, another £5,750,000, which had been concealed somewhere in the accounts, should be added to the amount, so that actually the State had gone to the bad by approximately £8,750,000. I suggest that, as we have a ban upon the importation of certain literature, it is time we seriously considered placing an embargo upon the export of  Hansard  containing the report of the honorable senator's speech. 
SenatorRAE. - I am not in a position to dispute the honorable senator's statement. I suggest, however, that it would be in the best interests not only of South Australia but also of the Commonwealth, if we could by some means prevent the publication of such dreadful news in the newspapers of Great Britain, where we occasionally obtain some loan money.I recall also a statement made by  Senator Foll  that as Tasmania, South Australia, and Western Australia were all receiving grants from the Commonwealth, it was time that Queensland also made a claim. If that were done, we might as well all try to make ourselves rich by voting funds for each other from the public purse. Notwithstanding the imputations which honorable senators opposite sometimes level at the communists, their speeches this afternoon on this bill have convinced me that they, too, believe in a measure of communism.  Senator Lawson,  I think, declared that we should give to each State according to its needs. That statement absolutely embodies the creed of communism. If honorable senators opposite are prepared to run the Commonwealth on communistic lines I shall have much pleasure in handing to them the red emblem of the faith, for certainly to give to each according to his needs is the true spirit of communism. I think, however, that in practical politics we have a right to consider how money advanced to a State is to be spent. Surely if prodigality or maladministration forces a State to appeal to the Commonwealth for financial assistance, the Commonwealth is entitled to inquire into the administrative acts that have brought it to such a pass. The Commonwealth Government has not an inexhaustible fund from which to dole out these remittances. It must depend for its revenue upon those States which are in better circumstances. New South Wales is regarded as one of the wealthy States that must act as a fairy god-mother to the smaller States. 
It has to find the money for a very large proportion of all Commonwealth expenditure. But I do not wish to set State against State. If New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland are in such a position that they can provide assistance for the other States when they are in indigent circumstances, that is no reason why this Parliament should not exercise supervision over grants of Commonwealth money to them, or comment on the reasons why those States have been forced to come to the Commonwealth for assistance. I do not think that Queensland will require such help as has been called for by South Australia.  Senator Chapman  has painted such a picture of the latter State that, with the near approach of Christmas, its people would scarcely choose him to act as Santa Claus to shower benefits on them. It seems to me that, with the changes that have taken place since federation, the Commonwealth Constitution should be put into the melting pot, because many of its provisions should be revised. 

 Senator McLachlan referred to the high price of coal, and its effect on the railways of South Australia. It is only partially true to say that the cost of coal is due to the high wages paid to the men employed in the industry. It is chiefly caused by the enormous profits made by the mine-owners. Taking into account the watering of stock, I claim that those profits amount to nearer 5s. or 6s. a ton than the sum stated by one or more of the commissions that have investigated the coal situation.  Senator McLachlan  told us that one of the causes of the necessitous circumstances of South Australia was the fact that it could not obtain coal except at the enormously high prices charged in the eastern States, and he de clared that the priceswere mainly due to the increased cost of labour in the production of that commodity. 
But he advanced, as one reason for it, the argument that the wages paid to miners were high. 
SenatorRAE. - I am not discussing those charges, but am merely pointing out that the huge profits made by the mine-owners, rather than the wages paid, have helped to penalize States like South Australia. In view of the fact that the Commonwealth itself is in sore straits financially, it would be only reasonable on the part of South Australia to accept something less than the royal commission has recommended. We should do well to pass the bill without lengthy discussion, because, undoubtedly, the more necessitous States must be helped by those which are able to render assistance to them. 
I move - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
.- We have had a very interesting debate on this bill, and I should not have felt disposed to enter upon a discussion of the affairs of the different States except that honorable senators have been so unanimous as to what a splendid State Queensland is. With the great natural resources we possess in that State, we are able to get along very well.  Senator Colebatch  adopted the attitude that the Federal Government had no right to lay down any terms when granting money to the States. I do not agree with him in that. I think that the National Parliament of Australia, when handing over money belonging to the people of the Commonwealth, and not specially contributed by the citizens of any particular State, should have a right to lay down terms as to how the money is spent. I have not the slightest desire to interfere with the domestic arrangements of any State, but this Parliament has the right, when making a money grant, to lay down what terms it desires. The present grant should have the same conditions attached to it as were proposed by the last Government. I was a member of the Public Works Committee of this Parliament when it investigated the proposal to extend the railway fromRed Hill to Port Augusta, and also to connect it with Port Pirie. This was to be part of the scheme for unifying railway gauges throughout Australia. The Government also entered into an agreement for. constructing a standard gauge railway from Brisbane to Kyogle. When that section is completed there willbe a standard gauge railway from Brisbane to Albury. When the work of unification is completed in South Australia and Western Australia there will be a standard gauge railway from Fremantle to Adelaide. That would be greatly to the benefit of Australia as a whole. 
SenatorREID. - The Western Australian Government promised to lay down a 4ft. 8½in. gauge line between those points, but has not yet done so. I am not criticizing the Western Australian Government for its failure to do this, because I do not know of any Government in Australia more deserving of credit than it is for the manner in which it has carried out its policy of developmental works. Perhaps, when the Federal Government has completed the other portions of this line, it may see its way to assist Western Australia to build the section in its territory. I would gladly vote money for such a work. The committee, of which I was a member, took evidence from a great many leading people in South Australia, from the Railway Commissioner and his officers, and from people situated in the various districts through which the line would pass, particularly in Port Pirie, Port Augusta and Red Hill. After taking evidence, we made the following recommendations, which I shall quote for the purpose of showing the benefit that would accrue to the people of Australia from federal expenditure on the standardization of Australian railways - 
The special advantages which the Commonwealth is expected to gain from the proposal have been stated as follows: - 
Would reduce by about 70 miles the length of the journey between Adelaide and Port Augusta, and the time occupied by five hours. 
Would permit of passengers and loading being conveyed direct from Adelaide to Kalgoorlie (1,240 miles), obviating the delay and expense at present incurred in transhipment at Terowie and Port Augusta. 
Would curtail by eight and a half to nine and a half hours the time at present occupied in the train journey from Adelaide to Perth. 
Would enable live stock from the Trans-Australian railway to be conveyed from point of loading to market in the same vehicle, thus affording arrival of stock in better condition. Under existing conditions, live stock for Adelaide has to be transhipped at Port Augusta into 3 ft. ft in. trains, and again at Terowie to 5' ft.. 3 in. trains. 
Would permit of live stock being conveyed from Port Augusta to Dry Creek in ten to twelve hours. At present 25 hours elapse between the arrival of live stock at Port Augusta and the time of arrival at Dry Creek. 
Would provide a line on which on each train 85 per cent. more loading could be carried from Port Augusta, and 54 per cent. to Port Augusta. (The existing line via Terowie rises at a couple of points to 2,000 feet, while on the proposed line via Red Hill the highest point would be 455 feet.) 
Would accelerate the mail service to and from Western Australia; the outward English mail would leave Melbourne and Adelaide later, and the inward English mail would be delivered in Adelaide on Fridays instead of Saturdays, and would arrive in sufficient time in Melbourne to enable delivery to be effected onthe first round on Saturday morning instead of Monday. 
Would be sufficiently revenue-pro ducing to at once pay working expenses, and a considerable portion, if not the whole, of the interest. 
Would permit of the quotation of a through rate to Adelaide for live stock from the Trans-Australian and the railway- to Alice Springs, instead of being compelled to adopt the South Australian rates for portion of the distance. 
Would afford, for the reasons mentioned in (b) some measure of relief from the disabilities under which the Trans-Australian Railway is at present worked. 
Would increase the revenue on the Trans-Australian Railway by approximately £35,000, due to the stipulation of through traffic which would obtain for the reasons mentioned in (b). 
Would permit of stores and materials required for the Trans-Australian and the railway to Alice Springs being conveyed by Commonwealth trains from Adelaide, thus minimizing the expenditure at present incurred in freight charges. 
Some of the reasons given by the committee in favour of this proposal are not so forcible to-day as they were then. For instance, an aerial mail service is operating now between Adelaide and Perth, although it carries only a small part of the mails. But if South Australia had accepted the proposals of the "Works Committee, she would have been much better off than she is now. 
I remind honorable senators that a strong movement has been set on foot in New South Wales for the construction of a standard gauge railway line from Broken Hill to Port Augusta. A deputation waited upon the Prime Minister in Sydney last week-end, and asked that a survey of the proposed route be made. The Prime Minister promised that  he  would make inquiries into the subject. If this line is built we shall have a direct east-west line by the shortest  possible  route, which will not touch either Adelaide or Melbourne. New South Wales exerts a strong influence on the present Government, and it may happen that this line will be built. 
I am not finding fault with the New South Wales people for urging the adoption of this proposal. Such a line would open up a good deal of new country, and provide ashorter route than the line reported upon by the Public Works Committee. 
I have done so,  Mr. President,  because of the remarks made by  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch in relation to the conversion of our railway gauges. The longer this work is delayed the more expensive it will become. If a railway line is built from Broken Hill to Port Augusta, South Australia will lose a good deal of the benefit which the Bruce-Gunn agreement would have conferred upon her had it been carried out. 
The principal point which I wish to emphasize is that if the Commonwealth Government grants financial assistance to certain States, it should have some say in how the money will be spent. 
I wish to support the bill. 
I do not; but I desire to express briefly my views upon the subject with which it deals. The necessity for the introduction of such a measure is evidence that great mistakes have been made in federal policy in the past. Three States have so far been granted financial relief by the Commonwealth because of disabilities from which they are suffering, and it is significant that they are the three States with the smallest population. A good deal has been said during this debate about the right of the States to spend their revenue as they please. I submit that the Commonwealth Government has nothing to do with that aspect of the subject. The grants have been made mainly because the States suffered through the incidence and effect of federal legislation. 
The three States with larger populations have benefited from federation atthe cost of the States with smaller populations. The effect of federation upon South Australia is the real point which has to be considered in connexion with the payment of a special grant. The Bruce-Page Government appointed a commission consisting of  Sir Joseph  Cook, who has held many prominent positions in the public life of Australia,  Mr. Herbert  Brooks, and  Mr. 
Albert E. Barton, which unanimously reported in favour of a grant of £1,000,000 being paid to South Australia in two annual payments of £500,000. But instead of acting on the recommendations of the commission, the Government now proposes to make a grant of £360,000 for the first year and £320,000 during each of the two following years. In the case of Western Australia, a majority of the commission recommended a grant of £450,000, but the Federal Government reduced the amount by one-third, as it has done in the case of South Australia. I do not know on what basis it arrived at its decision to ignore the recommendation of a properly constituted tribunal consisting of experts, who had conducted a thorough investigation into the whole circumstances of the case. 
I do not think so. There can be only two reasons for the appointment of a commission to conduct such. an investigation, one of which would be to shelve the matter - I am sure that this Government and its predecessor would not be guilty of that - and the other to obtain the services of the best men available to advise the Government on the true merits of the case. 
No ; but if a government does not pay special regard to the recommendations of a commission there does not seem any justification for its appointment. The South Australian Government fully proved its case before the commission, which, after a most exhaustive inquiry, recommended the payment of a grant of £500,000 a year for a period of two years, but I regret that the Government is not adopting that recommendation, just as I deplore the fact that the recommendation of the Western Australia Disabilities' Commission for an annual grant of £450,000 was not accepted by the Government. In carefully studying the report of the South Australia Disabilities Commission I have been struck with the fact that South Australia seems to be experiencing exactly the same disabilities under federation as is Western Australia. The report of the commission states that the main reasons for South Australia's present financial position are the incidence and effect of three federal enactments, which also press very heavily upon Western Australia. I refer to our familiar enemies, the customs tariff, the Federal Arbitration Act, and the Navigation Act. The South Australia Disabilities Commission, in referring to the effect of the tariff upon South Australia, states - 
Inequalities have arisen in the incidence of the general tariff policy of the Commonwealth, but are duc to the varying natural conditions of the several States. States, and particularly South Australia, whose industries are chiefly primary and agricultural, and whose staple products depend largely upon the price ruling in the world's markets, must feel the burdon of a general protective policy most acutely, but so far no reliable working hypothesis has been established to measure the burden with any degree of accuracy. 
In regard to the effect of federal arbitration upon South Australia, the commission states - 
The decision of the High Court with regard to State instrumentalities has led to an anomalous position whereby one sovereign authority decrees the amount to be disbursed while another sovereign authority is left with the obligation to find the money. This has caused considerable confusion in the finances of South Australia.. Its effect has been to impose burdens and injustices on all States, &lt; and the sooner some satisfactory adjustment is made between the Commonwealth and the States the better for all concerned. 
We have recently been informed that the Government intends to submit to Parliament an amending arbitration bill and it is to be hoped that, in framing that measure, it will give effect to the recommendations of the commission in this respect and relieve the instrumentalities of sovereign States from the effect of awards of the Federal Arbitration Court. 
I am certain that the State governments of Australia can be trusted to do a fair thing to their employees without any federal interference or direction. In regard to the Navigation Act, the commission reports - 
The increased cost of timber and coal due to high freight charges, largely attributable to the Navigation Act, makes for South Australia a position of great hardship, and accentuates the difficulties which a paucity of natural resources imposes. Since we commenced our inquiry the Commonwealth Government has announced its proposal to repeal the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act. 
It is interesting to note that South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania - Queensland would be in a similar position but for the sugar industry - are all feeling the ill-effects of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. The Government would be well advised in giving effect to the recommendations of the commission to which' I have referred, as legislation of this kind is most seriously affecting the primary industries of Australia, and certainly a majority of the States. 
No. British ships manned by white labour should be encouraged to trade on the Australian coast. We are prepared to accept the protection of British warships manned by white labour- 
Order ! I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the subject-matter of the bill. 
This debate has shown that the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States is one of the most difficult problems with which this Parliament has to deal. In the course- of an able speech,  Senator Colebatch  made it apparent that Queensland and Victoria are the only States which have not suffered under federation, and but for the existence of the sugar agreement Queensland would also be included. If Victoria is the only State which is able to bear the burden, there must be something radically wrong with the federal instrument. The honorable member for Wimmera  (Mr. Stewart)  in another place has requested  Senator Guthrie  and myself to interview the Prime Minister and endeavour to secure a bounty on dried fruits, which are produced in' his electorate. He has also suggested that it is necessary to establish a compulsory wheat pool in Victoria. It would therefore appear that the producers in that State also are in a difficult position on account of federation. We may well ask ourselves why we should remain federated. Every State is getting into the same fix. The people were induced to federate principally because they believed that we would have an efficient defence force. Now that that has disappeared surely .we ought to alter our system of government. 
I am endeavouring to ascertain what justification there is for giving this special grant to South Australia. As  Senator Lawson  has pointed out, it was never intended that the Commonwealth should raise revenue by the imposition of an income tax or a land tax. It was believed that that field of taxation would be left to the States. The Commonwealth has contracted the habit of taking from the people more money than it needs for its own requirements, and has had to dispose of the surplus by giving road grants, bounties, and other forms of assistance. I trust that the present Government will refrain from increasing our taxation and making further grants. It has been said that Victoria is the only State that has benefited from federation; yet how many factories in that- State are paying? Why is there so much unemployment? The reason is that, owing largely to our excessive taxation, no concern is able to make a profit. 
I should like to have more definite information as to why South Australia is in greater need of a grant than is Victoria. When I was in Adelaide recently, practically every second person that I met asked me if I had seen the new- railway station ; and when I replied that I had, and said that I regarded it as a fine building, I was told that it was the biggest white elephant they had ever had, and that a mistake had been made when it was built. 
They realize that it will not earn 1 per cent, on the amount invested for the next 30 years. It is the same type of building that the Federal Capital Commission compelled business people to erect in this city - something of a monument rather than business premises. By some process of bookkeeping the railway authorities in South Australia may make it appear that it is a payable proposition. It  is  not built on modern lines, but is similar to the buildings that were erected by convict labour in  the  old days, with walls 10 ft. thick. A new station is very badly needed at Spencer Street, Melbourne. 
Surely I am entitled to ask whether Victoria cannot be given a similar grant? 
Apparently the difficulties under which South Australia is labouring have been caused solely by its policy of spending large sums of money on an extravagant railway station and other railway works. I understand that the total amount which the Commonwealth proposes to grant to it will not equal the amount spent on the Adelaide station. That work should have been postponed until money was available for it. If that course had been followed there would have been no need for the State to come to the Commonwealth for this grant. I shall support the measure ; but I trust that when I submit an application on behalf of Victoria for a bounty on dried fruits or other assistance it will be sympathetically received. 
, - I regret that it has been necessary to sit to such a late hour; but  if  honorable senators will Study the business-paper they will see that it is obligatory on us to make speedier progress than we have been making. 
I do not propose to traverse the various arguments that have been advanced, because the case for the grant has been very effectively stated by different speakers. But I certainly do resent the suggestion that the Government has been guilty of any lack of courtesy in not having placed before the Senate the full facts relating to the measure that it is asked to discuss. I am still a novice; but, as I understand parliamentary procedure, when papers are placed upon the table, ordered to be printed, and circulated among honorable senators, it is presumed that they will be read by honorable senators. I remind Senators H. E. Elliott and Carroll that I prefaced my remarks with the statement that a commission had been appointed, that its report had been printed and laid on the table, and that I presumed that the Senate did not desire me to read it. If il is the wish of the Senate that I should read all these documents, I am quite prepared to do so. Had I known that  Senator Carroll  had not read this document I certainly should have read it. This was the case upon which the previous Government rested its legislation. 
Then apparently the honorable senator did not hear me - say that this bill was the outcome of the report, and that the Government was giving legislative effect to the undertaking of the previous administration to the State of South Australia. 
The bill consists of four sections, each covering about half a page. As I understand the duties of the Leader of the Senate, he has to place a measure before this, chamber calmly and dispassionately, and, if contentious points are raised in the course of the debate,, to explain the provision of the bill. Federal Arbitration Court awards have had nothing whatever to do with .the disabilities of South Australia.  Senator McLachlan  and  Senator Colebatch  both amplified the opinions expressed by members of the commission. 
It referred to the conflicting jurisdictions and the need for the maintenance of a high standard of living. We all admit that. But South Australia is not antagonistic to the principle of federal arbitration, and although it was mentioned in the commission's report, actually the principal disability suffered by South Australia was the abolition of the  per capita  payments. 
Theoretically, yes. There is also the point that the State has not enjoyed prosperous seasons since the abolition of the  per capita  payments. As there is no opposition to the measure I shall not further detain the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill road a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
Standing and sessional orders suspended, and bill read a third time. 
Senate adjourned at  12.11  a.m. (Thursday). 
The Senate having unanimously agreed that a thorough investigation should be held into the economic position and condition of wheat growing and fruit growing in the Commonwealth and the late Government having referred that subject to the Development and Migration Commission, will the present Government cause the investigation to be pushed to a finish before the commission is disbanded? 
The Government has not arrived at a decision to disband the Development and Migration Commission. The economic position of wheat growing and fruit growing is at the present time receiving the very serious consideration of the Government. I can assure the honorable senator that I personally have given a great deal of attention to it, and that steps will be taken to reap some benefit from the very fine debate that took place in the Senate upon the motion submitted by the honorable senator for the holding of this investigation. 
On the 28th November  Senator Guthrie  asked the following questions,   upon notice - 
Is it a fact that more naval units have been trained at Geelong than at any other depot ? 
Is it the intention of the- Government to close the Naval Training Depot at Geelong? 
If all the naval officers connected with the depot at Geelong are willing to act as volunteers and assist in enlisting volunteers, will the Government keep the depot open; if not, why not? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
No. 
Yes. 
The Naval Training Depot at Geelong is being closed on the recommendation of the Naval Board for reasons of economy. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate in a position to say whether the Government has come to any decision in regard to the request placed before the Prime Minister a few days ago by a deputation from South Australia and interested persons from other States, for an increase of the bounty on export wine ? 
I understand that the Prime Minister will make a statement on the matter either to-day or to-morrow. 
In view of the cabled announcement that large numbers of agriculturists have effected their escape from Russia with Canada as their destination, will the Government intimate to the Russian authorities, either directly or through the British Government, that Australia will welcome wholeheartedly our fellow proletariats and potential workers to our now idle lands? 
The honorable senator's question will need some slight amendment unless  Senator Daly  chooses to answer it as it is. 
I suggest that " our fellow proletariats " is scarcely the proper term to use. 
The Government's intention in regard to assisted migration has been made perfectly clear. 
The Government has not yet received a reply to the communication referred to by the right honorable gentleman. 
Will the Government, before the Senate is asked to discuss the defence Estimates, make available to honorable senators the report of General  Sir Harry  Chauvel on the Commonwealth Military Forces, which I understand was tabled a week ago? 
The printing of the report referred to by the honorable senator will, I presume, be considered by the Printing Committee when it isappointed. 
I shall be most happy to do so if copies can be obtained. customstariff. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is the Government aware that heavy looses are anticipated by importers of goods ordered, on which there have been heavy increases of duty? 
In cases where there have been large increases of duty, will the Government consider the question of amending the Customs regulations, so that a refund of duty can be made in cases of hardship on production of copyof order and confirmation from suppliers? 
-The answers are - 
No. 
No. The Customs regulations have no bearing on the matter. Section 132 of the Customs Act 1901-25, requires that all import duties shall be paid at the rate in force when the goods are entered for home consumption. 
asked the Minister, representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With reference to the questions asked  in  regard t6 the New Guinea Public Service on 21st November, will the Minister supply the following further information: - 
Is it a fact that a letter from the Public Service Association of New Guinea, dated 8th August, 1928, addressed to the Minister for Home and Territories, and  sent  to the Administrator in August, 1928, with a request that it should be forwarded to the Minister, was not  so  forwarded until, a question having been asked in the Senate in March, 1929, the Administrator's attention was directed to the matter? 
What reason (if any) was given by the Administrator for the delay before he complied with the request subsequent to his return to the Territory from Canberra? 
Have not the Public Service Associations of the Commonwealth a similar right to approach the Minister to that requested by the Public Service Association in New Guinea in this case? 
Has the attention of the Minister been directed to articles in the press at intervals during the  last  two years alleging serious discontent amongst the public servants in the Territory of New Guinea? 
Will the Minister cause inquiries to be made into such alleged discontent? 
When may the decision of the Prime Minister asked for in the letter of 8th August, 1928, above referred to, be expected? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
The delay subsequent to the Administrator's return to the Territory was explained by him as being due to the fact that he was engaged in dealing with the native industrial trouble, and proceedings arising out of that trouble, to the exclusion of lessurgent matters. 
The question of whether a Minister will receive representations from any such association is a matter entirely within his discretion. 
I am informed that there have at times been references in the press to discontent in regard to specific matters such as the Superannuation Ordinance. 
The matter will be looked into. 
It is anticipated that a decision will be reached at an early date. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Does the Government propose to maintain, without interruption, full convertibility of the Australian pound during continuance of the present state of exchange between Australia and London? 
If a temporary suspension of the export of gold for exchange purposes is not contemplated, does the Government anticipate being in a position, on the passing of the bill for the amendment of the Commonwealth Bank Act, to satisfy all individual exchange needs promptly and without discrimination? 
If arrangements are in view for meeting all gold export requirements as they arise in the course of trade, and until an improvement in the exchange situation raiders further export of gold unnecessary, will the Australian trading banks be permitted to retain their full normal share of exchange financing? 
Or will the arrangements contemplated necessitate most or all of the larger exchange transactions being left in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank during the continuance of gold export for exchange purposes? 
Are there any special circumstances in the present exchange position, which would prevent recourse in Australia to the remedy adopted in Great Britain for the correction of exchanges there? 
These matters oan be more suitably dealt with in the course of the debate on a measure which will shortly come before the Senate, and I suggest, therefore, that they be brought up at a later stage. To a large extent the questions have already been dealt with by the Treasurer in the debates in another place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What are the terms of the lease granted to the La Perouse Golf Club by the previous Government ? 
By whose authority have notices been displayed on roads leading to this property, threatening trespassers with prosecution? 
Will the Minister give instructions that the citizens of Sydney shall be permitted free access to the headlands at La Perouse for picnic purposes, and insist on the removal of these notices? 
Inquiries will be made, and the honorable senator will be informed as soon as possible. telephonecharges. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to increase the call charges for country telephones from1d. to1½d. per call? 
Are the charges for city telephone calls being proportionately increased? ' 
In view of the greater benefits afforded to city subscribers, owing to the thousands of connexions to their exchanges, will the Government reconsider any proposal to increase charges to country subscribers? 
The answers are :  - 
The only instance where the unit call fee is being increased is in respect of services in telephone networks containing between 301 and 600 subscribers, the alteration being from1d. to1½d. per call. 
No change is being made in the telephone call fee in the city areas, but the ground rental for all services has been increased. 
In the new tariff there is abundant evidence of the Government's desire to moke country services available at the lowest possible cost, and the tariff differentiates in a substantial manner between city and country users. In the case of Perth, for example, subscribers pay a ground rental charge of £5 7s. 6d. per annum, whereas in networks containing up to 300 subscribers the charge is only £3, and in areas containing between 301 and 1,000 subscribers the charge is £3 5s. only. Actually, the specially low ground rental charge made in the countryareas scarcely pays the interest charges on the capital value of the plant. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister.  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to adopt the recommendation of the royal commission on the finances of South Australia as affected by federation (paragraph 60) - that the Commonwealth Government should, for a period of two years, refrain from enforcing the condition under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement, which requires South Australia to provide 15s. for every £1 contributed by the Commonwealth? 
In view of the very similar economic disabilities under which Western Australia is suffering, will similar relief be granted to that State in this respect? 
The answers are: -  1 and 2. The Government proposes to discuss with the States on Monday next the question of amending the Federal Aid Roads Agreement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Is boring for oil still in progress at Popo, in Papua ? 
If so, what are the present depths of the bores and the nature of the strata being penetrated? 
The answers are :  - 
No. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice. - 
What progress has been made in regard to the establishment of a wireless telephone service between Tasmania and the Mainland? 
Tenders are under consideration and necessary experimental work has been undertaken to determine the best conditions for the operation of such a service. In view of substantial improvements which have recently taken place in the design of submarine telephone cables, further investigations are being pursued so that the relative merits of the two systems under present day conditions may be determined. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to endanger the efficiency of the Air Force by disbanding the Air Board and/or the Air Force as a separate entity in regard to the defence of Australia? 
When will aproper aerodrome with the necessary hangar, windvane, and water supply be made available to aviators at the Federal Capital? 
Is it a fact that, whilst Australia is particularly suitable for aviation, and our airmen second to none, there is not one good and up-to-date aerodrome in the whole of Australia? 
Inquiries will be made and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
Yes; but very little work is being done on that section. The line to Wauchope passes through some low-lying country, which in wet weather is subject to floods coming from the hinterland of the New England district. Between Wauchope and Kempsey also the land is low-lying; a fall of 3 inches of -rain will cover the delta of the Macleay River districts with water to a depth of 6 or 7 feet. 
Do the localities mentioned by the honorable senator come within the scope of this bill? 
The bill deals with a line from Grafton to South Brisbane ; but if the honorable senator assures me that it covers the localities he has mentioned I must accept his assurance. 

 Senator e. d.  ELLIOTT (Victoria) [3.46] .  -  I was unfortunately absent from the chamber when this bill was introduced. I, therefore, inquired from a number of honorable senators who were present during the second reading what arguments were advanced by the Minister in support of the bill, but they were unable to enlighten me. For that reason I listened with considerable interest to the remarks of  Senator Glasgow,  particularly those in which he stated that this railway will assist the primary producers of Queensland and northern New South Wales. I am one of those who believe that the future of this country depends upon the development of its natural resources. Our primary industries should be developed in order to enable us to produce a surplus for export, for without a surplus for export Australia's economic position cannot be sound. I should like to be able to agree with the reasons adadvanced by  Senator Glasgow  for the additional cost of this railway, but I cannot do so. In my opinion, the adoption of the " government stroke " is responsible. This is the third time that the estimates for this work have been revised. The original estimate was £3,500,000, which, later, was increased to £4,000,000. Under this bill a further £350,000 is appropriated. I believe that the cost will be even greater than the present estimate.  Senator Glasgow  has, apparently, forgotten that additional expenditure, and, consequently, a heavier interest bill is inevitable when big works are undertaken on the basis adopted in this instance. Unfortunately, we have not to look very far for other illustrations of estimates of- big public works having been exceeded. The estimate prepared in 1914 for the Murray River works was £4,660,000. Twelve months ago the actual expenditure was £14,000,000; and the work is still going on. I predict that that scheme will cost the country several million pounds more before the work is finished. The Eildon Weir in Victoria was originally estimated to cost £750,000 and to take three years to complete. The actual cost to date is £1,500,000, and it is probable that ten years will elapse before the job is finished. 
Originally when tenders were called for this work, I understand, that sealed estimates were submitted by the New South Wales Railway Department for the New South Wales section of the line, and for some reason or other the Commonwealth Government refused to give the contract to an outsider. Negotiations over the matter covered a period of four or five months, during which time the council controlling construction had access to the detailed figures of the tenders, and retained deposits running into £40,000 or £50,000 without compensation in any shape or form. The understanding was that the estimates given by the State Governments would not be exceeded. One argument advanced by the council was that as the work would be done by day labour, the constructing authorities would be free from the need for supervision, and on that account it therefore deducted £40,000 or £50,000. I should imagine that those who have had experience of government day labour work, would think that in such circumstances supervision would be even more necessary than if the work was to be done by outside tenderers. On this railway the council controlling the matter was master and servant. How could any one expect efficient and reasonable service under those conditions? The other day  Senator Daly  appealed to us to help his Government in solving some of the difficulties that come before it. We should be helping his Government very much if we could induce it to thoroughly investigate the details of the conditions under which this additional money is demanded by the railway council. My feeling is that if the position were thoroughly investigated it would be found that there is no definite obligation on the part of the Commonwealth Government to pay this money. I understand that one reason advanced for the additional cost is that a washaway was occasioned by heavy rains. But washaways are a risk railway contractors always accept, and it is one which should be carried by the Queensland or the New South Wales Government whichever is involved. It should certainly not be passed on to the Commonwealth. This is a direction in which considerable expenditure could be avoided, and an investigation on the lines I suggest would give the Government' a wonderful experience of the disadvantages of the daylabour system. I happen to have been in a position to study the conditions of these contracts at the time they were let. I really did not think that it was possible for the industrial conditions of Queensland to go back on those existing at the time these tenders were prepared. In estimating the cost, provision had to be made for only 212 full working days in the year. Provision had also to be made to allow the men a twenty minutes " smoko " each morning and afternoon, and the time-off was not to start until the men were under shelter. It was not to count from the moment they downed tools. In Queensland, provision had also to be made to pay the fares of workmen to their homes at each week-end, if they were within range, and at least once a month if their homes were out of range. Even if  Senator Barnes  is unable to withdraw the bill, I should like him to make an investigation, and tell us the result of his experience. In business a refusal to face disagreeable facts leads to bankruptcy, in war it leads to defeat, in science to false conclusions, in theology it is commonly believed to lead to perdition, and in politics it leads to all these disagreeable consequences. If we close our eyes to this great expenditure and to the drawbacks of the day-labour system I am afraid it will lead to trouble. 
This is a measure on the introduction of which I can congratulate the Government. 
 Can the honorable senator throw any light on the increased costs? 
One thing that has disturbed me as a frequent traveller is the announcement by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that the journey from Sydney to Brisbane will be reduced by six hours only. I hope that  Senator Glasgow  and  Senator Dunn,  who declared that the saving in time would be seven hours, are more accurate. We were looking forward to a greater saving of time than five or six hours. I agree that the new railway will provide more comfortable travelling. The jolting which now occurs about Ben Nevis and the high levels before Wallangarra is reached will be avoided. 
I take this opportunity to urge upon the Government the need for expediting the construction of the Clarence river bridge, so that after the completion of this railway there will be no great interval of time before the line will be workable right through from Brisbane to Sydney. The other day, in a question, I mentioned the need for a daily service between Sydney and Brisbane. I hope that  Senator Barnes  will endeavour to bring pressure to bear on the railway commissioners of Queensland and New South Wales, to see that a daily service, including Sundays, is provided. That facility is now provided between Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, and surely the great State of Queensland should not be allowed to lag behind the other States in this respect. 
As has been mentioned by other senators, the Grafton to South Brisbane railway will be another link in the 4 ft.  Si  in. standard gauge railway we hope to have some day running from Brisbane to Perth. This section will enable the journey from Brisbane to Albury to be made without a break of gauge, and I should imagine that it would be a comparatively easy matter to add a third rail to the 5 ft. 3 iri. gauge railway lines between Albury and Melbourne and Melbourne and Adelaide. Railway experts say that it is a difficult matter to work a third rail, and I suppose we must believe those who ought to know more about it than laymen. 
.- Despite all the criticism directed by the Labour party towards the late Government, practically every measure submitted to Parliament by the new Administration is in continuation of the policy inaugurated by the Government it displaced. It should make the people realize that there was no need for a change of administration. 
Like previous speakers, I am pleased that the work of building a railway line between Kyogle and South Brisbane is nearing completion. The contracts that were entered into between the parties for the construction of this line were exactly similar to those which are entered into everywhere in Australia, inasmuch as provision was made in them to meet the eventuality of labour and also certain materials increasing the cost during the progress of the contract. In this case the additional cost was to be borne by the Commonwealth Government. In practically every contract of this nature, provision is also made that, in the event of an award of the Arbitration Court increasing wages, or reducing the hours of employees, the person letting the contract shall be responsible for the extra cost. 
Tes. "When the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway was commenced a few years ago, a 44-hour week was not general throughout New South Wales, and consequently the additional cost in that respect alone has increased expenses to a great extent. It would have been practically impossible for the Queensland Government to bear the whole of the extra- cost involved, in consequence of increased wages and the higher prices of material. In these circumstances, there is no justification for the statement made by  Senator B.  D. Elliott, that this additional expense should have been borne by the Queensland Government, instead of by the Commonwealth authorities. 
The position was explained by the Assistant Minister. During the debate on the second reading of the South Australia Grant Bill last night, frequent reference was made to the cost of State railway construction and maintenance, and to-day we are considering a measure in which provision is made for a further sum to be made available by the Commonwealth for railway construction in two States. What does this suggest in the matter of railway policy? That the railway and transport systems throughout Australia generally have reached a stage when it is practically impossible for the States to carry out further extensions, or to fully cope with the costs of maintaining their railway systems. Recent happenings suggest that it will not be long before the whole of the transport system of Australia will be brought under the control of the Federal authorities. 
Eventually they will come under Commonwealth jurisdiction. At present, I believe, the network of railways throughout Australia could be more economically controlled under one authority than under the six State administrations, with numerous railway commissioners, assistant commissioners, and the necessary central administrative staffs. Recent Commonwealth legislation, in the direction of granting financial assistance to the States, owing to the unsatisfactory financial situation, suggests that the day is not far distant when something on the lines I have suggested will be seriously considered, if not adopted. 
Necessary lines would always be constructed; but four of the States already find it practically impossible to undertake the construction of developmental lines. I trust that the construction of the Grafton to South Brisbane railway will be expedited. When completed, it mli be a means of rapidly transporting, at a reduced cost, the fruit and primary products of the areas to be traversed by it, and bringing them 'within reach of those living in the thickly-populated areas. Many kinds of tropical and semi-tropical fruits grown in the southern portion of Queensland, and in the northern rivers district, cannot, at present, be obtained in Sydney at a reasonable price, owing to the circuitous route over which they have to be transported to reach the Sydney market. 
Although the reduction in time taken by passenger trains will be six or seven hours, that taken in the transport of fresh fruit will probably be reduced by 24 hoars. The completion of the line will result in new markets being opened up for those engaged in the production of mangoes, paw-paws, custard apples and other products, which, at present, can be obtained  in Sydney only at an almost prohibitive price. In these circumstances, I trust it will not be long before Brisbane and Sydney are connected by a 4 ft. 8$ in. gauge line, which, I hope, will eventually be extended so that passengers may be able to travel from Brisbane to Perth on a railway of uniform gauge. 
It is gratifying to learn that the first section of a uniform- gauge railway for Australia is within reasonable distance of completion. The royal commission, which inquired into the ' question of a uniform gauge for Australia, recommended the adoption of a gauge of 4 ft. 8£ in. between the capital cities of Australia, both from the viewpoint of defence and for commercial purposes. I have not the slightest doubt that this line, which is being constructed on the 4 ft. 8£ in gauge, will bc of great assistance to the travelling public, and also of incalculable benefit to primary producers and others in those portions of Queensland and New South Wales to be served by it. It will assist the development of additional territory and enable settlers, who, at present, are without railway facilities, to transport their produce to two large consuming centres. During the four years' drought recently experienced in Western Queensland, pastoralists and graziers would have been in a much better position had they been  able to obtain supplies of lucerne hay and artificial fodder from those States which had experienced satisfactory seasons, and had a surplus on hand. In 1927, pastoralists in the far west were paying £12 10s. a ton for lucerne hay delivered in Townsville, whilst that commodity was being quoted in the vicinity of 70s. a ton in Victoria. Owing to difficulty and cost of transporting this produce, they were prevented from obtaining supplies. 
Yes, but if the line now under consideration had been completed, supplies could have been sent from the interior of New South Wales to Queensland, possibly at a cheaper rate than that at which it could have been shipped, and the rapid transportation of fodder, which is of vital importance for the feeding of starving stock, would have been assured. The completion of this railway will be of great assistance to those engaged in agricultural, fruitgrowing, and cattle-raising industries. If the cattle, which come chiefly from Albert and Logan River Valleys, Beaudesert and Canungra districts, which are some of the finest produced in Australia, had not to be. transhipped between Brisbane and Sydney, it would be of great advantage to pastoralists. - When this line is completed paw-paw, custard apples, pineapples, persimmons, and citrus fruits from the Cleveland, Redland Bay, Victoria Point, Manly and  Winnum  districts will be readily transported, and placed on city markets at a lower rate than at present. As has been pointed out, the new line will effect a valuable saving of time in the. transport of goods as well as of passengers. At the present time perishable fruit has to be sent by train to Brisbane, reloaded there and sent thence to Sydney by. the round-about route via Toowoomba, Stanthorpe and Wallangarra, where it is transhipped and sent on to the New South Wales capital. When this line iB completed growers in the Cleveland, Redland Bay and adjoining districts will be able to put their produce on the train and have it sent to its destination with only one handling. It must also be remembered that, including the population of the two cities a population of over 2,000,000 between Brisbane and Sydney will be served by this line, to the advantage of all. Further, the tourist possibilities of the new line are tremendous. It will traverse ohe of the most picturesque sections of Queensland, the National Park, Lamington plateau, and the Macpherson range. On the other side of the border, tourists will be able to view the magnificent northern rivers of New South Wales, and the attractive country in the ranges between the border and Grafton. 
The necessity for the provision of this additional sum of money has already been explained. I can readily realize that, under the contract system and the arrangement which provided that pay-, ment should be made for the actual material shifted, it was practically impossible to forecast precisely the expenditure that would be involved. Also, it was necessary for the contractors to provide for possible increases in industrial rates. I understand that more spoil had to be shifted than was originally allowed for, and that additional excavation, banking and channelling was encountered in the mountainous country. 
The highest point that, will be traversed by the new railway will be only 800 feet above sea level, whereas at the Summit, near Stanthorpe, in Queensland, the existing line climbs to a height of 4,500 feet above sea level. The Toowoomba range will also be avoided. Haulage on the new line will, therefore, be correspondingly lighter. That will cheapen freights between Brisbane and Sydney, and confer a considerable advantage both upon the primary producers and the consumers. 
I am not in favour of the immediate unification of railway gauges throughout Australia, as I consider that the magnitude of the expenditure involved is not warranted in view of our small population and rather stringent economic situation. If it is practicable, I should like to see co-ordination effected between our railways and motor transport traffic, as has been done in Great Britain. We all realize that motor traffic is fast encroach- ing upon the preserves of railway transport, and it is only by co-ordinating both methods that we shall stabilize them. 
I understand that the Queeusland portion of this line is almost completed, and that a section of it has been operating and producing revenue " since September last. I sincerely hope that through traffic from Brisbane to Sydney will be made possible at an early date. I have no hesitation in supporting the bill, as I consider that the additional expenditure is justified. 
.-- I cannot quite agree with some of the statements that have been made by my Queensland colleagues about this wonderful railway. It is all very well to paint an attractive picture; I remember when the scheme was originated, some 30 years _ ago, by the late  Hon.  E. W. O'sullivan, who was then Minister for Works for the State of New South Wales. I was at the time a member of the Queensland Parliament, and both States entered into an agreement to extend their railway systems from their respective capitals to the Tweed River. The New South Wales line was taken to Murwillumbah, and that of Queensland to Tweed Heads. Then New South Wales, like many other States, got into financial difficulties, and its railway activities were held up. In the meantime the people in the northern river districts of New South Wales discovered a new route of communication, and this railway was constructed from Casino to Kyogle, thence to Beaudesert and Brisbane. A good deal of Queensland's original preparatory work, such as the construction of tunnels, is rendered useless by the introduction of a broader gauge. However, that is a thing of the past, and I am very pleased that, in a couple of years, the whole line between Sydney and Brisbane will be opened up. 
I do not think that the line will be completed within from twelve to eighteen months. It all depends upon the progress made with the Clarence River bridge. Although the Clyde Engineering Company has the girders all ready, ^consider able difficulty has been encountered in connexion with its foundations. When completed the line will represent a very important improvement in the communications of the two States concerned, and it will be the first step in the unification of Australia's railway systems. 

 Senator Barnes made reference to the provision of a third rail in existing 5 ft. 3 in. gauge systems, in order to convert them to a 4 ft. 8-J in. gauge. The honorable senator and I were members of the Works Committee that inquired into the practicability of the third rail. That committee found that all the Railway Commissioners of the Commonwealth approved of the scheme, with the exception of  Mr. Clapp,  of Victoria, who was very much opposed to it. No doubt that gentleman was influenced by the policy of his government.  Mr. Webb,  the Commissioner for South Australia, who had had twenty years' railway experience in the United States of America, stated that he had operated several third rail services in that country without any difficulty or greater proportion of accidents than is usually associated with  the two-rail system. 
It has, and New South Wales also has a similar short length service. The general trend of the evidence tendered to that committee was that the third rail was a workable proposition. The only drawback is the adaptation of railway yards and stations, which have a congested system of rails. There the operation of the points becomes so complicated that no engineer has yet been able to evolve a system which would be quite safe. On the line from Red Hill to Adelaide a special platform had to be provided, and deviations had to be made to avoid the junctions in order to overcome this" weakness in the third-rail system. Apart from that the project presents no difficulty, and it would be possible to have a uniform gauge from Brisbane to Perth if a third rail were put down where necessary. 
The line between Kyogle and South Brisbane will make available to the producers of the northern rivers of New 
South Wales a ready market. At  the  same time they will have their normal shipping points available at Byron Bay and Corf's Harbour, and may select either the direct or indirect route when they desire to market their products.  They will be enabled to send their goods direct to Brisbane, where they may be shipped to the London market with very little handling. The terminus of the standard gauge railway will be south of the Brisbane River so that any produce from Northern Queensland, intended for the Sydney market, will have to be transhipped from the Central station goods-yards to South Brisbane, where it will be placed on the new railway line. North Queensland growers of tropical fruits will be served much better by this arrangement than is possible at present, because once fruit is on the "train it will have a clear run through Sydney as far as Albury and it will be possible to distribute it to all the towns along the route. Furthermore, the railway journey will be shorter and there will be a saving of about seven hours compared with the time occupied along the existing route through Wallangarra, and if there were a third rail on the standard gauge from Albury to Melbourne, it would then be possible to send tropical fruits from North Queensland right through from Brisbane to the capital of the southern State. 
Yes, because produce shipped on trains at South Brisbane has to be transferred at Wallangarra to the New South Wales . 4 ft. 8$ in. line, whereas if it is placed on the standard gauge line at South Brisbane it will be taken right through as far as Albury without a break of gauge. 
I am aware of that  Mr. President,  but I was endeavouring to inform  Senator H.  E. Elliott to what extent the new railway will benefit Northern Queensland producers in their attempts to reach the southern market with their produce. As to the line itself, the work is being well done. The tunnel in the Macpherson Range on the Queensland border is on the principle of a corkscrew, and when passengers emerge from the tunnel on top of the range, they will have a magnificent view of the Pacific Ocean. The tunnel, I understand, is not only the longest in Australia, but also is the only one of its kind on any of our railway systems, so I shall be interested to travel over the line when it is opened. Construction work has been carried out by day labour. The Queensland Labour Government, which has had considerable experience in the construction of railway works by day labour, submitted a price to the railway council, 'and as the cost of the work has been exceeded, I should like to have some explanation from the Minister as to the reason. 
I regret that I was unable to follow the Minister, but I understand that the extra cost for labour is in the neighborhood of £122,000. Were Arbitration Court awards and a reduction in the hours of labour responsible for this increase in the cost ? I hope that when the bill is in committee, the Minister will be able to give us more exact information on this point. I understand, however, that wages were increased by an award of the Arbitration Court. 
Were the hours of labour reduced,, and was any extra work rendered necessary ? ' 
If the honorable senator is right, I hope the Minister will be able to tell us whether any inherent faults in the day labour system were disclosed during construction. At one time I was a strong advocate of day labour for public works, and I helped the Queensland Government to introduce that system. For many years it worked to the entire satisfaction of the .State Ministry, but eventually, employees became indifferent, and as it was administered in Queensland, by the late Labour Govern ment, it became a disgrace.  Senator Thompson  has addressed a number of questions to the Minister with regard to the running of Sunday trains between Brisbane and Sydney. For many years the only Sunday trains in Australia were running on the Queensland and New South Wales railway lines. My State had Sunday trains over 40 years ago, but for some reason they were discontinued about ten years ago. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr. President.  My only reason for mentioning the subject was that  Senator Thompson  had addressed questions to the Minister, and I was about to explain that the practice of running Sunday trains in Queensland was discontinued owing to the heavy expenditure due to awards of the Arbitration Court, and the adoption of a 44-hour week. 
As the run from Brisbane to Wallangarra is a particularly long one, extra time rates of pay to railway employees proved too expensive. I am glad that the railway will soon be open for traffic. I hope that before the bill reaches the committee stage the Minister will be able to obtain the information for which I have asked. We should be clear as to the reasons for the estimate having to be further increased. The money should be spent in the best way. If day labour costs more than the contract system, I want to know why day labour should be continued. 
I have no, intention of repeating the arguments that, have been advanced as to the usefulness of this railway when completed, and the necessity for the unification of the gauges. The railway, good or bad, will soon be finished. In moving the second reading of the bill, the- Minister gave details of the extra cost of the line. He pointed out that £83,300 was saved on the estimate of £4,000j000 ; that additional work would have cost £433,300, but the deduction of the saving of £83,300, gave the  £350,000 provided for in the bill. That last mentioned amount includes £122,000 for increased wages and improved industrial conditions due to ArbitrationCourt awards. Honorable senators opposite indignantlyresent any suggestion that they are opposed toarbitration. They must, therefore, accept the results of arbitration. 
In that case, honorable senatorswho recently wantedto give theStatecourts full power inarbitration matters should bethe more favorable tothe awards ofa State tribunal. Increases due to advances inthe , prices for materials represent £42,100 ; material for the permanent way,, £14,400;cost pf closingdown works due tocurtailment of fundsby the late Commonwealth Treasurer, £20,,600;extracost of land resumption, £31,900; and extra costof surveys, £11,400. Those items are increased by additional quantities tothose provided in the schedule of quantities in the contract specification amounting to £190,000. 
Land slides necessitated an enormousamountof additional earth works. That was not provided for in the originalspecification. 
It does not matter on which side of the border the work ceased; it was due to the necessary funds not feeing supplied by the late Commonwealth Treasurer. Unfortunately, Australia has many instances of the cost of public works having been considerably increased through undertakings being left for a time in a more or less unfinished condition, and then recommenced. It was pointed out by the Minister that the first surveys were necessarily incomplete. The line passes through rugged country, and from time to time fresh surveys had to be made to ascertainthe best route. 
Honorable senatorsopposite : seem to be uncertain whether it is better to carry out public works by contractor by day labour. In this case, the State railway authorities of NewSouth Wales and Queensland were the contractors, but whenever work is undertaken by a private contractor, it is, after all, done by day labour. The Government may let a contract to a contractor;but he employs men who ; are paid at daily rates. It is day labour in any case. 
The only difference between the twosystems is in the supervision exercised. Effective supervision is essential to satisfactory results. I have worked on a number of government jobs,and I have never found any opportunities for loafingor pointing ; but I have found in connexion with some of them, extravaganceof the worst kind. There is, frequently, a sinful waste of materials,because those holding administrative positions either do not know their work or are not sufficiently conscientious to do it properly. Not many years ago I was engagedon day labour, and I found that it was more difficult to dodge the work than to do it. 
SenatorGuthrie. - Things have changed since that time. 
I am referring to a period onlyeight or nine years ago. On one occasion, whilst so working, I was instructed to take a hammer and break up somevaluable stones - valuable because of the work which had been done in dressing them. I was informed by those in control of the yard that the stones were " a confounded nuisance," because it had been found necessary to shift them on a few occasions. I offered topay a fair price for the stones; but was informed by my superior officer that he could not sell them. Yet he could order me to break them up! Later, a contractor was paid to take them away. Extravagance and waste are important factors in the cost of many public works. Lack of conscientious supervision is another cause of increased costs. In Sydney, recently, I spoke to a man who had been engaged in mixing concrete for the  approaches to the Sydney Harbour bridge then being carried out by the State Public Works Department. He told me that, normally, four bags of cement went to each batch of concrete, but that he saved one out of every four. If the inspector came around, four bags of concrete were always ready to be placed in the batch, but when he was not there, only three went in. He said that he did not get the other bag himself, but he admitted that he was dishonest enough to assist others to make money by that means. A tremendous lot of thieving takes place on some jobs unless there is both efficient and honest supervision. 
My point is that whether the work is done by day labour or by contract it is actually done by day labour; and that not only the cost, but also the quality of the work, under either system depends on the supervision ( exercised. 
The act authorizing the construction of this railway provides that should there be any advance in the price of materials, or increase in the wages paid, the contract price shall be adjusted accordingly. Some honorable senators have declaimed against that provision, and have said that a contractor should take the risk. If he does, he will increase his price to cover such contingencies, so that the Government will pay in any case. It is regrettable that the earlier estimates have been exceeded in this instance; but, unfortunately, that is not an uncommon experience in connexion with public works. Indeed, they are rarely executed for the original estimate. There are, however, cases in which work done by day labour has been completed at less than the estimated cost. Such cases are not so rare as some honorable senators would have us believe. I can quote instances of tenders having been rejected and the works carried out by day labour at less than the original estimate of the department.  
I am familiar with the country through which this line passes. It is estimated that there will be a saving of time on the journey from Brisbane to Sydney when the new line is in operation; but I point out that considerable improvements must be effected on the line from West Maitland before it can be regarded as an express route. That section of the line contains a number of curves of small radius, and a considerable portion of it has only light rails. The permanent way will have to be improved if there is to be any considerable saving of time oh the journey. It is to be regretted that the bridge over the Clarence river was not commenced earlier in order that it might be completed simultaneously with the railway. 
I thank you, sir, for the reminder. I merely wish to add that while this expenditure is amply justified, and has become necessary, we must at the same time realize that other expenditure will probably be necessary, if it has not already been incurred, so that this railway may realize the ideals of those who have supported the project from the commencement. 
I am grateful for the unanimity expressed by honorable senators in regard to the proposal to complete the work of building a railway between Kyogle and South Brisbane, and strengthening the existing line between Grafton and Kyogle. There has been practically no criticism from honorable senators; on the contrary they have shown their desire that the work shall be completed as speedily as possible. . I assume that they look upon it as one that is vitally necessary for the development of the Commonwealth along national lines. It is, in brief, an endeavour to correct one of the mistakes of the past made by people who did not seem to realize that Australia would be a nation continent .wide, and that its people as a whole would need to do their work in a co-ordinated fashion. This expenditure is the first instalment of Australia's attempt to correct the mistake of the past, and I think it has been amply demonstrated that it must go on.  Senator Rae  having quoted figures from my notes, I do not think there is any need for me to offer any further explanation in reply to  Senator R.  D. Elliott or  Senator Reid. 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
Suspension of Sessional and Standing ORDERS 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  proposed - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through its remaining stage without delay. 
.- Our Standing Orders lay down a proper procedure for the passage of bills through  ic  Senate. Surely our noticepaper is not so full that we need to have the Standing Orders suspended in order that a more or less formal stage of this bill should be taken at once instead of to-morrow. Our Standing Orders have been drawn up in order that the rights and privileges of honorable senators may be preserved, and it is the duty of honorable senators to see that those rights and privileges are maintained. There is no need for this bill to be read a third time to-day instead of to-morrow, and as no explanation has been given by the Minister why the proper routine should be set aside, even if mine is the only dissentient voice, I shall vote against this motion. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia) [5.16],  -  Even at the risk of suggesting that there may be a rift in the lute on this side of the chamber, I rise to say that I support the motion. I do so because I have had experience as Leader of the Government in the Senate in trying to get business through. Whenever I submitted a motion of this kind from the other side of the chamber, the Leader of the Opposition always objected. I often, thought that he was very foolish in doing so without having regard to the position of public business or the nature of the bill under consideration. I certainly say that we should not make  a  fetish of our Standing Orders. The Senate is greater than its Standing Orders. Every one knows that we wish to adjourn at an early date to get away for the Christmas season, and we all realize that the measure now under consideration is one about which there is no difference of opinion. If it were otherwise, I should be one of the first to object to the Standing Orders being suspended ; but I think it is rather straining a point to insist that they should not be set aside on a bill upon which we are all agreed. The Senate can always refuse to agree to a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. We need have no fear for the care of the Standing Orders when the minority happens to be on the Government benches. The care of them reposes with the majority, which for the time being happens to be on the Opposition side of the chamber. I suggest to  Senator Foll  that he should have some regard for the circumstances, and support the motion. 
.-^1 have some little ^sympathy with what has been mentioned by  Senator Foll,  because at the tail-end of a session the Senate has always been treated with rather scant courtesy by governments. - In another place ample time is given to discuss measures; but no such opportunity is afforded in this chamber. 
I am not supporting  Senator Foll  on this occasion, because I realize that we must get on with the business, and we have a good deal to handle. I agree with him that the rights of the Senate must be preserved; but I think on the present occasion we should be pushing tie matter tothe extreme if we objected to the motion submitted by the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 
 It is my intention to  ask  the Senate to suspend the Standing" Orders  only in connexion with non-controversial measures. When I was Leader of the Opposition, I often wondered why there was opposition to their suspension, particularly when there did not appear to be any sound objection to offer.  Senator Foll  stated that the Standing Orders are for the control of the business of the Senate; but he should remember that we have also the power to suspend them. That surely suggests that it must have been realized by those who drafted them that occasions would arise when their suspension would be necessary. I give the Senate my assurance that except in cases where it is absolutely necessary to pass a bill without delay, or where a measure is non-contentious, I shall not attempt to exercise the power sought under the contingent notice of motion I have moved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  read a third time. 
 I rise, animated by a spirit of regret, to answer some of the statements that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce).  Honorable senators are aware that the right honorable senator has just returned from a visit to Tasmania. They also know that a by-election for the Franklin seat, held by the late  Mr. Mcwilliams,  is now in progress. I regret that a man who has had such a long and distinguished career in the National Parliament of Australia should use the occasion for the dissemination of political propaganda. 
The honorable senator must not impute motives to other honorable senators. 
Order! The honorable gentleman must not allude to the utterances of any other honorable senator  as  " cheap sneers." I warn him on this occasion. If he so offends again I. shall ask him to withdraw the remark. 
.- I should not have spoken so early in this debate but for the utterances of the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat (SenaDunn). He made a deliberate attack on the Leader of the Opposition simply because the right honorable gentleman was determined that there should be due recognition of the efforts of those honorable senators representing Tasmania to place before the Government the claims of that State for financial assistance. The Leader of the Opposition was absolutely correct when he said that the Tasmanian representatives in this chamber, and in another place had been working unitedly for many years to impress upon the Commonwealth Government the urgent need for financial aid. The present PostmasterGeneral is well aware of all that  the  Tasmanian representatives in the Federal Parliament have done. On more than one occasion, in my presence and in the presence of others, he has acknowledged our services to the State in this connexion. The Leader of the Opposition was also correct in his statement that when  Mr. Lyons  returned to Tasmania after having interviewed the Commonwealth Treasurer, there was no reference in the press to the services which federal members were rendering. Clearly  Mr. Lyons  gave the people tounderstand that financial aid from the Commonwealth Government was the outcome of his visit to the mainland. . 
I welcome the bill, not because I consider that Tasmania is in the role of a mendicant State, but because it indicates-  that the previous Government recognized the urgent need for financial assistance being given to that State. I, therefore, thank the previous Government for having formulated the proposals contained in this bill. for a grant of £250,000 annually, for a period of five years. This arrangement will enable the State Treasurer to prepare his budget from year to year. Hitherto, owing to the uncertainty as to the amount which the Commonwealth might grant, the State Treasurer has experienced considerable difficulty in the preparation of his budget. When the previous Government announced that it proposed to grant a sum of £250,000 a year for five years, the arrangement was regarded, generally, as a satisfactory solution of the State's difficulties for the time being. The present Premier expressed regret that the amount was not larger, but he was honest enough to acknowledge that, in view of the state of Commonwealth finances, he could not reasonably expect a larger annual grant. But the present Postmaster-General, in his election campaign a&gt; few months ago, never wearied of referring to the grant proposed by the BrucePage Government, as a niggardly offer. He made this statement on many occasions, and it was repeated by those -who were associated with him in the campaign. In view of the implied promises contained in the speeches of Labour candidates in Tasmania, we naturally  expected  when Labour was returned to power that the "niggardly" grant of £250,000 a year, promised by the BrucePage administration, would be substantially increased. Consequently we were surprised at the announcement that the Government proposed to advance only the same amount, though we are told also that the position of the State is to be the subject of investigation by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Tasmania has had enough of investigations and inquiries. All the evidence that the Public Accounts Committee is likely to obtain is already on the files, and is available to the Government at any time. I am disposed to believe that the Government has instructed the Public Accounts Committee to make this investigation so that the Ministry may be able to claim that the Government is doing something to give effect to the promises made by Labour candidates during the election campaign. 
In view of the uncertainty of the Government's attitude' in regard to many matters, I shall be surprised if it does anything in the direction indicated by the honorable senator. 
But the Labour party has made promises which it knew it could not redeem. During the election campaign it was stated definitely that if Labour were returned to power the New South Wales coal mines would be reopened in a fortnight. 
But  Mr. Theodore,  who is a leading member of the party, did give that undertaking. I do not wish to import an acrimonious tone into the debate, but I feel obliged to refer to the statement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate that when Tasmania received a grant of £378,000 for two "years the State Treasurer was able to show a surplus of £185,000 in one year and. £S5,000 or £90,000 in the second year, but the result was that in the following year the grant was reduced by the Commonwealth Parliament to £200,000. Any honorable senator who is not conversant with the real financial position of the State might be at a loss to understand what this means. As a fact, the surpluses shown in the State Treasurer's financial statement were non-existent. A perusal of  the figures contained in the financial statement shows that in a suspense account there were several items which should have been debited against current revenue. If they had been met, the paper surplus would have disappeared, and the State Treasurer would then have been able to secure a larger grant from the Commonwealth. I mention this fact because the State Treasurer at that time presented his surpluses in such a way as to create ah impression that they were the result of his satisfactory work as Treasurer. The items referred to represent. a debit of about £700,000. They include losses on soldier settlement, and depreciation of railway stock. They must remain in the suspense account until the current revenue is sufficient to discharge them. It is not necessary for me to impress on honorable senators the necessity for supporting the measure, so I shall not detain the Senate much longer. 
It is right that the grant should be paid over the period mentioned, because of the uncertainty that might exist, otherwise, as to the State's revenues. Tasmania is in its present position owing to circumstance's over which it has no control. Although its population is less than 200,000, it has shown remarkable enterprise in the development of a wonderful hydro-electric scheme, which is the admiration of the rest of Australia. 
It is, I think, a paying proposition. If Tasmania had not developed those wonderful resources, it would have been condemned by the people in the mainland States. That work has put Australia on the map of the world. Our wonderful hydro-electric scheme has attracted attention in many other countries, and I believe that one day the industrial development which it will make possible, will lift Tasmania out of its present difficulties, and render further aidfrom the Commonwealth unnecessary. With your permission,  Mr. President,  I propose to read a short extract from the report of the Economic Advisory Committee upon the effect of the Commonwealth tariff onState finances. 
IfI did not intend to connect them with the bill, I should not have referred to the report. 
In Appendix W of the  Australian Tariff : An Economic Inquiry,  the following statement appears under the heading, " The effects of the tariff upon the State finances " :  - 
The unequal effects between States are probably the most embarrassing consequences of the tariff, but they have their roots in the unequal effects between industries, which are natural and inevitable consequences of tariff protection. Were Australia one small, compact, economic unit, in which the benefits of protection were thoroughly diffused, in which one common tax system operated, and in which developmental expenditure was equally shared, differences between areas would be less important. But, with our diverse geographical conditions and our federal system of government, this is not the case. . . . 
The subsidies to production through the tariff are £38,000,000, which would average all round £6 per head of population. But if the £30,000,000 is distributed amongst States in proportion to the quantity of protected industry, the amount per head will vary greatly from State to State, as shown approximately in the following table :  - 

<graphic href="122332192912053_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

If those figures are correct, and the assumption of the authors correct, they show that South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia have suffered materially from the operations of the tariff. 
As a representative of Tasmania, I am proud of my State. When I was a boy, I heard a great deal of the assistance that Tasmania had rendered to both New South Wales and Victoria. Now I wonder why the representatives of those States do not speak more favorably of Tasmania than they do. I am, however, grateful that whenever any measure for the granting of relief to Tasmania has been before this chamber, the representatives of the other States have been sympathetic. It is true that they have criticized Tasmania, but it has been goodnatured criticism. I am optimistic regarding Tasmania's future. I believe that Tasmania is destined to be one of the richest gems in the southern seas; but, during the present critical period, it needs assistance. I support the second reading. 
The debate last night, on a measure to grant financial relief to South Australia, continued until such a late hour that I was afraid it would engender opposition to the bill. It is sometimes wise for a speaker to be brief ; and I shall .be brief on this occasion. I welcome the bill which follows,  generally  the late Government's proposal. t is interesting to consider what has led up to Tasmania's present position. In 1923-24, the people of Tasmania felt that they were not being treated fairly by the Commonwealth, for they knew that certain legislation passed by this Parliament had adversely affected their State. Some of them went as far as to advocate secession - a most outrageous proposal. Believing that "God helps those who help themselves," a number of Tasmanian citizens combined to do something in the interests of their State. An organization, which it was suggested should be called the Tasmanian "Wrongs League, but which became known as the Tasmanian Rights League, was formed. I know a good deal about the work of that association, because I was its assistant secretary, and did a lot of organizing work for it. Perhaps all that was done by the league was not in good taste, but it was done with the object of assisting Tasmania. The association obtained some thousands of " stickers," depicting a Tasmanian lion, and underneath it a  legend  indicating that Tasmania had not been fairly treated by the Commonwealth. Those " stickers " were placed on all our correspondence, particularly that which was addressed to members of this Parliament. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to S p.m. 


 Private business taking precedence, after 8 p.m., 

.- I move- 
That, with a view to improving the legislative work of this chamber, and increasing the participation of individual senators in Bud work, a select committee of seven members be appointed to consider, report and make recommendations upon the advisability or otherwise of establishing standing committees of the Senate upon - 
Statutory rules and ordinances, 
International relations, 
c ) Finance, (&lt;i) Private member's bills, and/or such other subjects as may be deemed advisable. 
That such select committee have leave to send for persons, papers and records, and to move from place to place. 
That such select committee submit its report to the Senate on or before the 12th March, 1930. 
That such select committee consist of Senators  Sir .Hal  Colebatch, Foll, .Herbert Hays, Lawson, Lynch, Rae and the mover. 
It has been suggested that in moving this motion I aim raising very wide issues. That thought, or should I say that fear, is probably'' prompted by the realization of the fact that the Senate has not taken full advantage of. its wonderful opportunities to render service to Australia. Honorable senators will remember that at the Federal Conventions no more difficult subject was presented for consideration than the constitution of this chamber. They will recall the lengthy debates on this subject and how bitter they were; how, as a matter of fact, the wide differences of opinion on the constitution of the second chamber on several occasions endangered the possibility of the conventions coming to an agreement. But all the delegates to the conventions were in agreement that it was essential to the federal principle to have a strong second chamber; that without the safe- ' guard it would afford, federation, instead of proving a blessing, might bring in its train injustice and bitterness. Fears were expressed, on the one hand, that the smaller States might be overwhelmed by the more populous States, and on the other hand, that by a combination of the smaller States, the two more populous States, Victoria and New South Wales, might be at a disadvantage. A compromise .was, however, effected, and as a result, we have a Senate in which the States, regardless of area and population, have equal representation. 
When any proposal is put forward for a change of procedure it is, I suppose, quite natural for honorable senators to Cast their minds back to the intentions of the men who evolved our Constitution, but I shall not follow that theme. Nor shall 1 develop the line of thought that it is the duty of the Senate to keep watch over State rights and see that the Commonwealth keeps within the scope of the Constitution. That is not directly the purpose of my motion. But I wonder whether a recognition of the full responsibilities of the Senate, and their exercise, would not have prevented the enactment of laws and regulations that have led Australia into that artificial atmosphere into which it has, unfortunately, drifted - I am. afraid the drift is still going on - and the repeal or amendment of which has been made great issues at general elections. I shall not proceed further in that direction for the moment, but I propose to make one quotation to establish a link between those great men of the early 'nineties and the Senate as we have it to-day. In the 1891 Convention, when the subject of the Senate was under review,  Sir Henry  Parkes said - 
What I mean is an upper house, call it what you may, which shall have within itself the only conservatism possible in a democracy, the conservatism of maturity of judgment, the distinction of service, length of experience and weight of character, which are the only qualities we can expect and bring into one body in a community as young and as inexperienced as Australia. 
My purpose in moving this motion tonight is to make this august chamber interesting and at the same time to afford honorable senators an opportunity to render greater service to this country of such abundant natural resources. This motion, contrary to the view that has been expressed that it raises wide issues, is designed in the simplest possible language to enable honorable senators to take a keener interest in matters and to bring a considered opinion to bear on the measures that are presented to Parliament. For reasons that  I  shall explain a little later, I trust that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  will afford an opportunity for a vote to be taken on this motion to-night. Those honorable senators who are quite satisfied with the way in which the business is now conducted in the Senate, those who are quite satisfied with the inactivity or the lack of considered thought in dealing with measures, the lack of individuality or per- sonality  which has put the Senate on such a plane that the press, the public and the State Parliaments almost disregard its deliberations, will vote against my motion. Those honorable senators who wish to carry their share of the weight of the responsibility of their opinions, who wish the Senate to be something more than a nozzle through which the legislation of the lower chamber passes almost automatically and as a matter of course, those who recognize their obligations to the Senate, to the public and to the country, will vote for it. 
If we recall our experience last session we find that the attitude of the Senate seemed to be one of accepting all that was sent along from another place. Measures were explained in extremely interesting statements by Ministers, listened to with very great attention by honorable senators and more or less accepted at face value. Bills have been passed without honorable senators having a knowledge of the pros and cons; probably through our own ignorance or lack of opportunity to see both sides of the question, they have gone through. I shall, by way of illustration, quote one or two cases that have come within my own experience in this chamber. Last session the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill was introduced by the then Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  with a wonderfully interesting statement.  The picture he set up of the cost of gathering evidence, the number of typists who had to be employed, the cost of having an arbitrator going to various States to hear hundreds of witnesses, whose evidence in many cases was mere repetition, and of the cost of the thousands of sheets of evidence that had to be prepared, almost eclipsed all other features of the measure. We had at that time a sense of economy and more than one honorable senator expressed the opinion that if such a situation was capable of arising under the principal act we should by all means do all in our power to get rid of it. I feel now that if honorable senators had had an opportunity to consider that bill around a table and go into the pros and cons of it to understand its provisions not only from the standpoint of the Government, but also from that of the  Public  (Service, we might have saved the Senate from dealing with a bill which was used as an effective weapon against the late Government at the recent election. 
I shall cite another instance within my own experience which occurred last session. An insurance bill affecting very important interests in Australia was introduced, again with a wonderful and interesting statement apparently prepared by experts who knew their business. I am not suggesting that the Minister did not, because he made it clear to us that he did, but during the course of the debate we found that the expert advice of big insurance companies had been used up to a point and then for some reason or other forgotten. When the bill was circulated .this discrepancy was pointed out and an appeal was made in the Senate that the measure should be submitted to a select committee in order to get the benefit of the expert advice available. That request was not granted. We were told that the matter had to be dealt with on the floor of the Senate where, it was thought, excellent legislation could be framed; but when some of us came here prepared to undertake the task we found that it had suddenly been withdrawn. It had been decided in the party room that the measure was to be  referred back for expert opinion. 
During my short experience as a member of this chamber, I have formed the opinion that such measures, if submitted to a committee, could have been studied from all angles, and the information so gathered then submitted to the Senate. If would not, of course, be necessary for the members of such . a committee to come to a unanimous decision; the majority as well as the minority would be able to express their views when the measure, with which the committee had dealt, was  before  the chamber for consideration. The fact that additional arguments could be presented would provide a better opportunity for useful debate, and lead to the presentation of facts which otherwise might not be disclosed. I am not discussing this matter from a party viewpoint. I have it brought forward only in the interests of what I consider to be the good government of the Commonwealth. 
The first paragraph in the motion which I have moved relates to statutory rules and ordinances concerning which I must admit I am rather ignorant. It has been interesting to me to sit in this chamber at the opening of a session and hear Ministers read long list's of rules and regulations which are being tabled id the Senate. I have at times looked with amazement at such lists, and I am afraid that many of these rules and regulations are never perused by honorable senators. 
I am glad to know there are some honorable senators who have sufficient time and interest to do so. 
I agree with the honorable senator. These regulations are framed under a section which is contained in most acts and which reads - 
The Governor-General may make regulations not inconsistent with this Act prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act. 
The Wireless Telegraphy Act No. 8 of 1905 consists of one sheet of paper, but the regulations framed under it run into 73 pages. The Air Force Act, No. 23 of 1923, consists of one page and a quarter, while the regulations framed under it and which in the absence of any objection by the Senate have been agreed to, cover 173 pages. I mention these two instances to illustrate the number of regulations to which the Senate gives practically no attention and which are framed under comparatively insignificant measures. It was recognized that in passing a regulation section such as I have just quoted, Parliament was giving to Ministers - which, in most cases, means the heads of departments - very extensive powers. In order to protect the Government, however, an act, known as the Acts Interpretation Act, No. 1 of 1904, was passed. It was drafted to give the Parliament an opportunity to exercise some control, and under it Parliament has the right, within a prescribed number of days, to disallow any regulation. It would be an advantage to have a committee of this Senate responsible for perusing these regulations when they are tabled, to see if they, .are consistent with the act under which they are framed and not in any way detrimental to the interests of the people. If these regulations were reviewed by a committee the Government would not be in any way embarrassed; but the members of the Senate would be aware of their effect. If it were found that the powers for which the act provided were being exceeded, the committee could report accordingly. My comments in this direction are not intended to be in the nature of criticism, but more as constructive thought. 
The next paragraph relates to the appointment of a committee to study international relations. I am not suggesting that this committee should interfere in international affairs, but isolated geographically ^ as we are, aud not sufficiently in touch with the complicated subject of foreign relations - a study which requires intimate knowledge - a great responsibility has been cast on us. I feel that we should have a committee of honorable senators with the definite responsibility of closely following the proceedings of the League of Nations Assembly at Geneva, and carefully perusing the reports of Australia's representatives who are sent abroad from time to time. I fully realize that it would be quite impossible for any Government to disclose to such a committee the confidential communications on international subjects that pass between the British Government and the Australian Government. Such com munications are, of course, secret, and must not be disclosed to other than Ministers of the Crown. 
Many papers on international subjects are circulated for the information of honorable senators, from which a good deal of information can be obtained. The reports of our delegates to the Assembly of the League could be studied. Although some delegates may be sent abroad merely because the Government thinks they need a holiday or that it would be an advantage for them to be absent, the information contained in their reports would be beneficial to such a committee. Our experience is that the reports of such delegates receive scant consideration at the hands of this Parliament. They have, in effect, been cast to the four winds of heaven. No effort has been made to coordinate the recommendations made, or to ensure a continuity of policy in the matter of international relations. 
Closer consideration of this subject would lead to a better understanding of what is in the minds of other nations. If it is suggested that the term " international relations" is not altogether - desirable, I am willing to amend it to read "Empire relations," because after all, our international relations are  essntially  Empire matters. The common interests of Australia and Great Britain are so closely interwoven that we are likely to overlook their importance, and I have often wondered how we can strengthen the silkencord that binds us. In time of trouble, our help will come, not from America or Prance, but from Great Britain, and a committee such as I have suggested should watch, develop and protect that silken cord.  Senator Millen  asked what information such a committee would have to work upon. 
Parliament. The report of the Australian delegation to this Assembly was tabled in the Senate on the 15th March, 1927. A speech was made by the Minister in introducing' it on the motion " That the paper be printed." The debate was adjourned, and on the 23rd March the motion was agreed to without debate. This report was also tabled by the AttorneyGeneral in the House of Representatives on the same date, and a motion moved " That the paper be printed." The debate was adjourned, and was not resumed until the 26th April, 1928, when the motion was agreed to without further debate. 
The report of the Australian delegation to the 8th Assembly of the League of Nations was laid on the table of the Senate on the 30th November, 1927, and a motion moved " That the paper be printed." The debate was adjourned, and proceedings were not resumed on the motion until the 22nd March, 1928, when the motion was agreed to without debate. This report was tabled in the House of Representatives on the 30th November, 1927, and a motion moved " That the paper be printed." The AttorneyGeneral did not conclude his speech on that day, and was given leave to resume his remarks on a future date. On the 26th April, 1928, the debate was resumed and the Attorney-General concluded his speech. The debate was then adjourned, and proceedings were resumed on the 3rd May, 1928, when the motion was agreed to after a short debate. 
I could give honorable senators further information in this respect, but I think I have said sufficient to convince them it would be of great advantage to this Senate if reports on international matters which had received such scanty consideration were carefully considered by a committee of the Senate. This would give to Parliament an opportunity to keep in touch with the proceedings at Geneva, and to evolve some continuous policy. 
The next paragraph in my motion relates to finance, which is always a most interesting subject, and presents many intricate problems. In connexion with the Life Insurance  Bill  which I have already mentioned, a finance committee could have conducted an investigation to ascertain its effect upon all sections of the community. 
I have here House of Commons'  Papers, Reports from Committees, No. 7, of 19H,  and in them honorable senators will find,  at page 378, a very interesting report on the subject under discussion. That report shows that it is common practice to get a section of members round the table to beat out the pros and cons of a proposal. All honorable senators realize that the best work is done always by a small committee of three or four. At a round table conference the matter is treated as man to man, unhampered by points of order, or the presence of  Hansard.  I also have before me the Journals of  the Senate of Canada,  to which honorable senators may refer in the library. It may interest them to know that that Senate has nineteen committees, Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours, Miscellaneous, Private Bills, Public Buildings and Grounds, Public Health and Inspection of Poods, Immigration and Labour, Internal Economy and Contingent Accounts, Finance, Civil Service, Administration, Debates and Reporting, Divorce, Commerce and Trade Relations of Canada, Agriculture and Forestry, Banking and Commerce. We have many subjects on which such committees could tender guidance and advice, and by their appointment we should not be establishing anything new. 
I feel that I have been elected in the hope that I will do my best to place on our statute-book legislation that will confer the greatest benefits upon the community. I am here as an individual, and not as a cog in the wheel. It is that individuality that these committees would develop, to the advantage of all. 
I shall now refer to the attitude of the present Government. Quite a number pf honorable senators have already done so, and some have regretted the fact that we have in the Senate only two Ministers. I have endeavoured to analyse the matter and discover the reason for that. I am not sure whether it is because there were so many men in another place who wanted office, or because the party to which the Leader of the Government in this chamber belongs particularly wanted to get rid ' of him. It " has certainly imposed on the honorable senator a work so great that he will be super-human if it does not kill him. I hope that that is not the objective of the honorable senator's party. If it is, I assure him that we shall do all that we . can to save him from that fate. 
I remember that at the close of last session I was absent from the chamber for about twenty minutes, and during that time honorable senators approved the expenditure of over £20,000,000, and passed a considerable amount of other business. It will be interesting to see whether that ia repeated next Friday. If we refuse to accept our responsibilities there is an even more effective method to force us to honour them than the appointment of committees, and that is to reduce our salaries. My experience of life is that when a man is working in an honorary or almost honorary capacity he gives of his best. 
I have made it clear that these committees should be honorary and interparty. I feel that service is the rent that we pay for the space that we occupy on the earth. Careful and mature consideration of measures is the service that we as honorable senators should give for the salary that we are paid. 
I mentioned something of the artificial condition into which Australia has drifted. I have wondered if that is due to the fact that honorable senators and others have not realized and exercised the whole of their responsibilities. The subject of the fool's paradise in which we are living to-day is an interesting one, but I shall not labour it at the moment. "We in Australia have to take to heart the fact that economists are generally agreed that high wages can exist only when labour is highly productive. We are passing from one artificial condition to another, drifting- on, afraid to face the facts and the true economic position. We cannot remove difficulties without facing them, and I think that the appointment of these committees would give us the opportunity to face the difficulties that are before us. 
I am merely one who attempts to be a business man, and I sometimes wonder whether Australia has not more politicians than it can carry. Probably honorable senators would not agree with that idea, but I feel that it behoves the Senateto gird its loins and carry its full weight of responsibility. 
For these and many other reasons I ask honorable senators to vote for this motion. I hope that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  will not move for the adjournment of this debate. Three or four weeks ago the honorable senator, in the course of a press interview, criticized my proposal and said of me - 
Before the election he signed a platform pledging himself to a certain line of policy. Docs he now suggest, having signed the platform, that he is entirely to repudiate the pledge ? 
The honorable senator is reported also to have said, referring to legislation of an important nature that was rushed through without mature consideration, "I cannot understand why, when the Government adopted that attitude,  Senator B.  D. Elliott did not raise his voice in protest." I am new to the political sphere, but I deny that I signed any pledge to surrender .my individuality when I entered this chamber, and I can assure the Leader of the Senate that I shall not take that stand. I have been elected as a representative of the people of Victoria, and it is my intention, to the extent of my ability, to discharge my duties fearlessly according to my experience and judgment. 
Some time ago,  Mr. Baldwin,  the exPrime Minister of Great Britain, said - 
If I were asked what are the two root principles which we should always keep in mind in trying to decide on a political issue, in judging of legislation, in judging of political action, I think I should say common sense and the preservation of what has always been the most precious thing in this country - our individual freedom. 
If we apply these tests, we shall seldom go far wrong. There are many people who think that we can cure the ills of the world by legislation ; but we must first examine the proposed legislation to see whether it is adapted to the practical experience of daily life, and whether the freedom of the individual is affected by it. If we are not satisfied on these points, we can rest assured that the legislation in the long run will do more harm than good. I suggest, therefore, that we should waste no time in determining the share of blame for all our political actions; that we should bind ourselves together in a spirit of public service to preserve, develop and maintain the .industries of the country upon which the fortunes of all its citizens so vitally depend. This may be done by creating opportunities or machinery whereby the members of this chamber can. give careful, mature and studied consideration to the measures that come before it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [8.50]. - I have no objection to offer to the proposed appointment of a select committee," but I take exception to the reasons advanced by the honorable senator why the Senate should accept the motion. I do not admit that the Senate has failed to discharge its function as a branch of this legislature. I know that the general belief is that the Senate was' intended to be a States House, and that a not inconsiderable number of people are convinced that it has not fulfilled its mission. But this again depends upon what those people believe to be the functions of the Senate. In the main, they take the view that if certain legislation, to which they object, is not" opposed by this chamber, the Senate is not acting its part as the defender of State rights. Everything depends upon the determination of what are State rights. And who is to judge what is, or what is noi a State right? The duty of the Senate, I take it is to ensure the passage through the Federal Parliament of legislation that is acceptable to the majority of its people. If an honorable senator  vote3  against the interests of his State it is safe to assume that he is either taking a grave political risk or is incorrectly interpreting public opinion in his State. Most of us, in our own interests, strive to interpret correctly public opinion in the State which we represent, and to express in our speeches the views of our people. I have had an opportunity not vouchsafed to any other member of this chamber to judge of these matters, for I happen to be the only remaining member of the original Senate. I was interested, therefore, when  Senator Elliott  referred to the views of the late  Sir Henry  Parkes, as to what constituted an ideal Senate. The first Senate complied in every respect with the ideals of the late distinguished statesman, for it consisted, in the main, of men who had long experience in State political  spheres ; men who had long since reached years of discretion, and were in every respect fitted to discharge their duties as members of this important branch of the legislature. I was one of the youngest members at that time, and I am convinced that the first Senate was just as much a party House as is the Senate of to-day. The line of cleavage then was the fiscal issue. We had in this chamber, representatives of the high protectionist party, then led by the Barton Government, and we had representatives also of the free traders, so the line of division in this chamber ran parallel with the line of division in the House of Representatives. We had, in the then Labour party a disturbing factor - a third party, holding the balance of power. As a member of the Labour party of that day, I was one of the culprits, just as today,  Senator R.  D. Elliott represents- in this chamber, the third party, which in the last Parliament held the balance of power, though I am sorry to say it does not do so in this Parliament. Thus history repeats itself. 
One reason why the Senate will always be o£ the same political color as another place is that its members are elected on the same franchise though on a slightly different basis, members of another place being elected by divisions, whereas the senators are elected by States. The same franchise will always give the same result. 
The mover of the motion suggested, that because the Senate does not always do what some people think it should do, it has failed in its mission.  I do not agree that the Senate, as it is constituted to-day, is a negligible factor in Commonwealth politics, and I think some people will wake up to this fact before they are much older. The Senate is what it is to-day, because, although our Constitution is modelled on that of the United States of America, the framers of the Convention grafted on to it the British system of responsible government. On this fact I well remember a significant remark of the first  President, Sir Richard  Chaffey Baker, that either the Senate would kill responsible government or responsible government would kill the Senate. Because we adopted the British system of responsible government, the Senate does not occupy in the Federal Constitution, the position of the United States Senate under the American Constitution. The Government in the United States of America is not responsible to Congress, whereas under our Constitution, Governments are made or unmade in the House of Representatives. For this reason that chamber will always be the more popular House, and public attention will always be focussed upon it. I suggest, therefore, that nothing that we can do by the appointment of committees or in any other way will affect the position of the House of Representatives in the Constitution. If the people in the United States of America had, as we have, a Government responsible to its House of Representatives, the American Senate would occupy exactly the same position as this chamber does under our Constitution. 
I also disagree with the honorable senator's views as to the manner in which the business of this Senate has been carried out. The Senate is what individual senators make it. It is no excuse for a senator to say that he was so impressed with the eloquent speech of a member of the Government' that he did not study the bill. Such a remark is a condemnation of himself. It is idle to say that the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill introduced by the late Government received no criticism in this chamber. It was criticized severely by the present occupants of the ministerial bench. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Every honorable senator had the opportunity to acquaint himself with the contents of that bill. No one in this chamber can restrain any other honorable senator from exercising his full rights of criticism, although he may subject himself to certain political risks by exercising them. 
I come now to the proposals of the honorable senator to cure what he regards as. the unfortunate position of the Senate. He seems to assume that, as a member of a committee, a senator will do something which he will not do as a member of the 
Senate. In my opinion, a man who is lazy as a senator will be lazy as a member of a committee, unless all the willing horses are placed on committees and the lazy senators excuse their inaction by saying that they were guided by the committees. A Senate so constituted would not be an ideal legislative body. I cannot see that by appointing these committees we shall improve the way in which honorable senators carry out their duties; and, that, after all, is the point. I have seen some honorable senators throw into the wastepaper basket the ordinances and regulations supplied to them from time to time. But not all honorable senators do that. I have known honorable senators to move that the Senate dissent from certain regulations. It is no excuse to say that so many regulations and ordinances are issued that no senator can hope to understand them all. If 36 senators cannot study these matters, how can six members of a committee do so? As a private member, I shall watch very closely any regulations issued under certain classes of legislation, for I know that a government can do many things by regulation. In other cases in which I know that very little change can be wrought by regulation I shall not be so interested. I shall do the same with the ordinances which are gazetted from time to time. It is the duty of honorable senators to watch these things, whether members of committees or not. 
There appears to be one important omission from the motion ; it contains no reference to the relations of the Commonwealth with the States. It refers to international relations, but if the Senate is to be a States house it must have regard to the interests of the States. Various matters dealing with the relations of the Commonwealth and the States come before us from time to time. I instance the Financial Agreement and the Federal Aid Roads Scheme. If we are to have Standing Committees, one of the first things with which they should deal is our relations with the States. 
Although the motion includes international relations, I cannot see what these committees could do in that connexion. It is impossible for any one to deal adequately with international relations - even with the League of 'Nations - unless he had access to all the files in the External Affairs Department that deal with the relations between the various units of the British Empire and foreign nations. How can a man attending an Assembly of the League of Nations form any proper idea of the subject with which he will deal there unless he knows how it came to be placed on the agenda? Before he can deal with it at the Assembly he must know its history, and what has taken place between, say, Britain, New Zealand, Canada and the Irish Free State, in regard to it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Empire relations impinge on foreign relations. The several British dominions are regarded by the. League of Nations as separate nations. Nearly every question dealt with by the League of  Nations  must be considered as to its effect on both the British Empire" and foreign relations. I am sure that no government will ever permit the members of any committee to gain access to those confidential papers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE A Minister must accept responsibility in these matters; but a private member of this Parliament could do what he liked with the information he obtained. Without the right of access to those papers, I cannot see how a committee of the Senate could deal with international relations. In the Senate of the United States of America there is a foreign affairs committee, which approximates to a department of foreign affairs, for it determines the policy of the United States of America in regard to foreign affairs. Honorable senators who have read the history of the arbitration treaty between Britain and the United States of America know that it is not the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs who decides these matters, but a committee of foreign affairs in the Senate. Under pur Constitution, we cannot have a committee of that kind. 
The position of the Senate to-day is largely due to the attitude of the press. Newspapers generally publish what they believe to be popular news. Some of them publish. some excellent educational articles, particularly in their Saturday supplements; but otherwise they are not concerned with the publication of matters of educational value as news. Their concern is to obtain news for sale. They want good copy. The report of a debate in the House of Representatives is much more saleable than is the report of a similar debate in this chamber, because in that branch of the legislature governments are made and unmade. The public is more interested in the happenings in another place than in what takes place here. It may be the day will come when the Senate will make and unmake governments ; but, so far as I can see, at present it can only do so by taking action which will lead to a double dissolution. Even in the reports of speeches in another place the press does not pay particular regard to the soundness of the arguments advanced. A man may make a constructive speech, the preparation of which has involved weeks of hard study; but he will not get such publicity as will a man who defies  Mr. Speaker  and makes a scene by calling some one a liar or a fool. I recently addressed an election meeting in Tasmania., and, naturally, I hoped  that my remarks would be well reported. At the commencement of the meeting I saw a newspaper reporter sitting at a table in the front of the hall, prepared, as I thought, to record the wisdom which would fall from my lips. The meeting was noisy, and there were some clever interjections. When, a little later, I looked for the reporter, I found that he was not at the table, but at the rear of the hall getting particulars of the  interjections  After the meeting I asked him why he left the table, and he replied that a report of the interjections and' of my replies to them made better reading for the subscribers to his newspaper than would a report of my speech. He was not there to record what I said so much as to get good copy. He was not greatly concerned with either my words of wisdom or that of the interjectors; but a clash between us was just what he wanted. The press of Australia practically ignores the Senate. The very newspapers which at times describe the Senate as the guardian of the weaker States frequently do not report the proceedings in this chamber. When in southern Tasmania recently, I should not have known., from reading the local newspaper, that the Senate met last week; yet that paper has at times appealed to the Senate to stand up for the rights of the smaller States. I do not know that the formation of these committees will accomplish much good; but I have no objection to the appointment of a select committee- to inquire into the matter. 
I am not entirely in accord with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce),  regarding the proposal of  Senator' R.  D. Elliott. The motion seeks to systematize the work of this chamber, and to bring it more into line with what is happening elsewhere. It is quite plain that a chamber with no system for the conduct of its work must fall a bit behind a corresponding chamber not lacking in that respect. It is equally true that as political developments have taken place in Australia there has been a steady move from the simple to the complex state of society. In the early days of settlement, and up to a comparatively recent date prior to the establishment of responsible government, the business of the various Australian colonies was carried out by a Governor with an Executive Council. That particular system had to give way to a slightly more complicated one and the colonies were given self government. It is clear that what followed on the simpler form or system of government was bound to be replaced by a still more complicated form of government. I shall cite the case of New South Wales as a typical example of what has happened  throughout Australia. At first New South Wales was a Crown colony and then came the colonial Parliament with a government and Parliamentary committees; but as time went on it was realized in New South Wales that even responsible government was not all-sufficient and the belief became  prevelant,  although inarticulate foi a time, that some other form of government should supersede it. What was thought quite ample for the time being was bound to be out of date and not equal to the exigencies of the hour, and federation was brought about. But is the federal system as we know it to-day the same as it was 21 years ago? Some attempt has been made to bring about what modern  captains  of 'industry would describe as standardization or  systemizati on.  I shall dip into the commercial world for a parallel. No one would imagine that a big and growing concern like the Newcastle Steel Works could be controlled by the simple system which sufficed 25 years ago. The necessities of the hour demanded that the Broken Hill Proprietary, in its control of these steel works, should replace what should suit a milder form of enterprise by a very complex method of  systemization.  Had that not been done the works would not be as successful as they are to-day. Applying the same reasoning to this chamber, it is clear that we have arrived at the time when the inarticulate feeling that the work of the Senate has not been properly carried out should find expression in some such form as that conveyed in the motion submitted by  Senator R.  D. Elliott. The motion may have its shortcomings, but they are outweighed by its advantages, and if it be carried into affect it should have a salutary effect in neutralizing or checking the influence of party government in this chamber. We are all aware that party government cannot be abolished, but if we can do anything to minimize its evil effects which we have all witnessed, some headway will be made, and I think that this motion, if thoroughly examined, will provide some such remedy although it may not be the most perfect for the purpose. 
As mentioned by  Senator Pearce',  we have ready at hand a Public Works Committee and a, Public Accounts 
Committee which represent a certain stage of development under the federal system. No work estimated to cost over £25,000 can be proceeded with until the Public Works Committee, comprising members of all parties and mostly representative of all the States has inquired into it and reported on the advisability in the public interest of undertaking it. And when the recommendation of the committee comes to hand, no matter what party may bc in power, the Government says " This is the recommendation of the Public Works Committee, not a section of it." That fact carries weight, and the existence of this committee exercises a valuable check upon the influence of the dominant party in politics for the time being. The same can be said about the Public Accounts Committee. Both committees exercise a salutary check upon the work of party government in either chamber, and I am certain that in the long run, the people of this country benefit.  Senator R.  D. Elliott's motion is in thorough keeping with the line of development which has led to the appointment of -these committees, and if carried into effect would impose a further check upon the influence of party government which rather too often sacrifices public interest to party advantage. 
I do not think  Senator Pearce  was quite right when he described the first Senate as' a purely party chamber. If I remember aright, it was a gathering of independent men the like of which I am sure has not been seen in any other Parliament in Australia. But if the same men could revisit the political scene to-day, how would they fare ? If  Sir Richard  Chaffey Baker,'  Sir J  ohn Downer or  Mr. O'Connor  had stood as independent candidates at the last election campaign, I venture, to say that, with all their reputation, with all the glamour surrounding their names and with all their independence, they would not have been elected to the Senate at all. The rise of the machine in politics has been so meteoric that it has been reflected in this chamber as well as the other. The first men in this chamber may not have been entirely free from party influences, but we know well enough that the candidates for the first Senate invariably attached themselves to the standards of the prominent figures in the, political field at the time,  Sir Edmund  Barton on the one side and  Sir George  Reid on the other. Many stood as independents and were returned as such, but such a change has come over the scene in the meantime, that if they had stood at the last Senate election as independents, they would not have been returned. I mention this in reinforcement of  Senator Pearce's  contention that the great trouble with the Senate is the " overflowing attention given to it by the press." I do not expect any decent treatment from the newspapers, . because when we we:re in Melbourne I tried to exclude the representatives of the Melbourne metropolitan journals until they guaranteed to give to the debates of this chamber at least as much space as they were prepared to devote to a second-rate football match. That settled me, so far as press reports are concerned. My troubles about them !  Senator Pearce,  however, was right when he said that the newspapers of Australia, for some inexplicable reason, have made a set against the Senate for some years past. , 
In spite of its critics, the Senate still lives and even if the editors of these papers stood as independent candidates for the Senate, they would not be seen in the conflict; they would not be heard of simply because, for better or worse, richer or poorer - the poorer I think - the party machine has been in the ascendant for many long years. I have all along insisted that the party machine influence in this country is not, generally speaking, for the public good, and it is because there is some necessity for instituting means by which that influence may be checked, that I favour  Senator Elliott's  proposal. 
Federal systems throughout the world are a rather seductive tit-bit, and I do not know whether I should be in order in reminding the Government that there is no administration in any country in the world to-day that is not based upon the bi-cameral system. Even in Russia the government is designedly based on the federal plan. The Irish Free State ransacked the world in an effort to remodel the Irish Senate, and the result has been to put it in a position of greater solidity than ever, the only defect being that it has been made more amenable to the party machine. 
I see nothing wrong with holding the investigation suggested, by  Senator R.  D. Elliott because, as he said, nothing stands between the people and the Senate. We are here because the people sent us here. We spring direct from the loins of the people, and it is because we are so thoroughly democratic and so thoroughly representative of the popular will, that our critics are so much annoyed. But while they criticize us, they have little to say about the Legislative Councils. Why do these escape censure while the Senate comes in for all the blame? When I dealt with this subject previously, I pointed out what work was done by the Legislative Councils, and I placed in juxtaposition with it the work done by the Senate, showing that the former was only a fractional part of what is done by this chamber. ' But that did not keep our critics from saying that the Senate was shirking its duties, or not doing its work properly. The Senate is here to stay. On the clay when this Senate is abolished federation must also go. The Senate is the only citadel which the States possess,; notwithstanding what has been said to the contrary, it is still the bulwark of the States. It has proved to be the bulwark of, not only the States, but democracy as well. When another place challenged the right of the Senate to follow in' a certain course that it adopted some time ago, this chamber emerged triumphant from the conflict. When the Financial Agreement Bill was before this chamber - a measure which I opposed from beginning to end - I said it would be the means of impoverishing the States. The truth of my words is shown by the fact that already two of its chickens have come home to roost in the form of bills providing for the granting of financial, assistance to South Australia and Tasmania. These States have discovered that they cannot carry on with the resources at their disposal, and are now appealing to the Commonwealth authority for grants-in-aid to enable them to meet their financial obligations. This chamber ratified the financial agreement, but certain honorable senators were sufficiently far-sighted to see that its effect upon the States would be to sadly impoverish them,1 and that they would be obliged to come to this Government for relief. Only a few months after the agreement was ratified two States, at least, were on the doormat of this Parliament asking for assistance. In passing the Financial Agreement Bill the Senate was only giving effect to a policy which had the universal support and confidence of the people. When an appeal was made to the electors a majority were, unfortunately, on the side of those who supported the ratification of the agreement and it eventually became law. 
I am supporting the proposal of  Senator B.  D. Elliott, because I believe the time has arrived when the work of the Senate should be conducted in a more businesslike way and because it is our duty to avail ourselves of every possible opportunity to gain information to enable us to carry out our important duties more successfully in the interests of the people. If every honorable senator is not willing to tackle his responsibilities this'1 proposal will provide a means whereby a committee, consisting of, say, half-a-dozen honorable senators will be able to conduct inquiries on the lines mentioned in the motion, and thus enable this chamber to legislate more effectively in the interests of the people. 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  negatived - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I am afraid that some honorable senators do not realize the significance of the motion moved by  Senator' R.  D. Elliott, and the effect of its adoption by the Senate. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the way in which it is framed. I do not think that there is any intention to create a false impression, but the first line reads - " With a view to improving the legislative work of this chamber." It is suggested that one of the reasons for the appointment of the proposed committee is to improve the legislative work of this chamber. That undoubtedly suggests that the legislative work of this branch of the legislature needs improving. 
Good work may become better, but it is the legislative work of this chamber which it is suggested should be improved. Under the bicameral system of government operating in the Commonwealth, what is the duty of the Senate and of individual senators? In order to thoroughly grasp the situation, one has to understand the difference between a legislative act and an executive act.  Senator R.  D. Elliott referred, at the outset, to the number of statutory rules and regulations which he said were printed and ' circulated, and were probably never read by honorable senators. Once the power to make regulations has been delegated by Parliament to the executive, such regulations become legislative acts, and it is the duty of every honorable senator to study them, in order to determine whether they should be allowed or disallowed. Because all honorable senators do not read these statutory rules and regulations,  Senator R.  D. Elliott's remedy is to appoint a committee of the Senate to peruse them and report the result of its investigations. I invite the honorable senator to name any British Parliament, constituted as this Parliament is, in which any member has the right to delegate his legislative powers to another honorable member. A member has the right to move for the appointment of a committee to make inquiries into proposed legislation, and to ascertain facts which cannot be obtained on the floor of the chamber, but he has not the right, under our present system of government, to delegate any of his legislative powers to a body such as is suggested. 
The legislative . power, as I interpret it, means not only actually voting on a bill which comes before the Senate, but the exercise of that power which involves inquiry into the state of the law at the time of the passing of a proposed law, the remedy proposed and the reason for it. These are inquiries which  Senator R.  D. Elliott suggests should be delegated from one honorable senator to another. 
The motion suggests that a committee he appointed for improving the legislative work of the Senate. The legislative work of the Senate is to inquire into the cause for proposed legislation, and its nature, and then to decide whether it should be passed. A committee, such as suggested, would have to inquire into the first two questions, and then report to the Senate. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  made it perfectly clear that there are marked distinctions between the Constitution of the United States of America, Canada, and the Commonwealth. The committees in other countries, referred to by the honorable senator, are comparable with our Department of Home Affairs ana the Department of External Affairs, as we know them under our system of government. "We have no right to delegate our powers to others, in order, as suggested by the mover of the motion, to improve the legislative work of this chamber. We have the right, under our system of government, to delegate legislative powers to the executive, but one senator has not the right to delegate his power to another. 
An honorable senator has not the power to delegate a portion of his duty to another honorable senator. I ask honorable senators to recognize that, apart from an executive act, which cannot bc delegated to a sub-committee, the practical work of this Senate is to review legislation that comes to it, and which represents the considered opinion of the majority in another place. Although all parties in this Parliament have in mind the same ideal - the betterment of Australia - we immediately part company when we have to decide the best means of reaching our objective. A subcommittee sitting round a table could thoroughly discuss matters of major or minor importance, with the one object inview; but the members of the Labour party on such a committee would naturally hold views totally different from those of the members of the 
Nationalist party. Is it suggested that such a committee should come to a unanimous decision on proposed legislation? 
They come to the chamber with a majority and a minority report. They take the place of what we might term the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Government presents to the Senate the majority report and the Lender of the Opposition the minority report. We listen to both. It may be that there has been a spirit of compromise on the subject.  For  example, the Labour members may have been able to draw the Liberals just a little closer to Labour's ideals, or vice versa. The Leader of the Government, desiring to put the Government's policy into effect, explains to the Senate exactly what are his views on the reports, and the Leader of the Opposition does likewise. So, instead of what at present happens in the Senate, we will have at least four or five opinions on the matter. How would that improve the legislative work of this chamber? 
I urge honorable senators to consider this motion very carefully before passing it in its present form. Its acceptance would be an. acknowledgement from the outset that the legislative work of this chamber needs improvement. The committee would receive a definite mandate from the Senate to proceed on the assumption .that the work of the chamber does need improvement, and that it should search for the means of improvement. It would be an admission by honorable senators that the present system of dealing with statutory rules and ordinances is wrong, and the committee must devise a better method than that which now operates. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  has intimated, we come to a more difficult problem when we arrive at the proposal contained in the second paragraph of the motion. The committee therein proposed would inquire into, not the necessity or otherwise for improvement, but the definite need for improvement, of. our legislative work relating to international relations. The acceptance 'of the motion would also be an admission that our present system of legislation with regard to finance is wrong and must be improved. No advice is- to be given to the Treasurer as to the spending of our revenue. Then we come to the matter of private members' bills and " such other subjects as may be advisable." The important point is that such a committee is to be appointed definitely to improve the legislative work of this chamber, and honorable senators must take the responsibility, if they approve of the motion, for advising the general public that existing methods of legislation are unsatisfactory. It is not a matter of the systematic presentation of bills or of papers. It is an admission that this chamber needs improvement to the extent suggested by one of its newest arrivals,  Senator R.  D. Elliott. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [9.51]. - I should not take up the time of the Senate in discussing this motion, but that its mover has paid me the compliment of including my name amongst those whom -he wishes to serve on the committee. I feel bound to warn the honorable senator that it would be quite impossible for me to .approach the suggested work of that committee with an impartial mind. I should entirely prejudge that work; I should come to it with a- firm conviction that whilst it might be possible to improve the methods and work of this Senate, that was not likely to be done in the manner he suggests. I am not actuated with a desire to influence any other honorable senator, nor do I say that I am right and they are wrong, but so long as I am a member of this Senate I shall endeavour to represent the best interests of my State without the slightest obligation to any party; free not only from any party, but free also to hold myself entirely uninfluenced by the decisions of any party. I do not contend that that is the attitude that other honorable senators should adopt. .1 merely say that it was the attitude adopted by me when I contested the election at which I was chosen as a representative of this Senate. 
Reference has been made to the State Legislative Councils. I do not pretend to be familiar with the procedure of every State Legislative Council, but I do say that in the State of Western Australia, to which I belong, no member of that branch of the legislature supported by what may be termed National or Liberal opinion has ever attended a party meeting, nor has he regarded himself as being in any way bound by the decisions of a party. I was a member of the Legislative Council of Western Australia for eleven years. Except for the period when I was a member of the Crown I never attended a party meeting, and when I was a Minister of the Crown I attended party meetings merely to be kept in touch with any measures that I might be called upon afterwards to put through Parliament. I never spoke at any of those meetings unless invited to do so, and never was I permitted to vote at them. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Not at all. I depended on their merits to get them through. If you,  Mr. President,  were at liberty to say so, you would bear me out when I say that during the seven years when I was Leader of that House - and, incidentally I sympathize very keenly with the Leader of the Government in the Senate, because for thu greater part of the time I was the only Minister in that chamber and piloted all bills through it - most of my fighting was against those who were nominally supporters of my party. They claimed that that House was the House of individual opinion, and that is what I think this Senate ought to be. There is good reason for it. In another place that makes and unmakes Governments many members may be compelled, from time to time, to make a very difficult choice. They have to choose between voting for something in which they do riot believe, and' throwing  out the Government in which they do believe, and putting in its place an administration that they think would be bad for the country. In that way they might be rightly and honorably forced into voting for something with which they did not agree. We in this Chamber are free from that obligation. Our vote does not make or unmake governments, and, therefore, we should be at liberty to pass an opinion on any measure before us, irrespective of the party by which it is introduced. 
I wish to say, with the very deepest respect to my friend,  Senator Sir George  Pearce, that so long as I am a member of this Senate I cannot recognize any Leader of the Opposition. I recognize only the Leader of the House, and I hold myself at liberty to agree or disagree with any measure that he puts forward. The function of an opposition is to oppose. I submit that it is the function of this chamber not to oppose, but to review every measure put before it, and to review it in an impartial spirit, irrespective of whether it comes from Labour or the Nationalist party. It is utterly absurd for any one to think that the people of Australia can be divided into two camps; that all the people on that side are supporters of the Labour party, believers in State socialism,, while all on the other side hold a contrary opinion. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH Not at all. Sometimes an election is won by an enormous majority by one party and on another occasion there is an enormous majority for the opposing side. That indicates that a very large section of the community is by no means pledged to either side, and is prepared, and does so, to swing from one side to the other as it thinks advisable. I venture to say that you cannot divide the members of the Senate into two separate parties, assured that on all questions they will vote this way or that way. 
Reference has been made to the first Senate. I remind honorable senators that it was not the practice in that Senate for Nationalist or Liberal members to attend party meetings. I believe that I am right in saying that the practice was not adopted until after 1916. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Of course it was, because the Labour party members never recognized that the Senate ought to exist at all. They maintained a perfectly consistent attitude, and placed no value on the Senate as a protector of State rights. It was only after a certain number of Labour members, led by the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes),  came over to the Nationalist party that the practice of Nationalist members attending party meetings began. I am not criticizing that practice. My own opinion is that it. is a bad one, and because that is my opinion I do not and will not attend party meetings. Those who think differently are quite at liberty to exercise their own opinions. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.This Senate has made it practically impossible for any one to be elected to it unless he is prepared to link himself up with two other candidates, and go to the country on those lines. My name appeared with those of two other candidates, but it was quite well known to the public exactly how each of those three candidates was placed.  Senator Johnston,  representing the Country party, and I, were on the same platform, and while his pledge was of a slightly different character the people generally were conversant with the nature of the pledges and the undertakings which we gave. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.^ Reference has been made to the constitution of the Senate contemplated by the late  Sir Henry  Parkes. I venture to suggest that the Commonwealth Parliament has itself clone its utmost to destroy the possibility of the Senate ever complying with that ideal, by the inclusion in the Electoral Act of a provision which, if not an actual violation of the letter of the Constitution, is certainly a gross violation of its spirit. I refer to that provision -which prohibits members of State Parliaments from nominating for election to either House of the Commonwealth. The Constitution, in anticipation that this Parliament would be composed largely of members who had seen service in State Parliaments, goes so far as to say, in sub-section 4 of section 44, which prohibits any person holding an office of profit under the Crown from taking a seat in the Federal Parliament, that Ministers of a State shall be exempted. That is to Bay, a State Minister, although drawing his salary as a member of Parliament, is eligible for election to this Parliament, and may sit in it. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Yes, if the people wish him to. Ignoring the provision of the Constitution which sets out clearly what are to be the disqualifications of members, the Commonwealth Parliament, in my judgment without good reason, has prohibited members of a State Parliament from seeking election to this Parliament. By that legislative act the Commonwealth Parliament destroyed absolutely the possibility of the Senate being composed largely of men of experience in the Parliaments of the States. 
There is in the motion one provision which I hope the mover will omit, otherwise I do not see how I can support it, much as I should like to have this subject inquired into, and that is the provision that the select committee shall be at liberty to move from place to place.. If the committee is expected to move about it will necessarily have to go to those distant States in relation to which the Senate is of the greatest importance. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Yes, and I think that is one more good reason why the committee should not wander about Australia. I intend to support the motion in the hope that it may do some good, and with the conviction that it can do no harm. I was impressed by the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly),  and I may say that members of the Royal Commission on the Constitution, in the course of their inquiry, found few people who were prepared to applaud the Senate. On the contrary, this chamber was criticized in every State, the general tenor of the criticism being that it had failed to fill the place in the life of the Commonwealth Parliament which it was intended to occupy; that it had become too much a party house. That, too, is my own conviction. I am convinced that the bill to abolish the  per capita  payments to the States would never have been passed by a Senate dominated by the Nationalist element in politics if the members of that party had not been subject to party influences to a much greater extent than the Constitution contemplated. 
There is considerable force in the criticism levelled at the terms of the motion by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly),  and I suggest to the mover, who, I am sure, is actuated by the very best of motives, that, since it is capable of interpretation in a manner not contemplated by him, it should be somewhat modified. I understand that it was not his intention to examine so much the legislative functions of this chamber, as the position which has arisen with regard to statutory rules and ordinances, which are presented by all governments in this chamber in such tremendous volume. I believe that the Government is about to issue a consolidated volume of these ordinances, and I may add that this work was put in hand some time ago. This new volume comprises about 1,400 pages of ordinances passed under Commonwealth legislation, and these honorable senators will be expected to peruse. For my own part, I have always felt that the statutory rules laid on the table of the Senate should receive more consideration than it is possible for individual members to give to them, so possibly some good service will- be served if, by the appointment of a committee, we can regement the forces of the Senate with a view to the perusal or general review of these ordinances and statutory rules. The tendency of all governments is to legislate in this manner. I suggest, therefore, that no harm will be done if the honorable senator amends his motion by omitting the words " improving the legislative work of this chamber and ". The motion would then read - 
That with a view to increasing the participation of individual senators in such work, a select committee of seven members be appointed, to consider report and make recommendations .... 
I think the honorable senator has indicated already that he considers that paragraph  b,  dealing with international relations, may be considerably modified, because the committee could not make recommendations upon international relations without having access to secret communications. If the honorable senator amends the motion in the direction I have suggested, he will take out of it some of the Sting which some honorable senators feel it contains in its present form. 
 The feeling that has actuated the mover of this motion must have come to every honorable senator when he first entered the Senate. I know that I should have been glad if there had been a subcommittee to deal with the Bankruptcy Bill, which came before this chamber shortly after I entered it. That bill  was  of a non-party character, and would have lent itself admirably to investigation  by  a sub-committee. In considering it  I  found myself at a great disadvantage.  I  entered the Senate possessed of some commercial knowledge, but being unacquainted with the procedure here, when I tried to amend the measure in various directions I found that I was unable to do so. If there had been a sub-committee the various matters could have been threshed out there, and amendments could have been moved at the right time. I feel sure that that measure will have to be revised considerably before it becomes as effective as it ought to be. 
For  Senator B.  D. Elliott's proposal to function properly the Senate would have to be a non-party chamber, and a house of revision, but with a franchise similar to that for another place, it is almost impossible for it to get away from the party aspect.  Senator Colebatch  is opposed to party politics; but if he had not received the support of a political party he would not be here. We all might like to adopt an idealistic attitude, but we cannot, do so. Nemesis would pursue us when we submitted our names to the various political organizations with which we are associated. While the present franchise remains we cannot reach that ideal. In the case of the Irish Free State at one time no candidate for the Senate could be less than 30 years of age, with a similar franchise limit, but it was soon found that that restriction was unworkable. The latest method adopted there is to have  a  Senate selected from a panel chosen by the two Houses. That would make the Senate really a house of review; but, as things are in Australia, we cannot adopt that system. Only in connexion with matters of a non-party nature could subcommittees function satisfactorily. Nevertheless, I have no objection to an inquiry by a select committee. In an ordinary commercial concern sub-committees would be appointed ; but our Standing Orders do not provide for them. A sub-committee is not so elaborate as is a select committee, which generally finds occasion to travel about the country in the search for information. Some time ago, I was a member of a select committee, which travelled a good deal, and must have cost the country a considerable sum. If a select committee is appointed, it should not be given authority to travel from place to place. With that .  reservation, I am inclined to agree to the appointment of a select committee, although I am afraid that it will not solve our problems. 
I entered the chamber while the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  was saying that the ordered proceedings of the Senate were given less publicity than is given to frivolous or exciting incidents in another place. It is unfortunate that sensational incidents are given such prominence in the press, while logical reasoning is for the most part, overlooked. That indicates that the Senate needs more " pep," more " ginger." It is probably because most of the members of this chamber are over 80 years of age, that the proceedings here are so dull. 
We want not only new blood, but also, perhaps, men who are prepared to shed it, if necessary ! The Leader of the Opposition said that if a member called another a liar the incident would be fully reported. Then why not amend our Standing Orders to permit one honorable senator to call another a liar? We might even go further and allowreflections on the virtue of honorable senators to be made. If that were permitted, men of powerful physique, like  Senator Foll  and myself, might occasionally invite each other outside to settle matters, and then surely the proceedings of the Senate would be given prominence in the newspapers! The Senate is ignored to such an extent by the press that I doubt whether half the people of Australia know that it exists. Only recently I received two letters - one from a business firm - addressed to  Senator Rae,  M.H.R. It might be that the writers of those letters were of the opinion that membership in one house included membership in the other. We are ourselves largely responsible for the Senate being ignored. We do not assert ourselves; the debates are too dry. Even  Hansard  might be improved by the insertion of cartoons; and then the young fellows and flappers of the community wouldrush each edition as they now rush  Beckett's Budget  and  Truth  and other " high-class " publications. We all know the advantage of taking physical exercise. The physical exercise that I get away from Canberra enables me to live through the tedium of the debates here.  Senator Sampson's  idea of compulsory military service might well apply to honorable senators. If we were obliged to take physical exercise on the floor of the Senate the public galleries would be filled, and the Senate known far and wide as a glorious institution. It is rather strange to hear  Senator Colebatch,  who accepted nomination from a political party, decry party politics. 
All of us are not able to make such splendid terms; we have to scrape through a selection ballot, and be glad to do so. There is no harm in party government, and I should be sorry to see it abolished, because then there would be less fun in the Senate than there is now. Even with different parties in the chamber it is difficult to get up a decent " scrap ". What would be the position if we all belonged to one party, and were unanimous regarding everything? Rather than be a member of the Senate in. such circumstances I would prefer to be translated to another and higher sphere. 
The limitation of the powers of the Senate by the Constitution has largely detracted from the influence of the Senate. If we gradually asserted ourselves we might accomplish more. It will do no harm to agree to the motion, but, owing to the vagueness of the proposals, I cannot see what good it can do. For instance, how would international relations be affected by any report which a committee might make ? The honorable senator's proposals are so vague that it is difficult to understand what he had in his mind. Still, something should be done to make the Senate more interesting to the public. Seeing that honorable senators are responsible to the electors of a State, not only a portion of a State, and can disregard little cliques and coteries, it would appear that if either House is to be abolished, it should not be the Senate. Even if the Labour party does favour the abolition of the Senate because of the recognition of its comparative uselessness as things are, it does not think that anything should be done to belittle the chamber while it does exist. 
Motion (by  Senator Barnes)  proposed - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
 I thank honorable senators for the interest they have shown in my motion. I shall not occupy any time in replying to the arguments advanced,but I should like to say in reference to  Senator Colebatch's  hesitation about joining the committee, that it is really his attitude of criticism to the general scheme that would make his association with the committee of particular value. I am not proposing to have a select committee composed of men of the same political views. I want to have matters discussed from all angles, and, therefore, I feel particularly pleased that  Senator Colebatch  has consented to take part in this inquiry. It has been suggested that my motion should bc altered, and I am quite agreeable to accept a suggestion made by  Senator McLachlan,which,  I understand, meets with the approval of  Senator Daly.  I ask leave to amend my motion. 
Leave granted. 
Motion amended to read as  follows: - 
That, with a view  to  increasing  the  participation of  individual  senators  in the work  of  the  Senate, a select committee of seven members be appointed  to  consider, report, and make recommendations upon the advisability or otherwise of establishing Standing Committees of the Senate upon - 
Statutory rules and ordinances, 
International relations, 
Finance, 
Private members' bills, and/orsuch other subjects as may bedeemed advisable. 
That such select committee have leave to send for persons, papers and records, and to move from place to place. 
That such select committee submit its report to the Senate on or before the 12th March, 1930. 
That such select committee consist of Senators  Sir Hal  Colebatch, Foll, Herbert Hays, Lawson, Lynch,Rae, and the mover. 
Question as so amended resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That  the  Senate  do  now  adjourn. 
So that honorable senators may make their arrangements, I wish to notify them that I have conferred with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  and we have agreed that the Senate shall adjourn from to-morrow until Tuesday. I had intended asking honorable senators to meet on Monday, but it is proposed to get over the difficulty by sittiug if necessary on Wednesday and Thursday mornings. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
In view of the apparent rejection by the miners of the terms of the proposed settlement in the coal dispute, I ask the VicePresident of the Executive Council (Sena: tor Daly) if, in order to give the men engaged in the coal industry a real chance of expressing their individual opinions upon the merits of these terms, the Government will arrange for  a secret  ballot, for which provision is made in the Common wealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act? 
As the Leader of the Opposition knows the point raised by him is purely a matter of Government policy, and therefore one which cannot be dealt with in answer to a question. 
As the right honorable gentleman knows the administration of the law is a matter for the Government. I have no doubt this Government will take every step to see that the laws of this country are properly observed. 
I desire to ask your permission,  Mr. President,  to ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  a question without notice. 
 The honorable senator will be in order in doing so. 
I understood the honorable senator wished merely to submit a question to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honorable senator should first submit his question. 
The honorable senator is not in order in using the words "putting a straight jacket on the Government". I suggest that he employ some other term. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The statement I made yesterday in the course of a speech in the Senate stands on record. I suggest that the honorable senator is gifted with sufficient intelligence to be able to study and place his own construction upon it. I am not responsible for any interpretation that he or the  Canberra Times  may place upon my remarks. 
A reply has been received from the British Government and is at present in the hands of the Prime Minister. I hope to be in a position to make a statement on the subject later in the day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state whether the Government will favorably consider a proposal to give preference in Government employment or other encouragement to all officers, N.C.O.'s and men who volunteer for service in the militia forces? 
This matter has not been considered, and, in any case, it would not be in accordance with Government policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Were the items included in the tariff schedule tabled in the House of Representatives on the 22nd November referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report thereon before the schedule was tabled? 
If so, what items in the schedule had been reported on by the Tariff Board before that date? 
If not, have all the items in the schedule, since the duties were imposed, been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report? 
If so, on what date? 
If all the items have not been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report, why have some of them been withheld from such reference ? 
Information on these points will be furnished when the tariff schedule is being discussed. 
asked the Vice-President of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
Why was the Honorable J. B. Teuton selected by the Government to represent Australia at theN aval Disarmament Conference in London instead of the Minister for Defence? 
What powers are being given to  Mr. Fenton  ? 
Will the Senate be given a full opportunity to discuss Australian naval disarmament prior to any action being taken by the Government ? 
The answers are: - 
The conference is one which is concerned with considerations other than those whichlie exclusively within the province of defence. The Minister for Defence is closely occupied with the important task of the re-organization of his department, and it would be undesirable for him to be absent from Australia at this juncture. Any suggestion that he has been passed over is quite unjustified. 
The nature and scope of the powers and instructions to be given to  Mr. Fenton  have not yet been finally determined. 
An opportunity will be provided for the discussion of questions arising out of the conference, but it is not practicable at present to say when this will be possible. 
The answers are :  - 1 and 2. I am not in a position to make any statement in regard to this question at the present stage. The matter will be the subject of negotiation between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers on Monday next. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister ascertain and inform the Senate what progress is being made with the expenditure of £100,000 allotted through the Development and Migration Commission to investigation and inquiry into the merits of the Dawson River irrigation scheme in Central Queensland - (a) how much of the money has been spent;  (b)  what information results have so far been obtained ? 
No scheme has yet been put forward by the Queensland Government for acceptance by the British and Commonwealth Governments. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
What steps have the Government taken to improve the shipping services between Tasmania and the mainland? 
Arrangements have been made for Engineer Rear-Admiral  Sir William  Clarkson to inquire into and report upon the question of the establishment of a Commonwealth shipping service between the mainland and Tasmania. In addition, certain investigations are being carried out by a sub-committee representative of the Postmaster-General's Department and the Navigation Service. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
What steps are being taken by the Government to establish a regular air service for mails and passengers between the mainland and Tasmania? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Government, in its consideration of the case of the gold-mining industry, give due regard to the proposal for a subsidy on. the footage bases of all developmental work done either as an alternative or inclusive means of assisting that industry. 
The matter will receive consideration. 
NEW BUSINESS AFTER 10.30 p.m. 
.- I move- 
That Standing Order No. 68 be suspended up to and including the 12th December, 1929, for the purpose of enabling new business to be commenced after half-past 10 at night. 
I can assure honorable senators that the Government will meet their conveniences as far as possible. No advantage will be taken of the suspension of this Standing Order without first consulting the Leader of the Opposition, and only in cases of extreme urgency to enable the Senate to dispose of its legislative programme before we adjourn for the Xmas vacation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
When the consideration of this measure was adjourned last night, I was endeavouring to explain the genesis of the  Tasmanian  Rights League, and the work which it performed in ' the interests of the Tasmanian people. It was formed as a result of the activities of a number of public-spirited citizens of Hobart, and its membership increased at a remarkable rate. It held numerous public meetings throughout the State and gathered a tremendous ' amount of information in an  endeavour to show that the depressed financial position of Tasmania is directly attributable to the disabilities which that State is experiencing under federation. At the outset, I should like to mention that the league was rather in error in some of the hard things it said concerning federal members. It charged them with indolence and ineptitude in the matter of placing Tasmania's position fully before the Federal Parliament. I was inclined to subscribe to that new; but soon after my election to the' Senate iri the following year I found that the assumption was incorrect. The object of the league was to assist Tasmanian members in this Parliament to obtain justice for the State. In addition to enrolling a large membership of persons pledged to the objectives of the league, a petition was circulated.  Hansard  of Friday, 22nd January, 1926, contains a record of the presentation of that petition to Parliament - 
I should not have participated in this debate had it not been for the statement of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Daly)  as to the further action proposed to be taken toinquire into Tasmania's disabilities. I desire to make it clear that I am entirely in accordance with the provisions of this measure, for Tasmania is undoubtedly entitled to assistance. Nor have I any objection to a further inquiry being made if the Government thinks that sufficient data are not already available, or that the present PostmasterGeneral and the honorable member for Bass are not sufficiently informed to advise it in the matter. My objection is to referring such matters as the granting of assistance to States to a committee composed of members of this Parliament. I doubt whether any State should agree to its affairs being investigated by a committee of federal members. It is equal to a man being his own judge. Section 3 of the Committee of Public Accounts Act sets out the duties of the Public Accounts Committee: - 
The duties of the committee shall be - 
to examine the accounts of the receipts and expenditure of the Commonwealth, and to report to both Houses of the Parliament any items in those accounts, or any circumstance connected with them to which they think that attention should be directed. 
to report to both Houses of the Parliament any alteration which the committee think desirable in the form of the public accounts or the method of keeping them, or in the mode of receipt, control, issue or payment of the public money. 
to inquire into and report upon any questions in connexion with the public accounts which are referred to them by either House of the Parliament. 
any other duties assigned to the committee by joint standing orders approved by both Houses of the Parliament. 
A judicial, or a quasi-judicial body, not the public Accounts Committee, should deal with the relations between the Commonwealth and the States. The States should not have to submit to the determination of a tribunal which is essentially Commonwealth in character. The Government would be well advised to re consider its decision to refer this matter to the Public Accounts Committee. A vital principle is at stake. Should the contemplated action be taken a dangerous precedent will have been established. Although the proposal to refer this matter to the Public Accounts Committee is not referred to in this measure itself, I have deemed it my duty to enter my protest in the hope that even yet the Government will reverse its decision. I can conceive circumstances arising in which political considerations might obtrude themselves. I do not suggest that there is anything of the kind in this case, but a door is left open for it. The position is capable of such grave abuse that I, as a State representative, could not let the measure go through without voicing my protest. 
Although this proposal refers especially to Tasmania, it is one of general importance to all the States. It is encouraging to think that everything that the last Government did was not wrong, and that its action in making a financial grant to Tasmania as a recognition of the loss suffered by the State through federation, has been endorsed by the present Government. As  Senator McLachlan  pointed out, the Government has improved somewhat upon the previous arrangement in that, in addition to making the grant, it has promised to hold a further inquiry into Tasmania's case. That is a healthy indication that the Government is. not so resolved upon the abolition of State Governments as we feared it might be, judging from the platform of the Labour party. The Leader of the Labour party  (Mr. Scullin)  once said that if a Labour Government were returned to power the  per capita  payments of 25s. to the States would be restored. So far no step has been taken to honour that promise. The statement was made for the purpose of securing the favour of the electors, but we do not hear much about the matter from the Government now. I have heard it said that  Mr. Scullin  does not propose to honour the promise because a financial agreement has been entered into with the States dealing, among other tilings, with the  per capita  payments. I should think, however, that  Mr. Scullin  would have no difficulty whatever in getting the States to attend a conference, and agree to an alteration in the terms of that agreement, if they were to get a little more out of it. The fact that the case of Tasmania may be re-opened as promised by the Government is an indication that the question of the financial relations between the States and the Commonwealth has not been settled as we were told it had. When South Australia and "Western Australia see that Tasmania is getting something more, they may feel, human nature being what it is, they also are entitled to have their claims reconsidered. Therefore, the financial agreement which was supposed to be a lasting and final adjustment of the financial relations between the States and the Commonwealth is shown to be not so permanent a thing as it was supposed to be. I do not wish to pose as a prophet, but a few of us here who raised our voices against that agreement when it waa before the Senate, have at least the melancholy satisfaction of knowing that what we said would happen has come to pass. The only thing for  Mr. Scullin  to do now is to keep his word, call a conference of State representatives, and restore the  per capita  payments. 
I believe that they would tear up the agreement to-morrow if they were to get something better in its place. Even  Senator Thompson,  I believe, would be in favour of that if he were to get something more as a result of it. 
My conscience would not trouble me in accepting something more if it were offered, and I do not think that  Senator Thompson's  would trouble him either. Federation has been an advantage to the two most densely populated States, New South Wales and Victoria, but the other States have not benefited from it. 
I object to the term "grant" which is used in this measure. A grant is something which, if not exactly a gift or dole, is a first cousin to it. Tasmania has a right to this money. When the fathers of federation laid it down that the States were to receive one-quarter of the customs and excise revenue in the form of  per capita  payments they did not call it a grant. 
Of course, it is financial aid. Everyone knows that the only States that have benefited from federation to any appreciable extent are New South Wales and Victoria, and I may also include Queensland. We are hoping that this geographical prosperity will not continue indefinitely. All students of finance realised at the outset that under federation the Eastern States would enjoy a large measure of prosperity chiefly at the expense of the numerically smaller States, because they would immediately have a wider market available to them. That is why these States have prospered out of all proportion to the other States, and is why Tasmania is now applying for financial relief. We call it a grant ! It is not a grant, but a right. I do not complain, of course, that New . South Wales and Victoria have so benefited, because I voted for federation, and I did so with my eyes open. All I wish to do is to impress on the Senate the fact that prosperity has been localized, and that certain States have not had their share. Western Australia, for example, provides a market for £8,000,000 worth of goods produced or manufactured in the Eastern States. That trade certainly has contributed to the financial opulence of our eastern neighbours, but the time will come when this prosperity will be broader based. In the meantime, the smaller States, having been reduced to grave financial straits, are compelled to seek assistance from the Commonwealth. The spirit of their people is not in any sense impaired. They are determined, and will eventually surmount their difficulties. It is true that at times they become faint hearted, and sometimes they fear that people in the more prosperous States are disposed to ignore the trials and sufferings of their less fortunate brethren.Though I do not wish to make any distinction between the States, I remind the Senate that Western Australia has not received, by hundreds of thousands of  pounds, that amount of financial aid which, as recommended, should be given to it by the Commonwealth. But we are now growling too much about that. We merely wish it to be known that the commission recommended the grant of a certain sum to lessen the disabilities suffered by Western Australia, and that the amount recommended has not been advanced. When the time comes we shall make an appeal, because we do not wish to continue to be indefinitely the hewers of wood and drawers of water for the other States of the Commonwealth. We believe we are entitled to get something in return. 
I suggest that the honorable senator confine his remarks to the subject matter of the bill - a proposal to graat a certain sum of money to Tasmania. 
I do not propose to reply at length, but I feel it is incumbent upon me to answer the criticism of  Senator McLachlan.  I find it difficult to understand why the honorable senator should find fault with the Government in connexion with this proposal. I remind him that in 1927 the Ministry of which he was a member instructed the Public Accounts Committee to proceed to Tasmania for the purpose of making a certain investigation. 
Shipping communications with the mainland. If, as is continuously contended, the legal maxim,  Bex non potest peccare,  may be applied to the Bruce-Page Government, then how can there be objection to the action of the present Government in following its lead? 
-I disagree with the honorable senator. The principle underlying this Government's action is exactly the same as that which induced the Bruce-Page Government to authorize the inquiry into Tasmania's shipping communication. If we are wrong now, the Bruce-Page Government also was wrong. But the previous administration had every warrant for instructing the Public Accounts Committee to make the investigation referred to. I am in full agreement with the remarks of  Senator Sampson  and  Senator Lynch  that when a State makes application under section 96 for a grantinaid it is asking not for a dole but for something to which it has a legal right. Section 96 imposes upon the Commonwealth an obligation in certain circumstances to make grants to the States. Tasmania made a claim for an amount which, for the purpose of my argument, may be stated as X. The former administration considered the claim and came to a certain decision without consulting Parliament. I take no exception to that course, because the Government would have brought in a measure to ratify its decision. The previous Government decided that £250,000 annually for a period of five years was sufficient to meet Tasmania's needs. Subsequent to the making of that decision the present Government came into power. One of its members is a representative of Tasmania and knows all about the disabilities of that State. The request came before this Government for consideration, and since it was regarded as urgent Cabinet decided that at least £250,000 a year for five years was necessary to meet the situation. But we were not satisfied to allow the matter to rest on the  ex parte  statement of a Minister, who admittedly would be biased in favour of his own State; so as a matter of abstract justice we decided to refer the subject to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for investigation and report. This committee is appointed by Parliament to make investigations into those matters which cannot conveniently be dealt with on the floor of Parliament. Tasmania claims that it is entitled to a certain sum. The previous Government, which had a much greater opportunity to consider the claim, decided that the State was entitled to £250,000 a year. The present Government was not quite satisfied with that decision, but it decided that the payment of the grant for the term mentioned would discharge at least portion of the moral obligation of the Commonwealth to Tasmania and considered that the subject should be further investigated by the Statutory Committee appointed by the Parliament, which will be in a position to say whether such payment will fully discharge the Commonwealth's liability. If, as suggested by  Senator McLachlan,  this is a dangerous precedent, then I am afraid we shall have to consider the advisability of abolishing the committee altogether. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that it would be  ultra vires  of the act, under which the Public Accounts Committee is appointed, for that body to make this investigation ? 
Contingent upon certain facts being established. Would the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  suggest that such contingent expenditure should not be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. 
The Government has been challenged with having adopted a new procedure in referring the disabilities of Tasmania to the Public Accounts Committee. 
Quite so ; but, as a matter of fact, honorable senators on both sides have strayed quite far enough from the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Payment of £250,000 per annum for financial assistance to Tasmania). 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [11.59]. - The amount payable to Tasmania is fixed at £250,000 per annum for a period of five years, and  Senator Daly  has at considerable length explained that the Government proposes to hold an inquiry by the Public Accounts Committee to see whether this amount is justified or whether further grants should not be made to Tasmania. Are we to understand that the committee can find in one way only : that it must confine any recommendation it makes to the payment of the £250,000, or a larger amount, and is not free to recommend the payment of a smaller amount? 
The Public Accounts Committee will inquire into this item of expenditure which the Government has power to refer to it. If it should bring in a recommendation to the effect that the Bruce-Page Government and the present Government were wrong in fixing the amount of the grant at £250,000, Parliament will still be the final body to deal with the matter. 
 If the Public Accounts Committee inquires into this expenditure of  £250,000  by the Commonwealth, and that is the only possible jurisdiction that can be conferred on the committee, Tasmania may be in the unhappy position next year of having the grant reduced to  £220,000  or even  £200,000.  I hope that the State will be absolutely sure of getting the  £250,000  for five years, and I am amazed to hear that there is a possibility of the amount being less - that there is a suggestion of any possibility of Parliament being asked to reduce it. 
In that case the reference to the Public Accounts Committee cannot cover this  £250,000.  The Leader of the Government in the Senate is evidently on the horns of a dilemma. At first he wanted us to believe that the  £250,000  was to be a fixed amount, irrespective of what might be recommended by the Public Accounts Committee or any other body, and that all that the committee was to be asked to investigate was the need for any increase in the amount of the grant, a matter which, I contend, should be decided by a tribunal having in its keeping neither the interests of Tasmania nor those of the Commonwealth. I suggest that the grant of  £250,000  ought not to be reviewed by the Public Accounts Committee. The statute providing for the payment of the grant for five years should prevail. 
 Senator McLachlan  knows that Parliament can at any time undo what it has already done. 
If the fears of  Senator Dunn  as expressed by him earlier in the day are realized and honorable senators who are now on the&lt; treasury bench are transferred to the other side of the chamber, it is quite possible that steps may be taken to repeal this bill if it becomes law. But Tasmania knows that it is taking that risk, and it will be no greater under the present Government than it was under the Bruce-Page Government. The present Government. agrees with the late. Government that on the evidence adduced this Parliament should be asked to enter, into a compact to pay  £250,000  to Tasmania for the next five years, but in doing so it does not suggest that such payments will deal out full measure of justice to Tasmania. Ministers do not believe in the setting up of costly royal commissions such as were appointed by the late Government. They would rather have the financial position of Tasmania inquired into by Parliament itself. But, of course, Parliament would not have the time to undertake such an investigation, and without incurring the expense of a costly royal commission, the Government has asked the Public Accounts Committee to ascertain whether the Commonwealth in making available this grant of  £250,000  a year is discharging its liability to Tasmania. The Government is not asking Tasmania to accept any risk. The State will not be in any worse position if the inquiry is held by the Public Accounts Committee than it would be if, following the procedure adopted by the Bruce-Page Government, the royal commission advocated by  Senator McLachlan  had been appointed. The Government is not trying to toss Tasmania with a double-headed penny. As a matter of fact there has never been on the treasury benches in this Parliament a Government more sincerely anxious to assist States suffering under the disabilities referred to by  Senator Lynch  than the present Government. Its policy may be unification, but so long as the federal system remains, it will mete out justice to all, and the smaller States will probably find themselves better off than before. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia)  [12.7].-  The explanation given by  Senator Daly  is very unsatisfactory from the point of view of Tasmania. The policy of the Bruce-Page Government was that Tasmania should get a grant of  £250,000  a year for five years without any suggestion of further investigation. From inquiries already made, the Bruce-Page Government was satisfied that  £250,000  a year was the amount that the State was entitled to receive to compensate it for the disabilities it is suffering. When a bill making provision for the payment, of an annual  grant to a State becomes law it is a binding contract which subsequent Parliaments will honour.  Senator Daly,  however, suggests the possibility of future parliamentary intervention in the direction of reducing the grant to Tasmania. In my opinion no Parliament should contemplate such a step. The Government has indicated that, although it is passing this bill which provides for a grant of a fixed sum to Tasmania, it will ask the Public Accounts Committee to hold an inquiry to ascertain the amount that Tasmania should justifiably receive. But. that inquiry must be fair and impartial. The committee must be free to find whether, under the present grant, the State is receiving enough or too much. According to  Senator Daly,  if the committee finds that the grant is in excess of what Tasmania should receive, Parliament can reduce the grant. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE Then why have an inquiry? The bill provides for a fixed grant for a period of five years, and there is no need for an investigation. It is no use blinking our eyes to the fact that this little promise of an inquiry has been made by the Government to save the face of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Lyons).  That gentleman went about during the last election campaign saying that the grant proposed by the Bruce-Page Government was not sufficient, but when he met his colleagues in Cabinet he found that they would not agree to increase it. Now, in order to save his face they have put up this story about having an inquiry by the Public Accounts Committee. It is nothing but a sham. The grant is all right and I support it, hut I do not think the proposed inquiry will be worth anything. 
In an endeavour to escape Scylla,  Senator Daly  has run into Charybdis. If at the outset he had frankly explained why the inquiry was to be held by the Public Accounts Committee, he would not have brought this blast upon his head with regard to the risk the people of Tasmania may be running. In his second-reading speech he indicated clearly that Tasmania was entitled to this £250,000, but having no peg on which to hang this proposed inquiry by the Public Accounts Committee the honorable gentleman with the adroitness for which he is famed, set up the very specious argument that the committee was to inquire into thisCommonwealth expenditure of £250,000. If that is the real position, the Government is not doing the State that measureof justice which the late Government was prepared to mete out. The Bruce-Page Government attached no condition to the grant it was prepared to make. I venture to say, however, that the £250,000 is a closed book, and that all that the Public Accounts Committee can do is, to ascertain how much more the State is entitled to receive. That, however, does not fall into line with the suggestion made by  Senator Daly  that the committee is to inquire into " Commonwealth expenditure." The action of the Government in directing the Public Accounts Committee to inquire into the financial position of Tasmania is mere " eye-wash," and has been taken merely to protect the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Lyons).  The Public Accounts Committee was appointed to conduct investigations into the activities of Commonwealth governmental departments, and not into the financial relations existing between the Commonwealth and the States. This tribunal, which comprises members of this chamber and another place, is now to be the judge in its own court. 
Yes ; when the Government may, if it so desires, give effect to its recommendations. 
That is not so. I am endeavouring to protect Tasmania and to ensure that it will receive a grant of £250,000 for the period provided inthe bill regardless of any political manoeuvring that may take place. As a member of the late Government I was convinced that Tasmania was entitled to £250,000 a year without further inquiry, but the Government is now in a dilemma and, in order to save its face, is referring the subject to the Public Accounts Committee which, as I have said, is not the authority to conduct such an investigation. The duty of that committee is to conduct internal investigations in relation to Commonwealth finance, and not to inquire into a matter involving the responsibility of the administration under an important section of the Constitution. If, as suggested, the committee is to ascertain whether Tasmania is entitled to more or less than £250,000 a year, we have been misled because I understand that the amount mentioned has been definitely decided upon by the Government for a period of five years, and that there is no risk of its being reduced. It is only right that the people of Tasmania should be assured of receiving the amount promised for the period stated in the bill now before us. If further inquiries are to be conducted they should be made by an independent tribunal, and not by one comprising members of Parliament. A vicious principle is being inculcated into our political life. If the Public Accounts Committee recommended that an annual grant of £50,000 was sufficient, would the Government introduce amending legislation in order to give effect to its recommendation? I think not. The State would be satisfied with the recommendations of an independent tribunal. 
We are now dealing with State endowment, and I am contending that if any investigation is to be made it should be by an authority absolutely independent of politics, instead of by a committee appointed solely to act as a watch-dog of Commonwealth departmental finance. 
.- The Senate has already agreed to grant financial assistance to South Australia for a period of three years, and I have no doubt that the grant which the Government propose to give to Tasmania will be agreed to without any opposition. I cannot understand, however, why the Government should refer this subject to the Public Accounts Committee when similar action was not taken in connexion with the grant to be paid to South Australia. 
The explanation given by the Minister  (Senator Daly)  for the Government's action in directing the Public Accounts Committee to conduct an investigation is unsatisfactory. Already Tasmania's position has been inquired into. 
Three years ago  Sir Nicholas  Lockyer conducted an investigation, and, although the Government did not give effect to his recommendations, the information which he obtained is still available. It would be interesting to know why Tasmania should be treated differently from other States in this respect, particularly when the amount to be paid is similar to that which the BrucePage Government proposed to make available. If further inquiries are to be made, the Government should appoint a nonpolitical tribunal, comprising, say, two men with an expert knowledge of governmental finance, who would be able to gather all the information required at a lower cost than would be involved in the inquiry proposed. With due deference to the Public Accounts Committee, a majority of its members have had little experience in governmental finance. As stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  the action to which exception has been taken by honorable senators on this side of the chamber is merely to camouflage the position, and save the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Lyons)  and the Government, of which he is a member, in the eyes of the Tasmanian people. During the election campaign, the present Postmaster-General told the electors of Tasmania that they were mugs and humbugs if they supported Nationalist candidates who, he said, were lacking backbone and courage. In effect, he told them that if a Labour Government were returned to power, Tasmania would get a grant of £400,000. 
But, as a member of the Labour Cabinet, he finds that he cannot honour his promise, so this moat unusual course has been adopted. We were informed to-day that another inquiry is to be instituted in regard to a Government line of steamers between Tasmania and the mainland. 
Queensland, with its tremendous natural resources, is able to carry on without assistance from the Commonwealth. On the hustings,  Mr. Lyons  strongly abused members of the late Government and their supporters in this chamber. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).I  ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the clause. 
The proposal of the Government is merely to protect the Postmaster-General, but the Tasmanian people will soon realize that he not only made a number of cowardly statements, but some reckless promises, which he cannot possibly keep. Promises were also made in connexion with the coal-mining dispute- 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the subject matter of the clause under consideration. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Standing and sessional orders suspended and bill (on motion by  Senator Daly)  read a third time. 
The honorable senator must accept the statement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
That the late Government effected a decrease in federal taxation per head, direct and indirect, is shown by the following table : - 

<graphic href="122332192912064_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table shows clearly that under  the  Bruce-Page Government taxation was decreasing and that the Government was exercising economy in its administration. In his budget  Dr. Earle  Page said - 
The cost of departmental  expenditure per head of population, which surely is a test of sound administration, has shown a steady decline during the life of the present Government. Tn 1921-22 the cost per head was 10s. 7d.; in 1928-29, 9s. 6£d. This consistent record of wise and prudent control of public expenditure challenges comparison and speaks for itself. 
That is further indication that the BrucePage Government kept a careful hand on the expenditure of the Commonwealth. Still further proof of this fact is provided in the report of the Public Accounts Committee on temporary employment in the Commonwealth Service, particularly in the following tables and statement: - 
A comparison of the figures of the PostmasterGeneral's Department at 30th June, 1924, with those at 1st Mardi, 1920, reveals the following position: - 
Increase in permanent-staff 14.5 per cent. 
Decrease in temporary staff 2.0 per cent. 
Decrease in exempt staff .. 14.5 per cent. 
Increase in total staff . . 2.0 per cent. 
It is interesting to note that of the total number of 40,730 employees in the Commonwealth Public Service at 30th June, 1928, no fewer than 40,010 (80 per cent.) were engaged in the Postmaster-General's Department. 
While there has been an increase of only 2 per cent, in the personnel of the PostmasterGeneral's Department since 1924, there has been a great expansion of business in various branches of the department. For example, atthe 30th June, 1928, there were 1,532 more post offices in operation, 15S,421 more telephone instruments in use, 804,259 more miles of line to maintain, 129,591,805 more telephone calls, and 198,598,000 more postal articles handled. Details of expansion are as follow: - 
The capacity to cope with such a large increase in work with such a small increase in staff is attributable to a number of causes some of which are: - 
The adoption of the automatic telephone system : 
Developments of the science and art of telephony and telegraphy, which enable existing circuits to be so much more fully utilized that physical circuits, which would otherwise have been constructed, are not yet required ; 
Internal re-organization, which has brought about staff reductions and improved methods. 
That is a demonstration of the economical way in which the late Government controlled its largest business activity. It provided a capital expenditure which helped the Postal Department to meet the increasing needs of the Commonwealth with a minimum increase of staff. The report of the Public Accounts Committee shows very clearly that the Commonhas not been extravagant. 
The following table shows how taxation was increased in Queensland while  Mr. Theodore  was Treasurer of the State: - 

<graphic href="122332192912064_16_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr. Theodore's budget of a few days ago indicates that in the Commonwealth arena he will pursue the policy he adopted when he was Treasurer in Queensland. In his budget he says - 
In recent years the Commonwealth expenditure has been burdened with the cost of a number of more or less ornate boards and commissions whose work obviously has not justified the cost of their upkeep and maintenance. 
I am pleased that  Senator Daly  has since indicated that an important body, like the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, will be continued, and given every assistance to carry on its work of enabling Australian industries to develop and overcome many of the difficulties that are now retarding their progress. I sincerely trust that the Government will also continue the good work done by the Development and Migration Commission. That body is doing wonderfully useful work; it has won the approval of all State Governments; it has assisted them to overcome many of their difficulties.  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia, the only Labour Premier in the Commonwealth to-day, has every confidence in it. He has utilized its services on many occasions, and when it was announced that the present Commonwealth Government contemplated getting rid of the Development and Migration Commission,  Mr. 
Collier said that he hoped it would be continued. In his budget,  Mr. Theodore  also says - 
In his budget speech, the late Treasurer, in dealing with the debt position stated that the gross debt of the Commonwealth at 30th June, 1929, stood at £377,621,573. 
I find, on examination, that this figure does not include a sum of £5,000,000 which the late Commonwealth Government agreed to write off the indebtedness due to the States in respect of soldier land settlement loans. Separate agreements were entered into between the Commonwealth and respective State Governments subject to ratification by the respective Parliaments. Four States passed ratifying acts, but before the other two States could do so, the whole subject was re-opened at a conference between the Commonwealth and the States in 1927. The ratification of the agreement wae accordingly deferred, but the Commonwealth agreed, without prejudice to its rights, to defer collection of interest from the States. 
Under the recommendations of  Mr. Justice  Pike, which were accepted by the late Government, a further sum of approximately £2,600,000 will have to be written off as from 1st July, 1927, subject to agreement by the State Governments and ratificationby all Parliaments. 
If both these sums are allowed for, the debt of the Commonwealth as at 30th June, 1929, would stand at £7,600,000 more than the sum quoted in the budget speech. 
There was no liability on the Commonwealth in this respect, until the agreements between the Commonwealth and the States were ratified. This amount  was not included in the budget for the same reason that prevented the inclusion under the heading of . war services of £100,000 to meet ' the interest on the £2,600,000 which the Commonwealth proposed to pay over to the States in final adjustment of the soldiers' settlement difficulties. I should also like to have an assurance from the Minister that some provision will be made for what is known as the home maintenance area's. In some of the States the areas are too small, and I know that the previous Government intended to set aside £150,000 to enable the States to provide living areas. 
In conclusion, I suggest that, at a time like the present, the Government should use every endeavour to keep down expenses. I hope that it will not, like former Labour governments, continue a policy of prodigal expenditure. It is encumbent on Ministers to see that the expenditure is kept as closely as possible to the Estimates. The financial statement brought down by the Treasurer suggests that efficient ministerial oversight has not been exercised in the preparation of departmental estimates. 
 I rise to support the financial statement presented by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly). Senator Glasgow  painted a very unpleasant picture of the condition of the Commonwealth, and would have us believe that the Bruce-Page administration was the saviour of the country. I have no wish to hurt the feelings of the honorable senator and his friends opposite, but I cannot help reminding him and them that when we appealed to the people recently the majority of electors in all the States endorsed the policy of the Leader of the present Government. 
I think the honorable senator will agree that even in Queensland the Labour party made gains. We won back the division of Kennedy, very nearly succeeded in Oxley, and we gave  Colonel Cameron  a severe "shaking up " in Brisbane. Although this Government has been in office for only five or six weeks, it has demonstrated its ability, to govern, and if it is allowed to continue it will do much to lift Australia out of the financial mire in which it was placed by the Bruce-Page administration. 
In presenting his budget the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  said - 
Since the new Government assumed office there has not been sufficient time to call for fresh estimates in detail from all departments, and construct an entirely new budget based upon the policy of the new administration. Therefore, the major portion of the estimates of the late Government has been adopted. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition exercised his privilege, which no one would deny, to him or his colleagues, of attempting to flay the Government and its supporters. The honorable senator referred particularly to the suspension of compulsory military training. Like  Senator H.  E. Elliott,  Senator Glasgow  has devoted a great deal of study to defence, but I think that even he will agree that the time has arrived when we should seek to cut down expenditure. 
This Government does not propose to leave Australia unprotected. In suspending compulsory military training we are giving a lead to those countries where peace societies and other organizations are seeking to bring about a general disarmament. This Government is prepared to fall into line with them.  Senator Glasgow  is well known as a man who has played his part in defence, and I have no doubt that he has a complete understanding of not only our own defence system, but also of the systems in other countries. But I strongly resent his charge that this Government is disloyal to the Empire because it has suspended compulsory military training and is reducing the defence vote. Although I have not been long in this chamber T am aware that things are moving, and that responsible leaders of parties are talking of a " show-down " in the Senate. We have had a hint to this effect from the right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce).  I may not be well versed in political strategy, but I have learned something from my association with the industrial movement for the last twenty years, and I am not unaware of the rumblings that  foretell a trial of strength. Events may move quickly, but I suggest that, if there is to be a "show-down," some of our friends, including  Senator Reid,  and perhaps also our worthy  President,  will be missing from this chamber. I should be sorry in the latter event, because I am beginning to like our  President. 
I suppose we need not. Sof ar as New South Wales is concerned we have no time for "rainbow trout " - I understand the honorable senator once was a Labour man. We have been told that the people will have something to say about the suspension of compulsory military training. Speaking for myself, I hope that if the Government is challenged it will not back down, and if I may be permitted to use the term, I should say to  Senator Reid  - "We will take you on at any time." 
The honorable senator will not be in order in threatening another honorable senator. 
During the debate on the AddressinReply, and on this motion frequent reference has been made to the action of the present Government in suspending compulsory military training, and so saving the huge expenditure that is now being incurred in maintaining a large military organization. The money that has been spent in that direction should have been used in providing employment on reproductive works. The defence policy of the Government has the support of many promi nent authorities. Let me quote from an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which is not a Labour paper- 
Although the first citizen of the United States of America, a highly civilized country with a population of 120,000,000 people, has said that armaments are too costly,  Senator Sir William  Glasgow condemns this Government for making an honest attempt to curtail defence expenditure in Australia. 
That is the opinion of the right honorable gentleman. 
I remind the Leader of the Opposition that some one must take the lead in such matters. Australia has appeared in the role of leader on previous occasions; why should we not set an example to others in this instance? The article from which I have quoted continues - " The total of our military expenditure is in excess of those of the most highly militarised nations," he said. Upon the conference shortly to be held in London will depend such moderation as we can make in naval expenditure. If we shall be compelled to undertake the naval construction implied in the Washington Arms Treaty, as well as other construction which would appear necessary if no agreemen can be completed we should be committed to construct within the next six years more than 1,200,000,000 dollars worth, plus the increased cost of upkeep. " Under the Kellogg Pact, we have undertaken never to use war as an instrument of national policy." 
I repeat the words "under the Kellogg pact we have undertaken never to use war as an instrument of national policy." 
I am not concerned with the action of Soviet Russia or of China. Russia is working out her own destiny. 
When the proper time comes. 
Russia offered to completely disarm.I am not a member of the Communist party, but  Senator Rae  has stated- 
No.  Senator Rae,  when giving reasons why the Soviet army had not been disbanded, said that the earliest attacks made upon Russia were made not by the working class, but by the armies of vested interests in Great Britain, France, Italy, Germany, America and Japan. It was only natural' that Russia should accept the challenge, and any one who has studied the situation knows that Russia, through its Red army, has been able to keep its frontiers intact. The policy of the Russian people is of concern to them alone and not to  Senator Reid  or any one else. I should like a delegation representative of all parties in this chamber and another place to visit Russia to see for themselves the conditions which prevail in that country. 
If a Russian delegation came to Australia they would be shown  Senator Thompson,  who is one of the " bad things " politically in Queensland. I do not use that expression in a personal sense. 
Order ! The honorable senator must not be so personal. 
It is not a question of hurting the feelings of an honorable senator, but of upholding the dignity of the Senate. 
That is my concern, as the presiding officer in this chamber. 
The honorable senator will proceed with his address. 
United States of America. An Australian delegation to Russia might elicit facts concerning that country which would end the " tripe " published about it in such journals as the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
In the interests of orderly debate, it would be well for honorable senators on both sides to cease from interjecting. 
From the defence point of view, our forces should he proportioned to the national need. ... I recommend Congress to give earnest consideration to the possibilities of prudent action which will give relief from our continuously-mounting military expenditures. 
He assured Congress that the people of that country desired peace, yet  Senator Glasgow  condemns the Treasurer for his efforts to curtail military expenditure in this country. In my opinion, the sooner our military system is placed on the scrapheap the better. Instead of £1,000,000 being placed on the Estimates for defence purposes, as was done by the late Government) the money should be used to assist " down and out " returned soldiers, and to relieve the distress caused by unemployment. 
Reference has been made to migration, and the visit of the British Economic Mission. The members of that mission were men of standing in their own country, who came here at the invitation of the late Government. They made extensive tours; possibly they learned a good deal about this country; no doubt enjoyed themselves very much. In his speech on the Address-in-Reply, 

 Senator Glasgow appeared to be concerned about the action of the Government in suspending migration. The Government is not prepared to ask thousands of our own kith and kin to break up their homes and come to Australia to compete in a labour market which is already full.  Senator H.  E. Elliott appears to be greatly interested in the Southern Europeans in this country. 'The Government will resist any attempt to bring Southern Europeans to Australia to act as strike breakers, as was done by the late Government. Thousands of Southern Europeans, whose standard of living is entirely different from ours, were used by the late Government as strike-breakers on the waterfront.  Senator Pearce  - this political giant of the Nationalist party; this genius who was a prominent member of the party which was defeated at the last election ;this representative of vested interests; this gentleman who received his early training on the bread and butter line in the Labour party - now says, with his tongue in his cheek, that the licensing of waterside workers brought peace to the waterfront. Did he, as Vice-President of the Executive Council, tell the Southern Europeans that, because they were foreigners and did not understandour language, the Government of which he was a member would assist them? No. He allowed them to be used by the shipping combine to the detriment of genuine Australians and other British subjects. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  regards the statement as offensive, and it must, therefore, be withdrawn. I remind the honorable senator who made it that offensive statements must not be made in the Senate. 
The honorable senator may believe what he likes; but he must be careful what he says in the Senate. 
The honorable senator must withdraw the statement unreservedly. 
I hope that the honorable senator will not proceed to qualify his withdrawal. 
I have here an interesting extract from the  Sydney Morning Herald,  of Thursday, the 10th January last. Honorable senators will appreciate that this is the journal which has the support of, and in turn supports, Senators Pearce and Glasgow. The extract refers to the activities of the British Economic Mission which visited Australia, and it reads: - 
The honorable senator says that these people are not to come into the country. That is a statement with which the Labour party is entirely in accord. 
-It did not. The Labour party is doing the right thing. It does not put misleading facts before the people of Great Britain and encourage people to Australia when it is impossible for them to get work in this country. A visit to Australia House is like a reading of the Arabian Nights. It is a place of impossibilities. There by means of advertisement people are promised that in Australia everything is to be obtained as easily as by means of Aladdin's wonderful lamp. Attractive literature and posters are displayed on all hands. That relating to Queensland pictures a man struggling to devour a huge watermelon three times bigger than himself. It shows tremendous pumpkins, great herds of cattle and horses, and untold flocks of sheep. It pictures a land of milk and honey. A similar story may be told of. the literature dealing with New South Wales. That dealing with Victoria tells of the beautiful forests of Gippsland and the prosperous sawmills putting through millions of super feet of timber. This dangerously attractive propaganda is also associated with the other States. The shipping companies also assist to paint an alluring picture and offer assisted passages to all migrants. And many people, who in Great Britain are just about able to keep body and soul together, are enticed to come out to this wonderland, to their bitter disillusionment. 
The present Treasurer has submitted a statesmanlike financial statement, and a budget that may be accepted by the people of Australia as a corrective to the maladministration of the Bruce-Page Government. 
.- I desire to speak briefly on the budget in order to avoid the necessity of having to speak on the motion for the adjournment. I trust that after my introductory remarks I shall be permitted to continue the subject on another occasion. 
I have listened attentively to theremarks of honorable senators, but I had great difficulty in tracing any reference to the budget in  Senator Dunn's  speech. I have time, this afternoon, to touch only upon one matter, which is an important one, that dealing with the customs and excise proposals of the Government. The Treasurer claims that the revised estimate of customs and excise revenue is £44,450,000, an increase of £700,000 over his predecessor's estimate. Honorable senators are aware that the Government has tabled in another place a very lengthy list of new duties, comprising some. 200 odd items. To-day I asked a question on the subject and received the reply that I expected in view of a similar reply that was given a day or two previously. I asked the question so that the public of Australia might know definitely how far an autocratic Government is prepared to go. I wish my voice was strong enough to reach the ears of every person in Australia so that they would be able to 'judge the calibre of the present Government. By introducing a tariff schedule of this kind without first submitting to the Tariff Board the question of any proposed increase of duties for a report thereon it has imposed on the people of Australia additional burdens, which they must inevitably carry until Parliament meets again next year. The questions I asked were - 
Were the items included in the tariff schedule tabled in the House of Representatives on the 22nd November referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report thereon, before the schedule was tabled? 
If so, what items in the schedule had been reported on by the Tariff Board before that date? 
If not, have all the items in the schedule, since the duties were imposed, been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report? 
If so, on what date? 
If all the items have not been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report, why have some of them been withheld from such reference ? 
The reply I got was - 
Information on these points will be furnished when the schedule is being discussed. 
The Minister knows that this schedule will not be discussed until the end of March next. I resent being put off with a reply like that. The people ought to be furnished with the necessary information, and as the Minister is evidently determined not to supply it I am prepared to do so. My reply to question No. 1 is "No." To question No. 2 I say "See answer to No. 1." My reply to question 3 is "No," and in answer to question 5 I say, " They have been withheld as a matter of policy." 
I was a member of the Senate when the Tariff Board Bill was first introduced, and it was clearly explained that its purpose was that the customs tariff should not depend any longer on the whim or fancy of certain members of Parliament, but should be the outcome of close deliberation and inquiry by a board, on whose report the Minister could act by bringing in a schedule of alterations or additions. Section 15 of the act reads - 
The Minister shall refer to the board for inquiry and report the following matters. 
One of those matters is - 
The necessity for new, increased, or reduced duties, and the deferment of existing or proposed deferred duties. 
Yet we have a Minister for Trade and Customs adopting the role of autocrat and imposing additional duties, which must apply for from three to four months at the least without having referred the matter to the Tariff Board for inquiry. The additional burdens imposed on the people will fall very heavily on the working classes, which are least able to bear them. I have with me the last report furnished by the Tariff Board, after a very lengthy inquiry, upon a food product, nine-tenths of which is consumed by the working classes of Australia. Certain people who were interested applied to the Government for an inquiry, and the Tariff Board, after making a full investigation, furnished a report, from which I quote the following: - 
The effect, therefore, of increasing the duty on a food product that is essential and is not grown in Australia would be to increase its price. Seeing that dates are a food consumed by the worker, the result would be that his cost of living would be increased without appreciably benefiting a local industry . . . 
The argument advanced in favour of increasing the duty on dates owing to their competition with locally grown prunes carries little weight, as the board considers the comments set forth herein apply equally to raisins and prunes. 
The Tariff Board, after full consideration of the evidence given in connexion with this matter, is of the opinion that the date does not compete detrimentally with the raisin, and recommends that no alteration be made in the rates of duty now operating. 
I turn now to the tariff schedule as laid on the table of another place by  Mr. Fenton,  the Minister for Trade and Customs in the present Government, and I find item 53, sub-item b, which shows that the duty on dates has been increased from1d. per lb. to 3d. per lb. I have also with me an advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne  Argus  on the 2nd inst., notifying the public that the Minister for Trade and Customs has referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report proposals for increased duties on a long list of items contained in the schedule be laid on the table of another place on the 22nd November last. Included in this list I find item 53, subitems a and d, but there is no mention of sub-item b dealing with dates. The proposed increase of duty on dates which the Tariff Board did not recommend is not to be submitted to it again, and the only conclusion I can form is that in this respect the Government has adopted the role of autocrat and has exercised the power conferred upon it by the Customs Act to impose its own sweet will on the people, no matter how prejudicial an effect it may have upon them. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a future date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate yet in a position to make known the terms of the communication received from the British Government in respect to the suspension of migration ? 
A cablegram has been sent to the British Government asking for leave to release its reply. No answer has yet been received to this request. 
On the 27th November, 1929,  Senator Payne  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister favorably consider granting to returned soldiers who have to travel by train to hospitals for attention, owing to wounds or disabilities caused by war service, first class tickets in lieu of second class, in order to ensure reasonable comfort when travelling for this purpose? 
I have now the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
First class fares (with sleepers where necessary) are granted in all cases where medical opinion indicates that the condition of the patient necessitates it. 
On the 5th December  Senator Dunn  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
What are the terms of the lease granted to the La Perouse Golf Club by the previous Government? 
By whose authority have notices been displayed on roads leading to this property, threatening trespassers with prosecution? 
Will the Minister give instructions that the citizens of Sydney shall be permitted free access to the headlands at La Perouse for picnic purposes, and insist on the removal of these notices? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
The New South Wales Golf Club was originally granted a lease of 125 acres of the Defence Reserve at Henry Head, La Perouse, for twenty years from 1st January, 1926, at a rental of £265 per annum, and subsequently a lease of an additional 167 acres at £150 per annum. The two leases were consolidated for the term 1st September, 1923, to 31st December, 1945. The lease provides that the land shall be used as a golf links and tennis courts only, and there is a proviso in the lease that the land or any portion thereof may be taken by the Commonwealth at any time if it be required for a national purpose connected with defence; otherwise the terms of the lease are those usually subsisting between lessor and lessee in such cases. 
It is presumed that the notices were erected by the Golf Club as lessees of the property. 
The area covered by this lease was included in the reserve transferred to the Commonwealth at the time the Commonwealth took over defence propertiesfrom the State, since when it has notbeen open to the general public. 
On the 5th December  Senator Guthrie  asked the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to endanger the efficiency of the Air Force by disbanding the Air Board and/or the Air Forceas a separate entity in regard to the defence of Australia? 
When will a proper aerodrome, with the necessary hangar, windvane, and water supply be made available to aviators at the Federal Capital ? 
Is it a fact that, whilst Australia is particularly suitable for aviation, and our airmen second to none, there is not one good and up-to-date aerodrome in the whole of Australia? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows :  - 
A public announcement has already been made by the Government, but no decision with regard to changes in Air Force administration will be arrived at until the matter has been fully investigated. The Government has no intention of impairing in any way the efficacy of the Air Force as an effective force in the defence organization. 
An area at Canberra is available for use by aircraft, and a wind indicator has been erected thereon. A water supply is also provided. The erection of a hangar and other conveniences for visiting aviators will be proceeded with when fundscan be made available for the purpose. 
Although none of the existing civil aerodromes may be said to be equipped with modern aids to aerial navigation, it is, nevertheless, a fact that many of the grounds provided and maintained by the Government throughout Australia are developed as far as is justified by present circumstances. At the more important centres considerable expenditure has been incurred in effecting desirable improvements, and in providing ancillary services. With the expansion of the industry this developmental work will be continued to meet specific requirements in individual cases, the ultimate aim being within the limitations imposed by financial considerations to provide terminal air ports which will suffer little, if at all, by comparison with similar facilities in other countries. 
With regard to the proposed committee sitting as a Joint Committee with a similar committee appointed by the House of Representatives, I have to draw attention to the fact that another chamber has thought fit to appoint nine instead of seven members on its House Committee. It must be obvious to honorable senators that the Senate cannot be expected to suffer the disadvantage of having two representatives less than has the House of Representatives on a joint committee on which the representation of the two chambers is by our Standing Orders made equal. In my capacity as  President  of the Senate and realizing that the interests, dignity and rights of the chamber lie primarily in my hands, I draw the attention of honorable senators to this fact. It would be impossible for me to preside, as the  President  has to do in the case of the Joint House Committee, over a joint committee on which equal representation is not given to the two chambers. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 
Question resolved in the affirmitave. 
I have to direct the attention of the Senate again to a similar state of affairs in connexion with the Library Committee, as that relating to the House Committee, and to say that, for the same reason, it will be . impossible for me to be a party to a meeting of a Joint Committee upon which the two branches of the legislature are not equally represented. 
The fact which you have just mentioned,  Mr. President,  is of very great importance to the Senate, and I think that the Vice-President of the Executive Council should suggest some way out of the difficulty perhaps by moving to increase the representation of the Senate upon the two committees mentioned by you. If we are not to have the same representation as- the House of Representatives, certainly the Senate will be placed at a very great disadvantage. Not long ago serious trouble arose in the Library Committee. On that occasion the status of the Senate would have been prejudiced if it had not had equal representation with the House of Representatives. Moreover, as you, sir, have pointed out, unequal representation of the Senate on any of the joint house committees is not in conformity with the dignity of this chamber, nor is it in accordance with the Standing Orders. I hope that the Government will indicate a way out of the difficulty. If the Senate is not to have equal representation we should, perhaps, decline to nominate members of this chamber to sit on such joint committees. 
In view of the statement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I suggest that some honorable senator should move the adjournment of the debate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator 0'HAL.loran)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to resume oil-boring operations at Popo? 
What is the reason for the stoppage of boring operations? 
What staff and plant are at present at Popo? 
The Minister for Home Affairs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
The Government has no present intention of resuming oil boring operations at Popo. 
The presence of running  mudstones  in the oil-bearing formations. It has been found impossible to overcome the difficulty, in spite of the fact that every known method of coping with the trouble has been employed. In the circumstances, it was not considered that the expenditure of further funds in continuing the operations would be justified. 
The bore has been plugged and left in a condition of absolute safety. The whole of the drilling plant has been treated, in such a manner as to conserve its usefulness as far ae possible and has been handed over to the care of the Papuan Government, pending a decision as to its disposal. No staff is at present at Popo. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it true, as reported in the press, that the question of the Hobart-Sydney service  is  not to form part of the inquiry that the Government proposes to make regarding Tasmanian shipping facilities? 
If so, why is that service not to be inquired into also? 
The present special inquiry will be into the establishment of a Commonwealth service between Melbourne and Northern Tasmanian ports. The question of a Sydney-Hobart service will be considered by Cabinet. 
 I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators will remember that early this year, as the outcome of representations made by those persons directly interested in wine production in Australia, two bills were passed ; one, the Wine Overseas Marketing Bill, and the other the Wine Grapes Charges Bill. The first measure provided,  inter alia,  for the creation of an export control board, the functions of which were to ensure that only wines of true Australian type and quality were exported, and for the organization of an advertising campaign abroad with a view to increasing the export trade in Australian wine. The second measure - the Wine Grapes Charges Act - provided for the raising of the revenue necessary to meet  commitments of the organization established under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act. The legislation was largely experimental in character. Consequently one' might reasonably expect that those entrusted with1 its administration would find the need for certain alterations to render the scheme more effective. The board appointed under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act has made certain representations to the Government and the measure now before the Senate is designed to give effect to such representations. Honorable senators will observe that the bill proposes to amend the definition of the word " grapes " by the inclusion of the words "dried grapes." The board recommends that the scope of the definition should be widened to allow the imposition of a levy on dried grapes in view of the considerable quantity of doradillo and  gordo  grapes which are dried annually and sent to the distilleries for conversion into spirits to be used in fortifying wines. The dried equivalent of fresh grapes has been calculated on the basis of one ton of dried fruit to three tons of fresh fruit. That explains the reason for a subsequent amendment by which the maximum charge in respect of fresh grapes is 5s. per ton, and in the case of dried grapes 15s. per ton. 
The second amendment to which I desire to draw attention relates to charges. The existing legislation provides for a flat rate of 5s. per ton for grapes. The bill provides for a charge of 5s. per tOD in respect of fresh grapes and 15s. per ton in the case of dried grapes. It will also be noticed that in the principal act the levy to be paid by the owner of any winery or distillery on any grapes delivered for manufacture into wine shall be 5s. for each ton of grapes delivered, subject to a lower rate being prescribed by regulation. In an average year, the imposition of the maximum levy would provide about £30,000; but as that sum would be more than sufficient for the requirements of the board during the first year of its operations, it is understood that it proposes to recommend a considerably lower rate of levy in respect of the coming season's vintage. 
The definition of "winery or distillery " is also amended. The charge under the principal act depended upon the handling of 10 tons of grapes. Under the amending legislation the charge will depend on the delivery of 10 tons of grapes during the year. Under the principal act it was found that once a distillery had taken delivery of 10 tons of grapes in a year the charge might remain indefinitely, notwithstanding that in subsequent years the distillery handled less than 10 tons of grapes. To remove any possible ambiguity the board recommended that, instead of the basis being the quantity of grapes handled, the charge should depend on the delivery of 10 tons of grapes during any year. 
The only other amendment proposed is the addition of a new section - 
The charge imposed by this act shall be deemed when it becomes due and payable, to be a debt due to the King on behalf of the Commonwealth by the owner of the winery or distillery to which the grapes, in  respect  of which the charge is payable, were delivered, and may be sued for and recovered by the Commonwealth in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
Under the existing legislation the only penalty for non-payment of charges is the imposition of a fine, to be prescribed by regulation, but not to exceed £50. As it might happen that a man who owed, say £1,000 to the board, would evade his liabilities by submitting to a fine of £50, the Government has agreed to the board's recommendation that, in addition to any fine imposed, the amount actually due may be recovered. 
There is nothing contentious in the bill : the proposed amendments have been suggested by the board constituted under legislation already passed by Parliament. The purpose of the measure is to render more effective the machinery already in existence. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [3.26]. - I have had an opportunity of perusing this bill, and as I am familiar with the legislation already passed on the subject with which it deals, I realize the necessity for the proposed amendments. There is no alteration of principle; the bill is of a machinery nature, and I therefore do not propose to delay its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
Standing and sessional orders suspended and bill read a third time. 
When the debate was adjourned last Friday, I was addressing myself to a very important phase of the budget. I entered my protest against what I considered to be the high-handed action of the Government in having, without giving Parliament any information on the subject, imposed very heavy duties upon some 220 items, through the medium of a new tariff schedule. We were not. informed whether the items were submitted to the Tariff Board with a view to determining whether the new duties were justifiable. 1 pointed out that, since the schedule was tabled and the duties became operative, an advertisement appeared concerning about 60 of those items indicating that they had been referred to the Tariff Board for investigation and report after the new duties had been imposed. The action of the Government appears to me to be on a par with that of a judge who, having an accused before him, sentences him to six months' imprisonment with hard labour before hearing evidence on- the case, with the intimation that evidence may be submitted after the expiration of the term of imprisonment. I again impress on honorable senators the fact that, when the Tariff Board Bill was before both houses of Parliament, it was clearly indicated to honorable members that its object was to take away from Parliament the right that it had hitherto enjoyed of being able to amend a tariff schedule without first causing a full investigation to be made as to the necessity for its amendment. The principle of the measure was acceptable to the present Minister for Trade and Customs, who voted for the second reading iu another place. 
My reading of the bill is that it is obligatory on the Minister to refer to the Tariff Board any item which he feels should be amended, so that evidence from those interested may be taken. That evidence is then submitted to the Minister, who is not, of course, bound to act on the recommendations of the Tariff Board. It is obvious to any thoughtful person that the board was brought into existence to act in an advisory capacity to Parliament. The matter is important. In this instance the people of Australia are called upon to pay higher duties on the greater number of the 220 items. It will be at least four months before Parliament resumes after the recess, and in the meantime the working classes of Australia, who are already bearing a heavy burden, will have a still heavier load imposed upon them through the incidence of the new tariff. 
I resent the replies that were given' to ' me and to  Senator Johnston  when we endeavoured to obtain information as to whether the items had been submitted to the Tariff Board. We were told that the information that we sought would be conveyed to us during the debate on the tariff schedule. 
That is not a satisfactory attitude for a Minister to adopt. The Leader of the Senate should have been able to reply to us in the affirmative or otherwise. In view of its much-vaunted platform, this should be the last Government to assume the role of autocrat, and to impose a burden on that section of the community least able to bear it without inquiring as to the necessity for the higher prices involved. 
I am surprised at the manner in which the financial statement opens. I have never read another Commonwealth Financial Statement that has cast slurs upon previous Treasurers. The second paragraph states - 
It was the duty, however, of the new Government to examine the Estimates. . . This examination revealed that in some important instances the late Government had grossly understated the expenditure requirements, and over-estimated the probable revenue. The late Treasurer has grossly miscalculated the cos l of thu definite commitments of the departments and services for the year, and also the probable revenue. 
The term " grossly " is inexcusable as applied to the action of a previous Treasurer. The ordinary reader of such a statement would arrive at the conclusion that the Minister had grossly miscalculated his Estimates in order .to delude the people. I regret the adoption of such tactics by the Treasurer. The term is absolutely uncalled for.  Mr. Theodore's  predecessor in office adopted a careful attitude, justified by the extraordinary financial position of Australia, and insisted that departments should at all times exercise economy, consistent with efficiency. On the contrary, it has been said that the present Treasurer, when occupying a similar position in a Queensland State Government, made it a rule to over-estimate his expenditure and to under-estimate his revenue so that at the end of the financial period he would come out with flying colours. I contend that the ex-Treasurer was justified in curtailing departmental expenditure, and that he would not have been worthy of his office had he not done so. The alteration in figures submitted by the present Treasurer could easily be made by accepting  in globo  the estimates of the departments. From personal experience, I know how necessary it is for a Treasurer, after receiving the departmental estimates, to confer with the heads of departments, and to insist that certain items usually included under the heading of "miscellaneous" be greatly reduced. That was the attitude adopted by the late Treasurer in framing his Estimates, and in the circumstances was a reasonable course to follow. The present Treasurer, in his budget speech, stated - 
It is now apparent that if the actual requirements of the year had been provided for in connexion with war pensions, repatriation, other war services, old-age pensions, iron and steel products bounty, prospecting for oil and sundry items, for all of which definite commitments had been entered into, the Estimates of expenditure should have been increased by £500.000. 
In all probability, £500,000 more will be necessary . to meet expenditure, if that which has been estimated by the departmental heads has been accepted in full by the Treasurer. Instead of being discredited, the late Treasurer should be congratulated upon his endeavour to balance the ledger by reducing expenditure. 
Reference is also made in the budget speech to customs and excise revenue, land and income taxation, and other receipts, which, it is stated, would have fallen short of the estimate of the late Treasurer by at least £1,050,000. That is all right so far as it goes, but a:i analysis of the statement shows that it requires a good deal of explanation. What has been our experience in connexion with the receipts from customs and excise? Instead of these receipts falling off during the first five months of the financial year, they were £1,900,000 more than estimated by the late Treasurer. Notwithstanding that, the Treasurer states that under the budget proposals submitted by  Dr. Earle  Page the revenue from this source would have fallen off considrably.  In dealing with the customs and excise revenue, the present Treasurer goes on to state that he expects to receive considerably more than would have been obtained under the previous budget. He estimates to receive a sum of £43,250,000, or an increase of £700,000 over the previous estimate. Although the present Treasurer anticipates receiving more than his predecessor, he states that if the BrucePage Government had remained in office there would have been a considerable diminution in the receipts from the Customs Department. How doe3 he expect to receive additional revenue? I presume it is through the agency of the amended customs tariff schedule now in operation. If the utterances of Ministers as to the protective incidence of the new tariff are correct, its effect must be to decrease the customs revenue, instead of increasing it, as its policy is to ensure that practically everything required by Australian consumers shall be manufactured in the Commonwealth. Many of the duties in the new schedule are not protective, but absolutely prohibitive. Certain duties are given in the British preferential column, but as British manufacturers cannot possibly export to Australia and pay such prohibitive rates, there is no preference shown them. It must be patent to every one that as many of these duties are prohibitive, no revenue can he expected from them. The Treasurer is far too sanguine in expecting additional revenue from some of the duties provided for in the new schedule. 
For some time past, as the result of the administration of the Bruce-Page Government, the Australian people have been annually relieved of a certain amount of direct taxation. We should not overlook the fact that the Federal income tax was imposed solely with the object of assisting the Commonwealth in meeting its heavy obligations in connexion with the Great War. As we have gradually reduced our liability in that respect, direct taxation has also been reduced, and a great majority of the people have been relieved altogether of the payment of any direct taxation. The number of income taxpayers in the Commonwealth is small in comparison with the number of adults receiving income in some form or another. According to the statistics published in the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation, those in receipt of a taxable income up to £501 number 174,099, from £501 to £2,001, 41,502, and from £2,001 upwards, 9,797, or a total of 225,398. Those figures prove conclusively that for several years the Nationalist Government, which had laid itself out to afford relief to the people of Australia least able to bear taxation burdens, had given them effectual relief in this respect. The ex-Treasurer announced in his budget speech that his Government proposed to impose a super tax of 10 per cent. on taxable incomes from £2,000 upwards. All who earned under £2,000 taxable income would remain on the existing rates; the extra 10 per cent. would be levied on 9,000 odd taxpayers only. What do we find the present Treasurer doing ? 
It is an easy matter to pay debts by taking money out of people's pockets unnecessarily. As a matter of fact, some people pay their debts by robbing others; but I do not think the Assistant Minister would suggest that was the proper course to adopt. 
It amounts to daylight robbery to put additional taxation, as this Government is doing, on persons with a taxable income of £201 at a time when the people of Australia have more than they can do to make ends meet. Had the ex-Treasurer attempted to make that impost it would have been a splendid fighting plank for honorable senators opposite on the hustings. But, apparently what would have been an evil step for the Nationalist Government to take, can be taken with impunity bya Labour government. 
The minimum is £201 taxable income; but that would represent a gross income of £501. There is an exemption of £300. On a taxable income of £201, a taxpayer will now be called upon to pay a super tax of 10 per cent. The next gradation of the super tax imposed by the present Treasurer is 15 per cent., and when the taxable income exceeds £2,001, the super tax is 20 per cent. The late Government was of opinion that 215,000 taxpayers of Australia could not bear any additional direct taxation. The present Government will force these people to provide not only the bulk of the additional direct taxation required, but also an infinitely heavier burden of indirect taxation. 
At the end of his budget statement  Mr. Theodore  said - 
At the 30th June, 1929, the accumulated deficit stood at £4,987,718. Towards the liquidation of this deficit the late Government proposed to apply the sum of £1,200,000, representing the accumulated income arising from liquidations of ex-enemy properties, in addition to such surplus on the year's transactions as they had hoped to achieve. 
Further on he said - 
The purpose for which the accumulated funds accruing from the liquidation of exenemy properties will be applied has not yet been determined. 
Would any one suggest that there could be anything wrong in paying that £1,200,000 into revenue for the specific purpose of relieving the burden of taxation that the people of Australia have to bear, or of reducing our deficit? That course would have been adopted by the late Government had it remained in office, and I want to know what the  present Government intends to do with this money. It should make some definite pronouncement on the subject. The money * belongs to the people of Australia, and surely it is reasonable to suggest that it should be applied to the reduction of our deficit or to reduce our heavy loan indebtedness. Parliament should have a voice in the matter. I hope that honorable senators will recognize that the purpose to which the late Government intended to apply this money was the correct one. After all, it is money to which we are entitled and it should be used for the specific purpose of reducing our liabilities. 
I sincerely trust, in the interests of the people, that the Government's anticipations in the matter of revenue will be realized, but I am very much afraid they will not be. No one will be more surprised than I shall be if the Treasurer's estimates of revenue and expenditure are realized and Australia is in a better position at the end of the financial year than it was at the beginning. I deprecate the suggestion contained in the budget statement that the present Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  is the only man who can be relied upon to give a fair account of the financial position. The budget we are considering, in more than one particular, bears the imprint of political propaganda. I regret very much that an important document, which should not be other than a plain statement of facts, should hear any suggestion of political bias. 
.  -  I cannot allow this budget to pass without adding my protest to those which have been uttered against the political propaganda in which some honorable members have indulged. We have heard from the Labour party, firstly during the general election, secondly in the budget, and thirdly in this chamber, statements regarding the late Government's financial dealings. There is no doubt this propaganda had a big effect on the result of the elections. It was given out everywhere that the Bruce-Page Government was throwing money around lavishly, and that if Labour were returned to power huge sums of money could be saved. The people were told that because of the extravagance of the Bruce-Page Government, extra taxation had been imposed, but that if Labour were returned to power there would be a reduction of taxation. The people of South Australia consequently were tremendously surprised when they heard of the extra taxation which the Labour Government's first, budget announced would  be  imposed. 
During the course of this debate, honorable senators opposite have declared that Labour found the Commonwealth Treasury empty and, in consequence, had a particularly hard job. But that is only part of the story. Until two years ago the Bruce-Page Government always had a surplus. Two years ago, at a time when Australia struck a pretty bad year, there was an unanticipated deficit of £2,628,743, but the Bruce-Page Government did not impose further taxation. It announced that it would wait until things balanced up with a return to normal conditions. Unfortunately, however, normal conditions did not return, and the next budget did not. balance. The Government simply confined itself to an announcement that it intended to impose further taxation which would serve to balance the ledger. If the Bruce-Page Government had imposed the taxation which the present administration has proposed, the  Commonwealth  would have had a surplus instead of a deficit during those two years. The surpluses which were available during the regime of the Bruce-Page Government were applied as follows:  -  £7,415,000 to the reduction of the national debt, £7,000,000 to naval construction, £1,250,000 to the States for the development of main roads, £600,000 for science and industry investigations and so forth. The reduction of the national debt by £7,415,000 saved the taxpayers of Australia £400,000 a year in interest. The Bruce-Page Government announced its intention to apply a certain amount towards the reduction of the current deficit, but the present Government has not made any such announcement. It is well known that it has in hand the sum of £1,200,000 which the late Government said it would apply to the reduction of the national debt. Is it keeping it for a rainy day? The people of Australia are entitled to know what this Government proposes to do with that money, and the Treasurer should have indicated his intentions in the budget speech.  Senator Payne,  when dealing  with this matter, stated the position quite clearly. In November last the Public Trustee reported that, in his opinion, the interest and other revenue earned by the Public Trustee did not have to be accounted for as reparations, but should be paid to Commonwealth revenue. At the same time, the Auditor-General sought legal advice regarding the profits of the Custodian of Expropriated Property. The Solicitor-General advised that it was not necessary to treat the profits and income of either the Public Trustees or the Custodian as reparation receipts, and that there was no objection to the payment of the moneys to the Commonwealth revenue. No one can doubt that the former Government could have used the money in this  way 
The financial position of the Commonwealth was grossly misrepresented by the Labour party during the recent election. What are the facts? In 1922, when the Bruce-Page Government came into office, the public debt of the Commonwealth was £364,839,590; on the 30th June, 1929, it was £377,621,573, an increase of £12,782,000. It must be remembered, however, that during the period mentioned we discharged war debt to the amount of £45,000,000, for which wc had no assets. Though the debt ii. respect of public works increased by ££8,000,000, we have tangible assets for that expenditure, so that the finances of the Commonwealth have improved very materially. 
Notwithstanding this careful handling of Commonwealth finances, the Labour party, from one end of Australia to the other, accused the Bruce-Page administration of reckless extravagance. Let us examine the position of the States during the samo period. In New South Wales, the State debt increased from £180,000,000 in 1922 to £258,000,000 in 1928; In Victoria it increased from £109,000,000 to £157,000,000 ; in Queensland it rose from £85,000,000 to £112,000,000; in South Australia from £54,000,000 to £92,000,000; in Western Australia from £54,000,000 to £77,000,000, and in Tasmania it increased from £21,000,000 to £24,000,000. The total of State debts in . the period mentioned rose from £506,000,000 to £722,000,000, an. increase of over £225,000,000. If, as was alleged by Labour candidates in the last election  campaign, the Commonwealth Government was guilty of reckless extravagance because its total debt increased by £12,000,000, what can be said of the different States, some of which were under Labour rule for practically the whole of that time? Queensland, until the last general election in that State, had been under Labour rule, and its debt, as I have shown, increased by £27,000,000. Similarly South Australia, which was under a Labour government from 1924 to 1927. increased its debt by £20,000,000. 
This propaganda with regard to. administration of the finances by the former Government is to be found even in the budget speech. The Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  describes the Estimates of the ex-Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  as " gross miscalculations " - a charge that cannot be sustained by an examination of the facts. Last year the estimates prepared by heads of departments were cut, and as result of efficient control the estimates of expenditure were exceeded by only £ per cent. The present Treasurer has mentioned the difficulty of controlling expenditure. Surely his statement is an admission of his own helplessness? And he accused the ex-Treasurer of having grossly miscalculated his estimates. Does he remember his own record as Treasurer in Queensland ? In 1923-24, in a budget of only £13,000,000, he under estimated his expenditure by £358,000 - a difference of 2J per cent., and yet he charges the exTreasurer of the Commonwealth with having grossly miscalculated his estimates which last, year were only one quarter per cent. below actual expenditure. The Treasurer has also increased the ex-Treasurer's Estimates, of expenditure, by no less a sum than £807,340. In not one single item does he show a decrease, although we all know that at the end of each financial year the figures of actual revenue and expenditure show both increases and decreases of the Treasurer's Estimates. 
The Government proposes to save £150,000 by a cut in the Defence estimates. The people are demanding economy in administration, but I doubt that they will approve the Government's proposal to save on the Defence vote, because the fi/'st duty of the administration is to provide for the adequate defence of the Commonwealth. The Treasurer states also that departmental expenditure will exceed the estimates of the ex-Treasurer by £61,000. For the year 1927-28 the cost of these services was £3,081,253. The budget estimate for 1928-29 reduced this to £3,025,962. The actual expenditure was £2,987,306, or £3S,656 less than the estimate, and £93,947 less than the expenditure of the previous year. These figures indicate clearly that the former Government was . effecting considerable savings in departmental expenditure, and yet the present Treasurer, in his first budget, declares that these departmental estimates must be increased by £61,000. We are told also that £60,000 more than the ex-Treasurer's estimate will be required to meet the Government's obligations in regard to maternity allowance. The former Government decided to save the sum mentioned by altering the basis of payment. The Treasurer says, further, that £35,000 over and above the ex-Treasurer's estimates will be necessary to provide for the iron and steel products bounty payments thi3 year. It is exceedingly difficult to estimate the Government expenditure in respect of this and many other items. Last year, the expenditure for the payment of the wine bounty was estimated at £150,000, but the actual expenditure  was only £76,000. It is singular that the Treasurer makes no pro.vison for a decrease in respect of any of the items mentioned. Last year showed increases amounting to £315,000 and decreases totalling £123,000. I am satisfied that, had the former Government been returned to power, the exTreasurer's Estimates for the current financial year would have been very nearly right, because every government can influence expenditure to a great extent. 
It should be possible to exercise economies in nearly all of the items. When Labour was in opposition it never tired of admonishing the Bruce-Page Government because it would not make more drastic cuts in estimates of expenditure. 
The present Government has increased the taxation proposals of the late Government very considerably; in eight months it expects to receive over £2,000,000 more than the budget of the late Treasurer would have provided. 
That is not so. In order to justify its taxation proposals the Government states that the estimate of the late Treasurer will not be realized to the extent of £1,694,000. Of that amount customs and excise duties represent £500,000. It is very difficult to estimate with any degree of accuracy the amount which will be received from that source. There is certainly no justification for saying that the late Treasurer grossly miscalculated the amount likely to be received from customs and excise duties. In 1927-28 customs revenue amounted to £41,446,593. In the following year it amounted to £41,057,492. The Treasurer states that the estimate of his predecessor for 1929-30 was £43,750,000, which included £41,000,000 on the basis of the old tariff, and £2,750,000 to be received from the new duties imposed on the 22nd August last. He continued - 
The Customs Department, after careful review, now estimates that on the basis of the present tariff the new duties would product £250,000 more than was originally anticipated, and the old duties £750,000 less. The revised estimate by the department is, therefore, £43,250,000 or £500,000 less than thebudget estimate. 
The ex-Treasurer estimated the customs revenue for 1929-30 on the basis of the old duties at £41,000,000, which amount was actually received for the previous two years. It would appear that his estimate will prove to be fairly accurate. Figures supplied by the statistician show that the actual returns from customs have exceeded the estimate. For the quarter ended September, 1928, the total net revenue from customs and excise was £9,502,942. The net revenue received for the same quarter in the present financial year was £11,521,979, an increase of £2,019,037 over that of the corresponding period of the previous year. I have before me also the estimated and the actual revenue for the first five months of this financial year. The revenue anticipated was £18,070,146; the amount actually received was £19,667,849 -an increase of £1,597,703. The returns to date indicate that the estimate of the late Treasurer will be more nearly realized than will the new Treasurer's estimate, yet in order to justify the imposition of additional taxation by his Government,  Mr. Theodore  has said that the customs revenue this year will fall short of the late Treasurer's estimate. 
It has been said that the increased duties will provide employment in Australia for many hundreds of persons. That may be so for a time; but eventually they will lead to higher prices and increased living costs. That has been the result of the imposition of duties in the past ; and it will be so in the future. Imported boys' overcoats, will, under the new schedule, be subject to a duty of l5s. each; the duty on girls' coats is doubled, and children's hats are to pay 5s. each. The tariff will affect the working and middle classes of the community. People in country districts will probably be hit the hardest. 
Some of the taxes really amount to a prohibition of imports. There is already a heavy duty on imported matches, but in order to raise more revenue, that duty is to be further increased. 
If that is so, how can the Government contend that the new duties will bring in more revenue? On the 15th December, 1927, I was informed in answer to a question that the declared value of the matches imported during 1925-26 was £279,519, and that the duty paid on them was £152,752. The value of matches manufactured in Australia during that period was £512,514. The matchmaking industry in Australia employed 715 persons, to whom £110,761 was paid in wages. In order to bolster up that industry the people of Australia were called upon to pay £152,752 duty during that year. 
If there had been no duty on imported matches, the people of Australia could have obtained the matches they used for £152,752 less than they actually paid for them. That sum would have allowed every worker in the match-making industry to be pensioned off and to receive an amount equal to full wages under arbitration awards. The people of Australia would have saved £41,991. In considering duties on imported articles we should consider their effect on importers. I have been informed by some importers that when the new tariff schedule was introduced they cabled to manufacturers abroad cancelling all orders because of the loss that would accrue to them on the goods ordered. The manufacturers refused to do so, and apparently the importers will make a loss on the goods when they arrive. Yet in some cases local manufacturers have not yet increased their plant to cope with any additional business that might come to them. 
The honorable senator knows that new machinery cannot be installed in a week or a month, or sometimes in a year. I understand that once duties have been imposed legislative action is necessary to allow of a rebate being made in cases such as this. It would be better to provide that, where the Minister for Trade and Customs is of the opinion that the imposition of a duty results in hardship, a rebate may be made. 
I shall tell the honorable senator when the tariff schedule is before us. 
The new Government's income tax proposals will place a tremendous burden on the people of Australia. The Labour party persuaded the electors that they would be better off under a Labour Government. 

 Senator Daly claims that the people will be better off under his Government, but its very first budget proposes to impose additional income tax to the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds on the industries of Australia. That must have a reactionary effect. The Government has also hit the man who earns a small income. The Bruce-Page Government increased the taxation exemption from £200 to £300. It increased the permissible deduction for children from £26 to £50. It freed 550,000 small wageearners from the necessity to pay income tax. This Government has increased the taxation on incomes from £201 upwards. 
The Government proposes to increase existing rates by the imposition of a super-tax of 10 per cent. on incomes of from £201 to £1,500. That must have a retarding effect upon our industries. Representative Adelaide business-men have expressed emphatic opinions on the subject. The  president  of the Taxpayers Association,  Mr. J.  Wallace Sandford, stated that, like all increases in taxation, the new rates were subversive of the best interests of the country, as they not only constituted a further burden upon production, but deflected funds from individual control. He added, "What Australians are looking for in Government activities is economy, and not increased burdens." The Bruce-Page Government used the pruning knife freely and this Government should have followed its example. Instead of making reductions it proposes, during the first eight months of its existence, to bring in £2,000,000 by increased taxation over and above the amount proposed by the late Government. The  president  of the Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr. F.  M. Simpson, declared that it had been difficult enough to carry on before the introduction of the late budget, as a manufacturer had to consider that for three months of every year he was working for the benefit of the Taxation Department. Those opinions indicate that representative business-men do not think that the policy of this Government will increase employment, but that the imposi tion of additional taxation will adversely affect industry and materially increase unemployment, thus placing additional burdens on an already overloaded community. 
 Senator Chapman  said that the Bruce-Page Government proposed to balance its budgets by the use of the pruning knife and deprecated the fact that this Government had resorted to increased taxation instead of further applying that knife. I invite the honorable senator to consider certain figures which I placed before the Senate when dealing withthe financial proposals of the Government, and I ask him whether he can justify the use of the pruning knife in connexion with any of the following items :  - 

<graphic href="122332192912101_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

The honorable senator would have the Government use the pruning knife still more severely in those departments in order to relieve the people from paying still more taxation. 
Of course he did. He proposed to raise £112,500 less for war service commitments than what this Government contends should be paid. Yet the Labour party is accused of being disloyal because it suspended compulsory military training. The ex-Treasurer also proposed to allocate £68,000 less for war pensions and £300,000 less for invalid and old-age pensions. This Government contends that it is under an obligation to pay 20s. in the £1, and that even if it means the unpleasant task of submitting to Parliament and to the people of Australia a deficit instead of a fictitious surplus, it will undertake that duty rather than evade its obligations. 
Any one who analyses the financial position of Australia in the light of the ex-Treasurer's budget, must be forced to the conclusion thatif the ledger is to to be balanced, there must inevitably be increased taxation. This Government proposes to impose that further taxation to meet its obligations and to balance its budget. When that necessity disappears, the people of Australia may confidently expect that the impositions will be withdrawn. 
It did not. It carefully examined the estimates prepared by departmental heads, men who have been entrusted to conduct the departmental affairs of the Government, in the limited time at its disposal. It found that it was impossible to prune the items mentioned. 
The honorable senator does not realize the position. The departmental heads made certain recommendations and, after the fullest investigation, it was found necessary to provide certain amounts to meet the commitments of the Government. 
Certainly not. It intends to balance the ledger and not to misrepresent the facts to this House or to another place. If it finds that it is impossible to avoid incurring a deficit in the next financial year, it will tell Parliament the truth. Had that attitude been adopted by the Bruce-Page Government, twelve months ago the people of Australia would not now be called upon to bear further burdens and to pay additional taxation, with unemployed numbering 180,000. In those circumstances we possibly would not have had the present army of unemployed, who are unable to earn money and to pay income taxation. 
I do not attribute the whole blame to the late Government, but it was one of the main contributing factors to unemployment. 
Because of its gross extravagance. 
I asked  Senator Chapman,  while he was speaking, where this Government had been extravagant, and he evaded the issue, just as he did a pertinent question in regard to Holden's motor body works. There was a time when the honorable senator represented the freetrade convictions of the West Coast constituency in a State Parliament, but when he became a member of a National Parliamentit was to be expected that his outlook would become broader, and that he would be prepared to assist such splendid industries as Holden's motor body works. I ask the honorable senator whether any other Government has done as much for that industry as has this Government. 
Since this Government has been in power it has been almost continuously within the walls of this and another chamber. That question should be asked when it has had an opportunity to obtain a thorough grip of the position and to effect economies. It has already promised to save £150,000 through the administration of one department only. 
That is not the true perspective of the position. The Government estimated a certain expenditure, and, except where it had to correct cer tain estimates, it accepted those of the late Government. In many instances departmental expenditure has been so curtailed that a point has been reached where departments can no longer be extravagant; where, in fact, affairs are in such a state of chaos that it will be difficult even for a Labour Government to unravel the tangle. As to the tariff, there is not a very great difference between the fiscal policy of this party and that of the Opposition. We both believe in a high tariff. The point of difference is that this party believes in making the tariff effective, and instead of going half way it has gone the whole distance, in an endeavour to build up Australian industries. 

 Senator Chapman will not have to pay more for his matches if an extra duty is imposed, unless he wishes to purchase matches manufactured in Sweden. 
Yes. The Government desire that Australian products shall be used by our own people, and I am sure that if the present members of the Opposition again occupy the benches on this side of the chamber, they will not throw our fiscal policy overboard, but will adopt it, as they have done on previous occasions. I thank the members of the Opposition for the way in which they have assisted the Government in disposing of this motion, and I compliment honorable senators generally upon the high standard of the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is, perhaps, the most important measure that has come before the Senate during this session. Honorable senators who have had an opportunity to study it will admit that the only principles involved are the mobilization of gold, and the control of the export of that metal. This important measure has been introduced during this brief session in consequence of representations made to it by the Commonwealth Bank. In ordinary circumstances, a bill of this character might conveniently have been held over for consideration during a session iri. which it would be possible to discuss it more fully than is practicable in the time now at our disposal. The Commonwealth Bank has, however, sounded a note of warning to the Government. The position, so far as the gold of Australia is concerned, is becoming critical. The Commonwealth Bank Board, in a written document, extracts from which I propose to read- 
I shall do so if so desired; I have no wish to hold back any information. Representations were made to the Government by the Commonwealth Bank, in view of the position of the London exchange, due to the increased volume of imports from overseas, to a reduction in the value of wool, a largely decreased exportable surplus of wheat, and the temporary closing of the London investment markets to Australian borrowing. Owing mainly to these causes, a serious adverse exchange position has developed against Australia. 
The original document is not in my possession ; but if the honorable senator desires to see it, it is open for his inspection. 
No. I am pointing out to the Senate the causes which led to the introduction of this measure at this particular time. The board of the Commonwealth Bank, as the note issuing authority, viewed with great concern the immediate possibility of serious inroads being made upon the gold reserve, which is being maintained as a basis of the note issue, and recommended that steps be taken to mobilize the gold resources of the Commonwealth, in order to permit of their most economic use. I am sure that the Senate does not desire that I should establish the fact that there has been an increase in the volume of imports, a reduction in the price of wool, a large decrease in the exportable surplus of wheat, and a temporary closing of the London investment market to Australian borrowers. Neither should it be necessary for me to contend, on these facts, that the exchange position has developed adversely and seriously against Australia. 
There are many aspects that we might conveniently discuss in connexion with this measure; but 
I urge honorable senators to keep the real issue before them. It is not a question of whether there has been an increase or a reduction in our imports, but of our adverse trade balance, and its effect upon the exchange position in Australia. We must take the facts as we find them, and realize the possibility of that position becoming accentuated unless action is taken. 
This measure has been passed by another place, and it is now the responsibility of the Senate to carefully consider the suggestions made, as a means of overcoming the difficulty, or to minimize the possible effects if the present position continues. 
So far I have been expressing my own opinions. I now propose to read extracts from the letter received by the Government from the Commonwealth Bank - 
For some very considerable time past the board has viewed with much disquietude the general financial position, more especially its aspect as regards the situation respecting the availability of Australian credits in London. It does not come within the ambit of the board to enter upon any views as to London borrowing, but it docs fall within the obligation of the board to point out to the Government of the day such positions as they may arise, which affect the whole financial position of Australia. As you are aware, the requirements of Australia in London have been met from two sources of supply, viz.: - through realization of exports from Australia, and from public borrowing by Australia on the London market. The .funds so made available have been used to pay for imports and discharge interest and debt obligations accruing in London. A stable exchange position as between London and Australia can only be maintained by keeping the financial balance as between Australia and London on an even keel. Owing to various causes, which may be covered by the following, viz.: - unfavorable borrowing conditions in London; reduced values in respect of exports from Australia, duc to unfavorable seasons, and a large reduction in wool values, a steady adverse drift has been operating against accumulation of funds in London. So far as has been practicable, this has been met from time to time by adjusting exchange rates as between London and Australia, so as to operate adversely against imports and in favour of exports. 
I now come to a very important passage - 
The nominal rate of telegraphic transfer exchange on London as of to-day is 3os. per cent., but owing to the scarcity of London credits, the banks generally are unable to meet requirements, even in spite of the fact that higher rates are being asked for, so as to deter importations. At this stage it should be pointed out that the nominal rate of 35s. per cent, is what is known as above " gold point," that is to say, that it would be cheaper to export gold from Australia to London rather than pay 35s. per cent, exchange. When this point lias been reached, it becomes necessary for those in charge of gold reserves to see that the position does not get out of hand, and this immediately affects the ' position of the Commonwealth Bank. 
In view of the situation which I have just outlined, a position arises where those who require London credits, and are unable to obtain them through the usual banking channels, may present notes&lt; at the Commonwealth Bank, obtain gold against same, and ship it overseas to obtain outside credit. The position which I am now outlining to you is not merely a possibility, but the actual state of affairs referred to has now arrived, and the board, after exhausting every possible expedient to meet the situation, now finds itself definitely faced with proposals which must have, the effect of depleting the reserve nf gold, and further taking the control of the situation out of the board's hands. It has therefore become necessary to lay the matter before your Government for such action as you may deem it wise to take, and at the same time offer your Government such advice as seems to the board wise. 
My board is of the opinion that the last resource 'which should be adopted would be any course which meant even temporary departure from the operation of the gold standard on the part of Australia. 
That sentence is important. It demonstrates to the Senate that, when the board was considering the serious position outlined in the previous paragraph, it had in mind the gold standard. The report proceeds - 
Such measure would reflect most adversely against Australia in respect of oversea credit, and incidentally have a most serious effect upon our abilities to raise loans abroad. As a measure which would very materially help the position in the meantime, and in addition, having regard to precedent, would in the opinion of the board be a sound measure of permanent legislation, my board definitely recommends your Government to consider immediately the bringing in of legislation on similar lines to that which now exists and is operating in England. I do not propose to traverse the effect .of such legislation, as perusal of the acts referred to will fully acquaint you with the position, but I might briefly say that audi legislation would place the Commonwealth Bank in immediate control of all gold in Australia by whomsoever held. 
Whilst this legislation in itself would not prevent exportation of gold from Australia, it would place the gold in Australia definitely in the control of the bank. Once placed in this position there would only be one authority in control of the gold in Australia. No doubt, in view of the representations now made, your Government will give the matter your grave consideration, and, needless to say, any desire on your part to discuss these matters with myself or my board can be arranged for at any time mutually convenient, and any assistance from the executive of the bank which may be desired at any time will be arranged for. 
The date of the letter is the 9th November, 1929. 
I shall obtain it before the Leader of the Opposition speaks to the motion. The legislation passed by the British Parliament, and referred to in the board's report, consists of the Gold Standard Act of 1925 and the Currency and Bank Notes Act of 1928. In the Gold Standard Act the right of the holder of a currency note to obtain payment in gold coin was suspended, whilst at the same time it was enacted that notes of the Bank of England should continue to be legal tender. Further, an obligation was placed on the Bank of England to 'sell gold bullion to any person. The minimum amount that could be so demanded represented approximately £1,700. 
That seems to be the effect of the British legislation. The -Currency and Bank Notes Act, with a view to the concentration of the gold reserves and to the securing of economy in the use of gold, placed iu the hands of the Bank of England the power to requisition any gold exceeding £10,000 in value held by any person. Honorable senators will see that the legislation the Government is asking them to pass is not novel, nor is it a scheme originated by any particular political party. Altered to suit local circumstances, it is similar in character and principle to the legislation passed by the Motherland. 
There is a principle involved in proposed new section 7c which I shall deal with in a minute, but the question of whether it should or should not be retained in the bill is a matter which can be more definitely dealt with in committee. 
I draw the honorable senator's attention to the fact that Great Britain's trade with the dominions differs from that of Australia with Great Britain. Whereas we have a surplus of imports over exports, that is not, in an Australian sense, the case in England. 
That may be so ; but the circumstances are different. In regard to the mobilization of gold, the principle is the same here as it is in Great Britain, but Great Britain has not the necessity we have for control of the export of gold. 
Many avenues, including England's position, could be conveniently traversed in connexion with this interesting subject, but in principle, subject to qualification as to circumstances, there is no distinction between the law operating in Great Britain and that which is now proposed by the present Government. 
I shall be pleased to hear the honorable senator's speech on the subject, but that is how it appeals to 'me. It is certainly the case that both countries have found it necessary to mobilize gold. There is, therefore, no distinction in principle between the British legislation relating to the mobilization of gold and that which has been proposed by the present Government. 
Do I understand, then, that honorable senators opposite object only to the provision in the bill relating to the export of gold? 
The only difference between this bill and the British legislation in that respect is that in Great Britain gold bullion cannot be demanded except at a minimum of £1,700, whereas in our bill the maximum permitted to be exported without the consent of the proper authority is £25. Is that the distinction which is drawn ? 
Then I ask honorable senators to realize the position of our gold reserve. I think they will admit that it is necessary for the Commonwealth to impose greater', restrictions on the export of gold than may be required in Great Britain. 
Yes, in cases of emergency. I am pleased that I am  ad idem  with honorable senators opposite on the question of the mobilization of gold, and that the real contest will be on the question of whether or not we are carrying our legislation too far in preventing the export of gold. But before I proceed to deal with proposed new section 7c I want to continue with the main question. 
After careful consideration of the representations made by the Commonwealth Bank Board, the Government decided to introduce legislation giving power to the Commonwealth Bank to mobilize the gold resources of the Commonwealth and place the gold under the control of the Commonwealth Bank Board, which is responsible for maintaining a sufficient gold reserve as a backing for the note issue, and I think that we can rest assured that, in carrying out this responsibility, the Commonwealth Bank will not do anything to antagonize the other banks. Thereafter all the mobilized gold, so long as it remains in Australia, will be in the hands' of the Commonwealth Bank and the bank will be obliged to see that sufficient gold remains in Australia to provide a backing for the note issue. As a matter of fact, so far as the private banks are concerned, they have in the last few weeks voluntarily handed over to the Commonwealth Bank a considerable amount of gold in exchange for an equivalent amount of credit abroad, and there appears to be no reason why the co-operation in exchange matters, which at present exists between the Commonwealth Bank and the trading banks, should not be continued if the proposed bill becomes law. 
But it does matter where the gold is kept so far  as  our note issue is concerned. So long as we can keep in Australia a sufficient backing for our bank notes there is no need for alarm, but so long as we continue our legislation relating to our note issue, we must not only mobilize our gold, but also see that the very foundation of our notes is not blown from underneath us. 
I can assure honorable senators that the Government is not prepared to do anything which would directly interfere with the right of the public to obtain payment for notes in gold. The convertibility of the Australian note remains intact. 
Power is taken in the bill for the Governor-General, by proclamation, to  prohibit the export of gold except with the consent of the Treasurer. The Governor-General, in this matter, can act only on the recommendation of the Bank Board, and every application for permission to export gold, whilst the proclamation is in force, shall be the subject of a report from the board to the Treasurer. The latter will then have an absolute discretion to approve or refuse approval to any such applications. This may be regarded as a purely emergency provision. We are agreed on the point of mobilization and that occasions may arise when it is absolutely essential to preserve, in the vaults of the Commonwealth Bank, sufficient gold to back our notes issue. The question arises whether this legislation is too stringent in its character to effect the result we all desire. Let me explain what must happen before a  prohibition against the export of gold operates. First of all the Commonwealth Bank Board, which has its finger on the pulse of world finance, and knows the exact position of overseas exchange, is the only body which really can initiate steps to bring about the issue of a proclamation. 
There is nothing to prevent any person from going to the Commonwealth Bank with notes and, getting gold for them. 
The honorable senator is referring to the degree of protection afforded in the earlier part of the bill. I could go into the Commonwealth Bank, exchange my notes for gold and be met at the front door and served with a notice to mobilize the gold again. That is certainly possible, and the provision for the mobilization of gold was inserted in the bill for the distinct purpose of making the prohibition against the export of gold effective if the necessity should arise. 
Certainly. In order that honorable senators may follow this point I must refer to proposed new section 7c. It reads as follows: - " 7c. - (1.) Where, after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board, the GovernorGeneral is of opinion that it is expedient so to do, lie may by Proclamation prohibit the export of gold from the Commonwealth except in accordance with the provisions of the succeeding sub-sections of this section, and thereupon gold shall not, while the Proclamation remains in force, be exported from the Commonwealth except in accordance with those provisions. "(2.) Any person who desires to export gold from the Commonwealth may apply in writing to the Board for the approval of the Treasurer of the export of the gold. "(3.) The Board shall refer to the Treasurer with a report thereon any application received by it. under this section. "(4.) The Treasurer may in his absolute discretion approve or refuse approval to any application made under -tin's section. "(5.) Any person who exports gold without the approval of the Treasurer shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: A fine of One hundred pounds or imprisonment for one year or, in the case of a corporation, a fine of two per centum of the value of the gold in respect of which the offence was committed but in no case less than One thousand pounds. 
This proposed new section provides that if the board, as the expert authority which safeguards the interests of those people whom honorable senators represent in this chamber so far as the note issue is concerned, is satisfied that such a state of emergency has arisen that it is absolutely essential to prohibit the export of further gold from Australia for a certain period, it will make a recommendation to the Governor-General, who then may issue a proclamation prohibiting the export of gold. 
It will be convenient, I think, if, at this stage, I am permitted to deal with certain amendments that have been circulated by the right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce).  Sub-section 2 of proposed new sub-section 7c provides that after the issue of a proclamation any person who desires to export gold from the Commonwealth may apply, in writing, to the board " for the approval of the Treasurer " to the export of gold; and new sub-section 4 enacts that the Treasurer "may in his absolute discretion approve or refuse approval to any application made under this section." The Leader of the Opposition has circulated an amendment, the effect of which is to provide that any person who desires to export gold from the Commonwealth may apply to the board for the approval of the Treasurer " and of the board," and that no person shall export gold without the approval of the Treasurer " and of the board." I invite honorable senators to examine: carefully the machinery provisions of the bill, and see whether the insertion of the words suggested by the right honorable the Leader of the Opposition are not a * departure from the British system of government as we understand it. 
 The Leader of the Senate will not be in order at this stage in discussing amendments to the bill which have been circulated. 
As I understand our system of responsible Government, it is only on the rarest occasions, and in the most exceptional circumstances, that powers such as are contemplated in this measure would be vested in even such an institution as the Commonwealth Bank. If we believe in the principle that, in certain circumstances, gold should not be exported, it is better that control should vest in the Treasurer and the executive responsible to Parliament. The amendment indicated by the Leader of the Opposition will not give the Commonwealth greater security than is contemplated in the bill itself. 
In order that travellers abroad may be freed from irritating restrictions the bill provides that any person may take out of the Commonwealth gold not exceeding £25. 
On Thursday last  Senator R.  D. Elliott asked several questions, upon notice, dealing with certain matters suggested by the bill now under consideration. In reply I stated that these matters could be more properly considered in the course of the debate. I have already shown that the convertibility of the note remains intact. 
The remedy adopted by the Bank of England for the correction of adverse exchanges is to increase the bank discount rate. If any increase in the rate charged by the bank for advances would achieve the same result in Australia, then it is entirely in the hands of the banks to take such action, and there is nothing in the laws or charters, under which they operate, to prevent them from doing so. It is contended by the Treasurer that interest rates could not be used in Australia in the same way or with the same facilities as the bank rate is; used in London. He added that the "result of an increase in interest rates here was not so immediate or not so certain as that which follows movements in the rate of the Bank of England. When the Governors of the Bank of England increase the bank rate, as they had to do recently, their action stems the outflow of gold from Great Britain and tends to attract funds back to London. Almost immediately the position is rectified, and the bank has an opportunity to reduce the interest rate again. No one would say that there would be any such quick response in Australia to movements in the interest rate. 
Notwithstanding reports in a section of the press that the Senate proposes to test the strength of the Government on this measure, I feel confident that the Senate will give the bill the consideration it deserves. If honorable, senators enter into the debate in a proper spirit, I feel sure that Australia's credit, both overseas and at home, will be secured. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia) [5.36]. - I do not propose to ask for the adjournment of the debate on this bill, because of the condition of the notice-paper, and also because I realize that there is some urgency in connexion with the measure. Any one who has read the letter from the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank must agree that, if the position is as the board therein sets out, the sooner some legislation is placed upon the Statute-book the better. Here let me remove a suspicion that seems to haunt the mind of the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly),  as to the attitude of the Senate towards this bill. So far as I understand that attitude, I assure him that the Opposition will not seize upon this or any other bill merely as a  casus belli.  We shall give every bill, including that now before us, full and fair consideration. I ask the Leader of the Senate not to take any notice of press speculation as to what is in the minds of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. 
We realize that this bill deals with a matter of first-class importance. It affects the fundamental principles upon which the finances of this country  are 'carried on, and, that being so, it should not be rushed through any legislative chamber, but should receive the fullest consideration and criticism. In so far as the first part of the bill is concerned, a precedent on somewhat the same lines has been established by legislation passed in England. That legislation, although not quite on all fours with the bill before us, embodies the same principle. We can, therefore, be guided by the experience in the Old Country in relation to the mobilization of gold, for in that connexion we are treading on tried ground. But the second part of the bill does not follow the English act. It is new - it is a proposal to enter upon a new path - and therefore demands a closer scrutiny than the other portion of the bill requires. The fluctuations of exchange rates caused by an excess of imports or exports have hitherto been controlled by the rising or falling of the bank rate of exchange. Its inter-relation with the export of gold is due to the fact that, when the exchange rate reaches a certain point, it becomes more profitable to export gold to meet liabilities overseas. The power given to the Treasurer in the second part of the bill is a power which could be exercised so as to cause an interference with those fundamental principles which hitherto have governed the question of exchange between Great Britain and Australia. It may be necessary, it may be wise that there should be such power. Business credit is very sensitive, and when we touch those things by which it has been' governed hitherto, we shall learn only by actual experience what reactions may be set up. Those reactions may be so serious as to cause in a few months damage which will take Australia many years to overcome. 
For these reasons it is the intention' of honorable senators on this side to give the bill very careful study, and to make sure of the ground on which we shall proceed. We in this Parliament do not come closely into contact with questions of business finance, and must, therefore, be guided largely by economists and others who make a special study of such subjects. These questions are not simple, but in-  tricate.  We should not ask Parliament to act on our views alone ; we' must buttress our opinions with the views of those whose daily lives are devoted to such questions. The letter from the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank dated the 9th November, 1929, contains some very serious statements. I take it that that letter received the serious consideration of the Bank Board. I shall not quote the whole of the letter again, but I propose to ask the special attention of honorable senators to a portion of it - 
In view of the situation which I have  just  outlined, a position arises where those who require London credits, and are unable to obtain them through the usual banking channels, may present notes at the Commonwealth Bank, obtain gold against same, and ship it overseas to obtain outside credit. The position which I am now outlining to you is not merely a possibility, but the actual state of affairs referred to has now arrived, and the board, after exhausting every possible expedient to meet the situation, now finds itself definitely faced with proposals which must have the effect of depleting the reserve of gold, and further taking the control of the situation out of the board's hands. It has, therefore, become necessary to lay the matter before your Government for such action as you may deem it wise to take, and at the same time offer your Government such advice as seems to the board wise. 
My board is of the opinion that the last resource which should be adopted would be any course which meant even temporary departure from the operation of the gold standard on the part of Australia; such measure would reflect most adversely against Australia in respect of oversea credit, and incidentally have a most serious effect upon our abilities to raise loans abroad. 
I commend those last words to the consideration of some of the supporters of the Government in this chamber, because proposals have been made by them which, if adopted, would seriously undermine the maintenance of the gold standard in Australia. One thing which would affect that standard would be the inflation of the note issue; and we know that that is the remedy which some Government supporters, and at least one member of the Government, suggest for the present unemployment trouble. There is a message of warning in the letter of the Bank Board. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE."We shall see. The letter continues - 
I might briefly say that such legislation would place the Commonwealth Bank in immediate control of all gold in Australia by whomsoever held. 
Whilst this legislation in itself would not prevent exportation of gold from Australia, it would place the gold in Australia definitely in the control of the bank. Once placed in this position there would only be one authority in control of the gold in Australia. 
This bill does not meet the position referred to by the Bank Board, for it will leave the control of the gold in the hands, not of the Bank Board, but of the Commonwealth Treasurer. It will take out of the hands of the Commonwealth Bank Board power to permit the export of gold, and vest the power in the Treasurer. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE . PEARCE.Only after it has concurred in the issue of a proclamation. But once the board has recommended the issue of a proclamation, and it has been issued accordingly, the board will have no more control over the export of gold from Australia. With the issue of the proclamation, the control will pass to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth. That is absolutely contrary to the views of the board. 
It is idle to deny that this bill has caused considerable uneasiness in financial and commercial circles in Australia. In support of that statement, I desire to bring under the notice of the Senate some of the telegrams and communications that have been received on the subject. I have here a telegram from the Bank of Adelaide, dated the 9th December, 1929 - 

 Re Commonwealth Bank of Australia Amendment Bill. As a matter of principle this bank is totally opposed to handing over its gold reserve unless the Commonwealth Bank functions as a central reserve bank but would prefer to see the bill opposed in its entirety. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The telegram is from the Bank of Adelaide, which is an Australian bank with Australian shareholders. It contains no threats. In the case of the American picture interests there was in timidation, because they threatened to oppose any member of Parliament who dared to attack them. I wish to emphasize that the late Government announced that its view of the Commonwealth Bank was that it should gradually assume the position of a central bank, a bank of reserve ; and it was taking steps towards that end. The present Government has not announced its real intentions concerning the bank. 
There have been some vague allusions to the Commonwealth Bank becoming a fierce competitor with private banks, that it should be a trading bank, but there has been no declaration by the Treasurer, or any member of the present Government, whether it is intended to make the Commonwealth Bank a bank of reserve or a central bank. In the absence of any such declaration we can understand the uneasiness felt by bankers, who fear that their gold will be taken over by a bank which will become a competitor. There is the suspicion that behind this there may be an idea to commandeer the gold from the other banks, and actually use their reserve gold to enable the Commonwealth Bank to overcome its competitors. 
The producers of gold represent another interested section, and the following telegram, received by  Mr. Latham,  from  Mr. Maughan,  of the Gold Producers Committee, Melbourne, indicates their attitude - 
In interests gold-mining industry urge addition to Commonwealth Bank Act amending bill exempting from export provisions the production of bona fide gold producers. Glad if you will support; have telegraphed Treasurer. 
I know why these people feel nervous. During the war they suffered from the introduction of a prohibition on the export of gold. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They made very little, because the prohibition was introduced in the every  early stages of the' war. As a result, gold was stabilized to world's parity, while the prices of all other primary products appreciated. 
Then there are the business people, who deal with exchanges inasmuch as they trade in the import and export of our commodities. Their views are represented ina telegram from Sydney, dated 9th December, reading: - 
At a special meeting of the Council of this chamber to-day the following resolution was unanimously adopted, copy of which has been forwarded to the Prime Minister. Resolution reads - 
In view of the gravity of the effect on Australia's credit of any interference with the free flow of gold either outwards or inwards the Sydney Chamber of Commerce earnestly suggests that the bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act now before the Federal Parliament should be deferred, ponding an exhaustive investigation of such a fundamental question by a select committee. (Signed) George A. Parkes, President. 
Sydney Chamber of Commerce. 
The following telegram, received from South Australia by  Mr. Latham,  gives the opinion of the Savings Banks on the proposal :  - 
Strongly urge amendment Commonwealth Bank Bill to exempt gold reserve of Savings Bank of South Australia. Gold reserve already proved invaluable in preventing crisis during war period. Future crisis without adequate gold reserve might embarrass South Australian Government because of its guarantee and deposits at call of bank. (Signed) Butler, Premier. 
I shall also read the views of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, as reported in the  Argus  of the 3rd of December, 1929. That body sent a telegram to the Prime Minister, as follows :  - 
The Melbourne Chamber of Commerce considers that any mobilization of the gold reserves of the trading banks, as authorized by the amending Commonwealth Bank Bill, is to the extent of the commandeering of the whole or a considerable part thereof, neither necessary nor desirable in Australian conditions. The arbitrary enforcement of such a policy would be a serious interference with a system that has stood the test of long experience. A change so radical would not only tend to hamper banking business generally, but the chamber feels that it might be injurious to the credit of the Commonwealth and the States, besides disturbing public confidence. 
The present unusual exchange position can be met by co-operation between the Commonwealth Bank and the trading banks on sound lines, and it affords no justification for a change so extreme. The compulsory taking of any part of the gold holdings of the trading banks and any embargo placed upon proposed shipments of gold should, so long as such are necessary, be subject to a guarantee of the position of equivalent exchange requirements for the banks. 
The mobilization of the gold reserves in England arises from a number of causes, the most important of which do not operate here. The constitution of the central bank and public sentiment there minimize the risks of political interference. 
The chamber earnestly hopes that if any gold is demanded from the banks under the act it willnot be used for purposes of note inflation. While it remains in the hands of the banks the public feels that it cannot be used for such a purpose. 
Those expressions of opinion exhibit a nervousness and uneasiness that is not put forward merely for political purposes. These people are daily dealing with exchanges, and their communications indicate that there is an element of risk in the bill, which necessitates thatwe should proceed with extreme caution. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I shall read a quotation which shows, to my mind, that their nervousness in regard to the contemplated action of the Government in regard to our note issue is not without foundation. It is a cablegram that appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 6th Deecmber last, and reads - 
'I ask honorable senators to deal as little as possible with matters that must be reserved for the committee stage. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE."We can discuss all details in committee. For the moment, I am simply stating my opinion, that it is not desirable for the political head of the Treasury to have sole power to differentiate between trading firms, or even between trading banks. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.He has not the same power. In this vital and important matter, there is every reason why the public should be given the assurance that the Board, which is in undivided control of the note issue, and thereby of the gold reserve, should be associated with the Treasurer in respect to applications for permits to export gold. I have already given notice of an amendment on this point. 
We realize that Australia is in a serious position, and are not putting forward amendments in a hostile spirit, or simply because as an opposition we want to put up something different from that which the Government has put forward. Nor have we any desire to embarrass Ministers. We are submitting these amendments in a friendly fashion. We are sincerely desirous of doing the right and safe thing, because we feel that, in the matter of our credit, Australia cannot afford to take any risks. 
That brings me to the only other point I wish to make in regard to the bill itself: that the second part of it is experimental legislation which, according to quotations I gave before dinner, has been received with some trepidation and indeed, some fear, by the commercial and banking community. Nothing can be more fatal to commercial and banking life than lack of confidence. A Government should avoid doing anything to disturb the confidence of the banking and business community and to that end I shall move an amendment to limit the operation of the second clause of the bill to twelve months, not with a desire to destroy the efficacy of the measure, but simply to give an opportunity for a review of the provision within twelve months. By that time we shall have had experience of the working of the act, and should be in a position to know whether it has been operating in a manner which has not proved injurious to the trade of the country. We may know by that time whether, by the Government's administration of the law, it has proved of advantage to the country and, if that be established, both Houses of Parliament will agree to make it of a more permanent character. The VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  has admitted that it is emergency legislation. Why then cannot we have some limitation of the period for which it is to operate? Such a limitation would not lessen the power of the Government to deal with the situation which has recently arisen. At any rate I propose to test the feeling of the committee on this point. 
I again assure  Senator Daly  that I am not putting forward these amendments for a political purpose, nor to embarrass the Government. I am putting them forward because I conscientiously believe that there is a delicate situation to be faced and that it should be faced so as to get the confidence of the people, and so as not to deal a damaging blow to the overseas trade or the exchange position. My amendment, if agreed to, will give the Parliament a guarantee that it will have an opportunity in twelve months' time to review  the provisions of this bill and decide whether they should be given a longer trial. 
I ask honorable senators at this stage not to discuss the merits of proposed amendments. 
This measure deserves of honorable senators the fullest and fairest consideration. Its importance cannot be overstated. It touches, among other things, upon the delicate subject of our overseas trade. While I would not subscribe to some of its provisions without considerable modification, I regret that I must accept the assurance we have had from the Leader of the Government in this chamber  (Senator Daly)  and the body that is largely responsible for the control of credits overseas and internal, that the first part of this measure is necessary. It is a matter for regret that the state of our overseas exports is such that they have failed to meet trade requirements and that we have had to resort to the shipment of gold. Viewing the measure broadly I feel that while the gold standard is being preserved internally, the later provisions of the bill to which reference has already been made this afternoon will really cut across the principles of the gold standard if they are applied. In my opinion the latter part of the bill touches on very delicate ground, and on that, account we should walk with great wariness. 
By interjection during the course of  Senator Daly's  speech, 1 referred to. one important phase of this question. Once the gold is demanded from those persons from whom the bank has a right to demand it, it passes into the custody and control of the Commonwealth Bank, which, according to the Leader of the Senate, is the very body responsible for the introduction of this bill. As a matter of fact honorable senators heard this afternoon the very excellent reasons the bank advanced for asking Parliament to pass this amending bill. But one of the reasons advanced is that the bank needs to strengthen its position for the purpose of backing its gold reserves against the note issue. It would appear that without any further review we could have left well alone. We have already placed under the control of the Commonwealth Bank the destiny of the gold reserve, but perhaps the Leader of the Senate can explain why further action is necessary in that regard. For my own part I feel, in common with a number of other honorable senators, and a number of writers, some of whose opinions were quoted this afternoon by the leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir .George Pearce),  that, in prohibiting the export of gold we are taking a ,step unprecedented in the history of any British community. 
I know that there has been a large demand for the export of gold overseas. I have no complaint against the first part of the bill, although I should like to draw attention to one fact. We have not had the figures, but I take it the Leader of the Senate believes that it is within the knowledge of all honorable senators that large quantities of gold are held by the private banks outside the reserves kept by the Commonwealth Bank. I think it behoves the Senate to pay a tribute to the sanity of those financial institutions which have preserved their gold and their credit, and which are continuing to help the credit of Australia during a strenuous  time 
Contrary to their action of 1893 the private banks have husbanded their resources and looked after their reserves so well that whatever the stress may be on certain branches of industry, or whatever the' stress may be upon Governments, there can be no financial debacle in Australia to-day. On the passage of this measure nineteen millions worth of bullion and gold will be brought into the coffers of the Commonwealth Bank. Why have the private banks been holding that nineteen million pounds? In the spirit of a miser, merely to look at it? No, they have kept that gold in a spirit of safety so that in times such as the present they would be able to establish overseas credit for their customers. And now, but for the urgent necessity of this bill, there should have been some measure of broad justice done within the four corners of the measure to the institutions that have to yield up that nineteen million pounds worth of gold to the Commonwealth Bank for the purpose of buttressing our note issue. These institutions will be expected to hand this money over to agencies that may be in active opposition to themselves, instead of employing it to provide overseas exchanges for their customers. 
I hope I am not putting the case for the private trading banks offensively. All I wish to  3ay  is that, if, instead of wisely husbanding their resources, those institutions had handed their reserves over to the Commonwealth Bank, they would have received interest, .1. presume, at the rate of 5 per cent. But from prudent motives, they preferred to keep their assets in liquid form to meet contingencies such as those which have now arisen. I shall be glad to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that the Commonwealth Bank will he prepared to give these banks some measure of justice in the matter of foreign exchanges. 
The Minister has intimated that the measure is not brought forward in any spirit of hostility to the private trading banks. He has told us that the sole object of the Commonwealth Bank, in common with the private institutions referred to, is to mobilize the gold resources of the Commonwealth in the interests of the people of Australia. I think that the institutions concerned- would be glad of an assurance that the Commonwealth Bank will consider, sympathetically, a proposal to establish foreign credits for those customers of private banks whose gold will be mobilized under the Government's latest proposal. The Leader of the Senate has made out a case for the marshalling, in some shape or form, of the gold resources of the Commonwealth, but it appears to me that it matters very little in whose hands the gold is, so long as it is held within the Commonwealth, unless there is some risk of encroachment on our statutory reserve in relation to the note issue, and no one, I hope, suggests- that we are approaching anything like such a crisis as that in the financial affairs of this country. I understand that the gold reserve in the coffers of the Commonwealth Bank is equal to 50 per cent, of the note issue. As I have said, but for the urgency of the measure, I should have felt it my duty to press for an amendment to the bill to provide that, as a simple act of justice to those banking institutions whose gold reserves are to be mobilized, they should receive some equivalent in the form of foreign credits. 
There is one other matter that appears to me to require more than passing attention. 1 refer to the position of those excellent institutions known as the State Savings Banks, which for many years have adopted a policy of caution, having regard to what has happened in the earlier financial history of the Commonwealth. The State Savings Bank of South Australia, after the financial debacle in America in 1907, when savings banks had to close their doors for 30 days or 60 days on end, decided, many years ago, to establish a. gold reserve. While on this point, it may be profitable to remember that the savings banks in the various States are dealing in the main with people who are unacquainted with the ramifications of finance, and whose main concern is to see something tangible in the nature of the sovereign as representing their deposits. This inherent fear in the minds of the majority  of depositors in State savings banks arose out of the financial crisis in the United States of America in 1907. As evidence of the far-reaching nature of that financial disaster, the Melbourne  Argus,  of 16th December, 1907, wrote - 
The evolution of the financial crisis in the United States of America has been a study of absorbing interest to British financiers. . . . The shortage of cash was so great in some of thu United" States centres that up to 5 per cent, premium was paid for gold. This was at a time when £ 1.2,000,000 had been shipped from Europe to New York. Those who had the  gold  clung to it as the one dependable commodity in the country, only to be freed under actual compulsion. Savings banks shut their doors to depositors for from 30 to 00 days, and in many cases banks would only recognize cheques that had to pass through the Clearing-house That scores of .thousands of work-people were thrown out of  employment  was inevitable, with the curtailment of credit, and the loss nf banking facilities due to an exceptional state of affairs. How much worse, however, that their savings should he cut off by the refusal of the savings banks to pay on demand. Nothing can more clearly demonstrate to the worker the paramount importance to him of maintaining in  a  country a sound system of banking, and one that will respond to the demand of the hour. 
To obviate any such contingency in South Australia, the State Savings Bank established a gold reserve. Fortunately for that institution its trustees occupy much the same position as do the directors of the Commonwealth Bank, for I have a clear recollection of hints by successive governments that the maintenance of the gold reserve by the State Savings Bank was unnecessary. But, as I shall show in a few minutes, the existence of that reserve, and the ability to pay depositors in gold, had a very important influence in checking a mild panic in the early days of the war. I understand that a similar situation arose in Queensland, and that there, too, the fears of the people were allayed by the assurances which the leading bankers were able to give to their depositors. In justifying the action of the. trustees in establishing a gold reserve, the  chairman  of the State Savings Bank in South Australia said - 
The trustees regarded it as incumbent upon them first to select such securities as will ensure absolute security to the depositors as far as they possibly can, and that is why so much of their money is invested with the State. The next is to obtain the best rate of interest consistent with security, then, in accordance with the very foundation of finance, to spread their securities so that they may the better meet any contingencies which may arise. But beyond these, there is one very vital concern, apart altogether from the question of ultimate security, and that is that the moneys placed in the hands of the Savings Bank trustees represent, in the main, the savings of and probably the only available liquid assets of the working classes of the community. These moneys necessarily should be repayable at call. 
I was impressed to-day by a letter which a distinguished member of another place showed me, from a traveller who has trading relations with people in the country districts of his State. The terms of the letter are amusing to those who have any knowledge of the banking system. The writer, referring to the Government's proposal, appeared to be under the impression that the banks would not in future be required to pay depositors in gold, and that, as a consequence, the credit of the country would be destroyed. The point I wish to make is that, in legislation of this nature, we have to consider the mentality of a large number of people who are depositors in State savings banks, as well as private banking institutions, and I repeat that the trustees of the Savings Bank of South Australia, and of its sister institution in Victoria, were wise in their generation when they resolved to establish an adequate gold reserve. I hope, therefore, that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  will indicate that such institutions will be exempt from the provision of this bill. 
I am aware that the amount to the credit of that institution in gold is only £210,000, but again I remind the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that its gold reserve afforded a solid measure of security to its depositors in 1916 or 1917, when there was a small run on the bank. The fact that the trustees were in a position to pay in gold effectively checked what might have developed into a crisis. It might be argued that the Commonwealth note also is convertible, but I would point out that it is convertible into gold only at the head office in Sydney, and that trouble may be experienced by any of the private banking institutions before the necessary amount of gold can be transmitted from head office. As this bill relates to a matter of extreme delicacy and affects the financial status of institutions that handle the savings of the people, we should proceed with extreme caution. The figures relating to deposits in the State Savings Bank of South Australia are remarkable. The accounts number 459,927, and the amount to the credit of depositors is over £11,000,000. 
Yes, but a considerable number of accounts are held on behalf of infants and others are duplicated. I am assured that almost one half of the people of South Australia have savings bank accounts and I may sayen  passant  that the amount to the credit of the depositors per head of population is larger in that State than elsewhere in the Commonwealth. The people of South Australia are extremely prudent. The trustees of these institutions have no interests of their own to serve. They desire to retain the gold in order to allay the fears of the people in times of crisis. If the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  cannot give an assurance that they will be unaffected by this measure, I invite him to consider the question from another angle. This measure deals with banking, and as the powers of the Commonwealth in respect of banking are limited under section 51 of the Constitution, I suggest that the bill cannot touch State savings banks or State banks. The Constitution expressly excepts State banking from control by the Commonwealth. Instead of putting the State savings banks in the unpleasant position of having to resist any proceedings which might be taken- 
The bill purports to deal with currency, because the Commonwealth can deal with coin, whereas it cannot expropriate money from the State savings banks. I put it first to the honorable senator as a matter of fair play; but, if he is not prepared to accept my suggestion in that spirit,I remind him that I have taken the precaution to obtain the opinion of eminent counsel in South Australia, for whom I know the Leader of the Government has the greatest respect. The opinion of  Mr. Cleland,  K.C., which I received only this evening, is - 
That the bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act is legislation with respect to banking, and that State savings banks are institutions concerned with State banking, and that as State banking is specially exempted from Commonwealth control by section 51, subsection XII. of the Constitution, it cannot be included in a bill; but to prevent future difficulties the bill should expressly except all State savings banks and State banks from its operations. 
Probably neither  Senator Daly  nor I would be greatly concerned if we received from the bank a number of £1 notes, or even the cheque of some person whose financial standing we know to be secure; but in legislation of this kind we must have regard to the psychology of the people for whom the trustees of the State savings banks act. I ask the Leader of the Senate to submit this matter to Cabinet, for it is a case that calls aloud for exemption. Should no exemption be made to meet the case I have mentioned, and action be taken to enforce the provisions of this measure against the savings banks, they will, I am assured, take action to protect themselves. I submit that that position should not be allowed to arise. I put it to the honorable senator that it will enhance the nation's credit if the State savings banks, which deal with the peopleen  masse,  are able to allay any panic which might take place. What has happened in the past might happen again in the future; and if the gold is there, it will go a long way to restoring confidence in the minds of saving bank depositors. If they get gold from the banks, it is more than probable that after a few days they will return it to the banks. I remember that at the beginning of the war a distinguished sportsman in South Australia withdrew 1,000 sovereigns from the bank because he feared a financial crisis. The possession of that gold so worried him that after a few weeks he restored it to the bank. Credit is a delicate thing, and we should not tamper with it. We should be guided by the advice of men who deal. with these matters every day. I trust that something will be done along the lines I have indicated. 
It has been said that this bill follows similar legislation in Great Britain. I point out that there is one vital difference between this- measure and the legislation passed in the Old Country. "Without any legal obligation, it has been the uniform practice of the Bank of England, acting, as it were, as a central reserve bank, to provide foreign credits for 'other banking institutions. In the absence of any lead from the Government as to its intention, I can only conclude that the bill is a step towards the creation of the Commonwealth Bank as a central reserve bank. I am, however, concerned about the second part of the bill - from proposed new section 7c to the end. A proclamation having been issued, and the gold having been obtained by the Commonwealth Bank, that gold will be in the hands of that bank in its capacity as a central reserve bank. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  bases his case upon representations made to the Government by the Commonwealth Bank Board in relation to our gold reserves. Is not the Commonwealth Bank the proper institution to deal with our gold reserves? I take it that the proposal to get the gold into the hands ;of the Commonwealth Bank is a sound precautionary measure. But what further action is necessary? A proclamation prohibiting- the export of gold could be issued. The Leader of the Senate said that it is advisable that the gold shall be in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank in order to allay alarm regarding the bank's liabilities in respect of the note issue, but I do not think that there is any justification for that fear. Indeed, there cannot be so long as the bank holds more than twice the amount of gold it is required by law to hold. It is like using both barrels of a gun when one barrel is sufficient. The proposals in the bill suggest that the Government is not prepared to trust the Commonwealth Bank. I, for one, am content to leave the control of our gold reserves entirely in the hands of that bank. Having got the gold under the control of the bank, the only institution which could be affected by any proclamation prohibiting the export of gold would be the bank itself. "We must decide whether the Commonwealth Bank is to be controlled by the Government of the day in respect to the export of gold. So far as I am concerned, there is nothing political in this bill. I am just as anxious as my leader to have introduced a workable measure that will not disturb the internal and the external credit of Australia in the slightest degree. Our internal credit has already been disturbed far too much by acts of Parliament. It would be most unfortunate if this measure should be made a squabbling ground between conflicting political parties, either here or in another place. My one desire is that we should interfere in this matter as little as possible, because the less that is done in the delicate realm of finance, more particularly by our Parliamentary interference, the better it is for the community generally. The case has been presented that it is necessary to do something, but surely further action is unnecessary -when once the gold is in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank. Surely, proposed new section 7c goes too far? As yet no emergency has arisen that requires such a provision to be brought into operation. Throughout my short political career I have been associated with men in the political arena whose word is their bond, but I would not entrust to them a matter so delicate and so important as this. I think that iu the interests of the Government itself, and particularly in the interests of the Treasurer, whoever he may be from time to time, it should be definitely laid down that the advisers of the Commonwealth Government are either behind the refusal to allow the export of gold, or are in favour of it. That is merely a measure of safety and fair play. Those who occupy high positions in Australia have neither the time, nor, perhaps, the opportunity, to study the ramifications and delicate relationships of international finance. It would be well, in the interests of all concerned, to define the position. If the money is held by the Commonwealth Bank and is under its control, why should the Government precipitate a panic by issuing this proclamation? Even to-day banking institutions are refusing, in their own interests and the interests of the community, to export some of their gold, and once the gold was controlled by the Commonwealth Bank there would be no necessity for the operation of proposed new section 7c. Under it  His Excellency  the Governor-General is to act on the recommendation of the board, and make this proclamation prohibiting the export of gold from the Commonwealth. The people would immediately become alarmed. Already they are concerned about this measure, although I admit frankly that there are no grounds for alarm. The more I regard the proposal, the more the necessity for the insertion of proposed new section 7c disappears. If there is, unhappily, any undisclosed reason for the insertion of the provision I join with the Leader of the Opposition in suggesting that the position should be safeguarded, in justice to the bank, and in the interests of the gentlemen who from time to time hold the position of Commonwealth Treasurer. 
I understand that is so, and I do not wish to pursue the subject to any length, because I realize that there are matters upon which the Government must accept the advice of the bank. But what-; ever the directors of the Commonwealth Bank may have thought with regard to the proposed new section, I maintain that they are only reflecting upon themselves in asking for its incorporation in the bill. I admit that those gentlemen have a. far more extensive knowledge of finance than have many of us who are debating this measure, and that their soundness and integrity are undoubted. I am quite prepared to leave the financial business of this country, its foreign credit and gold reserve, in their hands. But that they should have advised such a step is beyond my comprehension. It is practically saying, " We have the gold ; but we intend to tell you not to export " -  and they are the only people who can export. The gold goes into the Commonwealth Bank, and cannot be taken out unless somebody comes along with a quantity of notes and demands gold. 
He would have to take it back to the bank and accept notes in return. 
That is so; but once the gold is mobilized it remains under the control of the directors of the bank, who will not let it go lightly. I suggest that it is an entirely mistaken gesture to incorporate this provision in the measure, and I appeal to the Leader of the Government in the Senate to reconsider the matter, even at this late hour. It will not do us any good abroad or locally. The Commonwealth will have all the gold, and the proclamation will simply prevent our own. Commonwealth Bank from exporting that gold. I think that it will be advisable to eliminate the provision. Of course, if the Government insists upon proceeding with the proposal, and it has the approval of the majority in this chamber, I shall not make any attempt to hold up the measure, as I understand that advice has been tendered to the Government along the lines already indicated by  Senator Daly. 
There appears to be a feeling abroad that the note issue of Australia may be unduly inflated. I propose to give to honorable senators the benefit of one or two observations that were made not very long ago in regard to the expansion of the note issue, by quoting from Bryce, on  The American Commonwealth,  as follows : - 
It may seem incredible that there should be still masses of civilised men who believe that money is value, and that a liberal issue of stamped paper can give the poor more bread or better clothes. If there were a large class of debtors and the idea was to depreciate the currency, and let them then pay their debts in it, one could understand the proposal. Such a depreciation existed during and immediately after the Civil War. As wages and prices had risen enormously, people were receiving more money in wages, or for goods sold, than they had received previously, while they were paying fixed charges, such as interest on mortgage debts, in a depreciated paper currency. Thus the small farmers were on the whole gainers, while creditors and persons with fixed incomes were losers. It is true that both farmers and working men were also paying more for whatever they needed - food, clothes and lodging - still, they seemed to have felt more benefit in receiving larger sums than they felt hardship in paying out larger sums. Those who now call for a great increase of paper money do not profess to wish to depreciate the currency ; or have they been to any great extent supported by a debtor class to which a depreciated currency would be welcome, as a debased coinage served the momentary occasions of mediaeval kings. But the recollections of the war time, with its abundant employment and high wages, cling to many people, and arc coupled with a confused notion that the more money there is in circulation so much the more of it will everybody have, so much the better ofl" will he lie, so much the more employment will capital find for labour, and so much the more copious will he the fertilizing stream of wages diffused among the poor. 
There are other very pertinent observations, which I could quote in connexion, with this most intricate problem; but I do not wish to detain honorable senators any longer. Generally speaking the measure does not commend itself to me, find it gives me no sense of pleasure to support it. Our duty, however, is to endeavour to alleviate the present condition to the best of our ability, and that being so, I intend to support the second reading of the bill, but in committee I will move an amendment in connexion with savings banks, on the lines I have indicated. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [9.1]. - We are ail indebted to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  for the clearness and moderation of expression which characterized the speech in which he moved the second reading of this bill. He evidently recognizes that the measure is one of first class importance. I do not think any of us will fail to recognize that whether or not this is the right course to adopt an emergency has arisen, and it behoves us to give the most careful consideration to a proposal of this kind. I hope that if I may seem to criticize with some severity the bill that has been put forward, it will be appreciated that I do so because I believe that unless some very important amendments are made in its provisions, it will only accentuate the difficulties it sets out to cure. It contemplates an extraordinary alteration in the methods by which Australia is at present carrying on its commercial relations with the outside world. It is idle to suggest that there has been, or that in the remaining few days of the session there will be, time to give a matter of this importance the consideration it deserves. 
I am sorry that I find it necessary to repeat to some extent some of the observations made by previous speakers. One point is of such great importance, that I desire to emphasize it most strongly and that is that this measure is not in accordance with the advice tendered to the Government by the Commonwealth Bank Board. The letter which the Minister read contains this paragraph - 
My board is of the opinion that the last resource which should be adopted would be any course which meant even temporary departure from the operation of the gold standard on the part of Australia. 
The Government is adopting that course as a first step. The letter continues - 
Such measure would reflect most adversely against Australia in respect of oversea credit and incidentally have a most serious effect upon our abilities to raise loans abroad. As a measure which would very materially help the position in the meantime, and in addition, having regard to precedent, would in the opinion on the board be a sound measure of permanent legislation, my board definitely recommends your Government to consider immediately the bringing in of legislation on similar lines to that which now exists and is operating in England. 
The Minister has suggested that the Government is adopting the English practice, and altering it "in detail in order to adapt it to local conditions. It is not doing anything of the kind. The difference between what is proposed and the British practice is not a difference of detail; it is a difference in fundamental principles. It is as marked as the differences between " yes " and " no ", black and white. Every sentence of the two paragraphs I have read is diametrically opposed to the principles of the bill now before the Senate. It follows an exactly opposite course from that of the British legislation. Under the English act notes in small amounts are not convertible. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.Yes. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.I should not mind an alteration of details, but it is the alteration of fundamental principles to which I am opposed. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.So far as I know without going into the whole subject very exhaustively I think a great deal can be said in support of the English act. In that legislation the bank and the bank only is the authority and not the Treasurer or the executive. Under the English legislation notes are not convertible into gold in small sums. The object of that is to prevent the dissipation of gold in internal currency or the hoarding of gold. The Commonwealth Government's proposal is that notes  3hall  still be convertible. I do not suggest that that is a very important difference or that it means very much, because we have grown so accustomed to the use of notes instead of gold that no one is likely to be rushing to the bank for gold for internal currency or to hoard. The other difference is essential. Under the English act no. embargo can be placed upon the export of gold. Any person demanding gold for notes for export to the amount of over 400 oz., which is equivalent to £1,600, must receive it, and whilst under that act the bank can demand from any holders of gold to the amount of £10,000 or more, that the gold shall be handed over to it, it cannot touch one penny of it, although it may run into mil1 lions, if it is held for immediate export. Having got the gold in its coffers the bank cannot refuse to hand it over to any person who applies for it in quantities exceeding 400 oz. for the purpose of export. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The bank holding it? 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The advantage of the bank holding it is that it would know the position. The 
British practice arose very largely from the position disclosed at the outbreak of war. At the time the highest authorities were at variance, to the extent of hundreds of millions sterling, as to the amount of gold available in England. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The amount was far more than  Senator Hoare  suggests. No one actually knew what the amount was. There can be no question that in certain circumstances this hill authorizes the executive not only to regulate the export of gold, but to entirely prohibit its export. It also authorizes the executive to say that Australia shall step off the gold standard and divorce itself from the currencies of other countries. 
In proposed new section. 7c, provision is made for a proclamation, which can be issued only on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Bank Board. But once that proclamation is issued the matter passes entirely beyond the discretion of the board and comes within the absolute discretion of the Treasurer. An emergency might arise in which the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank considered it necessary to recommend the issue of a proclamation ; but after it had been issued it would not be competent for the board, even if it thought it desirable, to withdraw it. The Treasurer has made it clear that whilst he will not act in the absence of a recommendation from the board, the action determine!! upon will be that of the executive which may or may not be in accordance with the recommendations of the board. 
Since this bill is recommended to Parliament on the strength of a letter received from the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank, and since it is obvious that the bill in its most essential features is contrary to the recommendations contained in the communication to which I have referred, I should like to know if the Minister in charge of the measure is able to assure us that the directors of the Commonwealth Bank approve  it in its present form. It is important from the  viewpoint  of the Australian people that the directors of the Commonwealth Bank should assume their share of responsibility in this matter. The members of that board, eminent public men, holding high positions in the commercial world, have made certain recommendations to the Government which has seen fit to do something entirely different. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.What is the use of such a small amount? Who wants to carry about £25 in gold? When I was going abroad, on one occasion, having been told that I could obtain a big premium on Australian sovereigns, I obtained 100 of them; but I was the most miserable man in the world until I got rid of the last one. It would have been quite competent for the Government to say that it did not believe in the gold standard. There are two schools of thought on this question, but I venture to say that the school of thought in the Old Country that is opposed to the gold standard is in a weaker position to-day than it has ever been, and for this reason : That during this last twelve months the gold standard has been put to a test of unexpected and unexampled severity. During the twelve months ended the 30th September last, the . United States of America and France increased' their gold holdings by £143,000,000, nearly £60,000,000 in excess of the amount of gold produced during the period. It looked as if the gold standard could not possibly be maintained if that sort of thing were to continue. In September of this year the Bank of England, after waiting until between £30,000,000 and £40,000,000 had been taken out of its gold reserve, put up the discount rate from 5£ to 6£ per cent., and that " did the trick." The gold came back to England and I venture to say that the gold standard is now on a firmer base, not only in England, but in the old world generally, than ever it was before. I commend to honorable senators opposite the speech made by  Mr. Phillip  Snowden, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer. I shall quote one or two paragraphs from it to illustrate not only what he thinks of the gold standard, but also the fundamental difference between the proposal set up in Great Britain and that recommended by the directors of the Commonwealth Bank.  Mr. Snowden  said - 
A rise in the bank rate is, under existing conditions, the only means we have to restore unfavorable exchanges and to regulate the basis of credit. 
He was speaking to a Labour conference on the 31st October of this year. He went on to make use of the following pregnant sentence - 
I want to assure you that the Treasury have no influence in this matter of the bank rate, and they have no responsibility for it. 
That is not what is suggested in Australia. What is suggested here is the complete discretion of the Treasurer.  Mr. Phillip  Snowden went on to say - 
I repeat that, in regard to the bank rate, the Treasury has no more control than any individual whom I happen to be addressing. The country is on the gold standard. There were some of us who, at the time the change was made five years ago, doubted whether that step was not a little too precipitate - but it was taken, and since then practically every other country in the world has come upon the gold standard, and there is no one, not even the advocates of what was known a year or two back as managed currency, who does not admit that now that the gold standard has been universally re-established it must be maintained until the wisdom of man has devised some better substitute for it. 
I suggest that the first time any step is taken to prohibit the export of gold, Australia will be no longer on the gold standard; it will be out of step with the rest of the world. The gold standard means that when we buy goods abroad we must pay for them, and we can only pay for them in one of three ways - by goods which we export, by money which we borrow, or by gold. That is the acid test as to whether a country is or is not on the gold standard. If it cannot pay for the goods it buys in kind, or if it cannot borrow, it must pay in gold, and if it refuses to pay in gold it is no longer on the gold standard, and its currency will inevitably depreciate. This is my last quotation from  Mr. Phillip  Snowden's speech - 
Three days before the bank rate was raised last February the number of registered unemployed was 1,309,000. Two months later it had dropped to 1,178,000, and it continued to fall, but for a slight seasonal increase in August, down to the present time. A week ago the number of unemployed was 200,000 less than it was at the time the bank rate was raised in February. 
Any endeavour to keep up an artificial standard of things, saying " We will have cheap money whether it is there or not " does not help us. The only way in which we can maintain our gold standard and our credit is to face things squarely. An increase in the bank rate does not, according to  Mr. Phillip  Snowden, increase unemployment or a country's difficulties. One Australian authority has written an open letter to the 46 Labour members advocating an increase in currency, and saying among other things - 
Your Ministry has now the power to so improve its financial policy that it can issue credit to the States at 2 per cent, interest. It can also issue credit to the municipalities at the same rate. 
It is a most alluring prospect, this policy as it is called, of the development of consumer credit. We have an example of that in the establishment of the cash order system, a nefarious scheme to induce people to buy things they do not want, with money they have not got, in order that some utterly unnecessary middleman, by charging usurious rates of interest, can make profits altogether out of proportion to the' service he has rendered to the community. 
I do not think that the position in which we find ourselves to-day has come upon us suddenly. That it has not come about many years before, i3 solely due to the prices we have received for our wool and wheat. As a general rule in Australia, the difficult period, from a banking point of view, is early October. At that time, most of the advances have had to be made and few returns have come in. As a general rule also the conditions have steadily improved, until after Christmas, by which time more money has come along in return for primary produce exported. This year, however, contrary to general experience, the position, has got steadily worse from the beginning of October, and there is no doubt that it has now to be regarded with a good deal of anxiety. I submit that the correct way of getting out of our difficulty is to' follow the English practice favored and recommended by important  financial  institutions, that of increasing the discount rate and at the same time increasing the rate of interest on fixed deposits for short periods. If that is done speedily, as soon as the present Commonwealth loan is out of the way and before the money begins to come in for the wool and the wheat, such as it is, I think we shall find that there will be Australian investment, and a check to the necessity for the export of gold. We can safely export a little gold before the trouble begins to be serious. 
One of the methods by which we can pay our way is the raising of external loans, and I should like to say a word or two in that connexion. At the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers, held yesterday, a minor amendment of the financial agreement designed to empower States to issue their own securities in Australia, with the unanimous consent of the Loan Council, was regarded favourably, and it was decided to settle the terms of the amendment by correspondence. That relates to loans raised in Australia, but I think the Commonwealth Government should explore the possibilities of applying the same principle to loans raised in London. The financial agreement originally provided that the 
Commonwealth Government only could raise loans in London. Our present difficulty, and the necessity for the bill we are now considering, arises out of the fact that we cannot raise loans in London. If we could do so, there would be no need for the bill. The amendment made in the financial agreement provides that, with the unanimous consent of the Loan Council, the States may raise loans in their own names, and I suggest that the possibilities of that provision should be further explored. 
It has been frequently stated that the reason Australia had to pay more for its loans than South Africa or New Zealand was that we had seven borrowers competing against each other, whereas New Zealand Or South Africa had only one. But that statement never had the least substance in. fact. New Zealand borrowed at lower rates than Australia because it borrowed less and spent less of its loan money on State trading concerns, and things of  that  sort, which, however good or bad they may be, do not meet with the approval of the London market. South Africa was able to borrow cheaper than Australia because there are great British investments in that country; it was only natural that they should draw further money to them. 
The States securities are depreciated now. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.So are those of the Commonwealth. 
Not to the same extent. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.I am satisfied to accept the advice of our financial advisers in London, that we can borrow better in the name of the seven borrowers raising small loans at short periods than we can by borrowing in the name of the Commonwealth . and raising one big loan once in six months. Experience has proved it. Small loans raised by the States in between the Commonwealth issues have always been successful. Dear money is objectionable, but I do not see how we can arbitrarily say that we will not adopt the known methods of other countries to meet the situation, namely, to increase the discount rate. Germany, early in January, made a reduction in the discount rate from 7£ per cent, to 6-^ per cent., but before long it was raised again to  7%  per cent., and in every other country the discount rate is higher to-day than it was in the beginning of the year. How are we going to meet the situation which has been developing for some time in other parts of the world? In England at the beginning of this year the discount rate of the Bank of England was 4-J per cent. Later, it was increased to 6i per. cent., and now it is back to per cent. As recently as 1925, it will be remembered, Australia imported over £30,000,000 of gold,' but the following year it went out again, together with £2,000,000 worth of our produce: Since 1926 there has been practically no movement in gold until this year; when, because of the adverse exchange situation, Australia has been obliged to export £6,000,000 worth of gold. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  made reference to the gold-mining industry. I certainly think that if this bill is passed - I hope it will not be accepted in its present form - there should be included in it a provision to 'exempt altogether from the operation of the act all gold won in Australia from the ordinary process of mining. The right honorable senator stated that the people interested in mining were deeply concerned because of the loss which they sustained through the commandeering of their product during the war. I have no doubt that the real cause of their present anxiety is the fear that this bill will involve them in heavy losses. There is nothing surer than that, if the bill is passed in its present form, and if an embargo is placed on the export of gold, the Australian note will depreciate in value. It will become inconvertible to the extent that it cannot be said that it will purchase a pound's worth of goods anywhere. And the gold-miner in Australia, who, it should be remembered, has been more severely hit by Commonwealth policy than has any other section of the community, wants to know why he should be compelled to sell his gold in a depreciated currency. The act sets out that he is to receive the equivalent in notes at so much per ounce, so that if there is any depreciation in the Australian note, as is inevitable under the bill as it stands, he will be forced to accept for his gold something less than it is worth. There is, therefore, every justification for the request that he should be exempt from the operation of this measure. 
It has been suggested that there may be shortly an increase in the note issue. In this regard I think there should bp included in this measure an amendment of section 60k of the original act which provides - 
Tim board shall hold in gold coin and bullion a reserve of an amount not less than one-fourth of the amount of Australian notes issued. 
In ascertaining the amount of Australian notes issued, the amount of notes which have been redeemed shall not be 'included. 
When that act was passed, it was contemplated that the total issue of .notes would not exceed four times the amount of the gold reserve. If this measure is passed without amendment it will be competent for the Commonwealth Bank to control £20,000,000 of gold now held by private trading banks. Is it suggested that the "gold reserve of the Commonwealth Bank then shall have relation to the bank's own gold, or that the bank may issue notes for every £1 worth of gold mobilized from other sources? That would be utterly unreasonable; but, if the Commonwealth Government issues notes to those institutions in payment for their gold, then possibly no great harm may be done. The position will be as before; but if it will be competent for the bank to increase the note issue in the direction suggested, clearly we shall have a serious inflation in the note issue. 
Would not our overseas credit be automatically affected under this proposal? 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.We may assume that this power is to be used for some purpose and the only purpose I can conceive is to check the volume of imports. I am not much concerned about that matter, though it would completely destroy the Treasurer's budget expectation of increased revenue from customs duties; but, if the power is to be used to evade payment on the due date of Australia's obligations - I am not speaking so much of public commitments as of the responsibilities to our private citizens - it will be a bad day for Australia when this bill is passed. 
We cannot altogether ignore the avowed belief of a large section of the party supporting the Government that much of our present trouble could be removed by increasing our currency.' I have already referred to the suggestion that, by this means, we could make loans to the States at 2 per cent. A prominent member of the Labour party in Adelaide the other day, coming almost direct from a caucus meeting, said there was going to be an abundance of money shortly, because the Commonwealth Bank would increase the note issue. I do not suggest that this is what the Government proposes to do; but I do say that, without this bill, the Government cannot arbitrarily increase the note issue. Indeed, the Ministry dare not take such a course, although there is a substantial margin at the present time. Any attempt to inflate the note issue would undoubtedly result in the withdrawal of large sums of gold from the Commonwealth Bank. Nothing is more certain than that, if this bill is accepted, there will be nothing to prevent a very substantial increase in the issue of notes, either in the form of loans to the States or in payment of some portion of the internal debt of about £100,000,000 falling due next year. Is it suggested that the Government will do this? Are we to understand that the Ministry proposes to follow the lead of Germany and pay its debt to its own people in notes? If this is in the mind of the Government the inevitable result will be the repayment of the internal debt in depreciated currency. 
That is not the British way. 

 Senator SIR HAL COLEBATCH.At all events that will be possible if the bill is passed in its present form. As a matter of fact it has been advocated by certain supporters of the present Government. There are several courses open to the Senate. Personally I waver between two courses; either to urge the rejection of the bill, or to amend it on lines closely approximating to the English legislation on the subject. If it can be shown that the English legislation in some detail is unsuited to our practice, by all means let us have something different. If the Commonwealth Bank mobilizes the gold and makes the best use of it, that course will be entirely unobjectionable. The bank will then be in control of the financial situation as is the Bank of England in the Mother Country and it will be under an obligation to provide gold in such quantities as may be necessary to maintain our good name and credit abroad. By increasing the discount rate it will be able to right any situation that may arise. I am afraid, however, that underlying this bill there is the idea that instead of following the ordinary commercial practice of protecting the gold reserve by increasing the discount rate, the Government will be able arbitrarily to prohibit the export of gold without regard to the effect of that course upon the credit of the country. If that is done the last state of the Commonwealth will be worse than the first. We cannot safely substitute arbitrary political prohibition for proved commercial practice. 
It is deeply to be regretted that there is not time to refer this bill to a select committee. We should then be sure of a detailed investigation of the position. I recognize, however, that it may be highly desirable to take action before Parliament meets again in March of next year, and while I think that one of the courses which I have indicated should be adopted - either that the bill should be rejected, or that it be amended on the lines of the English act - I hope the Senate will not go further than to say that if the measure  must be passed, it shall be allowed to operate only for a limited period so as to permit of a complete investigation before it is made a permanent legislative enactment. It will be fatal to the good name of Australia if by the passing of this legislation, we give the impression that the Commonwealth is no longer adhering to the gold standard and no longer a ble to pay its debts in gold. It would, as the directors of the Commonwealth Bank say, reflect adversely against Australia's overseas credit and incidentally have most serious effects upon our ability to raise loans abroad. This opinion, I am sure, cannot be controverted. . 
I do not wish to discuss the measure at greater length. In closing I join with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  in the hope that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  will be able to tell us whether the directors of the Commonwealth Bank, having written to the Government suggesting a certain course of action and the Government having adopted a different course, the directors of the bank approve the action which the Government is taking in introducing this bill as it now stands; and further, if the directors of the Commonwealth Bank as a body are prepared to take full responsibility for the course adopted. 
Like other honorable senators, I approach the consideration of this measure not in any captious or party spirit, but, with a full recognition of the seriousness of the responsibility devolving upon me. The Senate may congratulate the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  upon the admirably temperate and reasonable way in 'which he presented his case. He told us' clearly the circumstances which in his opinion justified the introduction- of this measure. Honorable senators realize the sensitiveness and technical nature of the subject under consideration. I do not want to cover ground which has already been traversed by other honorable senators, but I want to ask the Leader of the Senate .a few questions with the object of extracting certain information from him. Other honorable senators have asked for certain assurances; but so far the Leader of the Senate has not given them, although he may do so when replying to the general debate. 
In the first place, I observed that  Senator Daly  quoted the same extracts from  Sir Robert  Gibson's letter that were quoted by the Treasurer in another place. When he was asked by way of interjection, whether those extracts comprised the full letter of the  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank, he said that, excepting the salutation and the subscription, the "Dear  Sir" and  the "Yours Faithfully " it did- 
I suggest, with all deference and humility, that the best Parliamentary practice in a matter of this kind is to put the full letter upon the table so that honorable senators may peruse it. If certain parts of the letter are confidential, then I suggest that there should be a full and frank statement that there are other portions of the letter which cannot be made available to honorable senators. Certain fears and suspicions would be allayed, if the Leader of the Senate were to state whether or not the quotations he read comprised the whole letter of recommendation from  Sir Robert  Gibson to the Treasurer, as otherwise there might be a lingering fear that the whole story had not been told. I should be glad if the Leader of the Government would follow a well-established Parliamentary practice, and lay the letter on the table. 
I am not suggesting any  malafides  on the part  of the Leader of the Government in this chamber; but there is a responsibility attaching to his position to give in the fullest and frankest way, all possible information to members. If the whole letter cannot be divulged, he should explain why there is only a partial presentation of the document from which certain quotations are made. 
I feel certain that the Leader of the Senate will give to honorable senators the fullest possible information in this matter. In his letter SirRobert Gibson says - 
My board definitely recommends your Government to consider immediately the bringing in of legislation on similar lines to that which now exists and is operating in England. 
I may be that the letter referred entirely to matters of principle. But speakers in this debate have shown conclusively that, if not in matters of principle then in matters of detail - and it seems to me that it is in matters of principle - there is in this measure a substantial departure from the legislation of Great Britain. Credit is a sensitive thing; we do not know what injury may be done if we tamper with it. We should, therefore, be guided by the best advice available. Cannot the Leader of the Government say candidly and unequivocally whether the Commonwealth Bank Board which has made suggestions for dealing with an acute position is, or is not, wholeheartedly in favour of the remedy suggested by the Government in this measure?  Senator Colebatch,  on more than one occasion during his speech, pressed the Vice-President of the Executive Council to say whether the bill is, in effect, an expression of the mind and the intention of the Commonwealth Bank Board. If that board made a recommendation the Senate would pay great deference to it, because it realizes that the hoard comprises a number of financial experts who would not make a definite recommendation of this kind without a full sense of the great responsibility resting upon it to do nothing which might prejudicially affect our credit. 
Exactly. The board recommended that, in no circumstances, should there be a departure from the gold standard. We are entitled to a more definite and emphatic assurance than has as yet been vouchsafed to us that this measure is not to be used in any way for the purpose of inflating the currency. That would he a dangerous expedient. The Senate's attitude to the Government should he one of helpful cooperation in the interests of the country, and not merely captious criticisms or an attempt to take advantage of the overwhelming numbers on the opposite side of the chamber. 
I am not so greatly concerned with the numbers of members in opposition in this chamber as I am with the spirit in which those members approach the consideration of the measures submitted to them. I think, however, that we ought to have an assurance that the mobilization of gold in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank will not, in any circumstances, be used for the purpose of inflating the currency. The Leader of the Senate inferentially made such a promisewhen he said that the gold would lie in the vaults of the Commonwealth Bank, and that as it would not come under the guardianship of the trustee of the note issue it could not be used for that purpose. 
I do not want to talk about " backstairs " influence, or of the methods which might be employed by parties or governments; but I think that it would allay the apprehension in the minds of people outside if the Leader of the Government in this chamber were to make such an emphatic declaration. It would assist the passage of this measure through the Senate. 
Perish the thought ! The unfortunate circumstances in which this measure is submitted have been set out by  Senator Daly,  and cannot be denied. We all regret the circumstances which have arisen; we realize their seriousness. We do not want to become pessimistic or panicky, or to do anything which might disturb the public sense of confidence and security. A measure of this kind must be approached with a full realisation of its seriousness ; and I take it that the Government has so considered it. The Government must take the responsibility for the introduction of a measure of this kind. I therefore ask the Minister for the assurances I have indicated. 

 Senator Daly made a clear case for this bill having a limited operation. He referred to an emergency proclamation. He said that this bill was an emergency proposal. We have had experience of measures of that kind. During the war, regulations of an elastic nature were promulgated from time to time. There was nothing permanent about them; they could be altered by resolution of the Executive Council, as changing circumstances required. I suggest that there is abundant parliamentary precedent for limiting the operation of this measure. In agreeing to limit its operation until the end of  1930,  the Government would not place itself at a disadvantage. It may be that the passing of this bill will render unnecessary the issue of a proclamation. I heartily support the suggestion that a time limit should be imposed, and I hope that the Leader of the Government in this chamber will see his way clear to agree to the proposal. It is made, not in any obstructive spirit, or in any desire to humiliate the Government. The measure is an emergency one, promulgated in a period of financial difficulty and stress. Apparently the bank believes that this is the remedy. In view of the statements that have been read by  Senator Sir George  Pearce, and of the opinions cited by Senators McLachlan and  Sir Hal  Colebatch, the Government must realize that there is much to be said on both sides. This is a measure on which even economists would have great differences of opinion. It is experimental. Therefore, it should be probationary in its application. It should prove itself over a period of twelve months. If, after that period, its operation has proved beneficial and Australian credit has not been in- jured, there is nothing to prevent this Parliament permanently enacting it. If the modifications that have been suggested were adopted, the measure could be accepted tentatively,  and  the Government would have an opportunity to remedy existing evils. 
I invite the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  to consider those other questions which have been raised as to the mining position, the gold won in this Commonwealth, and as to the constitutionality of the demands that might bc made on State savings banks under the provisions of the first part of the bill. I know that the Leader of the Government says that that matter comes under the currency and banking provisions of section  51  of the Constitution. As against that  Senator McLachlan  has quoted an eminent authority whose: opinion is certainly worthy of consideration. I suggest that the Leader of the Government might investigate those aspects and that approaching the position with a desire to do that which is necessary and best to safeguard Australia's interests, he should endeavour to meet the suggestions made by honorable senators of the Opposition. I do not propose to take up the attitude of opposing this measure. The responsibility for it is on the Government. I view it with some doubt and misgiving, and can only hope that its operation may remove my doubts and prove beneficial to the country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Thompson)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at  10.4  p.m. 
I believe it will be made available in sufficient time on Friday to enable honorable senators to discuss it on the Appropriation Bill. The British Government is naturally anxious that the message should be released simultaneously in Great Britain and Australia, and it has been suggested that that can be done if the contents of the cablegram are kept back until Friday. The Government has nothing to conceal. In accordance with our arrangement with the States, no doubt a full statement will be made on the subject. I shall, however, communicate the wish of the Leader of the Opposition to the Prime Minister, and, if possible, see if we cannot comply with it. 
Arising out of a statement made by the Government that opportunity will be afforded to discuss the Singapore Naval Base, I should like to know if the Senate will be given that opportunity in time to benefit the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Fenton),  who is about to leave Australia to attend the Naval Disarmament Conference? 
The honorable senator knows that he has every opportunity to discuss the Singapore Naval Base on any motion for adjournment, or on the Appropriation Bill. But I may be permitted to suggest to him that the matter is not so urgent as to prevent honorable senators from having, their Christmas dinners in comfort. 
Inquiry will be made and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What rentals are the various departments and government instrumentalities, including the Federal Capital Commission, paying for premises occupied by them, respectively, in Canberra ? 
The information is being obtained and will be conveyed to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Commonwealth Government to grant leave of absence on full poy to its employees, for the periods necessary for their service under the new voluntary system of military training, including attendance at annual training camps? 
The Commonwealth Government will grant leave of absence on full pay for any time lost for military training. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the municipal council of Richmond, in the electorate represented by the Prime Minister, has sent a letter congratulating the Government on having abolished compulsory training, but regretting that all military training has not been abolished? 
If so, what reply (if any) has been sent to that council? 
Would not the expression of such a sentiment greatly prejudice voluntary recruiting in that electorate? 
Is it a fact that the municipal council of Fitzroy has expressed itself as being against granting any assistance to or encouragement of the present voluntary system of training? 
Will the Minister represent to all municipalities that the Government will welcome any manifestation of sympathy that may be made in favour of the system? 
Will the Minister represent to the Commonwealth Bank the desirability of allowing officers of the bank, whojoin the forces, opportunity to attend drill and camp without deduction from their pay or leave, as an example to private employers? 
Will the Minister announce that similar privileges as above-mentioned will be extended to Commonwealth Public Servants who enlist voluntarily in the forces? 
Yes. 6 and 7. The Commonwealth Government will grant leave of absence on full pay for any time lost for military duty. 
The Federal Aid Roads Trust Account. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
The total amount of expenditure approved by the British and Commonwealth Governments to date in each State under the £34,000,000 agreement is as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912112_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following amounts have been advanced to date to each State in respect of approved schemes: - 

<graphic href="122332192912112_4_1.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the strength of the Russian Military Forces? 
Is military training compulsory in Russia ? 
Is it a fact that the military forces of Russia are now in occupation of Chinese territory? 
Is it a fact that Russia is a party to the "Kellogg Pact"? 
Has not Russia broken this pact by an invasion of Chinese territory? 
Is it proposed that an armed force be despatched against Russia to enforce the pact? 
If not, what is the practical use of the pact in securing a nation's integrity? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
The strength of the regular army is 502,000. 
All citizens of the Union of Soviet Socialistic Republics are liable to compulsory military service. 
According to latest information, the Russian troops are in occupation of a certain part of Northern Manchuria. 
Russia is a party to the Treaty for the Renunciation of War. 5,6 and 7. These matters cannot be dealt with in answer, to questions. Certain parties to the treaty have taken steps to call the attention of both disputants to their obligation under the treaty, and have expressed the hope that both Governments will refrain from further hostilities, and find it possible to agree upon a method of resolving the issues in controversy between them by peaceful means. The Commonwealth Government, as a party to the treaty, is watching the position closely. 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that certain persons were paid for their attendance on the officials of the Attorney-General's Department while engaged in making statements to such officials upon which the proceedings against  Mr. John  Brown were issued? 
If so, what were the names of the persons; how much did they demand in payment; and what amounts were paid to them, respectively? 
Who was the person who made the claim on their behalf, and by what authority did he do so? 
Were the persons who received payment unemployed at the time because of the alleged lockout, or how otherwise? 
Did such persons or some or any of them allege, as evidence of the existence of an unreasonable lockout, that  Mr. John  Brown, or other persons on his behalf - at a time some months prior to the alleged lockout - interviewed his employees and begged them to bring their output up to normal as he had sale for all he could produce? 
As a result of such request, was the output of the men brought up to normal ? 
If men employed under an award deliberately restrict their output below the normal, is it the law that the award, nevertheless, can be enforced against the employer if he should close his, works in consequence? 
Are the men who do so guilty of any offence? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 1 to 8. It is not the practice to disclose the names of persons who give information to the Government or any circumstances that would lead to their identification, nor to express in answer to questions any opinions on matters of law. 
 Although I have had a varied, mercantile experience, I do not profess to have an intimate knowledge of the intricacies of the laws governing high finance and gold holdings. Judging by the rumours which filled the air shortly after the motion for the Address-in-Reply was submitted in another place, I thought there would be very drastic alterations in connexion with our note reserve, but I find that the first part of the bill now before the Senate contains nothing at which I can cavil, and certainly nothing in the second part to which I can object, on principle. It is, I think, desirable that the power sought for the Commonwealth Bank should be granted; but I object strongly to the proposed intervention of the Treasurer. This has been my attitude from the beginning. After listening to the informative speeches delivered in this chamber, I am still of the opinion that it is not desirable to have any political intervention in 'connexion with the administration of the Commonwealth Bank. I am not expressing this view because the present Treasurer happens to be a member of a Labour Ministry. My objections would apply equally to any Commonwealth Treasurer, irrespective of the party to which he belonged. Honorable senators will recall that when the. last Commonwealth Bank Bill was before this chamber, I opposed the recommendation of the then Treasurer with regard to the constitution of the board. The suggestion which I then made was subsequently given effect, and although Labour critics claimed it as their proposal I think it will be admitted that, in the first place, the suggestion came from me. I merely mention this matter to show that in objecting to the proposed intervention by the Treasurer, I am not considering the bill from the point of view of party politics. The Commonwealth Bank has considerable powers as a central reserve bank, vested in it by the bill passed two years ago. It has authority for re-discount and other matters, and actually it enjoys fairly full powers to function as a central reserve bank. It cannot, however, function that way except with the goodwill and support of the other private trading banks. I believe that a healthy move in that direction is going on gradually all the time, and that it will not be long before a better understanding will enable the Commonwealth Bank to fulfil its mission as a central reserve bank. Inasmuch as exchange and overseas credit are extremely sensitive to extraneous influences, political intervention such as is contemplated in the bill, is highly undesirable. 
In introducing this measure the Government is merely following the example of the British Government. London, which is the world's great clearing house, relies on the Bank of England to stabilize finance by raising or lowering the discount rate. When necessary also, the Bank of England goes into the open market to buy or to sell gold for the purpose of correcting exchange difficulties that arise from time to time. I do not say that it does this without consultation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for I believe that a continuous liaison is maintained between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Bank of England; but the fact remains that full and undivided responsibility with regard to international exchange and/other cognate problems rests with the Bank of England. Surely we can repose the same trustin the Commonwealth Bank, especially in view of the fact that it has fairly wide central reserve banking powers. We all recall how the bank came to the rescue of Australian wool firms a few years ago when the rate of exchange was between £4 and £5 per cent. The bank, by offering to make notes available against shipments and credits in London, to the amount of about £15,000,000, cleared up the situation in a comparatively short time, and very soon the discount rate came down to 10s. per cent. 
In the course of this debate there have been several references to a speech made by  Mr. Snowden,  the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the British Government, at the Labour party conference at Brighton, England, on 3rd October last.  His  speech was published in the  Australian Insurance and Banking Record  of 21st November, and I note with some satisfaction that he upholds my views with regard to the function of a central bank. Speaking of the need for co-operation between the bank and the Treasury,  Mr. Snowden  said - 
In regard to the bank rate the Treasury has no more control than any other individual whom I happen to bc addressing. ... 
The ability of the joint stock banks to supply credit is balanced on their reserves of cash, and their reserves of cash are related to the Bank of England reserves which, in turn, are regulated by the bank's holding of gold. 
Finally, and I ask honorable senators to pay particular attention to this statement, he said - 
I doubt if anything very effective can be done except by international co-operation, and I hope that the international bank which is to be set up under the Young plan - and a committee is at the moment engaged in drafting its constitution and statutes - will be able to carry out what was- intended in the Genoa resolution to devise international co-operation for the purpose of economizing the use of gold and some machinery for preventing the unnecessary transhipment of gold. 
I strongly advocate leaving this matter absolutely in the han'ds of the Commonwealth Bank functioning as a central reserve bank with, possibly, the cooperation of other banks and in consultation with the Treasurer, for naturally the Treasurer will be keenly interested in everything that concerns high finance. Accordingly I recommend consultation with, but certainly not intervention by, the Treasurer. 
I do not ^entirely agree with the amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  that the operation of the bill should be limited to twelve months. I think we can safely rely on the Commonwealth Bank, especially if it acts in consultation with the Treasurer and with the goodwill and co-operation of the other banks until such time as some international bank is established which will lay down rules to govern this important matter. If the amendment to limit the operation of the bill to a period of twelve months will have the effect of composing the differences between the two sides of the chamber, I shall support it ; but I reiterate that no intervention by any Treasurer  iv  political party should be permitted. 
 In discussing this bill I wish, first of all, to register my emphatic protest against the threats of responsible members of the Government and sections of the press as to the fate of the Senate if it opposes the bill. Such threats will not affect my attitude towards the measure. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  and the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Brennan)  and the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Penton)  have said that if the Senate dares to reject this legislation it will be abolished. 
The honorable senator may not call into question, except to comment on them as a matter of policy, the remarks of honorable members in another place. 
I approach the consideration of thi3 measure with some misgiving. At a time like the present, when people are anxiously looking at their securities, as is the case according to a report from London, it only requires some ill-advised action on our part to bring Australian securities into strong disfavour overseas. It is proverbial that fools rush in where angels fear to tread. I fear that that is what has happened in relation to this measure. It is idle to say that the passing of this bill will not mean that our note issue will become inconvertible. If any one is obliged to take his gold to the bank, and, with the exception of £25, is unable to get it back again, the note issue is  inconvertible.  In that case, all the dangers of inflation arise. All the authorities that, I have read on this subject admit the possibility of a currency so managed that a paper issue may not become inflated ; but they all go on to say that there is no case known in which an inconvertible issue has not become inflated. It is barely possible that  our bank board will prove super men and so manage our currency that there will be no inflation. While  Senator Colebatch  was speaking the other day  Senator Hoare  asked why there was no inflation during the war period in Australia. I thought that every one knew that there was inflation at that time. In hardly a case which has come before the .Arbitration Court has the diminished purchasing power of money not been made the ground of an application for an increase of wages. That shows clearly that inflation took place at that time. We are indeed suffering from inflation to-day, for, although we are supposed to be on the gold standard again, conditions have not been adjusted. That is one of the principal difficulties confronting us to-day. In other countries there has been a return practically to pre-war conditions; but in Australia, war standards in the matter of wages and conditions of living have , been maintained, with the result that we can sell practically nothing overseas at a profit. 
I suggest that the Leader of the Senate should read the whole of the letter from the Bank Board relating to the latter part of the bill. 

<graphic href="122332192912112_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

SenatorH. E. ELLIOTT.- I am not quite sure. I take it to be up to the 30th September, the date of the publication. 
Was it not kept very firmly in mind when considerable pressure was brought to bear on the bank to save the Australian wool position? 
I admit that it was, but the bank had received its lesson in connexion with the inflation that took place during the war period. It was apprehensive about a recurrence of that inflation. Members of the Labour party have strongly advocated that an increase of the note issue might well be used to carry out public works. The moment that that fancy is indulged, even to the slightest extent, there will be a tendency towards an inflated currency, and a depreciation in the purchasing power of the pound. 
That was forced upon us. Nobody wanted it. I do not think that it was realized at the time that we were "out-running the painter." The lesson was learned very thoroughly during the course of the war, hence the reason for  Senator McLachlan  urging that there should be a tightening up of restrictions in order to prevent another such inflation. 
On the constitutional aspect of the matter, which was mentioned by  Senator McLachlan,  I have no doubt that when the subject is referred to the High Court of Australia this measure will be held to be quite invalid so far as it relates to the State Savings Banks. Because it refers to the subject of currency that will not preclude the court from inquiring into its effects upon the reserves of State banking institutions with which the Constitution forbids the Commonwealth to deal. We had an excellent example recently in connexion with the Eederal Capital Commission, which passed certain " regulations " in an endeavour to avoid complying with the formalities laid down by Parliament in regard to "by-laws." When the case was submitted to the High Court that court brushed the pretence aside, and held that whether they were called " regulations " or " by-laws " they had to comply with all the formalities prescribed by law. I suggest that before this bill is proceeded with the Government should obtain the opinion of some leading counsel on the subject. 
I have already pointed out a case in which a federal commission took action after an alleged consultation with the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
They tried to get around the difficulty by hanging the coat on the wrong hook, but the court would not countenance that action if its effect was to interfere with the gold reserve of the State Savings Banks. 
Whilst it has been truly said that the Government is responsible for this measure, the Opposition has the numbers in this chamber. We are elected on a franchise equally as democratic as that applying to another place, and are entitled to influence legislation to the full extent of our authority. 
The Consituation provided that our term of office should be longer than that of members in another place, in order to prevent a coup. If we are to put up a defence for our existence, we cannot get away from the fact that we must carefully scrutinize measures, particularly measures of such a doubtful character as this. 
We shall not be found wanting, if it comes to a question of opposing it. We are induced to withhold our opposition from the first part of the bill, only because of the document that has emanated from the Commonwealth Bank Board. We pay the greatest deference to the opinion of that board. But I personally shall not be prepared to vote for the second proposed new section unless, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate has promised, a further document is produced intimating that it also has the approval of the board. This Government attained power by the exercise of nothing more or less than a confidence trick. 
The peculiar electioneering tactics of this Government have done more to degrade the public life of Australia than has any other action within the memory of man. Its cynical disregard of promises held out to sections of the people, now that its purpose has been served, cannot fail to have a disastrous effect upon the regard which the public should have for its public institutions. It is for us to correct that impression, so far as we can, even if it may involve our own political effacement for the time being. 
SenatorRae. - I rise to a point of order. Is  Senator H.  E. Elliott in order in reading his speech, which he is undoubtedly doing? 
Is the honorable senator reading his speech? 
I think that the honorable senator has not had much chance to read his notes. 
The PBESIDENT.- I think that the honorable senator is somewhat straining the scope of the second-reading debate on this bill. 
Order ! I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the second-reading of this bill. 
As I do not claim to be a financial expert, it was not my intention to speak on the second reading of this bill, but as there appear to be, judging from the debate, many honorable senators who do not possess an intimate knowledge of the intricate subject of finance, perhaps I may be permitted, also, to display my ignorance on this matter. I regret the apprehension evidenced by honorable senators opposite in regard to this bill and the fear they seem to entertain that some great calamity will overtake Australia should it become law. I cannot account for their attitude. I have a lively recollection of the fears for the welfare of this country which were expressed by quite a number of people, including, in all probability, many great Australians, when the Labour party brought down a bill for the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank. On that occasion we heard objections similar to those which are offered to-day to this measure. It was declared that our proposal was impossible, and that it was such as might only be expected from the inmates of a lunatic asylum. Notwithstanding what was said by some of the 6nancial experts of this country - men whose province it is to talk mysteriously of finance and inflations of credit, with the object of misleading the people in order to keep their own jobs going - we established the Commonwealth Bank. 
Banking institutions had made a wonderful success of the work of fleecing the people of this country, and we came to the decision that it would be a good thing to establish a national bank, in the interests, not of the financial institutions and big business, but of the people as a whole. Will any one say that the Commonwealth Bank has not achieved the purpose for which it was established? Will any one assert that it has not justified every claim that was made for it by those responsible for its establishment? 
And so of the note issue. We had the same contemptuous references to that project. I well remember the then Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Sir Joseph Cook)  talking of the Commonwealth notes as " Fisher's flimsies ", and declaring that within twelve months they would not be worth " tuppence ". He too claimed, like a lot of honorable senators opposite, to be a financial expert. Experience has shown that the Commonwealth Bank and the note issue branch have been of great value to Australia, and that without these two great financial agencies the Commonwealth would have been at a great disadvantage in prosecuting its activities during thewar. If  Senator H.  E. Elliott-a gallant soldier - had approached the consideration of this measure with the courage which he displayed on Gallipoli we should not have heard such doleful utterances from him this afternoon. Who is really responsible for the introduction of this bill? My information is that it has been introduced at the request of the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank, who were appointed by a Government of which honorable senators opposite were supporters. The late Government altered the management of the bank, and, in creating the board, doubtless selected what they regarded as the best brains in the country for the job. 
In the circumstances I have mentioned honorable senators should pay some regard to its recommendations. Is it suggested that the members of the 
Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank, who have been in office for some years, are incapable of advising the Government as to the procedure to be adopted to stabilize our financial position? When  Senator H.  E. Elliott was speaking-an honorable senator interjected to the effect that there was no objection to an inflation of the note issue during the war period but ridiculed the suggestion of adopting a similar course in order to provide employment for the thousands of men who are at present out of work. The note issue was inflated during the war period in order to assist Australia financially and with the object of saving the country. If that was desirable during the war period, surely at a time like the present, when we have a huge army of unemployed, there could not be any strong objection to something similar being done again in the interests of Australia. Of course, I am not suggesting for a moment that that is intended. If the men who are now unemployed were fully engaged, we should be able to remove what we are told is the main cause of the present trouble; our production, and consequently our exports, would be increased. Every day this army of 150,000 unemployed remains idle the country becomes poorer. If honorable senators opposite give this proposal a little more attention and recognize that it did not emanate solely from some export in high finance on this side of the chamber, they will realize its value and agree to it. The measure, if passed, will be of such great service to the country that I cannot imagine honorable senators opposite who supported the appointment of a Board of Directors for the Commonwealth Bank, opposing it. No one can reasonably suggest that the members of the board, with their banking experience and general financial knowledge, would make a recommendation detrimental to the country. If the measure is wrong in principle, it will not be long before that will be discovered, and the Government will have an opportunity to make any amendments which experience has shown to be necessary. I ask honorable senators to support the bill and to dismiss from their minds any thought that it is likely to have a detrimental effect upon the Commonwealth. 
I have no objection to offer concerning the main purpose of this measure. The necessity for its introduction has arisen in consequence of the tendency of the times. It is clear that its object is to conserve our gold resources so that we may have a substantial and reasonable backing to our currency. It is apparent to every one that if the seasons and general conditions which we have experienced during the past six years do not improve during the next six years, our gold reserve will become exhausted, or nearly so, or we shall have to pay higher interest rates, which will be a serious drain on the resources of the country. The best alternative is that provided in the bill, namely, to husband our gold resources rather than to pay the exorbitant exchange rates that would otherwise be charged. Apart from the stated purposes of the bill there may be other reasons, justifiable and otherwise, in the minds of the members of the Government and concerning which I may have something to say later. There are two means of placing our exchange position on a satisfactory basis. It is quite clear, as honorable senators can ascertain from a study of our export and import figures, that this country, which should be noted for its capacity to export raw materials, has a serious adverse trade balance. For the last five years the balance of trade, on the basis of imports and exports of commodities, has been against its, but as the result of our borrowings overseas, the position has not only been intensified, but aggravated to the point in which we find it to-day. Every one pound sterling borrowed in London is equal to one pound's worth of produce exported. As far as the exchange is concerned if we borrow £10,000,000 in London, it, is equivalent to exporting £10,000,000 worth of wool or wheat. We have been following that borrowing policy to such an extent that the balance of trade is seriously against us. This year is only a repetition of what happened last year and the year before and the year before that, in fact for the last five years, and the time has now come when something needs to be done to keep our gold together under the custody of the Government and see that it is used to the best advantage for the purpose of lowering the rate of exchange, as the Commonwealth Bank directorate says, to a point that will be of some slight advantage to our producers and consumers. The rate of exchange is high because, amongst other things, loans  being included, there is more due to us from London than we owe to Great Britain. For that reason the rates of exchange have been steadily against us for the last five years, and the effect, as  Sir Robert  Gibson shows, is to penalize the importing interests of this country to the extent of 35s. per centum, and neutralize the advantages afforded to local industry by our protective policy. There is certainly dear money in London, and for telegraphic orders we must pay 35s. per centum, and we are threatened with an increase of that rate unless gold is despatched. It is natural for us to sell gold to check our balance rather than pay a higher percentage on exchange, but the present position is very unsatisfactory. 
A young country, abounding in natural resources in every direction, ought to be able to export more than it has been doing during the last five years. The figures are not at all creditable to us. Why cannot we sell more wool, or wheat,, or dairy produce, or any other commodity extracted from the cheap land of Australia than we have been doing of late? Why are we importing goods so heavily? It is because our borrowing policy has been too extravagant.  When  there is plenty of borrowed money available we all know what happens. The individual that has more money than he needs is naturally extravagant. It is extravagance that leads to inflation of prices. Our prices have been mounting steadily higher. According to the  Quarterly Statistical Review,  the pound that we spend to-day on ordinary commodities, will only purchase what lis. would purchase in 1911. For the last 18 years the value of money has shrunk in comparison with the value of goods. That may be due to an inflation of currency - a seductive subject, which I do not propose to touch upon at this stage, principally because I am not so competent to deal with it as are experts in this chamber who have' preceded me. 
There always have been two opposing schools of thought on it, and I am content to be guided by a statement of an ex-British Prime Minister, that currency and love have sent more people into the lunatic asylums than anything else in this world. We are more concerned about righting our balance of trade, which is a more practical problem. An ideal position would be to sell as much as we buy, but we are not doing that, because we are indulging, in a lavish borrowing policy. The rate of exchange is against us because we are buying more than we are selling. People in London who want to make remittances to Australia are competing among themselves for the small quantity of bills available, and by that competition have sent up the value of their bills with the result that we are now paying on telegraphic orders nearly £2 per £100, and for ordinary short-dated bills, the price is very much higher. One means of remedying this has been advocated^ over and over again; it is that the Governments of Australia, including the Commonwealth and semi-government concerns should cut their cloak according to their cloth, and see that they borrow more frugally and depend more upon their own resources to carry on. That is one remedy. We also need to extract more wealth from mother earth than we have been doing in the past, and- we can do so only by making it worth while for people to engage in agricultural and pastoral pursuits to a much greater degree than at present. It stands to reason that if in one division of a community there is a high degree of welfare, and in another division a high degree of  illfare-  a new word - the time must come when, to use the old illustration of the two reservoirs, they must reach the same' level, and an equilibrium be established. Why are men not engaged as whole-heartedly in rural pursuits, applying their physical powers to the production of the soil as they should be? Thereason plainly is that agricultural occupations are not attractive. If we produced more from the soil the balance of trade would be more in our favour, but because we are not producing more the exchange rate is against us, and there is  dear money in London. The people will not go on the land because urban localities and conditions are far too attractive. 
I do not know what happens in New. South Wales, but I know that millions of acres of land can be got in Western Australia. 
SenatorRae.  -Good  land with a good rainfall? 
Yes. Land there can be got on the easiest conditions in the world. It is quite possible that the value of arable land where farming is established has increased to such an extent that men will compete against one another to get it. That may be the case in some favoured parts of New South Wales, but Queensland has unlimited areas which are virtually thrown at the applicant. The trouble, however, is that city conditions are more enticing than those in the countryside. 
I know that it is happening in Canada and in the United States of America. But if we could only induce more people to go on the land and produce we should so equalize our balance of trade that there would be no necessity for this bill. This migration to the cities may be a world-wide movement, but that is no reason why we should not attempt to arrive at some means which, while not stopping it, might mitigate its effects. Take the spectacle of two brothers. One remains in the city and the other goes out into the interior to fight against all the adversities to be encountered there. If it is found that the latter, after a harsh experience ends up by being far worse off than the former who remains in the city, is the spectacle a pleasant one? Is there any justice about it, when the brother living under easier conditions can make far greater headway than the other ? According to the rule of equality of opportunity, there ought to be also equality of burden and equality in enjoyment of the fruits of corresponding effort. But when we find that one man who suffers hardships lags behind the other who suffers no hardships and succeeds, there is evidently in this country a lack of justice. 
Of course, this is not the time nor the place to discuss this phase of the question, but it is the time and place to draw attention to this spectacle. 
There is unlimited scope for producing wheat in Western Australia. Under the operations of the present tariff the raw material, so to speak, of the primary producer is going up in price, but that should not be sufficient to prevent any man from looking for cheap land where it can be obtained. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Plain). - I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill. 
I am trying to do that. I am drawing attention to what has been responsible for the introduction of the bill. We cannot consider this measure unless we also give consideration to things that are happening in this country and ought not to happen. I am trying to call attention to the need for a better adjustment of conditions between one section of Australians and another. That is the whole story. One man works 44 hours a week, enjoys soft conditions, and succeeds ; the other works 54 hours  a  week, and fails. One is bending under a heavy burden borne by the same stick, and the other is walking erect with but a light end of the stick to carry. There is no proper adjustment in that instance. 
In the case of Canada the excess of exports over imports runs into hundreds of millions of dollars. Even if we cannot right the balance of trade by getting a bigger production from our vast agricultural areas, we can get our people to produce more from their secondary industries, and so take their place alongside the primary producers in trying to restore the trade balance. That would  be  another means of righting the balance. 
Exactly. WhenI was in this Parliament in 1907 I helped to pass an effective tariff for the protection of the secondary industries of the Commonwealth. As any one can see from the  Commonwealth Y ear-Book,  the exported output of our secondary industries was at that time valued at about £4,500,000. Those figures have not since been increased. 
Our secondary industries are nonexistent so. far as the markets of the world are concerned; they are dead. Is it not time, then, that those who have the most influence in the field of industry took notice of the situation that has arisen, and asked themselves why Canada can export over £70,000,000 worth of manufactured goods, whilst the Australian export trade in secondary commodities remains in the neighbourhood of £3,000,000? It cannot be  argued  that wages in Canada are not as high as they are in Australia, or that the conditions in this country are better than those obtaining in Canada. The root causes lie deeper than that. Is it not significant that the Massey-Harris harvester, which I, in ' common with other farmers in Western Australia, use, is of Canadian manufacture? The raw material for that machine is transported over hundreds of miles of railway in the United States of America; it pays a duty at the Canadian border before it is rolled into the component parts that go to make up the MasseyHarris harvester to be seen on so many Australian farms, and, in spite of all these handicaps, it undersells harvesters manufactured in this country under Australian labour conditions. When occasionally I tell these home truths to fellow Australians, I have the finger of reproach pointed at me, and I am described as the " bosses' man" or " the employers' advocate." But the clamant question still is, "Why can't we compete outside Australia in secondary production?" 
The Government now seeks to prevent the export of gold. This move is an artificial device to protect us against still more adverse exchange rates. But unless the economic tendency of the times alters, the measure will be quite futile in the future. After all, the remedy is a simple one. If in our- everyday life we produced, and sold as much as we bought, we should not be in our present position. This is the kernel of the whole problem. The pla,in truth is that we are not doing the work, and those people who have the most influence in the industrial world do not exercise it. They know that, if they did, they would lose votes. I have endeavoured to understand the intricacies of the exchange position. I have come to this conclusion : With currency at par value, it follows, as inevitably as night follows day, that the country which produces and sells more than it buys reaches a favorable exchange position; whereas that country which buys more than it produces and sells, finds the discount rates against  it.  in the world's money markets. We do not want to operate indefinitely upon- a depreciated currency, such as adverse exchange rates will make, us do. From 1911, as I notice from the quarterly summary of statistics to which I have referred, the value of the sovereign has depreciated to .such an extent that it is now only equal to what 10s. was 27 years ago. Has the lower value of our currency contributed to this low purchasing power? Conditions arising out of the war are not wholly responsible for this unwelcome state of affairs.. We must dig deeper if we are to get at the root causes. But this bill does not provide the opportunity for discussion. I should not have mentioned this phase of the subject but for the fact that  Mr. Anstey,  a member of the present Government, is known to have flamboyant notions about the manner in which a government may use credit. It has been suggested that this Government ought to use the credit of this country in the same way that an individual operates upon his credit. I would point out to the gentlemen who hold . these views that there are other competent authorities who claim that credit is as good as or better than gold. This may seem to be a contradiction in terms; but it is the truth, nevertheless.  Senator Colebatch  recently instanced what had happened in connexion with the Kalgoorlie water scheme. I well remember the late Lord Forrest raising a 3-J per cent, loan on the London market to carry out that big undertaking. The loan was issued at par, and so great was the faith of financial interests in London in the soundness of the people behind the scheme, that, within a week or two of the bonds being made available to the public, there were many people prepared to pay £103 for them. In other words, the bare promise of the people of Western Australia to pay £100 for their own stock at a given date, was better than gold to the extent of £3 per centum. Does not this illustration prove that credit is better than gold? 
But I was about to tell honorable senators about  Mr. Anstey's  views upon this important but delicate subject. That gentleman, in the course of an interview with a representative of the Melbourne  Herald,  employed a number of ingenious arguments to justify the Government in introducing this bill, and he spoke of the power to expand credit and practise other notions. I should say, then, that  Senator R.  D. Elliott had every warrant for his feeling of apprehension that this Government contemplated issuing more notes when the Commonwealth Bank had mobilized the gold in the Commonwealth. He said that  Mr. Hoover,  the  President  of the United States of America, was favorable to the policy of inflation to meet a temporary financial difficulty in that country. He spoke also of the position in Germany, which country, I remind the Senate, some years exploited the credit of the nation to some extraordinary purpose. "When I hear these advocates of note issue inflation speaking in this way, I cannot help thinking that they would be taught a salutary lesson if, by some turn in the wheel of fortune, the whole of their savings were invested in the purchase of some of the millions of paper marks that were thrown upon the market in Germany. I should like  Mr. Anstey,  and others who think with him, to get rid of this foolish notion that Ave  can make a nation rich by turning to the printing press. 
 Mr. Anstey,  nevertheless, spoke significantly of the power to issue notes. The purpose of the Government, so we are informed, is to mobilize the gold at present held by private trading banks and bring it under the control of the Commonwealth Bank. Is this a necessary condition precedent to the issue of more paper money? While I am on this subject, let me give honorable senators a humorous illustration of what may happen to the people of any coun try with a depreciated currency.  Mr. Lloyd  George, a former Prime Minister of Great Britain, when speaking about the evils of an inflated currency, instanced the case of two Austrians, who, it was reported, had each 10,000 florins. One of them placed the whole of his capital in the bank so that he would have a nice little nest egg for a rainy day. The other, not being of such a frugal turn of mind, invested his capital in the purchase of 10,000 bottles of wine. The story relates that he drank the whole of the wine, had a good time, and, becauseof extraordinary depreciation in the currency, the 10,000 empty bottles left in a. heap after his carouse were worth more than the 10,000 florins which his compatriot had placed in the bank. 
I intend to support the bill within certain limits. It is some satisfaction to me to know that the Treasurer has so much confidence in the Commonwealth Bank that he does not propose to take any action without consulting that authority. I understand that certain amendments have been circulated in the Senate and that one proposes to place a time limit upon the operation of the act. I, see nothing wrong with the proposal to limit, the operation of the act to a period of twelve months. If, within thattime, it proves to be of substantial benefit to the Commonwealth, and if the importing interests as well as other sections of the community receive a fair deal in the .matter' of exchange rates, surely when the Government asks theSenate to extend the time limit, there will be no objection in this chamber. Meantime, this proposal needs to be tried and tested. The root causes of our present position must be examined and the corrective applied, otherwise trade. and industry in this country will drift into a hopelessly demoralized condition. In all these financial measures, we must seek to hold the scales evenly between the different sections of the community. We. must see that opportunity is equally distributed. We must resist any attempt to establish geographical prosperity by artificial means and see that the people living in the more remote parts of the Commonwealth are not neglected while others in more "favoured localities are spoonfed. 
That is the reason for this bill. I support it, subject to the qualification I have mentioned, for I believe that it is a wise, necessary and salutary measure without which we cannot safeguard ourselves. 
In listening to  Senator Lynch  I was reminded of a story of a countryman of his who said that he believed that every man should have a home of his own and also one to let.  His  argument concerning the balance of trade, if regarded from an international standpoint, means that every country should export more than it imports. I leave it to  Senator Lynch  to tell us where that policy would land us. 
We heard from the honorable senator some vigorous demands for equality of opportunity for all sections of the community, whether living in rural districts or in urban areas. I welcome my old friend  Senator Lynch  as a convert to communism. I take it that we can increase production only by getting better rewards for the producers of our primary products. There are two sections of people engaged in primary production - the employers of labour and their employees. If we are going to make conditions so good for the investors in rural pursuits, we must also consider that unless the wage-earners in those pursuits get something like equality of treatment, they, too, will drift to the urban areas. All this talk of reducing production costs is only a roundabout way of saying that wages must be reduced. If we reduce the wages of the rural workers the trend of population towards the cities will become even more pronounced than it is to-day. 
All the arguments of honorable senators opposite and of sections of the press are directed to that end. 
It is not; it is my reading of plain print. When honorable senators opposite, and those who hold similar views, are asked how to reduce the cost of production they invariably refer to the high wages being paid. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT (Senator Plain).  - I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill before the Senate. 
I thought that my remarks could as easily be connected with the bill before us as were those of the last  speaker.  If it is in order for one honorable senator to lecture us on the law of supply and demand and the adverse balance of trade, surely it is in order for me to give reasons why that adverse trade balance exists. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator will be in order in doing that, provided he connects his remarks with the bill before the Senate. 
As the balance of trade is against Australia, I take it that any export of gold which takes place is to even up that balance. In other words, if we do not send abroad sufficient goods to pay for our imports we must pay for them with gold. If that is so, then it is only right that the export of gold should be under control. I do not share  Senator H.  E. Elliott's fear that there is danger in the Treasurer of the Commonwealth having a voice in deciding whether gold shall, or shall not, be exported. If we are to separate everything from politics, there will be no responsibility for politicians to undertake. No one knows better than the present Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  that, when the Commonwealth Bank was formed, the most melancholy forebodings were uttered by every member on the side of the Senate which the right honorable gentleman now graces. Everyone then opposed to the Labour party denounced its proposals and fought against that measure from start to finish. It was then said that the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank would do irreparable damage to Australia. 
I do not say so; but when legislation which has been vehemently denounced, and uncompromisingly opposed, proves to be sound, it is fair to say that the party which introduced it is deserving of more credit for political and financial foresight than the party which opposed it. The Labour party has proved its fitness to be trusted with the finances of the country. The only weak part that I see in the present proposal is that the bill'is drafted along lines recommended by the Bank Board, which was established by our political opponents in order largely to emasculate the activities of that bank. That the bill has the Bank Board's support may be a good argument to place before honorable senators opposite; otherwise it is the least satisfactory phase of the whole situation. I do not deride the possibility of an inflation of the note issue. I know that that can be done. I know, for instance, that, at one time, the German mark became practically worthless. I have kept as souvenirs some German postage stamps which were placed on parcels of newspapers I received from Berlin. Each of the eight stamps had a face value of 16,000,000 marks. To make sure, the value was expressed both in words and figures. A postage stamp of that value will be of interest to future generations. That instance shows what can happen to a paper currency under extreme conditions. Much the same thing happened in connexion with the French franc. I have no doubt that there was some governmental support for the deflation of the German mark and the French franc. ' 
Without dealing at length with the matter, let me say that I believe that the gold standard is largely a fallacy. The question of the credit of a country and the value of its notes is largely determined by the security behind them. It is not necessary that that security shall be gold. At one time  Mr. Collins  of the Commonwealth Treasury, showed me the strong-room in which the gold reserves for the" note issue was kept. In addition to strong doors, and a wonderful system of clock locks, there were sentries to safeguard the gold. Let us suppose that the millions of pounds of gold in those vaults, kept there as a reserve against the note issue, had by some means been spirited away and sunk in the Pacific Ocean; but that the public was unaware of what had taken place. Would there have been any difference? Would the note issue have been less valuable? Would a fi note have* failed to buy what otherwise it would have bought? But let us suppose that the public apprehended that the gold was not in the vaults. In that case a . panic might have occurred, with disastrous results. 
That may be. Nevertheless, the idea that gold itself gives stability to the note issue is, in my opinion, a superstition as useless and surprising as are many theological superstitions. While it is necessary for the Government to have a controlling influence over the gold, I see no danger in the Treasurer acting in connexion with the Bank Board. 1 regard the fears of  Senator Pearce  as groundless. Surely the right honorable gentleman does not believe that in order to serve his own or his party's interests the Treasurer will advise the mishandling of the  gold reserve. Does he not think that any Treasurer of the Commonwealth would take only such action as he considered advisable to safeguard the country's credit? 
There may be something in that contention. Nevertheless, I am of . the opinion that, in practice, the fears expressed would prove to be grounds less. I desire to read a telegram received to-day by one of my colleagues from the  President  of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce - 
At a special meeting of the council of this chamber to-day the following resolution was unanimously adopted, copy of which has been forwarded to the Prime Minister. Resolution reads: "In view of the gravity of the effecton Australia's credit of any interference with the free flow of gold, either outward or inwards, the Sydney Chamber of Commerce earnestly suggests that the bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act, now before the Federal Parliament, should be deferred pending an exhaustive investigation of such a fundamental question by a select committee." 
I do not object to gentlemen of the Chamber of Commerce sending telegrams to my colleagues. I am rather sorry that I did not get one myself.o I realize that they have at all times been such warm supporters of the Labour movement, that we can depend upon them to endeavour to proffer advice when the occasion arises .' 
 Possibly, and perhaps the board controlling the Commonwealth Bank also knows something of the subject, even as much as the members of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce. 
 If the honorable senator is going to debate the worth of this person and that person's advice, I may inform him and other honorable senators that I personally know something about finance. For many years I have had to finance myself on a small income. The wives of honorable senators, particularly of those on the Government side, have had to engage extensively in high finance, and they know a good deal more about it than the average man who is able to write a substantial cheque without embarrassment. Those who have had to struggle for existence and make homes, for themselves, know more about finance than do many of those who take it upon themselves to be the high priests of this cult. I for one do not intend to sing small in the presence of those selfconstituted high priests. 
It will be interesting for honorable senators to hear a statement made by the ex-Prime Minister, the right honorable S. M. Bruce, on the subject of lobbying. It reads - 
I understand that nearly every honorable member has received many telegrams in regard to the proposed increase of the Entertainments Tax, and I much regret that such tactics have been adopted by those engaged in the pictureshow business. Honorable members will, I am sure, resent the insult that is thus being put upon them. 
The position of these bodies, which are trading upon their alleged financial knowledge and prof erring advice, is somewhat similar to that of those who opposed the Commonwealth Bank Bill, when it was introduced by the Labour party, in 1910. 
Similar arguments were advanced by these great financial experts, who  are  closely allied with the private banks and whose advice, because their interests lie with those banks, is tainted at the source. The Government would be extremely foolish if it took any notice of their advice. They regard the matter only from the angle which affects their own class interests, and not from the point of view of the interests of the community generally. Consequently, their advice must be taken with a very considerable quantity of salt. Chambers of Commerce and similar bodies are guarding the interests of a very limited section of the community numerically, however great their finances may be. Their opinions  are  based on a purely sectional and selfish view point. 
 I am not so sure of that. The Government is justified in  regarding  their advice with grave suspicion. Probably the members of the Chamber of Commerce are doing fairly well under existing conditions. The principal thing that makes a man a conservative is the fear that any change may injure him although, generally, it may benefit the community. 
A similar statement has been made in regard to private banking. While I do not think that this bill is likely to influence the position, I believe that if hereafter the Commonwealth Bank is used to the fullest extent, as a trading bank, and ultimately destroys private banking, it will be in the interests of the community. 
 Not at all. That is a plank from the platform of the Labour party. If honorable senators opposite would exercise common sense and become familiar with the platform of their opponents they would achieve something creditable. I always consult the most conservative newspapers and periodicals in order to learn the views of my political opponents. Surely honorable senators opposite might, in justice to this party,  learn what it proposes to accomplish. The possession of such a knowledge would obviate their making such foolish exclamations about the cat being out of the bag. As far back as 1900 the New South Wales Labour party had as one of its planks the establishment of a national bank, while the Federal Labour party has for many years supported the nationalization of banking. However, this bill has no direct connexion with that desire. I should rejoice if we did introduce a measure that would bring about the gradual destruction of private banking, and concentrate all banking in the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. I believe that that project will have the support of future legislators, just as the present Commonwealth Bank has the support of the people who were originally opposed to it. Honorable senators opposite now regard the Commonwealth Bank as a very necessary and useful institution. 
I do not know why Queensland had not more brains than any other State. I do not see why the question is particularly applicable to Queensland. 
It realized that the nationalization of banking should be a Commonwealth, and not a State effort. It must be generally realized that while States can conduct their own savings banks, banking generally is one of the functions specifically allocated to the Commonwealth under our constitution. 
Had we had nationalization of banking in conjunction with the Commonwealth Shipping Line both industries would, probably, have been successful. However, I shall not now debate the merits of the Commonwealth Shipping Line. I do not see any danger in the proposal of the Government. I  do  not anticipate any vital change as a result of the operation of the measure. I realize that while we have a bank notes law that compels us to keep a sufficient gold reserve it is but a natural corollary that we should have control of the gold of the country. Otherwise it might be sent abroad to such an extent as would imperil the reserve that we are supposed to hold against the note issue. 
I shall not take up the time of the Senate in debating the complex problem of exchange. There is no doubt that at present private firms may obtain gold and export it in considerable quantities for reasons which, while they may be to their advantage, may endanger the credit of the country. It is, therefore, only right that power should be given to the Commonwealth Government to control the export of gold. No other institution is better fitted to exercise thai function than the Commonwealth Bank, and the power must ultimately be vested in the Treasurer, as that bank is a Commonwealth Government institution. I believe that no serious complaints will be forthcoming when this bill becomes an act. There is no reason why its operation should be made terminable in twelve months. I should not object if such a provision were made generally applicable to measures as Parliament would be able to judge as to their utility, and re-enact them when necessary. But there is no reason why this specific measure should be singled out for the application of a time limitation. There is one definite reason why that limitation should not be imposed. It might be possible for the gold of this country to be so manipulated that the parties whom it would suit to do so, could arrange to hold over the actual export of gold during that twelve months and, at the expiration of the period, utilize the state of the market for their own profit, but probably to the detriment of the community and the danger of the credit of Australia. There is an established method of conducting a country's business, the basis of which is the provision of a substantial gold reserve. As I have stated, there is no reason why this measure should not be passed without any limitation as to the time it is to remain in operation. 
After having read what  Mr. Snowden  has said on this subject I hesitate to express an opinion upon it. However, I welcome its introduction by a Labour Government, because it shows me that at least it is beginning to realize the difficulties of our economic position, which has arisen in consequence of the artificial conditions under which we are living. The Government must also recognize the fact that if Australia is going to improve its position, we must develop those of its industries that man provide a surplus for export. If we continue as at present, we shall prevent the development of those industries, including the production of gold, which, owing to the artificial conditions under which we are living, has almost ceased. The cost of production, which has been referred to by some honorable senators, has had the effect of making it impossible for us to develop the great metal and other resources of Australia. From that view-point, I welcome the introduction of this bill, and trust that it will prompt the members of the Government and their supporters to delve more deeply into the economic situation. I think it was  Senator Thompson  who compared the financial position of Great Britain with that of Australia, but I cannot see that any reliable comparison can be instituted when Great Britain is a creditor nation and Australia a debtor nation. In Britain, the gold supply is controlled by increasing the interest or discount rates, which has the effect of bringing back into the coffers of the banks, the supply of gold necessary to meet requirements. 
No. Last year the balance of trade in favour of Great Britain was £148,000,000. In that connexion, I am not referring only to trade and commerce, but to the revenue which Great Britain receives from freights,- insurances, and other sources. Great Britain is still a creditor nation and is able to regulate its gold reserves by raising or lowering the interest rate. That is beyond the control of governments. 
SenatorR. D. ELLIOTT.- Yes, because the British financial institutions are able to regulate the position. We cannot reasonably compare the position of Great Britain with that of Australia, and it is in connexion with that point that I wish to challenge the remarks of  Senator Thompson. 
It is not my intention to go into details concerning the position in Australia, but I think that we all realize what it really is. Australia is a young country in the process of development, and most of its requirements are coming from outside. If we were proceeding along sound lines we should be developing our own capital by encouraging those industries which could produce a surplus for export. But instead of creating our own capital, we are borrowing. During the five-year period 1923-28, we imported £762,000,000 worth of goods, while our exports for the same period were valued at 718.5 million pounds. The Commonwealth debts overseas in 1923 amounted to 126.1 million pounds, and in 1928 were £206,000,000. The increase in overseas debts for the five-year period mentioned, was 79.9 million pounds, and the total interest paid during that period was 42.4 million pounds. The States' overseas debts during the same term increased by 77.8 million pounds, and the estimated interest paid by the States on that account was 89.9 million pounds. The summary of these figures disclose that for the five years Australian imports were valued at £762,000,000, for which, of course, payment had to be made abroad. For the same period, the Commonwealth also had to pay interest abroad to the extent of 42.4 million pounds, and State interest was paid overseas to the amount of 89.9 million pounds.. The total payments overseas in this respect, therefore, were £762,000,000 plus 42.4 million pounds plus 89.9 million pounds, or a total of 894.3 million pounds. As against this, our exports were valued at 718.5 million pounds, thus showing a deficiency of approximately 175.8 million pounds. This was met by an increase in Commonwealth borrowing overseas to the extent of 79.9 million pounds, and an increase in State borrowing abroad to the amount of 77.8 million pounds, making a total of 157.7 million pounds. It will, therefore, be seen that we have actually had to borrow capital abroad to pay our interest bill to the extent of 157.7 million pounds sterling. 
I am afraid that that is the position which we are approaching. I am glad that honorable senators opposite realize the situation. I feel certain that as a result of this debate they will go even further - if they do they will have the assistance of honorable senators on this side of the chamber - and endeavour to remove the false economic conditions under which we are now operating. 
I am not surprised at that, in view of the figures I have quoted. The Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank is in a position to thoroughly understand the situation on the other side of the world. This it has impressed upon the Government of the day, and I trust the result will be of great advantage to the Commonwealth. I am afraid, however, that this measure will tend to make the Commonwealth Bank enter into such active competition with the banks of issue that our whole economic structure may be materially affected. Those in control of the banks of issue are authorities on not only Australian but also international finance. They have been born and bred to the business. The banks of issue are operating not only upon their own resources, but also on the resources placed at their disposal by depositors throughout Australia. These banking institutions regulate the exchange position, and any honorable senators who may be importers, and have had transactions with these institutions during the last six months, will doubtless say that they have been requested to review their requirements from abroad, and to make a considerable deduction in importations during the next twelve months. These institutions know the elements operating throughout Australia and on the other side of the world, and are adopting measures to adjust the situation to the advantage of the country. 
The bill makes provision for the Commonwealth Bank to control the resources of gold held by the banks of issue. These have been accumulated by the banks merely to protect the interests of Australian industry and trade, to make their position elastic, and to enable them to maintain Australia's credit overseas. The measure authorizes the handing over of the gold reserves of the banks of issue to the Commonwealth Bank, which is more or less a government institution, with the result that those importing houses which are experiencing difficulty in meeting commitments abroad are now inundating the Commonwealth Bank with offers of their business. If this bill is passed, and the Commonwealth Bank possesses greater external credit facilities than the banks of issue are able to offer, there is a great danger of an unsatisfactory situation arising. I do not think that the Commonwealth Bank will call upon the banks of issue for their total gold reserves. I do not think that the gold will be exported, because Ibelieve that the Commonwealth Bank will be able to make credit arrangements overseas whereby the gold will still be held in Australia, and credit abroad established on that basis. If the banks of issue hand over their gold reserves to the Commonwealth Bank, I do not think their overseas credits will be affected. 
I thought that the honorable senator was aware that, in Australia, all the banks, other than the Commonwealth Bank, are known as banks of issue. If the Leader of the Government in this chamber can assure the Senate that arrangemnts will be made to preserve the external credit of the banks of issue, the Government will have no difficulty in securing the unanimous support of the Senate to this bill. Reference has been made to the Commonwealth Bank as a central reserve bank; it is not now functioning officially as such. If it is the intention of the Government to make the Commonwealth Bank a central reserve bank, or divide its activities by having one section conducting business as it now island another acting as a central reserve bank, that would have the effect of steadying the position and would satisfy traders, bankers and the financial authorities in Australia and on the other side of the world. 
There is a great fear on the part of some that the Government may interfere with the note issue. I do not fear that at all, because I think the world has had such an experience of the inflation of currency during the last ten or fifteen years that if would be only a very courageous government that would attempt to dabble or in any way interfere with this very delicate system. 
There is; but I do not think the Government will abuse its privileges. Finance and industry are inter-dependent. The two sections resemble, scissors blades - unless they work together neither has any effect. I have no great fears concerning this bill. I welcome it,  particularly  as it has been introduced by a Labour government, and I hope that the necessity for its introduction will lead members of the Government and its supporters to look below the surface. If they do that they will realize the false economic position into which Australia has drifted. 

 Senator Sir JOHN NEWLANDS (South Australia) [5.30].- This bill, which, subject to certain amendments, I intend to support, is rather disconcerting, because we have had varying opinion concerning it expressed in very excellent speeches by honorable senators who know something about finance, and know from their own experience what are the safest steps to take for the maintenance of our gold reserve. I do not intend to say very much on that subject. My principal purpose in speaking is to put forward a plea in support of an application that has reached us from South Australia on behalf of the State Savings Bank there. The trustees of that bank ask why the Commonwealth Government should seek to take from the institution the gold that has been deposited in it. The trustees of this bank have been in charge of it for many years; they are all well known in  South Australia, and their capacity to control their gold reserve is respected on all sides. They  are of opinion generally that if the Commonwealth deprives the banks of their gold reserves, the Commonwealth Bank should establish such effective' credits in London that the abstraction of the gold from the vaults of the banks will impose no hardship on their operations. Savings bank business is very peculiar. As explained last night by  Senator McLachlan,  very little serves to upset savings bank depositors and cause them to start a run on the banks in which their savings are deposited. For tha.t reason the trustees of the State Savings Bank in South Australia are anxious that nothing may happen to affect the confidence of their depositors and cause a serious run on their bank. They urge that the gold reserves of State savings banks should be exempt from the provisions of this bill. It seems to be unnecessary for the Commonwealth to take into its possession the gold on deposit in institutions over which State governments have full control-. A great deal of money is on deposit in these banks, and one can imagine the effect Commonwealth interference is likely to have on the arrangements that have been in operation for many years past. Any alteration likely to affect those arrangements is looked upon with a great deal of suspicion by depositors. 
It is scarcely wise for one who does not claim to be familiar with banking law to speak at length on this measure, but to me the first part of it seems to be good ; at any rate, it appears to have the approval of most honorable senators. Suggestions have been made by the right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  and  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch to amend the second part of the bill, and I shall support the amendment when it is moved, because, in my opinion, banking arrangements which have been carried on successfully for many years in Australia ought not suddenly to be ruthlessly thrown to the winds. The Government should be satisfied that the drastic change it has proposed is looked upon so favorably by honorable senators, and should not demur about accepting an amendment to limit the period of the operation of the bill to twelve months. At the end of that time, if honorable senators find that it has worked satisfactorily, and that the people who are concerned with our finances and our exchange operations are of opinion that it has proved a success, I am sure they will be willing to re-enact it. 
.-- Every honorable senator will agree with me that the debate on this bill has been of a very high order. I think the representatives of the Government in this chamber should be grateful to the Senate for having discussed it, not from a party political angle,- but from the point of view that appeals to each honorable senator as being in the best interests of the Commonwealth. No more important bill has come before the Senate. It deals with a matter which is vital to the best interests of Australia. The maintenance of our credit abroad on the most favorable terms is the life blood of a young nation like ours. Anything that can be done to make that credit sounder than it has been in the past should meet with general approval. The bill is of such importance that the Government would have been well advised if, having introduced it, it had notified its intention to defer its further consideration until Parliament reassembles next year. That would have afforded honorable senators an opportunity to get into touch with the best minds of Australia on this subject, so that they could have the best information available when it came up again for discussion. However, the bill is with us, and we must deal with it now. I can understand the objections that have been raised by Chambers of Commerce .and other bodies as well as individuals, against the rapid passage of this measure.  Senator Bae  has stated that, in his opinion, the Chamber of Commerce and other similar bodies take too narrow a view of these questions ; and that their personal interests  ave  always to the forefront. But the honorable senator must know from his long experience that on the prosperity of our commerce, especially in respect to our commercial relations with the outside world, depends entirely the prosperity of Australia. I can well understand the attitude of the Chamber of Commerce in Sydney, a body held in highest repute by those who think in that part of Australia, a body by whose efforts Sydney, as a commercial centre, has been brought to the position it now occupies.  Senator Rae  will not deny that upon the prosperity of the commercial life of Sydney depends the prosperity of New South Wales. 
We cannot separate the interests of the workers from those of others whom the honorable senator does not include in the category of workers, but yet are the greatest workers Australia has ever had. Our interests are all bound together. No section can suffer without the whole community being affected. It is in the interests of Australia that relations between our commercial people and overseas commercial people should be of the best possible order. It is, therefore, essential for us to maintain our credit abroad on the most favorable conditions possible to the Commonwealth. 

 Senator Rae also had the audacity to suggest that the primary reason for the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank was to bring about the eventual destruction of the private banks. 
The honorable senator, in his speech, did not suggest the word " absorption." He practically said that it was intended that the private banks should meet with destruction. He has forgotten, in his ingratitude, the debt he and we all owe them for their operations before the advent of the Commonwealth Bank. What would be the position of Australia to-day if we had not had the benefit of the guidance and advice of the private banking institutions of Australia? Honorable senators appear to forget that if the private banks are destroyed as a result of the operation of this measure, hundreds of thousands  of small shareholders of those banks will suffer very grave financial losses. Furthermore, if, by any legislative action, we impair the efficiency of ' the private trading institutions, to that extent must we impair the credit of the Commonwealth, and I am afraid it will take Australia a very long time to recover from the effects of that policy. 
There is no suggestion in the bill that the Commonwealth Bank will acquire, at their market value, the assets of private banks that may be taken over; but if I understand aright the underlying purpose of those extremists who favour this course, no compensation will be paid for destroyed credit. They believe in confiscation of assets. 
Unfortunately, there is good reason for the fear that a certain section of Government supporters is not averse from confiscation. One honorable senator, at all events, is not afraid to state openly what a certain section of the community is out to accomplish. 
Although an issue which was raised by  Senator Lynch  may not be quite relevant to the subject matter of the bill, it certainly deserves more attention than it has received hitherto. The most urgent need in Australia at the moment, is greater production in both our primary and secondary industries so that eventually we may strike a favorable trade balance. 
It is a matter, of indifference to me in what light the honorable senator views that proposal. My chief concern is to ensure greater production in all branches of industry, and I feel justified in putting forward any proposal to that end. Undoubtedly,  Senator Lynch  put his finger on the weak spot in our trade position when he spoke of the absolute inability of Australia to produce to a greater extent owing to the great handicap under which we are labouring - our excessive costs of production. The right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  has circulated a number of amendments which he proposes to move when the bill is in committee. 
I do not proposeto discuss the merits of the amendments, but I do intend to speak of the demerits of certain provisions in the bill. Subsection 3 of proposed new section 7c states that, after the issue of a proclamation that a state of emergency has arisen, the board shall refer to the Treasurer with a report thereon any application received for permission to export gold ; and the following sub-section enacts that the Treasurer" may, within his absolute discretion, approve or refuse approval to any such application. I strongly disapprove of the latter provision, not because the Treasurer is a Labour Minister, or because I wish to cast any reflection upon his administration of the finances. I object to it because the financial barometer in other countries is so sensitive that if there is the slightest suspicion that political influence will be brought to bear upon the Commonwealth Bank, our credit abroad will be seriously impaired. I firmly believe that the best interests of Australia will be served if, in this measure, we prevent absolutely any political interference with the administration of the Commonwealth Bank. We cannot afford to introduce any provisions that may create a feeling of uneasiness in the minds of those who would be our creditors as regards our trade relations with the Mother Country. For this reason any amendment in the direction which I have indicated will have my support. It has been suggested also that it would be advisable to restrict the operation of the bill for a specified term. I have no fault to find with that proposal. This legislation is the first of its kind introduced in the Commonwealth Parliament, and, therefore, must be looked upon as an experiment. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. I could mention many measures which are dealt with from time to time and which certainly are not experimental, since they are based upon experience. If we limit the operation of this bill to a definite period, we shall have an opportunity,, should the occasion arise, to deal promptly with it. If amendments such as have been indicated are inserted in the bill, good results should accrue to the trading community, and its effect on the community generally should be beneficial. - 
The Ministry has every reason to be pleased with the reception of the bill. It has not been discussed from the point of view of party politics, because honorable senators on both sides realize that it affects the trading position of the Commonwealth, and all are anxious that nothing shall be done by legislation to impair the national credit. I am glad that those who have taken part in the discussion recognize the importance of encouraging primary production, because the necessity for this bill is entirely due to the fact that, unfortunately, the value of our wool has declined - it is estimated that the revenue from this source will be  £20,000,000  less than has been received in former years - and also because, unfortunately, wheat production has declined very substantially. In the circumstances, I should have expected the Government to accompany legislation of this nature with a statement of general policy for the encouragement of primary production, to stimulate the export of our wool, wheat, timber, gold and other metals upon which the prosperity of the Commonwealth depends. I regret that, almost concurrently with this bill, the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Fenton)  has introduced a new tariff schedule which will press very heavily and unfairly upon the whole of our export industries. 
The bill is divided into two parts. The first deals with the mobilization by the Commonwealth Bank of the gold resources of the Commonwealth. Very little objection has been taken to this proposal. I have heard no complaints from the private, banking institutions which are most vitally interested in it, since they all hold considerable gold reserves, so it is probable that the Government's policy will meet with their approval. But there is an entirely different feeling with regard to the second part of the bill, under which the export of gold can be prohibited by the Treasurer. It would appear that the Government has not been guided by the letter from the  Chairman  of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank, which was read by the Treasurer when moving the second reading of the bill in another place. I have compared the provisions of the bill carefully with the terms of the letter referred to, and I find it provides that, after the issue of a proclamation declaring that a state of emergency has arisen, there should be no export of gold from the Commonwealth without the permission of the Treasurer in writing.' This provision is entirely opposed to the representations made by the board under that heading. Not only is it at variance with the advice given by the board, but it is also opposed to the views expressed by  Mr. Philip  Snowden, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the British Labour Government, in an address delivered at a conference of the Labour party at Brighton, England.  Mr. Snowden  declared that the Treasury had no control over the bank rate. This responsibility, he added, rested entirely with the Bank of England. It will be seen, therefore, that this Governments proposal to give the Treasurer power to place an embargo upon the export of gold is entirely opposed not only to the views of the Commonwealth Bank authorities, so far as we can find them expressed, but also is at variance with the practice in Great Britain. It is doubtful if this power to prevent the export of gold should be exercised at all under conditions that are likely to obtain in the near future, but, if the occasion should arise, authority to use the power should be vested in the Commonwealth Bank, not in the Treasurer. 
No. The Minister for Trade and Customs has certain powers under another act, but they were not intended to be used for a purpose of this kind without the consent  of Parliament. I congratulate the Government in that it has sought Parliamentary approval to the proposed power for the prohibition of the export of gold. 
No. Under the bill the power to acquire gold is vested in the bank; but the power to export it, or to prohibit its exportation, is placed in the hands of the Treasurer. No gold may be exported without the approval in writing of the Treasurer. I hope that that power will not be vested in the Treasurer, but in the Commonwealth Bank Board. To prevent the export of gold would be to break down the gold standard in Australia; for practical purposes it would make the Australian note inconvertible. That would mean a departure from the gold standard, which is recognized throughout the world as the best method of exchange. Any departure from the gold standard would result in a revival of the exchange difficulties of wartime, when it was frequently impossible to' get money from England to Australia. At that time sovereigns in Australia were worth from 20s. to 30s. in Australian notes. We do not wish for a recurrence of that unsatisfactory state of affairs. I hope that whoever is vested with the power to prohibit the export of gold, will exercise that power with discretion. That is particularly necessary when we reflect that a shortage of real money, which would arise from a departure from the gold standard, would result in the interest rate increasing. That would, in turn, mean increased prices for the goods we purchase, increased cost of living, and further unemployment. When conditions similar to those which now confront us faced New Zealand, the banks there, in which the Government had a controlling interest, decided to increase the bank rate as a remedy. After eighteen months it was found that the position adjusted itself. Conditions in Australia are similar to those in New Zealand, so that the experience of that dominion is valuable. The same thing happened in England. It is referred to by  Mr. Snowden  in the speech from which I quoted just now - " Nobody likes a high bank rate,"  Mr. Snowden  said, "but in this rather imperfect world we are sometimes compelled to submit to things we do not like, afraid that, if we do not, the consequences may be still more disagreeable." 
The Commonwealth Bank might well consider whether that is not the real solution of our present financial difficulty. 
During recent years trade has moved so rapidly that the banks have actually imported into Australia £10,000,000 in gold since the war. With the ebb and flow of trade that amount, and other sums in addition, have since flowed out again. There is nothing before us to show whether the Government consulted the associated banks of Australia before introducing this bill. One would think that, in a matter of this nature, so vitally affecting trade and commerce and the life of the people within our borders who depend on credit, the Government would have consulted the associated banks and placed their views regarding the bill before the Senate. Both in peace and in war these institutions have done their utmost to assist the Government in the development of the country. I suggest that the Government should consider seriously the establishment of a central reserve bank in Australia. I feel sure that such an institution would receive the practical support of the trading banks. If a central reserve bank were established all the gold in the Commonwealth would naturally gravitate to it. While I hope that the Commonwealth Bank will become a central reserve bank, I point out that it is difficult for an institution to be both a central reserve bank and a trading bank. A central reserve bank should not trade, for, if it does, then it is in no better position than are the other banks, in times of depression. 
SenatorRae. - Does the honorable senator suggest that the Commonwealth Bank should be turned into a central reserve bank? 
I think that would be best; but, alternatively, a separate branch of the Commonwealth Bank could be established in the same way as we now have a savings bank branch. It would be better to convert the Commonwealth Bank into a central reserve bank than to vest in the Treasurer the power to interfere with the export of gold from Australia. 
I have here an extract from a very informative article by J. B. Brigden, Professor of Economics in the University of Tasmania. Referring to the bill now before the Senate, Professor Brigden says - 
It is unfortunate that the Government has found it necessary to control the export of gold, it should have been sufficient to have given the Commonwealth Bank power to requisition the gold held by private banks. The controlof gold export implies a possible refusal ofgold to pay debts abroad, which possibility is itself a shock to our credit. The debts are incurred in gold, and if there is any doubt us to payment they immediately become insecure. 
There is also a real danger of inflation once the Australian pound becomes practically inconvertible. The Government might need all its moral strength to resist the demand for currency inflation in the near future. And with unemployment rife and depression upon us it will not be easy to convince ardentadvocates that a small degree of inflation is bad. Every degree can be a small one. It could take place in Australia without reducing the proportion of gold reserve to the note issue, and without requisitioning any of the gold held by the private banks. It could take place merely by preventing the export of gold and by absorbing the current production. It was the control of export that made possible the inflation of currency during the war. If the normal production of gold were added to the note issue reserve, that reserve would he increased by about 10 per cent. in one year. The increase could even be anticipated, and in view of the Government's pledge to assist in the development of existing gold mines that increase might be stimulated by subsidies. 
A permanentchange of the character suggested should not be rushed through Parliament merely because of a temporary emergency.It should be considered very fully as part of the Government's general banking policy, and with a more complete realization than at present seems to exist of the effects both here and abroad. In the circumstances an assurance that there will he no increase in the note issue would be of very considerable value. 
I commend those remarks to the consideration of honorable senators. I should be pleased if, in his reply, the Minister would give us an assurance that the inflation of the note issue is not proposed as a consequence of the Commonwealth Bank getting hold of the gold reserves of Australia, and the Treasurer having the power to prohibit the export of gold. It is idle to deny that, throughout Australia, there is considerable anxiety because of the rumours that the Government's intention is to inflate the note issue. 

 Senator Colebatch suggested that the bill should be amended so that it would not apply to gold which, will be. produced in Australia after this measure becomes law. That is very important. If the export of gold is prohibited, then gold will again be at a premium. If we compel the mines to sell their new production to the Commonwealth Bank at par, they will be heavy losers. That is made evident in the report of the royal commission on the disabilities of Western Australia. When the mining industry applied for a bonus of £1 per oz. on the production of further gold in Australia, the  chairman  of the Disabilities Commission reported as follows :  - 
I am not prepared to recommend the full amount of the bonus asked for - 20s. per oz. - for the reason that, in February of this year, a deputation representing the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia waited upon the Commonwealth Treasurer (the  Hon.  Earle Page) at Kalgoorlie, and placed before him the following proposals for the assistance of the gold-mining industry: - 
Five per cent. subsidy on value of gold production for a period offive years. 
Miningcompanies to be exempt from income tax until subscribed capital returned. 
Commonwealth Government cooperation with State Government in providing £1 for £1 expenditure on mine development and rewards for new discoveries. 
Revision of customs duty on machinery, &amp;c., required in mining where such requisites are not obtainable on a commercial basis in Australia. 
That all necessary ingredients for the local manufacture of mining explosives be admitted into the Commonwealth free of customs duty, irrespective of the country of origin. 
Reductionby the Commonwealth Line of Steamers of freight on cyanide shipped to Australia. 
Every assistance to be given by the Commonwealth Government to the goldmining industry to preserve the right to sell its products in the best market. 

 Mr. Hamilton, manager of the Great Boulder mine and  chairman  of the Chamber of Mines in Western Australia, when asked why representatives of the gold-mining industry were asking for 20s. per oz: instead of 5 per cent. said, in effect, that having gone deeper into the matter they concluded that the. former proposals were altogether insufficient to revive the industry. He added, " I may say that when those proposals, Nos. 1 to 7, were put forward, the gold premium was 15s. per oz. ; but at the present time we receive no premium. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15. to 8 p.m. 

The seventh of the proposals that I have read is a most important one. It will be realized how important it was to that great industry that an open market for the sale of gold won from the bowels of the earth should be retained. I shall now read the recommendation of the  chairman  of the royal commission, the Honorable W. G. Higgs, who was at one time Federal Treasurer. He advocated - 
That during a period of ten years, and thereafter until Parliament provides, a bonus or bounty of ten shillings (10s.) per ounce be paid upon all gold producedwithin the Commonwealth. 
That the necessary steps be taken to prevent fraud. 
I suggest that we cannot better balance our national ledger than by increasing the production of gold. At a time when there is talk about giving the Commonwealth Treasurer power to restrict the export of gold, how could we better meet the position than by carrying into effect the recommendation of the Honorable W. G. Higgs, and granting a bonus for gold production ?Far better than to prohibit the export of gold wouldbe the adoption of the recommendation of that independent tribunal. That would bring about an increased production of the precious metal. The more gold that is won, the more fresh wealth we acquire, the better. We are talking about the restriction of gold export, but the better plan would be to encourage the production of gold in Australia. Let us have the two things concurrently. I am confident that if that recommendation were put into effect, mines that have a bountiful supply of low grade ore would be reopened. 
If this bill is not altered to grant exemption to prospectors and gold-miners to enable them to sell their gold" in the open markets of the world, a fresh and heavy disability will be imposed upon the gold-mining industry of Australia. 
The prices would depend entirely upon the extent to which our bank notes depreciated locally. I cannot forecast what that will be, but during the period of the last embargo, which occurred during the war, it was possible to obtain from 25s. to 28s. for a sovereign almost anywhere in Western Australia. We in Western Australia have a very unhappy recollection of what was known there as the " gold steal " that took place during the war, as a result of the embargo on the export of gold. The gold producers of Western Australia were robbed during the period that the export of gold was prohibited to the extent of £2,000,000 by the Federal Government. The effect was that the production of the Kalgoorlie and other mines, especially those working on lower grade ores, was greatly reduced. I hope that the Government will accept an amendment to this bill that will prevent any recurrence of that " gold steal." 
Yes, because the Commonwealth Government of the day took all our gold production and paid for it at a price below world's parity. 
I do not see any connexion between the two subjects. 
That " gold steal " occurred because of the prohibition and the depreciation of currency. The Commonwealth Government thus mulcted the gold producers of Western Australia to the extent of £2,000,000. 
The gold producers of Western Australia are very bitter on the subject. 
I think  ti  that it paid the ruling price, £3 17s. per oz., plus a small but varying premium. The acceptance of that price and premium combined resulted in a loss to the gold producers of Western Australia of £2,000,000. That was the difference  between the mint and the market prices. It is because I remember that "gold steal " so vividly that I issue this protest against legislation which will permit its recurrence. That prohibition was enforced under the provisions of the War  Precautions Act, and the Senate had no opportunity to debate the matter. We now have proposed legislation on the subject before us. I hope that the Senate will not permit the introduction of a provision that will impose another injustice on the gold producers of Australia. 
I do not intend to deal at any length with the bill that is before the Senate, as I consider that the subject of finance is a special study. I shall consider the measure from the point of view of the primary producers of Australia, and particularly from that of our wool and wheat growers. Those two types of primary producers have, to a large extent, to depend upon preliminary finance to enable them to market their crops and clips. They have to depend upon the world's market, an outside one, for the sale of their products. 
I doubt very much whether it is advisable to vest the complete control of our gold resources in the hands of one concern. We have to remember that it is chiefly through the private enterprise of private banks and private concerns that Australia has attained its present standard of progress. It is by the assistance of the private banks that the development of our large grazing and wheat growing areas - in fact, the development of Australia generally - has been effected. Although I am probably not in a position to judge, it appears to me that the withdrawal from those banks of their main asset, the gold reserve, might have a detrimental effect upon their business activities. I have in mind what occurred in February, 1924, when the Yokohama Specie Bank applied to the Note Issue Board for the loan of £400,000 against £400,000 in gold. The Note Issue Board refused to grant the advance, and, as a result, wool declined to the extent of from 3d. to 4£d. per lb., due to the lack of competition from Japanese buyers. Not only was that an enormous loss to the wool-growers of Australia; it was a severe blow to our national credit generally. About the same time the Bank of New Zealand applied to the board for an advance of £200,000 in notes against £200,000 in gold. That request was also declined. Probably that action was sound. from the point of view of the Note Issue Board, but it must be remembered that our primary products are of a seasonal character, and that a great deal of elasticity is needed in regard to their financing. I maintain that through those two actions of the Note Issue Board those concerned temporarily lost touch with the position in the Commonwealth, and a considerable amount of wealth was lost to Australia. That kind of thing might recur. 
I have no intention directly to oppose the bill, but I consider that it should be placed on trial for a period in order that we may judge its consequences. If its operation is as successful as we all hope that it will be, there should be no difficulty in effecting its renewal. Everything possible should be done by all sides of political thought, and also by all interested in the financial concerns of Australia, to make the project a success, and to place the finances of Australia on a sound working basis. 
I desire to thank honorable senators for the careful consideration which they have given to this bill. After the debate had proceeded for some time, I was inclined to the opinion that the Senate was getting as near as possible to the position which  Senator R.  D. Elliott desired ; but as the discussion went on it became apparent that some honorable senators were dealing with the bill on  strict party lines. I think I can say, however, that we are all in agreement upon one of the main principles embodied in the bill - the mobilization of the gold reserve of Australia - but there is considerable difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition concerning the restriction proposed to be placed on the export of gold. Certain fears were expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  and in the important position which he occupies,, the right honorable gentleman was justified in sounding a note of warning. Although doubt was expressed by some concerning the necessity of placing an embargo upon the export of gold, I think it is generally admitted that occasions might arise when the export of gold should be prohibited, and that legislation should he passed in that regard. Honorable senators having agreed with the Government on the two main principles of the bill, I ask them to consider, from a non-party and purely Australian standpoint, the means by which the Government is attempting to render effective the principles embodied in it. Considerable exception seems to have been taken to the fact that the Government proposes that the Treasurer shall be the person who shall have the final word in determining whether gold shall or shall not be exported. I remind honorable senators that, before the Treasurer c»,n. act in that respect, the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank must initiate the proceedings. Upon the issue of a proclamation", and not till then is the Treasurer empowered to act. The Senate has therefore to decide the extent to which we are to depart from the British system of parliamentary government. Are we to transfer what is properly an executive power to some other authority? There is no necessity for me to remind honorable senators that, in the main, the Australian parliamentary system is based on the British parliamentary system, and that right down through the ages the office of Treasurer has been regarded as the most important portfolio in a British Cabinet. In effect, the members of the Opposition are asking the Government to depart from a recognized system and introduce a novel method. 
I shall deal with that particular point in a moment. It is the duty of the Opposition to assist us as far as possible in following the British parliamentary system, consistent, of course, with our general parliamentary procedure. 
Yes. I propose to quote from Dicey, a leading constitutional writer of the day, who, after referring to other constitutions, deals with the Australian system of government in thi? way- 
The true reason, it . may be conjectured, why Australia has decisively adhered to the system of cabinet government is that a parliamentary cabinet is the only form of executive to which the statesmen, either of Australia or of England, are accustomed - 
The pioneers who blazed the track in Australia were accustomed to the British system of government, upon which our parliamentary institutions have been founded. I ask honorable senators opposite if they think they will be justified _ in attempting to amend the measure in committee, by giving the control, which should rest with the executive, to some outside body? The quotation continues - 
In one point, indeed, the executive of Australia may appear to bear an even more parliamentary character than does an English cabinet, for whilst, in theory at least, a statesman might be the member of an English Ministry, though .he were .not a member" of either House of Parliament, no Australian Minister can hold office, i.e., in effect, be a member of the Cabinet for more than three months, unless he becomes a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. But here Australian statesmanship has followed the connexions rather than the law of the English Constitution, for in practice an English cabinet always consists of mcn who are members, or who will become members, either of the House of Lords or of the House of Commons. Indeed, it is worth remark that in several instances where the Australian Constitution deviates from that of England, the deviation is caused by the desire to follow the spirit of modern English constitutionalism. 
We should advance a step further, and consider the position of the Treasurer and also the Commonwealth Bank in relation to this Parliament. .The Treasure^ as a member of the Cabinet, will, under this measure, be authorized to exercise discretionary powers. Is that discretion to be fettered by the addition of another body to the particular person who has to come to a decision? The Treasurer, as a member of the Cabinet, is subject to the criticism of Parliament. In  that  regard I quote the powers which Parliament has over the Treasurer and which it does not possess over the Commonwealth Bank - 
The essence of responsible government is, that mutual bond of responsibility one for another, wherein a government, acting by party, go together, frame their measures in concert, and where if one member falls to the ground, the others, almost as a matter of course, fall with him. 
After a proclamation has been issued the Treasurer exercises a discretion in accordance with that principle. Parliament has the right, not only to displace the Treasurer, but also the Government of which he is a member. Can it do that with the Commonwealth Bank? The Commonwealth Bank Board is not under our control; Parliament has no right to interfere with the discretionary powers of the board. It has been suggested by some members of the Opposition that we should dispense with one of the main principles of our Parliamentary system because the Labour, party is in power. 
I am pleased to have the assurance that such is not the case. Then upon what grounds do honorable senators opposite justify a departure from the present system? The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  attempted to justify his criticism in this respect by referring to the provisions of the Dried Fruits Export Act. He said that dried fruits cannot be exported from Australia without the consent of the Dried Fruits Export Control Board, and that in that respect Parliament had transferred its discretionary powers to that body. Parliament has not done anything of the kind, as the Customs Act enables the Minister for Trade and Customs to prohibit the export of dried fruits. It is not the board which has the right to prohibit exports, but the Minister for Trade and Customs. It has been said that the Government could have rested on its oars when once the Parliament had agreed to the mobilization of gold, and left it to the Minister for Trade and Customs to prevent its export. The Government was actuated in adopting the method provided in the bill by the fact, that the Treasurer is the most suitable member of the Cabinet to deal with such a subject. An honorable senator said last night that there was no reason to provide for further than a mobilization of gold in Australia, and to provide for an embargo against its export, in view of the provisions of the Customs Act, but this measure is to make the control more effective. What would happen if we deleted the provisions in the bill relating to the export of gold? The Minister for Trade and Customs would then have to decide the momentous  question of whether gold should or should not be exported from Australia ; that Minister has no control over the Commonwealth Bank. 
Yes. The Treasurer has control when it is a matter of dealing with national questions such as that now before the Senate. The Treasurer is not concerned with the internal management of the bank; he is content to leave its management in the hands of those specially trained in the work; but when it is a matter involving the national credit of the country, the Treasurer stands between the Commonwealth Bank and Parliament. The Australian notes bear the signature of the Treasurer or such officer of the Commonwealth Treasury as the Treasurer directs. That is provided for in the Commonwealth Bank Act. Commonwealth notes, even though signed by representatives of the Commonwealth Bank, are signed by the Treasurer or by a representative of the Treasurer. 
That is a mere quibble. I am sure it will not be necessary for me to explain what constitutes a signature. In any case the principle involved is the same. Before a note goes into circulation it is the Treasurer who must sign it. 
That is a queer statement from one who is supposed to represent the nation. If the destinies of the currency of Australia rested on a man whose mentality is capable of that interjection there might be ground for fear. 
The note bears the signature of the Treasurer or his nominee, and that of the Governor of the bank or his nominee. Another section of the Commonwealth Bank Act designed to protect the currency itself is as follows - 
Every person who, without the authority of the Treasurer (proof whereof shall lie upon him) makes, or has in his possession - 
any copy of an Australian note, or 
any writing, engraving, photograph or print resembling an Australian note or apparently intended to be or pass for a copy of an Australian note, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Eight through the Commonwealth Bank Act, wherever the interests of the nation are involved as opposed to the administration of the finances of the bank itself, the Treasurer bears the responsibility. This has been deliberately done with the desire to act consistently with the principles upon which any British Parliament would legislate for this purpose.. 
Last night  Senator Colebatch  referred to what he described as the very wide difference between this bill and the English legislation. Let me demonstrate, by quoting the sections of the English act, how, in the final analysis, the British Treasury is the controlling authority. Section 2 of the Currency and Bank Notes Act, 1928, provides - 
The Treasurer may at any time on being requested by the bank, direct that the amount of the fiduciary note issue shall for such period as may be determined by the Treasury, after consultation with the bank, be reduced by such amount as may be so determined. 
Section 3 of the same act provides- 
The bank shall, from time to time, give to the Treasury such information as the Treasury may require with respect to the securities held in the issue department, but shall not be required to include any of the said securities in the account to be taken pursuant to section 5 of the Bank of England Act, 1819. 
This report has to be made to the Treasury which stands between the banking interests and the nation. Section 8 provides - 
If the bank at any time represent to the Treasury that it is expedient that the amount of the fiduciary note issue shall be increased to some specified amount above two hundred and sixty million pounds, the Treasury may authorize the bank to issue bank notes to such an increased amount, not exceeding the amount specified as aforesaid, and for such period, not exceeding six months, as the Treasury think proper. 
The other English act bearing on this subject shows that the British Parliament has passed legislation exactly similar to ours, retaining a Parliamentary right which has come down to us through the ages that responsibility should rest on an executive officer, whose actions may bring about the fall of a Government. Section 11 of the English act provides - 
Any person in the United Kingdom owning any gold coin or bullion to an amount exceeding ten thousand pounds in value shall, on being required so to do by notice in writing from the bank, forthwith furnish to the bank, in writing, particulars of the gold coin and bullion owned by that person, and shall, if so required by the bank, sell to the bank the whole or any part of the said coin or bullion, other than any part thereof which is bona fide held for immediate export, or which is bona fide required for industrial purposes, on payment therefor by the bank, in the case of coin, of the nominal value thereof, and in the case of bullion, at the rate fixed in section 4 of the Bank Charter Act, 1844. 
Where a private bank can show to the satisfaction of the British Treasurer that the whole or any portion of the gold mobilized has been contracted for immediate export, it can hold back such portion, provided the Treasurer is satisfied of the bona fides of the transaction. 
But that is the whole point. It is not until that point is reached that the Treasurer's discretion comes into play. Whether the amount is the £25 provided in our bill or the £1,700 provided in the English Act the principle is the same. A point is reached at which somebody in the interests of the nation must exercise a discretion with regard to the export of gold, and in both cases the person who exercises that discretion is the one who is responsible for the administration of the finances of the country. It is not vested in the Bank of England, nor, so far as we are concerned, in the Commonwealth Bank. Under the English Act the Treasurer has the right to decide certain questions. 
He decides the bona fides of the matter. If I picked up a book and the Senate had to decide whether or not I acted bona fide, would it not be exercising a discretion? With all due respect to the laymen of this chamber I do not think any lawyer in the Senate would contend that in that case the Senate would not be exercising a discretion. The English act does not allow free export of gold. We are all agreed that a point may be reached at which the export of gold without permission from someone must cease, but some honorable senators would depart from the British  practice, and say that the discretion must be exercised by the Treasurer fettered by the Commonwealth Bank. That, however, would be a distinct departure from our cabinet system of Government. 

 Senator McLachlan raised a point relating to the power of the Commonwealth Government to deal with gold reserves held by the State savings banks, and read an opinion from most eminent counsel for whom I have the very highest regard, and to whose opinion I attach a good deal of weight. But I respectfully submit that counsel's opinion was not directed to the currency provisions of our Constitution. 
He specifically dealt with the question of whether the Commonwealth had the necessary power to do what is proposed to be done. Just as  Senator McLachlan  was not prepared to give his opinion uncorroborated by counsel's opinion, so I have sought the opinion of  Sir Robert  Garran on the point and it is as follows : - 
The power of the Commonwealth Parliament to legislate authorizing returns to be called for as to holdings of gold, and to authorize the acquisition of gold, does not depend upon the Constitutional powers to legislate with respect to banking. 
The various legislative powers of the Commonwealth are separate and distinct, and that involved in this instance is the power to legislate with regard to currency and coinage and to borrowing on the public credit of the Commonwealth. 
Accordingly, any State bank cannot claim exemption from the operation of this provision, and the measure applies equally to State banks as to private banks. 
Parliament, therefore, need not concern itself about a matter quite outside the provisions of the act. Even if .the point be subsequently tested it does not affect the legislation now introduced. And even if this bill becomes law it does not follow as a matter of course that the £211,000 in gold, to which reference has been made, will be taken from the vaults of the savings bank and put into the reserves of the Commonwealth Bank. It will still be left to the authorities appointed under this measure to exercise a discretion. The proper procedure is not to exempt the savings banks. Once we start exempting people from the provisions of an act we open up the possibility of abuse. When the bill becomes law the savings banks can make representations to the responsible authorities and every consideration will be given to them. 

 Senator McLachlan was of opinion that we should exempt not only the savings banks, but also private banks, and he spoke of the patriotism of the latter. As a matter of fact he convinced  Senator Payne  that they are institutions we ought not to touch. Figures prove that the private banks have reaped a fairly decent profit from their " patriotism."  Senator Cooper  spoke about "taking from them their principal asset, gold." Would it surprise the honorable senator to know that against the £26,000,000 of gold reserves held by the banks advances have been made on cheques, overdrafts and credits to the extent of £328,000,000? Is that the patriotism of the banks? 
Provided that where a right of reply is allowed, in any debate, a senator speaking in reply shall speak for not more than thirty minutes. 
Then,  Mr. President,  I shall simply state that I have a complete answer to the questions raised by  Senator Lawson  in his second-reading speech. I may have an opportunity to deal with the matter when the bill is in committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
After section seven  a  of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: - 7b.  -  (1.) Where the Treasurer is satisfied that it is expedient for the protection of the currency, or of the public credit of the Commonwealth, to obtain particulars of gold coin and bullion held by persons in Australia, or to require the exchange of any gold so held for Australian notes, he may, by notice in writing, authorize the board - 
to require persons to furnish particulars of the gold coin and bullion held by them; and 
) to require persons to exchange for Australian notes any gold coin or bullion held by them. (2.) The board may, in pursuance of any authority given under the last preceding sub-section, by notice in writing - 
require any person to furnish to the bank particulars in writof the gold coin and bullion held by that person ; and 
require any person to exchange with the bank for its equivalent in Australian notes, any gold coin or bullion held by that person. 7c. - (1.) Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the board, the Governor-General is of opinion that it is expedient so to do, he may by Proclamation prohibit the export of gold from the Commonwealth except in accordance with the provisions of the succeeding subsections of this section, and thereupon gold shall not, while the Proclamation remains in force, be exported from the Commonwealth except in accordance with those provisions. (2.) Any person who desires to export gold from the Commonwealth may apply in writing to the board for the approval of the Treasurer of the export of the gold. 
I move - 
That after sub-section (4.), proposed new sub-section 7b, the following be added: - " (5.) The provisions of sub-sections (1.) and (2.) of this section shall not apply in respect of gold held by any State Savings Bank." 
I need not elaborate the argument which I employed in my second-reading speech. I consider this is a proper amendment for the Government to accept. The people who, in the main, will be affected by the provisions of this proposed new section are deserving of every consideration at the hands of the Senate, and I venture to think that its acceptance will be in the interest, not only of good government, but of sound credit. The Leader of the Senate has assured us that every consideration will be shown to these deserving State institutions; but the matter should not be left there. After the Commonwealth Bank has mobilized all the gold in the Commonwealth, the State Savings Banks of South Australia and Victoria will be left absolutely without any means of checking any foolish acts of administration, and therefore may be unable to allay a feeling of uneasiness on the part of their depositors in a time of crisis. The  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank has been interviewed by the representatives of the State Savings Bank of South Australia, and I gather from the latter that, in a telegram to the Prime Minister, the  Chairman  of the bank stated that he would not recommend the inclusion of an amendment to exempt the gold reserves of the savings banks from the operation of the act. I understand that the directors will neither oppose nor support such an amendment. In view of the attitude of the Commonwealth Bank, I suggest to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that the Government should not oppose this amendment. The amount of gold holding under the control of the State Savings Banks referred to, is approximately £500,000. The trustees of the State Savings Bank of South Australia take the view that there is an obligation upon them to safeguard the interests of their depositors. They have no self interest to serve, and since the Commonwealth Bank will not object to or recommend their exemption, the Government might very well accept the amendment. There is no suggestion that these institutions should be exempt from the provisions contained in the latter portion of the bill. As I pointed out last night, the gold will remain in Australia, but it will be held by these banks for the specific purpose of buttressing their financial position. I can carry the matter no further. I hope that the Government will accept the amendment. It will in no way affect the operation of the act, but if it is not included, the act may seriously affect the credit of the State savings banks and some day may be responsible for a crisis. 
I remind honorable senators that in voting for the second reading of the bill they adopted the principle of the mobilization of the gold reserves of the Commonwealth.  Senator McLachlan  now asks the committee to agree to an amendment on purely sentimental grounds, and he suggests that it may avert a calamity at some future date. The State Savings Bank of South Australia has branches throughout the State and the head office is in Adelaide. If, unhappily, there was a run on the bank at Orroroo, could any one imagine a crush taking place there? The only people who could be killed in the rush for gold would be those living in the immediate vicinity of the bank in Adelaide. All trading banks are in much the same position as the State Savings Bank of South Australia. They have branches all over the country. Why, then, should we prescribe one law for the State institutions and another for the private trading banks? The principle upon which  Senator McLachlan  asks us to accept his amendment, is unsound. I, therefore, ask the committee not to agree to it. 
 From the Minister's statement it would appear that there is to be no exception to the operation of this measure. We have been told that the main reason for this bill is that, in the public interest, it is necessary to gather all the gold in the Commonwealth from the hands in which it is at present held and place it undpr the control of the Commonwealth Bank, as otherwise it may be sent out of Australiato the detriment of this country. 
That might be a sound argument in the case of private banks, but it does not apply to the savings banks of the States. The State savings banks should be excepted from the operations of this measure. They do not hold gold for the purpose of exporting it, but to give stability to institutions which have rendered such valuable service to the public. 
The trustees of these institutions should be better judges than the Government of what is best in their own interests. 
Gold held by the State savings banks is held for a different purpose from that held by the private banks. If we deprive them of their gold, we destroy their usefulness in the community. It is well to remind ourselves that when this gold is mobilized and taken from the savings banks it will be placed in the vaults of the Commonwealth Bank at Sydney. Already this country is suffering from too much centralization. The Government's proposal would make the Commonwealth Bank in Sydney a huge vacuum pump, drawing all gold into its insatiable vortex. Once the vacuum pump is set in operation gold will be drawn to Sydney from every corner of the Commonwealth. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  spoke lightly of sentiment. I remind him that if we take sentiment from the world there is very little of value left. There should be a wise discrimination in these matters; we should not measure everything by the same rule. These State institutions which were in operation before the Commonwealth was thought of, should be allowed to carry on their business as they have done in the past. I have no fault to find with the Commonwealth Bank. I voted for its creation ; but I shall not vote to aggrandise it at the expense of the State savings banks. In our desire to do what is best for Australia we should not do anything which might impair the usefulness of the State institutions. I shall support  Senator McLachlan's  amendment. 
 Senator Lynch  is an adept at putting up men of straw in order to knock them down again. The defeat of the proposed amendment would strengthen the savings banks in the several States.  Senator Lynch's  statement that the gold will be taken from the State savings banks and shovelled into the Commonwealth  Bank  in Sydney is a figment of his own imagination. It is true that the bill provides that the gold may be placed under the control of the Commonwealth Bank; but that does not mean that immediately it is passed someone will go round to collect that gold. The granting of certain power does not necessarily mean that it will be exercised. Indeed, the very existence of  that  power is one of the soundest reasons  for  suggesting that it will seldom be exercised. That has occurred over and over  again  in connexion with legislation. 
That would only be done when necessary in the public interest. The Commonwealth Bank could do nothing with the gold other than preserve it for the purposes set out in this measure. It could not gamble with the gold, or use it in " wild-cat " speculations. What is proposed in this bill is merely a reserve power to be used, if necessary, in the interests of Australia. It is  all  bunkum to say that immediately the bill became law the vaults of the State savings banks would be raided and their contents transferred to the Commonwealth Bank in Sydney. 
 Senator Daly  asked what principle is involved in this measure. I refer him to section 51 (xiii) of the Constitution, which provides that the Commonwealth shall have powers in respect of banking, other than State banking. The Constitution requires us to keep our hands off the State banks. 
The two paragraphs must be read together. It is all very well for  Senator Rae  to say that there will be no raiding of the vaults of the State institutions. In his speech this afternoon he clearly suggested that  the  gold should be taken to Sydney and used as the basis of a further note issue. 
On the ground that the Constitution preserves to the States the funds of State savings banks, I shall support the amendment. 
 I challenge the statement  of  Senator H.  E. Elliott that the various paragraphs of section 51 of the Constitution must be read together. Every constitutional authority will admit that each is separate, and that the meaning of one cannot be read into another. I invite the opinion of  Senator McLachlan  as to the rule in that matter. It is true that the Constitution precludes the Commonwealth from engaging in State banking, but that provision is not to be read into other sections. 
The Constitution gives the Commonwealth power to make laws relating to banking, other  than  State banking.  Senator McLachlan  and I might disagree about the power of the Commonwealth Bank in relation to banking, but there is one point  upon which  we shall not differ, namely, that we cannot call to our aid a section relating to banking in order to limit the operation  of  another section relating to currency. In view of  Sir Robert  Garran's opinion that the Constitution permits the exercise by the Commonwealth of the power to legislate in respect of currency, then I submit that  Senator H.  E. Elliott's opinion is an incorrect interpretation of the law. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [9.14].  -  In all our legislation we should endeavour to avoid uncertainty and the possibility of litigation. I shall not express an opinion  as  to whether this bill deals with banking or currency, but it appears to me that in the provision relating to banking there is a reference to the issue of notes. A strong argument might be made out in favour of the State savings banks being exempted even if a specific provision  to  that effect were not included in the bill. 
But if we do include such a provision we avoid all possibility of argument. We refrain from interfering with the State Savings Banks, and leave them this amount of money, which cannot, in any conceivable set of circumstances, be of the least use to the Commonwealth. As an indication of the unwisdom of passing legislation that may possibly be challenged later, may I refer honorable senators to the position in which we find ourselves as a result of the operation of the Bankruptcy Act, a position that will involve many citizens of Australia in heavy loss, and probably very great embarrassment. If it were a matter of great importance that the Commonwealth should have this amount of gold, one might say, " Oh, well, we will take the risk." But it is of no great importance; why, then, take the risk ? Why not make our intentions clear, assume that this is a banking matter, as it is, and avoid the possibility of any conflict in the future. By doing that, we should do the decent thing by the States. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  has said that the Senate has approved the principle of the mobilization of gold. But there is more in this bill than that. It also covers the export of gold. 
The control of the export of gold is at the bottom of the whole thing. Although some justification may be advanced for the control of private banks in this matter, the position of the State savings banks is quite different. There is no likelihood of their exporting any of their gold reserve, as they do not hold it for trading purposes. Therefore the Government should consider carefully whether they should not be exempted from the provisions of the bill. This is new legislation, of a somewhat drag-net nature. From time to time, we find it necessary to embody exemptions in our legislation. We should always endeavour to make it specific. The Government should have some regard for the opinions and the interests of those concerned, in this case the State Savings Banks, in which the people of the different States have a very great interest. The State Savings Bank of South Aus tralia alone has half a million depositors. It is claimed that it is not likely that this power of mobilization will be used. Why, then, give it to the Commonwealth Treasurer? I believe that the acceptance of the provision would be harmful to the business of our State Savings Banks. Their trustees are hard-headed business men, with a very long banking experience. Those in South Australia pointed out that the gold reserve of 200,000 odd pounds creates a great deal of confidence in its depositors, who see that reserve shown in the balance-sheet. 
But they hold that gold as a reserve. The trustees of the South Australian State Savings Bank have pointed out that if that reserve is withdrawn, their position will be weakened very considerably. Instead of giving this power, which may not be used, it would be better to make the provision a specific one, and exempt State Savings Banks. 
While I have the greatest regard for the feelings of the Board of Trustees of the South Australian Sayings Bank, who for a long period of years have furnished ample evidence of their capacity, and have managed the institution wisely and well, I cannot follow  Senator McLachlan  in his desire to have State savings banks specifically excluded from the operation of this measure. This committee should decide the matter on the principle of the proposed new section. 
I point out, as  Senator Daly  pointed out in reply to the argument adduced in support of the amendment, that the security furnished by this gold reserve in the event of a calamity for which that reserve is intended to cope, would be afforded only to a limited number of the bank's depositors. The South Australian Savings Bank has some hundreds of agencies throughout the State, but the demand for gold on the part of depositors in time of panic would necessarily be limited to those fortunate few who got to the head office of the bank in the quickest time. 
Fortunately, I have not seen a run of any magnitude on a bank. I was only about two months old when the last serious run occurred. If we admit the right of savings banks to hold their, gold reserve, there is little or no difference between the principle as applied to them and the principle as applied to private trading banks. Private trading banks have established a gold reserve for the same reasons as have State savings banks, to create confidence in their customers. 
The proposed new section does not concern the export of gold. It deals only with the mobilization of the gold reserve, for the benefit of the Australian nation. If the Government accepted this amendment it would, to a very dangerous degree, destroy the efficacy of the measure. The State Savings Bank depositors in South Australia - and the same applies in Victoria - are amply guaranteed, because in addition to the undoubted soundness of the institution in which their money is lodged they have the backing of the State Government, which guarantees that their deposits will be repaid to them in full. What further guarantee do they need ? If the time ever comes when the Government of South Australia fails to meet its obligations, then the deposits in the savings bank of that State will not be worth very rauch to the individual depositor. I can see no reason for the insertion of this amendment, and I hope that the committee will reject it. 
.- I feel sorry that the Government will not accept this amendment. Considering the comparatively small amount of gold involved, it would be wise to accept it. The Government claims that the power, when granted, may not be used. It must be remembered that small depositors in savings banks are particularly suspicious. Their savings represent their hard earnings, collected as the result of self-denial, and set by for a rainy day. Supposing that the Government did exercise this power and mobilized the gold of the savings banks, and the matter was given publicity in the press! These small depositors do not take much interest in high finance, and would not know the details; they might become panicky; and a great deal of distrust would be engendered amongst them that might be disastrous to the nation. Personally, I do not think that it is worth while creating that suspicion or fear in view of the comparatively small amount concerned. The savings banks do not export gold, they merely hold it as a guarantee for their depositors. 
It is not a matter of depositors knowing of its existence. They are always informed that they can get gold for their notes. If that guarantee were removed their suspicions would be aroused and a deplorable condition of affairs would be the result.  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch pointed out that it would be wise to keep our hands off the State savings banks. 
But they know that those notes are issued on a gold basis. 
The principle that has been defined by  Senator H.  E. Elliott, admitted by the 'Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  himself, and stressed by  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch. The State Savings Banks are different from ordinary private trading banks, and should he excluded from the operation of this provision. 
.- The Minister  (Senator Daly)  asked  Senator Reid  to state a principle upon which the Government could accept the amendment moved by  Senator McLachlan.  I remind him that the bill provides that the Commonwealth Bank shall have power to mobilize the gold in Australia and to control its export in circumstances recommended by the Commonwealth Bank Board. The savings banks are not trading institutions, therefore cannot export gold. The intention of the bill is to ensure that supervision which the Government considers necessary. 
No reasonable objection can be offered to the amendment in view of the fact that the State Savings Banks have never exported, and cannot export gold under the acts under which they have been established. 
In order to have a substantial reserve should the occasion arise. 
I am- not aware of any State Savings Bank, apart from the one mentioned by  Senator McLachlan,  holding any gold reserves although, possibly, other similar institutions also have reserves. If the State savings banks do not hold gold for export, why should they be included in the bill? I remind the Minister that there are in Australia other savings banks apart from State savings banks. In Tasmania there are two trustees savings banks, one of which commenced operations in 1845 before the State Savings Bank was established. A trustees savings bank is established at Launceston with branches operating all over Tasmania. I would suggest . that  Senator McLachlan  amend his amendment by leaving out the word " State " to make it apply to all savings banks. 
 No one wishes to injure, in any way, those who have placed their money in State Savings Banks, and I do not know why  Senator Reid  should be under the impression that the depositors will ever be afraid of losing their savings, if this measure becomes operative. The deposits in State Savings Banks are guaranteed by the State Governments, and that should be sufficient to satisfy any depositor. Even if the Government accepted the amendment, the value of the gold held in savings banks would not be of any consequence. 
Of what value would such an amount be in converting notes into gold if a heavy demand were made? 
No. It is generally recognized that a sovereign is of no greater value than a Commonwealth £1 bank note.  Senator Lynch  appears concerned because it is proposed to mobilize the gold reserves, including those held by the State Savings Banks, and to place them under the control of the Commonwealth Bank. "What would be the use of placing such reserves in the Commonwealth Bank when the depositors in that bank will not have the right to demand gold for notes in excess of £25? They can be compelled to accept bank notes. There are very few in the community who would prefer 100 sovereigns to a similar amount in Commonwealth Bank notes, particularly as there is no difference in their purchasing power. I do not wish to do anything detrimental to the interests of the savings banks ; but I cannot see how their stability will in any way be affected, if the gold which they are holding in reserve is placed under the control of the Commonwealth Bank. If we were endangering the credit of the State savings banks there would be some justification for the amendment. The only argument that can be adduced in favour of the State savings banks retaining their gold reserves is that they are government institutions. There is no better means of instilling confidence in the minds pf savings bank depositors than by telling them that their deposits are guaranteed by the State Government, as is indicated outside the doors of all such institutions. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia) [9.20].  - I  am glad that  Senator McLachlan  has raised this point ; but I think too much can be made of it. Personally, I have not the slightest doubt that the gold now in possession of the State savings banks will never be removed. There are two provisions in this clause dealing with the mobilization of gold. One of these is to the effect that a return must be furnished by every person having gold in his possession, and the other is that gold may be called up. I imagine that the Commonwealth Bank will never call up the gold in the possession of the State savings banks, which is valued at less than £1,000,000 sterling. It is not held for the purposes of export, and is not in conflict with the principle underlying this legislation. I can understand the trustees of the State savings banks feeling that this very effective safeguard is to be taken from them. I suggest that the Minister, on behalf of the Government, should publicly intimate that the gold now in possession of the State savings banks will not be taken from them under this measure. If that were done nothing further would appear to be necessary. Unless some such undertaking is given, I feel I must support the amendment, although I candidly confess that I do not believe that the Commonwealth Bank will remove the gold which the savings banks are holding. 
The Opposition is endeavouring to put the Government in a most ignominious position by asking the Treasurer to give a definite undertaking to the Senate that, notwithstanding the provisions of the bill, the gold reserves held by the State savings banks will not be interfered with. No such suggestion has ever been made to any government, and such an undertaking would not be binding upon succeeding Treasurers. If the principle is right the committee should accept it; if not, they should reject it. Surely the committee has sufficient confidence in the present Government to realize that the Treasurer will give effect to the will of the legislature as expressed in these words - 
Where the Treasurer is satisfied that it is expedient for the protection of the currency or of the public credit of the Commonwealth to obtain particulars of gold coin and bullion held by persons in Australia or to require the exchange of any gold so held for Australian notes, he may, by notice in writing, authorize the board - 
to require persons to furnish particulars of the gold coin and bullion held by them; and 
to require persons to exchange for Australian notes any gold coin or bullion held by them. 
Would any honorable senator suggest that, if it was absolutely necessary for the protection of the currency or the public credit of the Commonwealth, the Treasurer should call up £211,000 from the State Savings Bank of South Australia, it would not be his duty to do so? 
Then why ask for an undertaking from the Treasurer that he will not do so? It is humiliating to the Government to ask it to do what no government has ever been asked to do previously - to barter with the Opposition. 
If I enter into an undertaking with a State savings bank that the Government will not touch its £211,000, some honorable senators will vote for the bill.  Senator Payne  will vote for it if the Government will give an undertaking that it will not deprive the private banks of their reserves, and  Senator Lynch  may say that he will vote for the bill if some friendly society is exempted. In the end I would not be able to recognize my own measure. 
I am not. Under this bill, if passed, the Treasurer will have a sacred duty to perform. If, in the interests of Australia, it is necessary to call up all the gold, whether it is held by savings banks or other institutions, he should have power to do so. But Parliament can rest assured that this discretion will not be exercised arbitrarily. A note of warning has been sounded by the Commonwealth Bank Board, and if the necessity arises the gold will be called up from the savings banks. What would be the use of having gold in the vaults of the savings banks if the Commonwealth were to become insolvent? It is not gold we want. As  Senator Lynch  says, we want more wheat and more wool. The £211,000 held by the trustees of the Savings Bank in South Australia cannot be exempted upon any  principlewhatsoever, and I am not prepared to accept an amendment unless it is based upon some principle. 
I cannot understand the fears alleged to be entertained by the trustees of the State Savings Bank of South Australia. They want their gold to meet a possible run on the bank; but, if that should occur, they would not issue gold. They would issue notes, which bear the pledge of the nation that, if they are taken to the Commonwealth Treasury, they will be exchanged for gold. What does mobilization mean? When troops are mobilized they are not all dragged into one centre. They are mobilized in the different mobilization areas. Similarly, when gold is mobilized by the Commonwealth it will still remain in the vaults of the various banks. If I were a depositor in a bank I would prefer Australian notes to gold. They are easy to carry. In any case the trustees of the savings bank need not worry, nor need we honorable senators worry, because when the day of panic comes it will be just about time for Australia to put up its shutters. The amendment is quite unnecessary. 
If I read the provision in the bill correctly, no member of the Commonwealth Government has any voice in regard to what happens under paragraph 2 of proposed new section 7b. The Treasurer only has to be satisfied - 
That it is expedient for the protection of the currency or of the public credit of the Commonwealth to obtain particulars of gold coin and bullion held by persons in Australia or to require the exchange of any gold so held for Australian notes. 
He has to decide the larger issue whether it is expedient to take this action for the protection of the currency or public credit of the Commonwealth. He then falls out of the picture, and there is vested in the Bank Board the following discretion :  - " (2) The board may, in pursuance of any authority given under the last preceding subsection, by notice in writing - 
require any person to furnish to the bank particulars in writing of the gold coin and bullion held by that person; and 
require any person to exchange with the bank for its equivalent in Australian notes, any gold coin or bullion held by that person. 
The function of the Treasurer in this respect is merely to decide whether any emergency has arisen. In passing I may say that the Leader of the Senate made out a case yesterday that would call upon the Treasurer to authorize the Commonwealth Bank to ask for these returns, and to require gold to be exchanged for notes. In the ultimate issue, therefore, the matter rests with the Commonwealth Bank alone, and although I much appreciate what the Leader of the Opposition has said I cannot agree to accept any undertaking on behalf of somebody who has absolutely nothing to do with the taking of the gold. 
On half a dozen occasions during this debate we have been asked to discuss the question of principle. The principle underlying this bill is to prevent the export of gold, so that our credit overseas may be regulated from this end, and our gold reserve held against the note issue. What violation is there of that principle so long as the gold is kept here, and is available for the credit of Australia? It seems to me that an unseemly struggle is taking place in this chamber with a view to rendering it possible to acquire a half million pounds held in specie for the purpose of protecting the poorer people of Australia. Some of my friends have not passed through the number of crises that I have witnessed, and a great deal of rhodomontade is talked about country districts. Is it the purpose of some people to allow any section of the community to take the risk that will arise if this bill is passed?  Senator Daly  claims that the power to take gold should be general. Where do the runs on savings banks occur ? 
There would be less danger to a savings bank in Sydney than there would be to a savings bank in Perth or Adelaide, because the note which  Senator Sampson  was good enough to flourish in the chamber a few moments ago is convertible in Sydney only. We had experience of runs on banks during the war, and in 1893. I have seen them allayed by the prompt and bold, but absolutely effective, means of distributing gold lavishly to those who came in to claim it. 
I did not know that there was a panic in Sydney. Some honorable senators have tried to draw a red herring across the trail by differentiating between a small centre in South Australia called Orroroo, and Adelaide. Has anyone ever heard of a run on a bank in an outlying district? In 1893 there was no panic in country districts. The  chairman  of the trustees of the Bank of South Australia has occupied the position for 22 years. He has had experience of crises and has preserved this gold in the interests of the 400,000 depositors in the bank. Panics do not occur in country districts; they always occur among the least level-headed people in the community, those who reside in urban areas and are in close touch with the morning press. They get unduly excited and foresee the possibility of some great calamity overtaking them. Like  Senator Sampson  I should not have the slightest hesitation in taking a Commonwealth note. But savings bank depositors are not conversant with the note issue and its gold backing, and history has an unfortunate habit of repeating itself. We should take warning from our experience and not place the savings banks at a disadvantage. 
Yes, in the early stages of the war a run on the savings bank in Adelaide occurred for no earthly reason. The depositors were paid in gold and did not know what to do with it. It all came back to the bank a few clays afterwards. But the point I make is that if the gold had not been available the panic would not have been allayed. I am personally satisfied with the Australian note, but we must remember that in dealing with savings bank depositors, we are dealing with the mass. 
That is so. The depositors are looking after their own interests. It may be that they have in the savings banks all that stands between them and absolute poverty. The credit of the Commonwealth would not be affected if the savings banks were allowed to retain their gold reserves. It has been urged that if the State savings banks are exempted from the operation of the measure, the private trading banks should be treated similarly; but I remind the committee that the latter maintain their gold reserves for the very reason that prompted the introduction of this bill, namely, the establishing of overseas credit for their customers, and, by the way, they make money out of the business. The State Savings Bank of South Australia holds its gold for the protection of the rank and file of its depositors, and in order to allay any feeling of uneasiness as to its ability to pay in gold. If it did not keep this money in its vaults, it could earn at least 5¼ per cent. for it, so actually it is losing £10,000 a year by maintaining its gold reserve in liquid form. 
And that, I suggest, would be a most dangerous practice to adopt in a time of crisis. In the early years of the war, as I have previously shown, the existence of this gold reserve in the State Savings Bank of South Australia averted a threatened financial panic. Certain honorable senators appear to have a good deal of sympathy for these State institutions, but are not prepared to vote for the amendment, which is simply an act of justice to them. 
SenatorO'Halloran. - How many of the State savings banks have asked for this amendment? 
The trustees of the State Savings Bank of South Australia have asked for it, and I understand that the Victorian State Savings Bank authorities also desire it. 
I was given to understand that the Victorian State Savings Bank desired the inclusion of this amendment. The trustees of this bank consider that the existence of this gold reserve is necessary to ensure the  stability of the institution. Once every year the depositors of the bank are advised that it is available over the counter if they ask for it. This is an important factor in stabilizing the finances of that institution. Something has been said about the bank's fears that the position in future may not be so well safeguarded. I am assured that these fears are not imaginary; that there is good reason for them. Having regard to the small amount involved, I cannot understand the reluctance of the Government to accept the amendment. 
It was never intended that the Parliament should interfere with the State savings banks. 
 I am somewhat disappointed at the attitude of a number of honorable senators who have spoken in favour of the amendment. It seems to me that the issue is so simple that it is not worth all the oratory that has been heard in this chamber this evening. Perhaps, like a well-known countryman of mine, I am out of step with the rest of the army, but I feel that I must stand to my own views on this subject. We are-all agreed that it is desirable that the Commonwealth Bank should be authorized to mobilize our gold resources. Why, then, should there be any exemption ? The State savings banks have no more right to exemption than have the trading banks, or other financial institutions. If I thought the bill contained a menace to any of our financial concerns, I should vote for the amendment. If the gold is mobilized, the institutions which hand it over will receive the equivalent value in Commonwealth notes, and the whole of the resources of the Commonwealth will be behind the notes. 
It would be in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank, and if, unhappily, a rush did take place at any time, the Commonwealth notes would be legal tender, so there should be no danger of a crisis. Since the gold reserve of the State Savings Bank of South Australia is only a little over £200,000, it would soon be mopped up in a financial panic of any magnitude. I suppose that it is the reserve for at least £30,000,000 or £40,000,000 of liabilities. That being so it could not stave off much of a rush. I consider that it would be unsound business practice for the Government to accept the amendment. 
 I could have understood the great concern of  Senator McLachlan  with regard to this matter, if we had been legislating along these lines, say, 25 years ago, when the political troglodytes in this community thought that the Labour party could do nothing in the way of finance administration. The people of Australia have beeneducated since then, and I am sure that the majority do not bother much about whether they have gold or notes paid out to them. I have not had a sovereign in my pocket for the last ten years, and I am not conscious of being any the worse off because of that fact.  Senator McLachlan  has told us that the depositors in the State Savings Bank of South Australia have an opportunity every Christmas time to see this gold reserve of £200,000. Not one person in 50,000 sees it. 
Well, if the bill passes in  its  present form that gold will be mobilized by the Commonwealth Bank, and the depositors of the State Savings Bank of South Australia will know that it is in good hands, and is being used in the service of their country. We are all accustomed to notes, silver and copper as currency within the Commonwealth, and no one has the slightest fear that his financial status is endangered simply because he is not handling gold. I am certain that if the trustees of the State Savings Bank of South Australia were in the gallery tonight, they would be highly amused at all the dust which  Senator McLachlan  is kicking up about this little matter. 
 I do not feel any enthusiasm for the provisions of the bill, but I am strongly opposed to the amendment, the effect of which will be to differentiate in favour of a particular class of bank. It seems to me that those honorable senators who have spoken in support of the amendment have not grasped its full significance. It is not proposed that the Commonwealth Bank shall commandeer the gold. On the contrary, it will issue notes in exchange for it, and since we have had so many years' experience of notes in circulation, I cannot believe that even the people of Adelaide have any doubt as to their face value. I am sure, therefore, that SenatorMcLachlan has given expression to a fear which does not and never did exist in the minds of the depositors, in either the State Savings Bank of South Australia or the private trading banks in that State. 
 I should not have risen again but for the references that have been made to the bank failures in Sydney in 1893. I happened to be in Sydney at the time, and I have a clear recollection of what happened then. At that time, there were about 22 banks doing business in Sydney, and all but four of them closed their doors. It was not the ability to pay the gold that saved them. They weathered the storm because the Government, led by  Sir George  Dibbs, convened a special meeting of Parliament, in order to make the notes issued by the private trading banks legal tender. There were also two savings banks in operation at that time - the Barrack-street Savings Bank, under the control of trustees, and the New South Wales Post Office Savings Bank. A wild Irishman, named Arthur Desmond, went to the Barrack-street Savings Bank and chalked on the wall in big letters, "Gone bung." The panic which ensued was only allayed when the then Premier of New South Wales mounted the steps of the bank and notified the depositors that the Government of the State would stand behind the bank and see that every one was paid. That stopped the panic. The only way in which gold figured on that occasion was when the Premier said that he would introduce legislation to make notes legal tender only on the condition that one bank, whose financial positon was very insecure - I think it was the City Bank - should not close its doors. The other three banks took their spare gold to the 
City Bank, and thus the fears of its depositors were allayed. So far as the banks generally were concerned, notwithstanding all the gold at their command, the panic would have been complete had not notes been made a legal tender. We have heard a good deal about the Savings Bank of South Australia, and also certain rumours regarding the Victorian State Savings Bank, but we have been given no indication that the other State Savings Banks are in a great state of apprehension regarding this measure. The New South Wales Government Savings Bank has more at stake than has the Savings Bank of South Australia, but the trustees of that institution are not perturbed about the Government's proposal. 
There is no great demand for gold. The great majority of the people will not be bothered with it so long as they are convinced of the stability of the note issue. I decline to think that the majority of the people of South Australia are more superstitious than are the people of the other States, or that they will become hysterical because this bill has been introduced. Indeed, the majority of depositors in our savings banks are probably unaware of the existence of any gold reserve. I am convinced that there is no general feeling of uneasiness regarding the security of Commonwealth notes. Actually the security of depositors in State Savings Banks is greater with Commonwealth notes in reserve, because the Commonwealth is greater than any one State. 
, -  I listened with interest to  Senator Rae's  account of the panic which occurred in Sydney in 1893, when several banks closed their doors. I do not think that the panic at the Barrack-street Savings Bank occurred at the same time. I remember that occasion well. It was indeed, serious, although  Senator Rae  spoke lightly of it, saying that it was only a flutter. 
It was a serious happening. People fought their way into the bank to withdraw their money, and when they came out the " hawks " robbed  them of it. The " run " lasted all one afternoon and the next day. People fought like wolves to get into the bank; those who were unsuccessful the first day were there first thing the next morning to get their money. I do not want to see another such panic. It was not the insignificant episode that  Senator Rae  would have us believe. The excitement and the rush bathed the depositors in perspiration. They felt that their savings were in jeopardy. 
It was in 1893 that  Sir George  Gibbs sought to make notes legal tender, because a number of banks were affected. I do not think the savings bank panic occurred at the same time. 
I know that within a very short period four or five banks closed their doors. I was only a lad at the time, but the sights I saw on that occasion made such an impression on me that I hope they will never be repeated in Australia. 
 The Government cannot accept  the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce).  The amendments proposed by the honorable senator have been circulated among honorable senators, and I have intimated to him that I am prepared to accept that one which provides that the board shall report to the Treasurer upon the application and shall state in such report whether it approves or disapproves of the application. That is the next amendment to be moved by  Senator Sir George  Pearce. Its object is to allay any fear that the Treasurer is about to do something without consultation with the board. It is all very well for  Senator Pearce  simply to attempt to brush aside the whole principle by- conjuring up the suggestive phrase of " foreign exchange". I again urge upon honorable senators that the amendment involves a departure from the British executive system of government, cloak it as the right honorable senator will. I ask  Senator Pearce  is it because there is a Commonwealth Bank in existence that the Treasurer is not to regulate foreign exchange, or is it the general principle to which exception is taken ? 
Did I not understand the right honorable senator to say that he would not like to see the matter of foreign exchange ever become a governmental function? 
This is not a regulation of foreign exchange. 
It is not. I have already stated its objective, and  Senator McLachlan  has given his views on the subject. 
This is one pf the means proposed to be taken for the purpose of trying to right the position in which we find ourselves. The matter as to how far the nation, qua nation, can go in the righting of that position is a function of the executive government. 
No. He said that it was to try to put the ship of state on an even keel. Our financial position is so bad that it is necessary to mobilize the gold, to prevent matters from becoming more acute. I do not care if the mobilization of gold is for the distinct purpose of attempting to stabilize the foreign exchange. What has to be done under this provision is unquestionably an executive act.  Senator Pearce  said that the matter of discrimination should not be left to the Treasurer; that it would have a semblance of politics about it, .and that we should give the people an assurance that the matter will' be controlled by an outside body. I ask the right honorable senator who would exercise discretion as to the export of gold, if this portion of the measure never became law - the Commonwealth Bank or the Minister for Trade and Customs? Of course, it would be the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
To what? 
Broadly speaking, that section gives "him the right to prohibit the export of gold if in his opinion it is in the interests of the nation to do so. Sub-section 1 of section 112 of the Customs Act 1901-1923 provides that the Governor-General may by proclamation prohibit exportation of any goods. 
The act also provides that- 
Any proclamation made under paragraph (6) and sub-section (1a) shall be notified to each House within seven days of the issue of such proclamation if the Parliament is in session, but if not in session within seven days after the meeting of Parliament. 
That does not affect the principle. The amendment of the Leader of the Opposition is not to the effect that the issue of a proclamation shall be notified to each House of Parliament. 
Yes. My point is that the control, with certain limitations, rests in the executive, but the limitations are those of Parliament. Parliament is the only authority which can veto the act of the Minister, but the Leader of the Opposition wishes to give the Commonwealth Bank Board that right of veto. It is a dangerous procedure to provide that the Treasurer of this country, who has the right to do certain things, for which he is subject to the criticism of this Parliament, or upon whose acts the fate of the Government may depend shall, in the exercise of this discretion, be subject to the consent of some other authority which is not under the control of this Parliament. Honorable senators opposite, of course, believe that our national credit should not be tampered with, but under the amendment complete control can be taken from the Treasurer. In the interests of the nation the Treasurer might decide that the export of gold should be prohibited; but the board, which is not controlled by Parliament, might hold a different view. 
I anticipated that interjection. The Executive believes that a proclamation should not be issued until the Commonwealth Bank has first sounded a note of warning ; but it is the Executive Council which is to decide whether a proclamation shall be issued. 
There is no obligation upon the Government to issue a proclamation even after the warning. With whom rests the discretion of issuing a proclamation ? The Government does not object to the Treasurer being advised by the Commonwealth Bank Board, as proposed in a further amendment circulated by the Leader of the Opposition, as the procedure would be the same as operates when the Executive Council, after receiving advice, issues a proclamation. The Commonwealth Bank Board reports to the Government that a proclamation should be issued and discretion has to be exercised by some one. Why should the Governor-General have the final right? 
Of course; but of the contention of the Leader of the Opposition is correct, why should not the board have the right to issue a proclamation? Would it not be possible for the members of the Executive Council to be so tainted with party politics as to act in a party spirit? Why did not the Leader of the Opposition make his second amendment read in such a way that the discretion of the Governor-General would be fettered by the board? He was prepared to fetter the power in the one case, but not in the other, because to do so would be to affront the Governor-General. But the insertion of those words in this instance is an affront to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth. Politically biased as all are, we are given discretion in one instance, but in another a totally different system' is suggested. Honorable senators opposite have accepted as a recognized principle of British legislation that the Executive should be the authority responsible to Parliament, and that we should not delegate to boards and commissions beyond the control of Parliament that work which the people sent us here to perform. 
We are prepared to accept it in both instances. 
We have agreed to accept his further amendment in regard to the -board reporting to the Treasurer upon an application and stating in its report whether it approves or disapproves of the application. The board's opinion is obtained under sub-clause 3. But what happens. Sub-section 1 provides that where after the receipt of a recommendation from the board, the GovernorGeneral is of the opinion that it is expedient so to do, a proclamation may issue prohibiting the export of gold. What greater power should the bank in one case have over the executive . than in the other? If the Government had inserted the words, " Governor-General " where the word " Treasurer " appears in the proposed new sub-section now under consideration no objection would have been raised by honorable senators opposite. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator's time has expired. 
I do not know why the Leader of the Government  (Senator Daly)  has become so excited. 
The Minister seems to think that the amendment has a personal bearing on the Government and the Treasurer. 
I think I can show that it is drafted upon a very definite principle which is already incorporated in this legislation. The Minister contends that the amendment is an infraction of the principle of executive government, and destroys an essential quality in the British system of parliamentary government. I am as anxious as is the Minister to preserve that principle which makes the executive responsible to Parliament for the exercise of a discretion which may he vested in a government by an act of Parliament. In this proposed new section two principles are involved. One is of major importance, and provides that a proclamation may be issued prohibiting the export of gold. But before the discretion reposed in the Government can be exercised, a recommendation must be made by an expert authority, which, in this instance, is the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank. If that board recommends a general prohibition of the export of gold the executive council makes its recommendation, and a proclamation is, or is not, issued by the Governor- 
General. The Government has the discretion to accept or reject the recommendation of the board. That preserves the principle of executive authority. 
Yes, the executive council then exercises that power with a full sense of its responsibility to Parliament, and through the Parliament, to the people. There is also a minor principle involved. In some instances there may be cause for permitting the export of gold. The procedure could be made exactly the same, and presumably the opinion of the Commonwealth Bank Board would be sought. Surely it is not derogatory to the dignity of the Government or the personal honour or prestige of the Treasurer, if in a matter which is highly technical and might require expert consideration, it is provided that an application for consent to export gold shall first of all run the gauntlet of the Commonwealth Bank Board, and that that board shall have the right to offer any objection, when the Treasurer will then exercise his discretion in fulfilment of the principle of executive authority. 
We reach the same result. In the first instance, a proclamation may be issued on the recommendation of the board. I do not know what is in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The phraseology of the amendment is different from that in which the principle is expressed in the major provision. 
But it is surely not beyond our capacity to devise something which will meet the sensitiveness of the Minister and yet provide that applications for consent to export gold shall first come to the Commonwealth Bank, that the bank shall make its recommendation, and that the Treasurer shall then exercise his discretion. 
The result is the same. I suggest to my honorable and learned friend that the principle of executive control is assured even in the way this amendment is drafted, because it gives to the Treasurer the final responsibility. 
It seems to me that it ought to be possible for us to reconcile our differences. If the Leader of the Senate is prepared to make it a condition precedent to the approval of the Treasurer for the export of gold, that there must first be the recommendation and the consent of the board, I think honorable senators would be prepared to agree to that. 
The Treasurer exercises his discretion. 
It is not incumbent upon the Treasurer to permit of the export of gold even if it is recommended by the board. 
If the amendment suggested by  Senator Pearce  would be more acceptable to the Government in the form I have suggested, I conceive that the Leader of the Opposition would have no objection to the alteration so so long as provision is made for a recommendation from the bank board before the Treasurer gives his approval. 
The position would then be that if the bank disapproved the Treasurer could give consent, or if the bank approved the Treasurer might withhold his consent. What strikes me most is that if the Government requires expert advice in respect of the major principle involved it is wise, and for the protection of the Treasurer, to provide that he shall obtain that advice also on the minor subject. I cannot understand the Treasurer being anxious to accept the onerous responsibility of being called upon to make invidious distinctions. I am, however, prepared to support an amendment along the lines I have suggested and I ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  whether it would meet with his concurrence. 
Progress reported. 
This morning I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, a series of questions including the following: - 
Is it a fact that the Municipal Council of Richmond, in the electorate represented by the Prime Minister, has sent a letter congratulating the Government on having abolished compulsory training, but regretting that all military training has not been abolished? 
If so, what reply (if any) has been sent to that council ? 
Would not the expression of such a sentiment greatly prejudice voluntary recruiting in that electorate? 
Is it a fact That the Municipal Council of Fitzroy has expressed itself as being against granting any assistance to or encouragement of the present voluntary system of training? 
The Minister's answer, as given by the Assistant Minister, was -  1, 2, 3, and 4. I have  no  knowledge of this. 
The questions I asked were based on matter published in the press, and there should have been no difficulty in getting information on the point. It is of great public interest that this matter should be cleared up, if only for the sake of recruiting, which is likely to be affected in the municipalities of Richmond and Fitzroy. I ask now if it is not possible for further particulars to be obtained. 
 The questions asked by the honorable senator this morning were founded on press reports. We know that there is no truth in many press reports. The honorable senator's request for information was sent to the proper quarter, and when the Minister replied that he had no knowledge of the matter, I naturally assumed that his department knew nothing about it, and that there was no correspondence in existence on the subject. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate  adjourned at  11.8 p.m. 
Yesterday I addressed a series of questions to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence with reference to a report that the Municipal Councils of Richmond and Fitzroy had expressed certain views concerning voluntary military service in the Commonwealth. I raised the question again on the adjournment last night and I now ask the Minister if he is in a position to furnish me with a reply? 
I have not yet received any information on the subject mentioned by the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a special Commonwealth  Government Gazette  was issued on the 10th December permitting unlicensed British ships of not legs than 10,000 tons and of a speed of not less than 14 knots to carry passengers between Hobart and the ports of Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne? 
Will the Government extend the same facilities between Townsville and Brisbane and the ports of Sydney and Melbourne? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Yes, such a  Gazette  notice was published on 9th December, 1929. 
No. TheGazette notice referred to is being revoked and permits for individual vessels will be issued when circumstances warrant such action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government has suspended the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act to permit overseas snips, including British mail boats, to carry passengers between Hobart and the ports of Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne? 
Will the Government similarly suspend the operation of the said Act between Fremantle and the four ports mentioned? 
If not, why not? 
A  Gazette  notice was issued permitting British oversea ships above a certain tonnage and speed to carry passengers between the ports mentioned by the honorable member for a prescribed period. 
and 3. No. The  Gazette  notice referred to is being revoked and permits for individual vessels will be issued when circumstances warrant such action. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Loan Council have unanimously decided that the Financial Agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and the States ought to be amended; if so, will the Government seize the opportunity presented by the re-opening of the Agreement to fulfil its promise to revert to  per capita  payments to the States when it was returned to power? 
The honorable the Prime Minister supplies the following answer to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
The Loan Council considers that a minor amendment should be made in one of the machinery clauses of the Financial Agreement, so as to facilitate the working of the Agreement. The question of reverting to  per  capita payments is a matter of policy and cannot be dealt with in reply to  a  question. 
Following a discussion which took place in this chamber on Tuesday, I interviewed the Prime Minister, and placed before him the views which you,  Mr. President,  expressed, together with the views of the Senate. The position has now been rectified. Both Houses will now have the representation to which they are entitled, so there is no need for the further postponement of this motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This morning I intimated to the right honorable Leader of the Opposition that following on the discussion which was originated last night by  Senator Lawson,  the Government was prepared to accept the principle that applications should be made to the Board which would then make a recommendation to the Treasurer, and I furnished him with the draft of a proposed new sub-section which would be more consistent with the language of sub-section (1) than is the one now submitted by him. Under my proposal sub-section (2) will stand as printed. I understand the Leader of the Opposition has no objection to that. Subsections (3) and (4) will be struck out. For the purposes of interpretation it is better to adhere as closely as possible to the language of the preceding sub-section as the principle contained in it is the same. My suggested amendment reacts - 
Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board the Treasurer is of opinion that it is expedient so to do, he may in his absolute discretion approve or refuse approval to any application under this section. 
Last night  Senator Lawson  urged that it would be inconsistent for the Government to act on the recommendation of the Board in one instance and not to be guided by its recommendation' in another, and the honorable senator suggested that we might bring sub-section (4) into conformity, from the point of view of principle, with sub-section (1). Accordingly I instructed the Parliamentary Draftsman to prepare an amendment which would meet the objections that had been raised, and I now ask the Leader of the Opposition to withdraw his amendment, on my assurance that I will then submit the one which I have outlined. 
 It seems to me that the amendment suggested by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  contains a great deal of unnecessary verbiage - though possibly there is not a great deal of difference in principle, between it and the one submitted by the Leader of thb Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce),  whose amendment reads: - 
The Treasurer on the recommendation of the Board may approve of any application made under this section. 
Once a proclamation is issued under proposed new section 7c the export of gold is forbidden except under certain conditions. All that is required is approval. I suggest to  Senator Daly  that the draft amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition is really more in harmony with the position J;han that prepared by the Parliamentary Draftsman. It is difficult to gather from the language of the latter what is referred to. It reads - " Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board." A recommendation to what effect ? What is to be guarded is the export of gold, and approval has to be gained. That is the only thing to be done, not the granting of a recommendation refusing export. Wo active thing has to be done by the Treasurer until he approves. If he does not approve, that is the end of it. 
Surely the honorable senator does not propose to debate the definition of the word " may." The words " in his absolute discretion " carry the matter no further. It is for the Treasurer to say whether he approves or disapproves. The final decision rests with him. The Government's amendment reads - 
Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board the Treasurer is of opinion that it is expedient so to do he may in his absolute discretion . . . . 
I think that that discretion is provided for in the language of the amendment moved by  Senator Sir George  Pearce. As it is only a matter of draftsmanship that is concerned, I hope that we shall be able to agree on the subject. If, as I believe is the case, a similar objective is in the minds of both the Vice-President of the 
Executive Council and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, it is better to express that objective in the language of  Senator Pearce's  amendment. With all respect to the gentleman who designed the amendment put forward by the Government, I submit- that it is not so clear and to the point as that submitted by the Leader of the Opposition. 
What is this "recommendation"? It is indicated in  Senator Pearce's  amendment as a recommendation that approval shall be granted. Gold can be exported only with the approval of the Treasurer. If the Treasurer is silent or refuses to approve of the export that is the end of it. The recommendation that is here suggested is one to refuse or to approve. There is no call for that because the only active step that the Treasurer has to take is togrant approval. Refusal is simply sitting still, and is already provided for in the bill. All that we are striving to deal with are the conditions that should prevail when approval is to be given to the export of gold. I suggest again to the Leader of the Government in the Senate that the language used in  Senator Pearce's  amendment is more apt, in the circumstances, than that put forward by the draftsman. 
That of the draftsman reads " Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board," while that by  Senator Pearce  reads, " The Treasurer on the recommendation of the Board." The Board has to recommend the approval in both cases. The amendment of the draftsman continues, " the Treasurer is of the opinion that it is expedient so to do." So to do what? "He may in his absolute discretion approve or refuse approval to any application under this section." The Government is asking him to do something in the way of a refusal. There is no necessity for that. I have it quite plainly in my own mind that the positive action of the Treasurer is approval.  No  other action is necessary by him. In order to approve he must have the recommendation of the board. We all desire that. Is that not provided for by 

 Senator Pearce in the clearest and most unambiguous language? On the other hand there is dragged in a recommendation to refuse, or a recommendation to approve. I do not see that there is any necessity for the multiplicity of words employed in the amendment submitted by the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 
I believe that it is an established practice that if an amendment submitted by the Government is in principle the same as one suggested by the Opposition, and from the point of clarity, both are equal, the Government's amendment is accepted. I appreciate the position in which  Senator McLachlan  finds himself.  Senator Pearce  has claimed that he has expressed his amendment in the clearest manner, and  Senator McLachlan,  loyal to his leader, is trying to make out a good case for the right honorable senator. I ask honorable senators to sit in judgment on the two amendments, and to decide whether ambiguity exists in that submitted by the Government. 
I am not aware that  Senator McLachlan  has any greater attributes of draftsmanship than those possessed by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Draftsman. 
We want to provide that a condition precedent to the export of gold is a recommendation from the Commonwealth Bank Board. I see no objection to accepting the amendment moved by the Vice-President of the Executive Council. But I suggest an alteration, and I feel confident that the honorable senator will agree to it. I suggest that the amendment should read - 
Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the board for. such approval the Treasurer is of opinion that it is expedient so to do he may in his absolute discretion approve any application. 
The words " refuse approval " are not needed because, as has been pointed out, positive action is necessary to allow any export. Otherwise the original proclamation stands. We have got to a position where all export of gold is prohibited. The Treasurer has to exercise a definite discretion in favour of permitting the export of some gold. If he does nothing, that is tantamount to saying that the proclamation stands. If the Leader of the Government in the Senate will amend his amendment in the way that I have suggested - and I may add that I have consulted the Parliamentary Draftsman in regard to the matter - I think that the phrasing will meet his desire and leave everything absolutely clear. I am sure that the Leader of the Government does not mind who moves the amendment. We all prefer that the suggestion should come from the Government, as we are anxious to co-operate with it in making the measure that which we all desire. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia)  [11.26]. -  I now move - 
That sub-sections 3 and 4, proposed new section 7c, be left out and the following new sub-section be inserted in lieu thereof: - " 4. Where after the receipt of a recommendation from the Board for such approval the Treasurer is of opinion that it is expedient so to do he may in his absolute discretion approve of any application under this section." 
I think that  Senator Daly  will agree that that is not making any material alteration to what he desires to express. 
 I desire to voice a grievance. While there has been an elaborate collaboration going on between the high commands on both sides of the chamber, the rank and file have not been taken into their confidence. I am inclined to ask  Senator Rae  if he cannot form a union to see that our rights are properly protected. 
On behalf of the down-trodden portion of the Senate, who have not had the advantage of the collaboration that has taken place between the brass hats, I wish to describe the position that, I believe, has been arrived at after the conference' of the wise heads. I understand that what will take place with regard to the export or otherwise of gold is that the Government will take no action until it receives a recommendation from the Commonwealth Bank Board. According to the wording of proposed new section 7c that recommendation may be for or against the export of gold. 
That makes the proposal clearer; but the drafting of amendments on the . floor of the chamber is rather dangerous. It seems that the "high commands" have reached agreement, and it is now only a matter of the words to be employed. In a major case, I understand that the Government will not move in the matter of prohibiting the export of gold, unless it has a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank, and that, even in a minor case, it cannot act without such a recommendation. 
In the case of a person who holds a small quantity of gold, the Government cannot prohibit its export unless it has a recommendation from the board. Is that what is intended? 
Then I am satisfied. 
Amendment agreed to. 
A proposed amendment has been circulated by  Senator Colebatch  to insert after sub-section 1 of proposed new section 7c, the following words : - 
Any proclamation made under this sub-section shall be notified to each House  within  seven days of the issue of such proclamation ' if the Parliament is in session, but if not in session then within seven days after the meeting of Parliament. 
The Government has given consideration to this matter, and, since it is anxious to preserve all our parliamentary institutions, it has agreed to accept the amendment. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [11.36 a.m.]. - My reason for not making any reference to this matter before was that we had not reached the stage at which the amendment could be moved. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).The  honorable senator may submit .his amendment as a proposed new section to follow proposed new section To. 
That the following new section be added - 7e. Sections 7b and 7c of this act shall not apply to any gold produced in Australia, in the ordinary course of the gold mining industry, after the coming into effect of those sections." 
I trust that the committee will not agree to the amendment moved by  Senator Colebatch.  I have every sympathy with the gold producers of Australia, but as protection has already been afforded to the gold-mining industry there is no necessity for the amendment. The bill provides that where the Treasurer is satisfied that it is expedient for the protection of the currency of the public credit of the Commonwealth to obtain particulars of gold coin and bullion held by persons in Australia, or to require the exchange of any gold so held for Australia's notes, he may do certain things. The Treasurer must be satisfied that it is expedient to acquire the gold for the protection of our currency. Would any member of the committee relieve the gold producers of, say, Western Australia, of their obligation to place the gold they produced in the coffers of the Commonwealth Bank if it were necessary for the protection of our currency? Does  Senator Colebatch  suggest that after giving the gold producers of Australia protection and encouragement the gold which they produce and which may be held by the banks or by speculators should not under such circumstances be commandeered? Under this amendment gold could be purchased and sent overseas, to China and other countries, as was done during the war when some parcels possibly reached Germany. The Treasurer, who is responsible to Parliament, has given the gold-mining industry an assurance that every consideration will be given to the industry. If it were possible to sell gold overseas at a price higher than that ruling in Australia, difficulties would arise. We are only asking the committee to give to an executive councillor the right to mobilize all gold for the protection of our currency. 
The Government will deal equitably with all interests concerned. The gold-producing companies, in a crisis, have no more right to claim a higher price for their goldthan, say, the Bank of Adelaide has a right in connexion with the gold it holds.  Senator Lynch  would not suggest that we were acting fairly if we told the board controlling the Bank of Adelaide that it should accept a lower rate than we were paying to a gold producing company. I see no valid reason why the gold-mining industry should be exempt. Gold will only be called up in the interests of the nation, and only under exceptional circumstances. Should the necessity arise, the gold producing companies and other interests must be placed on the same basis. Every section's interest must be subservient to that of the nation. If the amendment were agreed to every ounce of gold produced in Australia after the passing of this measure would be exempt. 
 Mr. Maughan,  who represents the mining interests in this community, has been informed that should a proclamation be issued special consideration will be given to the gold producers in connexion with the export of gold. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [11.55]. - If the Minister is willing to accept an amendment to the effect that gold produced after the passing of this measure shall be commandeered by the Government only at its value in the world's market, I shall, by leave of the committee, withdraw the amendment now under consideration. I do not believe that the gold produced after the passing of this measure should be mobilized and sold below its value in the world's market. Will the Minister agree to such an amendment? 
I should like to know if the honorable senator is referring to the price to be paid to the man who actually recovers the gold or to a subsequent purchaser who may be a speculator. 
Immediately the gold left the fields it would have to be mobilized at its then value. I do not see how, otherwise, we can give protection to particular persons by whom the gold is received. With regard to the speculators, it is equitable for the Treasurer to inform them that as they are using gold for the same purpose as it is being used by trading banks it must be acquired. 
It is not the intention of the Government to do anything to retard the progress of gold-mining in Australia. The Government has found that it cannot exempt the production to which reference has been made, and has given the gold mining industry an assurance in the direction I have already indicated. If a proclamation were issued, consideration would be given to the position of the gold-mining industry, and beyond that I do not think the committee should ask the Government to go. If the present or any other Treasurer should deal unfairly with the gold producers. Parliament has the power to deal with the Government of which the Treasurer is a member. The amendment provides a means whereby gold could leave the country and the nation thus be deprived of the benefit it wishes to secure. The object of this measure is the compulsory acquisition of gold, but only in certain circumstances set out in the bill. Honorable senators will see that unless we took power to compulsorily acquire al] gold recovered after the passing of this act the Bank of Adelaide, for instance, could hold stocks awaiting a rise in price. 
Immediately a proclamation is issued in order to protect our currency, we should be able to commandeer all gold, and it is not likely that a price below its market value would be offered. If an amendment could be framed by which the actual producer of the gold could be protected, I should be glad to give it consideration, but I invite honorable senators to realize the difficulties which surround any attempt to bring about a practical solution of such a problem. I think they will appreciate the fact that the only way in which it could be done would be to authorize the Government to collect the gold immediately it was produced, or force the mining companies to sell it immediately on the world's markets; because once gold is sold every ounce can be held by speculators, and when the Government seeks to acquire it for the nation's interest it will have to pay through the nose for it. 
There is no legislation to the effect. 
.- This bill singles out the gold producer for exceptional treatment. Every other producer can sell his produce on the open market, but the gold producer will not have a free market. I do not endorse everything that  Senator E.  B. Johnston, said yesterday, but the fact remains that during the war period the gold producers of Australia were penalized to a very substantial amount if not to the greater part of the £2,000,000 mentioned by the honorable senator, and now we have a bill which  says plainly that one set of producers in Australia, those who produce gold, are to be singled out to serve the public interest by being refused a free market for their produce. Why is this to be done? Surely gold miners have done enough already to serve the public interest, and ought not to be penalized further? 
In ordinary times gold producers of Australia have not been content to depend upon the local market for the disposal of their product. They have sold it in London, because a better market can be obtained there, and surely they are not to be blamed for having done so. Now, however, they are to be prevented from going to the London market. 
Yes, but in the past  the  largest mining companies of Western Australia sent their product to London, just as the producers of wool, wheat and other products have done, and are still doing, and what they have every right to do. Under this bill when gold is surrendered to the Commonwealth Bank no more than a stated price will be given for it. 
Yes. 
During the war and for a long time afterwards, it was nothing but the world's premium that enabled the gold mines of Western Australia to keep going. Under this bill, however, the gold producers will not enjoy the advantage of getting the world's premium. The letter quoted by  Senator Daly  is worthless. He has admitted that one Treasurer cannot bind another. What, therefore, is the value of any Treasurer's assurance? 
The difference between the world's price, and it is at a premium to-day, and the mint price. The mines of Western Australia could not keep going but for the fact that the world gives them . a premium above the mint price of gold. The gold producers should not be singled out for penal treatment without some compensation, such as that which has been outlined in the amendment submitted by  Senator Colebatch,  giving the gold producer the market price for his product, just as the wheat producer gets the market price for his. If that reasonable solution of the problem is not adopted the gold-miners will suffer injustice, and on every occasion in the future they will be entitled to seek a remedy. This bill will pin the gold-miner down to an arrangement to which his fellow producers are not asked to commit themselves. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly),  gave the whole case away when he admitted that one Treasurer could not bind another. The only remedy is to embody the Treasurer's assurance in an act of Parliament, which, under our present social system, is the only thing upon which a citizen can rely. Parliaments and Treasurers may come and go, but an act of Parliament remains. 
Yes, but it is there until it is repealed. Acts of Parliament prevent men from breaking their word. "We must have some provision in this bill setting out the conditions under which the gold producers shall live in the future, and if the Government is willing, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate has given us to understand it is, to make an exception in the case of the gold producer, then it should be put in black and white. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [12.10]. - The objection the Leader of the Senate has raised to my amendment is based on fallacious premises. He suggests that if the gold producers are allowed to send gold out of Australia they may do great injury to the Commonwealth. As a matter of fact, every ounce of gold that leaves Australia serves to stabilize Australia's credit abroad, and to that extent reduces the necessity for legislation of this type. 
 Senator Colebatch  has spoken of fallacious arguments.  His  own argument is certainly fallacious. He assumes that immediately the bill becomes law all gold in Australia will be mobilized, and that if we could suddenly discover a gold-mine capable of producing millions of pounds worth of gold, and could ship that gold overseas, our credit would be immediately restored. 
I admit that. But no government would mobilize any more gold than was necessary to carry out the expressed will of Parliament. Parliament gives instructions to the Treasurer to do certain things under specified conditions. It would not be for him to go around Australia and mobilize the whole of the gold, when it was not necessary for him to do so. He will act only when he is satisfied that it is necessary to do so for  the protection of the currency, or the public credit of the Commonwealth.  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch has raised an argument in respect to the price of gold. In this connexion I invite honorable senators to study a report of the Gold Production Committee, presided over by Lord Inchcape. It deals with this question of price. 
Yes, but certain' disabilities were placed before it, and it dealt with them, and also the point raised by  Senator Lynch,  the exchange of gold and notes. 
In respect of the price of gold, this is what the committee said - 
To give more for an ounce of gold than it ia worth in currency appears to us out of the question, except on the supposition that we want gold for the purpose of keeping it locked up and available for export; we cannot, however, see any use in acquiring gold for such a purpose. 
But only in sufficient quantities to preserve our currency. Surely the Treasurer can be relied upon to mete out justice to the mining industy. An amendment in this or any other form suggested up to the present by  Senator Colebatch  will compel the Government to pay more for every ounce of gold; The provision in paragraph  a  of subsection 3, 7b states - 
The equivalent of gold coin shall be the nominal value thereof, and of gold bullion shall be  £8  17s. I Old. per ounce of the standard content of the bullion. 
Yes. The currency committee to which I have referred states further - 
There is one other matter on which we think it right to make some observations. There appears to exist a widespread impression that, in some way, a gold mine-owner has suffered unfair treatment, that, in the words of one of our witnesses, he has been " damnified " by the action of the Government. It is, apparently, widely thought that he has been compelled to deliver the whole of his products to the Government, and that he has suffered by the issue of currency notes. It seems to us that had not the Bank of England been willing to take his products, he would have been unable to market them at all during the war, or, at most, only to a very limited extent, and we have ascertained that, so. far from it being the case that any pressure was exercised upon him by the Government, he accepted readily an arrangement under which the Bank of England agreed to take the whole of his products. 
During the war, as no doubt  Senator Lynch  knows, a fair quantity of our gold went to China, and it is possible that some portion of it percolated through to Germany. 
No one can say where it went. The Government is prepared to give careful consideration to every proposal put forward with the object of assisting the gold-mining industry. 
I believe in a free market for all products; but if it is in the interests of the nation to acquire any product, that course must be taken. 
Unless we insert in the bill a provision for the compulsory acquisition of gold on the mines, the gold will get into the hands of speculators. I have not heard of any widespread distrust as to the future intentions of the Treasurer. Honorable senators might leave well alone and trust the Government to mete out justice to all those persons connected with the gold-mining industry, as it does to other persons whose products are acquired in time of emergency! I ask the committee not to agree to the amendment. The Government has clearly indicated what its policy will be. Gold will not Be acquired except in case of emergency.  Senator Lynch  has objected that possibly the same guarantees may not be forthcoming from a future Treasurer. Suppose we had a double dissolution in three or four months' time. If the new Ministry had a majority in both branches of the legislature it could submit amendments to this legislation or repeal it altogether. I mention this possibility merely to show that if a Government has the numbers it is as easy to repeal an act as it is to displace a Minister. Under the Government's proposal the board will take its authority from the Treasurer to act in a time of emergency. 
The board will have discretionary power in the mobilization of gold, and if its discretion is not exercised in a lawful manner, Parliament will be in a position to apply the corrective remedy. There is no doubt about the power of the board to compel any person to furnish information under this measure and require such person to exchange his gold holding for the equivalent in Commonwealth notes. 
The -board cannot compel " any " person to do anything until it receives its authority from the Treasurer, and the Treasurer will not issue the necessary authorization unless, in his opinion, it is expedient for the protection of the currency or the" public credit of the Commonwealth to do so. The committee can safely leave this matter in the hands of the Treasurer. If it is necessary to mobilize the gold, the board will exercise its discretion and do justice to the gold-mining industry. It should be clear, however, that the interests of the Commonwealth must be paramount, even in the matter of the acquisition of any commodity. If, for example, it is considered to be in the interests of the nation that the wheat produced in Australia should be sold within the Commonwealth at a certain price, that wheat must be sold here. 
No ; unfortunately for the growers the bulk of it falls into the hands of speculators. 
And no one would be more pleased than this Government and the party supporting it if the goldmining industry could be resuscitated. But I repeat that even the interests of "Western Australia must, if the need arises, be made subservient to the interests of the nation. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [12.28]. - As one of the representatives of Western Australia, I have a particular interest in the amendment, because gold production is one of the principal industries in my State, ' and unfortunately from economic causes it has been seriously declining during the last few years. I therefore regard with some apprehension any proposal that is likely to prevent the industry from having access to a free market. There is provision in paragraphs  a  and 6, sub-section 3, for the fixing of the price of gold, at the price which gold to-day can obtain in a free market; but if the pound sterling continues- to be linked up with the English pound by the retention of the gold standard, gold in Australia cannot command a higher price than is fixed for the commodity in this country. That is its currency value. Perhaps, in eastern countries and in places where there was gold hoarding, it might be possible to obtain higher prices for small quantities of gold. I agree with  Senator Colebatch  that when this bill becomes an act it can be used to divorce our pound from the English pound by means of a departure from the gold standard. When that occurs, the price stipulated in the bill will not be the real price received for gold produced in Australia. Its price will then depend upon the value of the Australian pound note. Judging from rumours that are. in the air, if certain proposals are given effect to, it will not be very long before that eventuality comes to pass. When once we have dealt with this bill, it passes beyond our control and, as a representative of Western Australia, I feel it to be my duty to support the amendment unless some guarantee can be given by the Government and incorporated in this legislation that will secure the position of Australian gold producers. 
This Government professes to show great consideration for some of our industries. It is making a great deal of propaganda out of the extra protection given to Australian industries from the operation of a higher tariff. Is there to be favoritism in the matter? The gold industry is carried on under less advantageous climatic and geographical conditions than almost any other industry in  the country. Is it to receive no guarantee, and to be given no consideration? I suggest to the Government that there is a way in which the position may be adequately met, as has been suggested by  Senator McLachlan,  and that is by the introduction of a sliding scale of values. But it is not the duty of the Opposition to put forward the series of clauses necessary to give effect to such a scheme. It is the duty of the Government, and unless it is prepared to give some such guarantee, I feel bound to support the amendment. 
Some reference was made to the prohibition of gold during the war. That was on an entirely different footing from the legislation now before the committee. That prohibition was in the interests, not only of Australia, but of the allied nations. Our gold was finding its way through neutral countries to enemy countries, and the prohibition was imposed in order that our enemies should not use our gold to pay for the bullets that were killing our men. A great deal of fuss has been made about the alleged "gold steal." Had our gold been sold at that time in any portion of the British Empire, or in any allied country, it would not have brought1d. more per ounce than it did in Australia. The only way to obtain higher prices was to sell it to an enemy country. 
 I have listened with a great deal of interest to this discussion. The point that most impressed me was the admission by the honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly),  that the moment this proclamation is issued there will be a premium on gold; in other words, that our note issue will depreciate. The honorable senator has admitted the truth of the statements uttered by honorable senators on this side. 
If  Senator Daly  reads his speech in  Hansard  he will find that what I have said is correct. 
The honorable senator says that the moment the proclamation is issued the price of gold will rise. 
I gathered the impression that the honorable senator said that it would rise. Undoubtedly it will rise. 
Gold will be at a premium, and will become more valuable overseas than it is here. I deeply sympathize with the gold-miners in the plight in which they will find themselves. At the same time I believe that there is a way out. The prohibition of gold may be a fatal step for us to take. It is quite obvious that the product of our gold mines will be eagerly sought after, if it is still free. It is a very interesting development of this debate to find that, when the proclamation is made, all the gold may not be called up; that the Treasurer may reserve the right to pick and choose. He may commandeer the gold of the Union Bank, and at the same time exclude that of the Commercial Banking Company of Australia. The whole thing is bristling with dangers and difficulties. It is not even provided that the gold-miner will be the last man called  upon to give up his gold. It would be preferable to stipulate the order in which gold shall be called up. Apparently the whole matter is to be left to the discretion of whoever may be Treasurer. 
Undoubtedly the effect of a premium being placed on gold would be to bring about a diminution of the purchasing power of bank notes. There would be an all-round rise in the cost of wheat and other commodities. The price of gold alone would remain fixed, and that price would be paid in depreciated currency. Take an extreme case. Suppose that our £1 notes depreciated to 10s. Actually the goldminer would not receive £3 17s.- 6d. an oz. for his gold; he would receive only half that value. 
In that way there might be a solution of the difficulty. On the other hand, as has been pointed out by  Senator Colebatch,  if Ave  could in some way stimulate the production of gold or were fortunate enough to discover another Kalgoorlie, our problems would be solved, as that additional gold would go overseas, and fill the vacuum created by our false economic position over the last two or three years. But does  Senator Colebatch  seriously advance his amendment as a remedy? Can it have the effect that the honorable senator desires. 
I am very sceptical about its accomplishing the desired effect, on account of the great difficulty in keeping track of the gold. 
I might agree with the honorable senator if there was some provision that gold should be exported and not sold locally. 
Perhaps the price demanded would not induce the association to take it over. 
It would not be possible at a moment's notice to determine where it. would bring the highest price. An organization in Victoria might purchase at what would be believed to be the highest price, but the purchaser might be able to get more for it in China, India, or some other country. The whole discussion has demonstrated how very dangerous it is to interfere with the currency and banking of Australia. I hope that it will be a very long time before any step is taken to issue a proclamation. I can foresee that on that, day a very critical state of affairs will occur in Australia. I am not yet prepared to approve of the amendment, although I am sympathetically inclined towards it. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [12.42]. - I have a suggestion to place before the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly).  Unless he is willing to accept, it. I must press my amendment. But I am agreeable to waive my amendment if he is prepared to give an assurance that on the recommittal of the bill he will accept the following addition to proposed new subsection 2 of proposed new section. 
In the case of gold produced in Australia in the ordinary course of the gold-mining industry after the passing of this act, the equivalent in Australian notes shall not be less than the value of such gold in the world's market. 
The suggested amendment of  Senator Colebatch's  amendment opens up further possibilities, which will undoubtedly receive the serious consideration of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. There are one or two points connected with the arguments adduced that have given rise to some thoughts in my mind that may or may not be correct. As I understand the gold basis of currency, the standard price and the standard quality of gold are determined by the Bank of England, which inaugurated this currency, and has maintained it for a long period of years. The standard price of gold per oz. is, in the main, determined in accordance with that principle. It is true that it may be affected by certain seasonal demands or fluctuations in price caused- by a desire on the part of certain countries to hoard gold, or perhaps, as in the case mentioned by  Senator Pearce,  by an enemy country desiring to obtain gold from one of its opponents during a time of war. Taking it in the main, the price of gold is determined by the Bank of England on that standard £ basis. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.46 p.m. to 2.16 p.m. 

, -  During the luncheon adjournment I had an. opportunity to consider the amendment suggested by  Senator .Colebatch,  and to arrange for the Treasury officials to communicate with the  chairman  of the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank, from whom the following message has been received : - 
If gold bullion is shipped to London and sold to the Bank of England, payment will be made at the rate of £3 17s. 9d. per ounce of standard gold, which is equal to £4 4s. 9d. per fine ounce of gold. Gold bullion purchased from the Bank of. England is sold at the rate of £3 17s.  10½d.  per ounce of standard gold, which is equal to £4 4s. lid. per fine ounce. Apart from the Bank of England there is a market for gold in London, where persons desiring gold for export bid up to £4 4s. lOd. to £4 4s. 10)d. 
That is for fine gold. 
And the seller thus receives id. to )d. per ounce more than he would receive from the Bank of England, and the purchaser pays from  id.  to Id. less than if he had bought from the Bank of England. It will thus be seen how difficult it is to  assertain  the market rate of gold. 
That is the opinion of the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank, who is the best authority in Australia on this subject. The statement continues - 
Assuming, however, that the average premium is )d. per ounce the additional amount to be paid for new production, if requisitioned by the Commonwealth Bank, would be £1,426. This is based on the production of 456,485 fine ounces in 1928. Now that the world is on a gold standard the value of gold is uniform in all countries, and the large premiums which were obtained before the return to the gold standard ave not now. obtainable. 

 Senator Colebatch referred to the Gold Producers Association, which was once in existence for the protection of its members. 
The Gold Producers Association, which organized the export of new gold production, earned between 1919 and 1926 premiums amounting to £3,866,000, but according to  Mr. Maughan,  the secretary, that association has now ceased to exist. The scheme suggested is impracticable, and, moreover, there is no necessity for it. 
I do not think there would be even in that case. The Gold Producers Association, which  Senator Colebatch  said was brought into existence to protect the gold producers, has now ceased to function. Of course, it may be contended that up to the present there has been an unrestricted export of gold, and that the association mentioned will again function; but the world is now on a gold standard. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. I have never said that the Government intended to absolutely prohibit the export of gold.  Senator Lynch  said yesterday that unless Australia can produce more wool and wheat we shall have to find some other basis of exchange. The Government's proposals give more complete control over imports, and should assist to develop production in Australia. Our only desire is to place Australia's credit on a more scientific basis; the Government is not anxious to prevent the export of gold. If America requires food supplies it .would be wheat and not gold she would need to meet her requirements. I am now informed by the Secretary to the Treasury that the comments of the Governnor of the Commonwealth Bank in regard to the price of gold in London, apply equally to America. There are also strong objections to the proposal to embody in the bill such a provision. It would be in the way of a bonus payable out of consolidated revenue. The amendment suggested by  Senator Colebatch  will only complicate the position. In addition it will be exceedingly difficult to ascertain the market price of gold. 
I understood the references to this subject to be in connexion with the export of gold as a product. The contention of the Commonwealth Bank authorities is that with the world on the gold standard the price paid, even if this amendment were not adopted, would be on the value of gold in Australia. 
No one suggests that the values here will fall below those in London. Is it to be assumed that, because a Labour government is in power, the price of gold will drop? 
A much more drastic step was taken some years ago when Commonwealth notes were first introduced, and when it was said that there would be an immediate rush upon the banks for gold. The people of Australia, however, soon became accustomed to notes, and there does not seem to be any valid reason why the passage of this measure should have any effect -upon the price of gold. The further amendment suggested by  Senator Colebatch  is, I believe, likely to be more harmful than the amendment now before the committee, which the Government cannot accept. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [2.27]. - I submit that the message from the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank, which the Minister has just read, has no bearing whatever upon the point at issue. I am not concerned as to whether the price, which was fixed, was a correct one. The point I raised is not touched upon in the communication read by the Minister. If this measure becomes operative and the export of gold is prohibited, there will inevitably be a fall in the value of the Australian notes, and the gold producers will be compelled to accept payment in depreciated currency. 
If that were the case, would not the wheat and wool-growers be in a similar position? 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.No, because they are selling their products in the markets of the world where they receive world's parity. Under this measure we are taking away from the gold producers that privilege, and directly we do anything to depreciate the Australian note we must inevitably increase the cost of every commodity which has to be purchased in Australia. It will have the effect of increasing the cost of gold-mining operations, and having done that the Government is, in effect, telling the gold producers that they cannot receive the world"s price for their production; but that they will be paid in Commonwealth bank notes which will have depreciated. The communication, which the Minister read, is absolutely correct on the point with which it deals, but it has no bearing on the issue I have raised. If Commonwealth bank notes should depreciate - as I believe they will - the Government has no right to commandeer gold produced in this country and pay for it at less than its true value. I accept the Minister's statement that he will not have anything to do with the suggested amendment or the amendment now before the committee and I, therefore, stand by my original proposal upon which I shall divide the committee if necessary. 
 Senator Colebatch  said that this legislation will confer on the community, generally, a privilege which will be denied to those engaged in the goldmining industry. If the value of the Australian note fell, say by 50 per cent., members of the Senate would still get their £1,000 per annum, but it would be worth only £500. A man who sold his wheat would receive Australian notes. 
In theory that argument might be sound; but it would not work out that way in practice. 
In the interests of the nation it might he necessary to confiscate it. Should we reach the position which  Senator Sampson  mentioned last night, when Australia was about to put up its shutters, the gold producers would have to bear their share of the' burden. 
If the producer of wheat has to sell his wheat there is no reason why the man who produces gold should not sell his gold. The moment that the nation requires these commodities the interests of individuals must become subservient to those of the nation. 
This matter is so important that it should be discussed calmly. During the last eighteen months I have given considerable thought to the question of gold-production; and while I do not propose to inflict my views on the Senate to-day, I have formed one opinion which, I think, will be shared by honorable senators generally, namely, that it is essential that the production of gold in Australia be encouraged. My desire to stimulate gold production in this country caused me to listen carefully to what has been said to-day. In the last analysis it seems that if the effect of mobilization and prohibition of export of gold is to lessen the value of the Australian notes, that condition applies equally to gold that has been taken from all sections of the community. If the value of the £1 note falls to 10s., the effect will be felt all round. The effect of the amendment would be to depreciate our paper currency immediately. In that case, all  persons from whom gold is taken - whether producers, bankers or others - will suffer in the same way. I am at a loss to understand where any greater injustice will be done to the gold producers in the community than to any other section of the people. 
That is the case with regard to every ounce of gold taken. Seeing that this measure has been introduced on the advice of the Commonwealth Bank Board, there is nothing for us to do but follow that advice. While I cannot see that any greater injustice will be done to the gold producers than to other holders of gold, if this bill becomes law I realize that legislation of this nature might act as a deterrent to the further production of gold. But this is not the proper measure to remedy that state of affairs. Gold is different from any other commodity in this country. Unless we produce more exportable commodities than we are producing to-day, our safety lies in further gold production, for that will then be our only effective means of meeting our overseas dent. Ultimately we may have to grant a bounty or subsidy for the production of gold in order to square our position and convert part of our overseas indebtedness into an internal indebtedness. I was impressed with the suggestion made by  Senator Colebatch  that there should be a more elastic provision as to the amount which could be paid for gold produced, so that the Government might be able to mete out abstract justice, but I think that the statement of the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank meets that position. The 'one thing that remains to be answered is whether the action proposed will result in a depreciation of our paper currency. If it does, then the producer of gold will be in exactly the same category that other producers are in. Something should be done to encourage the further production of gold; but this is not the measure in which to make that provision. Unless further light can be thrown on the matter, I feel that I must vote against the amendment. 
The message from the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank has robbed me of a number of arguments which I proposed to bring forward to expose some of the fallacies uttered this morning. Apparently, the position now is that gold might have to be paid for with a deflated currency. It ill becomes the Senate that such a statement should emanate from this chamber. The object of the bill is to stabilize currency in this country ; but crying " stinking fish " about that currency before there is any need to do so is not good business. I am opposed to the amendment. The reasons  advanced in its favour are not sound. In respect of the deflation of the currency, I am reminded that " Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." When it is necessary for us to deal with that matter it will be time enough for us to consider it. I shall oppose the amendment. 
I think that honorable senators will realize, when I have placed one or two propositions before them, that the amendment is absolutely impracticable. I cannot imagine a more chaotic state of affairs, from a banking standpoint, than would arise if the amendment were carried, and this legislation automatically ceased at a certain date. In the meantime, all the gold in Australia would be in the vaults of the Commonwealth Bank, and the private banks would be holding our notes. What would happen on the 31st December, 1930, if this measure were not renewed? 
That is true, but the Commonwealth Bank, in order to establish our credit overseas, may have transferred gold overseas. 
The Government may be satisfied with the existing legislation. 
But there ought to be no occasion to re-enact it. It is most important that Parliament should have an absolutely free hand. In February next, Parliament may be satisfied that the legislation it has passed is wrong, and needs amending. To give the bill twelve months' life is, therefore, unnecessary. 
The Government should not be placed in the position of having its legislation, as it were, in the laps of the gods. It is better to pass a measure without any limit to the period of its operation, so that its provisions may continue in force until- they are replaced by other legislation, and so that there will be no chaotic interregnum. It is always open to any member of Parliament to move for the repeal of existing legislation. We can initiate legislation in the Senate. 
Just as another place can force us to face our masters, so also can we force them to face their masters. 
In theory that is the position. 
If we send a bill to the House of Representatives we can force it to take the issue to the country. The only purpose of  Senator Pearce's  amendment is to bring about a fresh discussion on the provisions of this bill within twelve months. . But we can have that fresh discussion on an entirely new measure. Just as the Commonwealth Bank Board has advised the Government that this bill is necessary, so it may later on give the advice that it is not necessary. In other parts of the world legislation of this character has been enacted without limiting the period of its operation. It was just as experimental in Great Britain as it is here. Belgium and other countries have similar laws and have no limit to their operation, and there is no need to impose one. The will of Parliament is supreme. Next week it can alter what it does to-day. Why, therefore, do we need to load the measure with a limitation, and at the same time run the risk of bringing about the chaotic condition of affairs I have already described? If honorable senators feel that something has been done which ought not to have been done, they can follow the usual practice and introduce amending legislation. If it is found necessary to bring in a bill to amend or repeal these provisions, I give this pledge that the Government will be the first to take the necessary action. It has introduced this bill in the interests of 
Australia, and if subsequently it finds that it is in the interests of Australia to repeal the act, the Government will be quite ready to take the necessary steps to do so. Under the method suggested by  Senator Pearce,  we are bound to have another discussion within twelve months. That discussion, which may prove to be unnecessary, may be avoided by adopting the method I have suggested. In any case, how will any risk Australia is taking by passing this legislation, which honorable senators describe as experimental, be lessened by limiting the period of its operation? At the end of twelve months the gold will be in the vaults of the Commonwealth Bank, and the fact that the law under which it has been mobilized expires on a certain date, will not afford any protection to the private banks or individuals. The Government is of opinion that no good purpose would be served by inserting a pious and meaningless provision limiting the operation of the act to a fixed period, when at any time steps can be taken to repeal it. One effect of the amendment, if it be agreed to, will be to advertise to the world that. Australia is in a perilous condition and will continue to be so for twelve months. 
No; because they are similar in principle to the terms of the British legislation, and Great Britain's credit has not been impaired. 
No, because it goes further than ours does and makes the note unconvertible. Australia would not  be  prepared to go that far. 
When I asked the honorable senator that question the other night, the newspapers said he fenced it. 
I certainly understood the honorable senator to fence the question. I cannot understand why the Opposition is so anxious to limit the period of this bill for twelve months. 11 is fourteen years since Labour was in office ia the Common wealth arena, and consequently, if the amendment is agreed to it may be said in other countries that a Commonwealth Labour Government is novel, and to a certain extent an experiment. We have to establish our credit overseas, so if the committee decides to limit the operation of the act for twelve months people overseas will have an idea that this Government is on its trial. 
Apparently there is a fear in the minds of honorable senators opposite that something may go amiss with the administration of the bill. If they were satisfied on that point there would be no necessity for limiting the operation of the act. 
.- It would appear from the statement just made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that the Government is opposing the amendment simply because the Minister believes it has been conceived in an atmosphere of suspicion, and that the purpose is, so to speak, to put the Government oh its trial for twelve months. That is not so. I am not moved to support this amendment by any fear of what the Government may do, because action will be possible only in a state of emergency. The discretion really will be with the board, though the Treasurer will first determine whether it is expedient to take certain action. Under the second part of the bill a proclamation will issue on the initiation of the board; but it is not contemplated that the proclamation shall remain in force permanently. This, I suggest, may be a convenient opportunity for the Leader of the Senate to reply to certain questions which I addressed to him during the second-reading debate, and which he was precluded, by the limitations of time, from answering. In his second-reading speech, the Minister referred to certain abnormal and adverse conditions which are operating, and indicated that the Government proposed to take certain action to protect the currency and stabilize credit while those conditions obtained. I put it to him. therefore, that these amendments are not submitted in a spirit of distrust^ or because of suspicion in the minds of honorable senators who are supporting them, but because of a natural diffidence as to the adequacy of .the measure itself, and also because of a doubt whether the means adopted are in keeping with the terms of the letter from the  chairman  of the Bank Board, extracts of which were read in this chamber. In one portion of his letter,  Sir Robert  Gibson said that there must be nothing done which would mean a departure from the gold standard. I remembered this when I heard my old friend  (Senator Barnes),  who evidently broke away from Cabinet discipline, declare, in one of those eloquent outbursts which characterize his warm heart, that an increase of the note issue had done no harm during the war, now that there was so much unemployment there was an opportunity to apply the same remedy again. 
Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are concerned about the possibility of an inflation of our currency, and the purpose to which the provisions of the bill may be applied; but we are hoping to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate in regard to this matter. I feel convinced that, if only we can persuade the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that these amendments are not introduced because of any suspicion entertained towards him or the Treasurer, we shall do much to clear the air, because, after all, the administration of the act will be in the hands of the bank. 
The fact that we are legislating in respect of a particularly sensitive matter in abnormal circumstances, suggests the wisdom of a twelve months' trial for the bill. I fail to see how the acceptance of the amendment will in any way be a disadvantage, because it will give Parliament an opportunity to  review the position. Indeed, if the amendment is carried, the Government will be obliged to submit this legislation to Parliament again for review. If the bill is as effective as the Ministry believes it will be, and if the abnormal conditions which are responsible for its introduction exist at the expiration of twelve months, Parliament will renew the act and may even make' it a permanent piece of Commonwealth legislation. This practice of limiting the operation of measures has been adopted on many occasions. The Leader of the Senate has admitted that it is an experiment designed to meet an emergency. We are all hoping that the crisis will have passed before the expiration of the term fixed in the amendment, and that then there will be no further need for the application of this remedy. All we are concerned about at the moment is the public interest. This is not a party matter, and the Senate has not discussed it from a party point of view. I hope, therefore, that the Leader of the Senate will rid his mind of the idea that these amendments are the outcome of suspicion, and that he will consider them on their merits. 
I regret that I have not furnished to  Senator Lawson  the information which he asked for yesterday. I undertook to obtain from the Treasurer a statement as to whether this legislation was, in the opinion of the board, the best possible, and whether the extracts read from a letter written by the  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank set out fully the views of the board. I am assured by the Treasurer that, with the exception of certain confidential matters, which it is not desirable should be disclosed, the only references relevant to the bill contained in the letter from the board and not read were - 
Apart from the measures before referred to, my board is of the opinion, for reasons already given, that the necessity of immediate curtailment of imports has become an urgent question; this may be accomplished by the incidence of the following conditions or direct methods: - 
1 ) The economic law operating by the absence of availability of credit in London accompanied by the reduced spending capacity of the community through general depression. 
The combined action of bankers of Australia to restrict in every practical way the provision of oversea credits. 
The increase of customs duties tem porarily upon articles imported from overseas which come within the category of luxuries. 
Direct restrictions under the Customs Act upon the quantity of articles imported which come within the category of goods which are nonessential for the carrying on of the national life of the community. 
My board is of the opinion that the failure of the effective operation of (1) and (2) might necessitate action by your Government to seriously consider the wisdom of operating through the medium of (3) and or (4). 
The difficulty of advising you more definitely in regard to the methods referred to is one which has exercised the minds of the members of the board very considerably. Naturally the board would be very loth to make strong recommendations in respect of (3) and (4) as the less interference with the natural channels of business the better. There is no need to point out to you that any dislocation in the ordinary commerce of the community affects adversely the general business of the country. On the other hand, the hoard at this stage has some dubiety as to the efficiency of (1) and (2), and it is most desirable that things do not get out of hand. The board feels, however, that it is proper that your attention should be called to these matters, and while quite willing to confer with you and tender such advice as lies within its capacity, it realizes that questions of policy are the responsibility oi Governments, and have no place in the administration of the bank. 
You will naturally understand that the board stands aloof, in the affairsof the bank, from anything appertaining to political matters, and the members, as far as possible, try to view banking matters from a national and non-political outlook. 
On the point raised by the honorable senator as to whether the board had actually approved of the bill now before the Senate, I desire to say that - 
Immediately following the receipt of the Commonwealth Bank Board letter of 9th November, a lengthy discussion took place between the Treasurer, the  Chairman  of the Board of Directors and the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank. A bill was then prepared to give legislative effect to the representations contained in the Bank Board's letter with such qualifications as were made in the subsequent discussion. The bill, as originally introduced, provided that the restriction on the export of gold should operate immediately on the passing of the act. This bill was considered by the Bank Board at its meeting on the 3rd December, and the following message was communicated to the Treasurer: - 
The Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank having considered the bill to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act,is of the opinion that clause 7o goes further than it considers wise, and holds the view that its permanent enactment may reasonably be expected to react unfavorably on Australian finance. The board, therefore, recommends the Government's reconsideration of this clause and amendment thereto on the following lines: - 
This section to be' brought into operation only in time of emergency and on the proclamation of the GovernorGeneral on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Bank, such proclamation to state the period during which the restriction will apply. 
The bill was amended in another place to give effect to the further recommendation of the bank board. It will be seen, therefore, that the bill, in its present form, has received the approval of the Commonwealth Bank Board. The provision in the bill to restrict the export of gold by a proclamation of the GovernorGeneral on the recommendation of the bank board is in no way inconsistent with the statement in the letter from the Commonwealth Bank Board, namely, "that the last resource which should be adopted would be any course which meant even temporary departure from the operation of the gold standard on the part of Australia." 
The power in the bill to restrict the export of gold pan be brought into operation only on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Bank Board. As the board's considered opinion is that such action should be taken only as a last resource, we may rest assured that the board will not take action under this section excepting as a " last resource " and in times of emergency. 
The following message, telephoned yesterday by the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank to the Secretary to the Department of the Treasury, covers the point raised by  Senator Lawson,  as to now far the Government would guarantee that the note issue position would not be affected : - 
In the event of the bill for the amendment of the Commonwealth Bank Act, now before Parliament, becoming law, the policy of the bank in regard to the note issue will not be altered. That policy is to allow the note circulation to operate according to the needs of the community. When required for seasonal purposes, such as harvesting, Christmas festivities, or the temporary requirements of banks in anticipation of payments in sight, notes are allowed to flow out without restriction. When returned to the bank, notes are cancelled and circulation reduced. Notes are not forced into circulation or kept in circulation by any artificial means. The requirements of the public and the banks are the sole guide as to the amount of notes in circulation. The proposed legislation will have no effect upon the bank's policy in regard to circulation. 
Exactly. The Treasurer stated that he would be guided by the Commonwealth Bank Board. The honorable senator may rest assured that the Government will administer the law as it is, until Parliament alters it. As to the last point raised by  Senator Lawson,  that the Customs Act might be used to prohibit the export of gold, I may say that the board is of the opinion that the existing provisions under the Customs Act are not sufficient for the purpose. I am advised that those are the onlyrelevant matters which formed the basis of discussion between the Treasurer and the Commonwealth Bank Board. 

 Senator Lawson and other honorable senators have asserted that the Commonwealth Bank should be the authority to administer this measure. It was claimed that there would be no fears if the matter could be removed from the political atmosphere and placed in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank. 
We have had sufficient experience of the administration of that bank in the past to know that its board is to be trusted. The  chairman  of that board has pointed out that the proposal to issue a proclamation is only for use in cases of extreme urgency. 
There is no good reason why this legislation should be limited to twelve months, as its most important section comes into operation only in cases of emergency. Let us hope that there will be no necessity to issue a proclamation during the next twelve months. If the proclamation were issued during that period and the legislation proved a failure, I have no doubt that Parliament would alter it immediately.  Senator Lawson  referred to certain legislation being limited to a specified period. There is always a good reason for that, but ordinarily it must be admitted that legislation is not limited to any defined period. It remains in operation during the will of Parliament. There should be good grounds for any departure from the customary  procedure, and I cannot see any in this instance. The Commonwealth Bank Board has proved itself worthy of the trust of Parliament, while the record of the Labour party shows that it can be trusted. Why should this legislation be limited to twelve months when other equally important legislation is allowed to remain in force indefinitely? 
Yes. The document that I read was handed to me by the Treasury. I asked of the Treasurer whether the Commonwealth Bank Board had had an opportunity to consider the second portion of this bill and this is the response.  Mr. Heathershaw,  the Secretary to the Treasury, prepared those documents after consultation with the responsible authorities. They are available for inspection. 
I hope that the committee will not carry the amendment. This is a very important measure, which seeks to stabilize the currency of the country. Would it not be ridiculous if, after a serious body of representative men had spent several days in attempting to perfect, a measure seeking to stabilize the currency of the country, they decided to allow it to operate for only twelve months? Could there be anything more stupid than that? What would the people abroad think of us if we sought to stabilize our currency for only twelve months ? 
Every measure is more or less an emergency one. If it is wise to limit the application of such a measure as this, why should it not be done with every piece of legislation? It is obvious that, with all our wisdom, it is not always possible to perfect a piece of legislative machinery at the first attempt. From time to time we discover that we have made errors, and we rectify them. But we do not limit the operation of an act because we are afraid that an error of judgment may be disclosed. If we find that a piece of legislation has a defective cog wheel, we bring it in for repairs and adjust the trouble. Why should that not apply in this instance? 
Probably hadI been in the Victorian Parliament, I should have disagreed with that action. The remedy was in the hands of the Victorian Parliament, just as it is in our hands on this occasion. I urge that no limitation of time should be applied to the bill. If any defects are disclosed during its period of operation, an amending measure can be initiated in this chamber. I am sure that honorable members in another place would assist us to rectify any anomalies that might be discovered. 
 Senator Barnes  has not advanced a single reason to convince us that we should vote against the amendment. I remind him that for over 200 years the British Army Act has been brought up annually and passed again for a period of only twelve months. 
No. Do honorable senators suggest that that act is not an important one? With the advent of a Labour government, unstable trading and general financial conditions have arisen. Although there was no necessity for the introduction of a measure of this character when the BrucePage Government was in office, provision has now to be made for ensuring the stability of our currency. I supported the second reading of the bill, merely because a measure of this character was recommended by the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank - our financial advisers. An endeavour has been made to improve the measure as far as possible in this chamber and to limit its more objectionable features; but I place upon the Government the onus of justifying this interference with the ordinary course of the trade and commerce of Australia. It is idle to suggest that a member of the 
Opposition in this chamber could introduce a private bill for its repeal, as there is little opportunity for the consideration of such measures. The only way in which we can ensure a review of the whole financial position, is to accept the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce).  If it is necessary that it should continue in force for another year, a short measure, consisting of perhaps half a dozen lines, could be introduced and disposed of in a day. I cannot understand why the Government is opposing this reasonable amendment, which I intend to support. 
.  - During the debate, many interesting aspects of this complex subject have been brought forward. We had a most informative and comprehensive discussion on the motion for the second reading of the bill, during which there were general expressions of agreement with the main principles of the bill. The Leader of the Opposition, in support of his amendment, said that the operation of the measure should be strictly limited, because it is experimental legislation ; but I trust that before honorable senators record their votes, they will realize that there is no significance attaching to the " 30th December, 1930." No evidence has been placed before the committee in support of the amendment, or to prove that the conditions which the bill purports to check will be substantially different at the end of 1930 from what they are to-day. Other nations have adopted similar proposals to protect their currency. 
I am referring now to Great Britain, where a similar measure has been passed. I admit that much of the machinery in this bill differs from the British legislation, but the object of the British act is to protect the currency of Great Britain. It has been freely admitted by honorable senators opposite that it is necessary to protect Australia's currency, and in order to do so they supported the second reading of the bill.  Senator H.  E. Elliott wishes the committee to believe that the introduction of this measure has been necessitated by a change of government. That is not in accordance with fact, as during the debate,  Senator R.  D. Elliott said that the present unsatisfactory position has been developing over a period of years. Even if there had not been a change of government a similar recommendation would have been made by the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank, and the Bruce-Page Government would have submitted similar legislation. Honorable senators have stressed the point that credit is a most sensitive instrument, and that anything which tends to weaken the credit of a nation should be avoided. If that is so, why should there be an attempt to limit the operation of this measure to a period of twelve months, at the expiration of which time it would be necessary to reenact it. This would open up another lengthy debate, in which the actual financial position of Australia would be disclosed, perhaps to our detriment. We have accepted the principle that our gold reserve should be protected in order to stabilize currency, and that it is necessary, should the occasion arise, to prohibit the exportation of gold; but, as has been explained, such action would be taken only in a case of extreme emergency. There is a strong possibility that it will never be necessary to place an embargo on the export of gold. The relationship of the gold backing to our currency is influenced to an appreciable degree by the sale overseas of our exportable surplus of primary products. The principal portion of our exportable surplus of those products enables us to keep on something approaching an even keel in connexion with our financial operations with the outside world. Our wool and wheat, which form a very substantial portion of our exportable surplus of primary products, are sold in the later part of the year, and the receipts received from such sales are credited to Australia. But if the proposed limitation is imposed it will be found that this measure will expire at a time when most of these products are still unsold and when the export of fairly extensive quantities of gold may be rendered necessary. In the absence of the protection this measure affords something in the nature of a slight panic might be created in consequence of the export of gold. The primary object of the bill is to ensure that our gold reserve shall be used in settling "with our creditors overseas. It would be exceedingly dangerous to terminate the operations of this legislation at a time when our difficulties in effecting a normal settlement were probably greater than at any other period of the year. 
I do not think that we are competent to judge. No evidence whatever has been adduced in support of this amendment.  Senator Lawson  seems to think that the mobilizing on the port of gold in the Commonwealth Bank is desired because of some sinister motive of the Government in the direction of inflating the note issue. I do not wish to enter into a discussion upon inflation and deflation of the note issue, but I believe that it is impossible to force upon the community a greater currency than it needs for the normal transaction of business. 
Honorable senators seem to be unable to divorce wartime expedients from normal operations. Currencies in other countries were inflated in consequence of war conditions, and that inflation continued some time after hostilities had ceased. The world has now returned to a gold standard, and anything in the nature of note inflation is practically impossible. The note issue is governed by a board which operates under a definite Act of Parliament, which the passing of this bill would not affect in any way. Even if the Government desired to do so, it could not issue one additional note as a result of the passing of this measure. It would first have to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act, and the Note Issue Act, before it could take to itself some of the powers now vested in the Note Issue Board. No provision to that end is contained in this bill, and consequently, there is no ground for the fear that has been expressed by  Senator Lawson  and others. Seeing that the wisdom of protecting the currency has been admitted we ought not to complicate the position, or stultify the efforts of the Commonwealth Bank Board in protecting the currency of Australia, by limiting the operation of this measure to a period of approximately, twelve months. Should amendments be found necessary later, they could be made; but if this legislation is desirable to-day, it is probable that it will be equally desirable twelve months hence. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [3.48].  -  The carrying of this amendment will not necessarily mean that this legislation will pass from the statute-book at the end of 1930. What is more likely to happen is that next session, the Government will bring down  a  well-considered measure to constitute the Commonwealth Bank a central reserve bank, and that then the whole position will be reviewed in the. light of further knowledge and experience. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH.The bill provides for permanent proclamations. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [3.52].  -  Proposed new section 7c (1) provides - 
Where, after the receipt of a recommendation from the hoard, the Governor-General is of opinion that it is expedient so to do, he may by Proclamation prohibit the export of gold from the Commonwealth except in accordance with the provisions of the succeeding subsections of this section, and thereupon gold shall not, while the Proclamation remains in force, be exported from the Commonwealth except in accordance with those provisions. 

 Senator Colebatch distinctly said that the proclamation, once made, will remain for all time. 
SenatorRAE. - Why did not  Senator Colebatch  suggest that when he was speaking? 
SenatorRAE. - I see no reason why this bill, any more than other measures, should be limited to a period of twelve months. I am prepared to accept the limitation of time in respect of this bill if the same principle is to apply to all legislation. This talk of experimental legislation is somewhat foolish. All, or nearly all, legislation is experimental. The highest authorities on such matters will admit that nearly all legislation of an important nature works out, in practice, somewhat differently from what was anticipated when it was introduced. Sometimes the most unexpected results have accrued from legislation. If that is to be a reason for limiting the operation of this bill, it is an equally powerful reason why a time limit should be placed on all legislation. If a comprehensive measure to that end is introduced I shall support it, for then the dead hand of the past would not rule us to-day. I advocated that principle 40 years ago.  Senator Pearce  said that this is emergency legislation. 
SenatorRAE. -  Senator Pearce  said that it was claimed that this legislation was of an emergency character. That was his reason for urging that a time limit should be imposed. 
SenatorRAE. - That a proclamation will only be made in an emergency is no evidence to show when an emergency is likely to arise. It may be that on the very eve of the expiry of the term for which this measure shall operate, if the amendment is agreed to, circumstances will arise which will make it desirable that the provisions of the act should be  enforced. Should Parliament then be in recess, complicationswouldarise. I shall say no more, for to speak at greater length would be tostonewall the measure. The speeches I have heard have failed utterly to show any reason for a limitation of time in respect of this measure. 
I have never seen, nor do I see now, any necessity for the second part of this measure. I regard it as an unpleasant placard - a bad advertisement for Australia. As  Senator Daly  read the communication from the Commonwealth Bank, I was gratified to learn that the Bank Board took exception to the inclusion of a provision in the original bill as sent to it, prohibiting the export of gold. The board suggested some modification. 
I gathered, as the honorable senator hurriedly read the letter, that the board had stated that section 7 c went too far. 
It does not matter whether section 7c absolutely prohibits the export of gold, except with the approval of the Treasurer, on the recommendation of the Bank Board, or whether the export of gold will be prohibited only on the issue of a proclamation; the result is the same - Australia's credit is injured. I realize that the Senate is against me in this matter. Honorable senators seem to think that some " smart Alec." might get into the Commonwealth Bank, demand a certain amount of gold, and eventually get on board the  Niagara,  or some other vessel, and take it to another country. Such a suggestion is ludicrous. The bank would not allow it to be done. This part of the bill will injure Australia's credit; and it is that credit with which I am concerned. I have no thought of protecting the trading banks for, with this legislation on the statute-book, they will have no gold. It is a pity that the Government should publish to the world that it is necessary to place this power in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank, when all that is necessary could be done quietly under the earlier portion of the bill. In regard to this limitation, all I can say is that we have embarked on an uncharted sea in regard to foreign credits and the stabilization of our note issue. In this bill we are providing machinery to alter the fundamental basis of our financial system; we are cutting across the gold standard, and placing ourselves in a position of financial isolation. Parliament has had this legislation under consideration for less than a fortnight. We recognize that we have to accept the statement by those in control of an institution we prize that there is need for doing something, and we have acted on the lines they have recommended; but, speaking for myself, I have done so entirely against my better judgment, because the provisions of proposed new section 7c alter the whole of the vital principles of our financial system. I think  Senator O'Halloran  must have been under the impression that the date upon which the amendment would have these provisions expire is the 30th September next. It is true that that would be a most inconvenient date so far as the private banks are concerned, because their seasonal inflation takes place regularly from October to the end of November. But there is really nothing in the honorable senator's point in that regard because the 30th December is the date proposed in the amendment. If, as we hope, we do not reach that deplorable state of affairs which will render necessary the retention of these provisions, they will cease to operate at the end of twelve months; and if it be necessary to continue them all that the Government will need to do is to bring in a short bill to remove from the act the couple of lines which  Senator Pearce  now seeks to have incorporated in it. The matter of establishing our national credit on a proper basis is not as simple as some people would have us believe. It is not a case of what party is in power in the Commonwealth. The credit of the nation transcends the importance of any political party. The amendment will give an opportunity to review this legislation. If it works well and is still found to be necessary, it can easily be re-enacted. 
If, on the other hand, it has not worked well, it should be blotted out at the earliest possible moment. As the position is at present, we are prepared to allow the Commonwealth Bank to alter the gold standard, and thus put Australia out of step with the rest of the world, but only for twelve months. 
If there is one thing more than another we have gained from the discussion we have liad, it is the assurance from the Minister in charge of the bill that his Government will not tamper with the present system of regulating the currency of Australia. That assurance removes a good deal of the mystification which surrounded this bill. 
We are pleased to have the assurance even at the expense of being regarded as obtuse. But a further reason has been advanced by  Senator Barnes  for making this legislation permanent, and that is that the bill is needed for the purpose of stabilizing the currency of this country. The reason given by the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  for its introduction was the necessity to mobilize the gold resources of the country. Between mobilization and stabilization I am afraid we may bring about a jeopardization of the welfare of Australia. I realize, however, that the further reason advanced by  Senator Barnes  is a subsidiary one, and that the real purpose of the bill is to enable our gold resources to be conserved so that we may trade with other countries on a reasonable footing. The gold we send overseas is the only corrective we have to bring about a reduction of the extortionate rates of exchange we are now obliged to pay, and if we have not that gold at our command, the exchange rates will go still higher. Throughout the presentation of the case by the Treasurer in another place, one thing emphasized more than any other was that we are living in abnormal times. We have got into a condition of affairs that has made it necessary for the Commonwealth Bank, in col laboration with the Government, to do something. The words used by  Mr. Theodore  were - 
While the tendency exists anxiety is naturally caused to om- bankers. 
The point I want to make is that that tendency is not of a permanent nature, and has only come about because the exchange rate has turned against us owing to our trade position. If our exports increase and our debtors in the distance are multiplied, there will be no need for the exercise of the provisions of this bill. The rates of exchange were once in favour of Australia and, instead of bills on London being at a premium, they were at a discount. If that time comes again there will be no need for this measure. Our bills will be at a discount in London, and it will pay us to send money there. But there is no need for us to provide a permanent remedy for a passing ill. We have heard  Senator Rae  saying that all legislation is experimental, and, within certain limits, the honorable senator is quite right. But the law against stealing is permanent, because we cannot make sure that the community will always remain honest. Experience teaches that there is no guarantee that Australian trade will not be in a more wholesome and healthier state in the future, and it will, therefore, be an anomaly to have on our statute-book a permanent remedy to meet a temporary trouble. I am not wedded to the limitation of twelve months proposed by  Senator Pearce.  I would prefer an extension to two years. It is absurd to expect us to make legislation permanent without giving it  a  trial. Would Ministers buy a team of horses without subjecting them to  a  proper trial ? Of course they would not ; and they should not expect Parliament or the people of Australia to do what they themselves would not do. Let this legislation prove itself before it is made permanent. When it is established that successful results have flown from it, the Government can come back to this Parliament and have it re-enacted. If it produces the fruits its sponsors prophesy for it, they can rest assured that Parliament will re-enact it; but if it does not do- what it is expected to do there is no need to allow it to continue in operation. 
I wish to direct the attention of Government supporters, and of Senators Thompson and Sampson on this side of the chamber, to a passage in the letter from the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank, which was placed before us for the first time to-day. I refer to the statement that the last resource which should be adopted would be any course that would mean even a temporary departure from the operation of the gold standard in Australia. These words are a clear indication that in the opinion of the board the issue of a proclamation' will mean a departure from the gold standard. Doubtless, it is difficult for some people to' realize that the moment the proclamation is issued there will be some measure of depreciation in our currency. 
Not necessarily. When the Government of the day took similar steps in regard to pur gold reserve during the war there was an  immediate depreciation of our note  issue. 
I confess I cannot follow the honorable senator. In any case I am responsible only for my own views, and I repeat that clearly the Commonwealth Bank Board does hold the view that even a temporary departure from the gold standard would be regrettable, though such a course may have to be followed. It is with the utmost reluctance that I see this measure being passed and placed upon our statute-book, and I shall welcome the opportunity which we shall have at no distant date to reconsider it. 
I do not wish to discuss the bill further. At an earlier stage the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  read the relevant  portions  of a letter from the Commonwealth Bank Board which  had  been asked for, and honorable senators were asked to take the balance as read. 
I am aware that the Minister did not wish to weary the Senate by reading the whole of the letter  referred to, andI  am unaware if there is provision in our Standing Orders for the inclusion of such a document as that in  Hansard  for the purposes of record. 
It has been done. 
 The Government takes full responsibility for the passage of this measure. I am very pleased that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  has made it plain that it is  a  Government bill, because when former Labour governments passed legislation of value to the community, other parties claimed all the credit. Labour vernments have placed some of the best of our legislation on the statute-book of the Commonwealth. Yet, at election after election, other political parties have claimed that they were responsible for the introduction of that beneficial legislation. I hope that I shall never have occasion to challenge, either here or outside, the fact that Labour is responsible for this measure. When Labour finds it necessary to tell the people of Australia the truth, it does so, and when it finds it necessary to legislate to improve existing conditions, it goes right ahead.  Senator R.  D. Elliott must welcome this measure because, he says, the time is ripe to let the people see exactly where we are. It is to the credit of Labour that, just as it sounded a warning in connexion with migration and unemployment, it now sounds this warning about our national credit. This is not done for the purpose of prejudicing Australia overseas. It will not prejudice our credit. On the contrary legislation of this type will give the Mother Country greater confidence in the Commonwealth. It will show her that at last we have awakened to the fact that we cannot go on as we have, and that this Government is prepared to guide the destinies of the nation along proper lines. That policy is the best advertisement that Australia could possibly have. 
I am thankful to honorable senators for the free and frank discussion upon the measure. I have no complaints to make about any of the issues which have been debated. The subject has been ventilated very thoroughly, and many helpful suggestions have been advanced. The Government appreciates the difficulty which must attend the introduction of legislation of this nature, and it is not unmindful of some of the advice which has been tendered to it. I can assure honorable senators that everything will be done to exercise this legislation in the best interests of Australia. 
I should like  Senator H.  E. Elliott to rid himself of the idea that this is a Government of fanatics; a Government that believes that by waving some sort of magic wand, bank notes will appear from all directions and go into circulation. It does not believe anything of the sort. It knows, as the Commonwealth Bank Board pointed out, that you cannot force bank notes on the people if the people do not want them. Ordinary intelligence should convince anybody on that point.  and I think that this Government can claim to have at least ordinary intelligence. I hope that the honorable senator will disabuse his mind of his delusion. This is a Government elected by the Australian people, upon Australian ideals and principles, and its legislation will bestrictly Australian in character. It realizes that it is unwise to tamper with currency; the currency belongs to the people. It will not deal lightly with anything of such an important nature. As promised on the hustings it will introduce legislation relating to the banking position of Australia. That might affect private banks and even the Commonwealth Bank, but it will not disturb the matter of currency. It will consult Parliament in anything that it does. It has been given, in respect of this measure only twelve months to put the ship of state on an even keel. Necessarily, if honorable senators refuse to renew the life of this legislation, it will have to bustle in its endeavours to clean up the Augean stable, in order that it may place the credit of Australia upon such a sound basis that its future will not be imperilled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill to amend the bankruptcy law, to overcome a position in which the legislature finds itself as a result of a recent ' decision of the High Court. Honorable senators will remember that a bankruptcy law was passed, and that, under section 77 of the Constitution Act, the legislature purported to confer federal jurisdiction upon State courts. Power was given for the appointment of officers. The State courts purported to be invested with federal jurisdiction by means of a proclamation. It now transpires, as the result of a High Court action in Western Australia, that that proclamation was not the proper exercise by Parliament of the powers conferred by section 77 of the Constitution Act, which provides- _ With respect to any of the matters mentioned in the last two sections the Parliament may make laws - 
Investing any court of a State with federal jurisdiction. 
The facts upon which that decision of the High Court were based are as follows : - 
By proclamation dated Oth July, 1928, the State of Western' Australia was declared a district for the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act of 1924, and by a proclamation of the same date the Supreme Court of Western Australia was specially, authorized by the Governor-General to exercise jurisdiction in bankruptcy throughout the Commonwealth. Section 78 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-28 empowers the GovernorGeneral to arrange with the Governor in Council of a State for the execution by an officer in the Public Service of the State for the Government of the Commonwealth of the duties of any office in the Common wealth service. 
Their Honours, the Chief Justice,  Mr. Justice  Bich, and  Mr. Justice  Dixon, in giving their judgment, said: "When such officer was appointed in this manner, it was assumed that the office of Registrar in Bankruptcy was an office in the Commonwealth Public Service, and that assumption was clearly in accordance with the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act 1924. The act provides : ' There shall be in each  district a Registrar in Bankruptcy and such  deputy  registrars, official receivers, and other officers as are necessary ' ; and sub-section 5 requires the registrars and their deputies to perform such duties as the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth directs. Nevertheless, the Bankruptcy Act purports to make the registrar part of the organization of the court, having jurisdiction in bankruptcy, although it is a State court. Section 12 (5) provides that registrars and their deputies shall be officers of the court. A literal application of this definition would make every registrar an officer of every court in the Commonwealth which has bankruptcy jurisdiction. It was upon this footing, no doubt, that three judges of the court delegated to the registrar the function of issuing bankruptcy notices, but the question at once arises whether the legislative power of the Commonwealth enables Parliament to regulate in such a manner the organization of the courts of the States which it invests with federal jurisdiction. The Constitution, by Chapter III., draws the clearest distinction between Federal and State courts, and while enabling the Commonwealth Parliament to utilize the judicial services of State courts, recognizes in the most pronounced way that they remain State courts. '' The Parliament may create federal courts, but the courts of a State are the judicial organs of another government, and are created by State law, their existence depends upon State law, and that law determines the constitution of the court itself, and of the organizations through which its powers and jurisdiction are exorcised. Section 77 (iii) of the Commonwealth Constitution expressly confers upon the Parliament power to make laws investing the courts of the States with federal jurisdiction. To affect or alter the constitution of the court through which its jurisdiction and powers ore exercised is to go outside the limits of the power conferred, and to seek to achieve a further object, viz., the regulation or establishment of the instrument, or organ of government, in which judicial power is vested, an object for which the Constitution provides another means, the creation of federal courts.. Section 77 (iii) therefore does not enable the Parliament to make a Commonwealth officer a functionary of a State court and authorize him to act on its behalf and administer part of its jurisdiction. "We think that section 18 (I.) (6) does not answer the description: 'A law investing the courts of a State with federal jurisdiction.' We think it is plain that what the section purports to do is to confer upon the Governor-General, that is, the Executive Government, a discretionary power to authorize any State court to exercise federal jurisdiction, and to withhold, or to revoke, such authority. " For these reasons we are of opinion that section 18 (I) (6) goes beyond the power conferred upon the Parliament by the Constitution. Whether the Supreme Court is, or is not, a court having jurisdiction in bankruptcy, that court has power to set aside and declare void a proceeding expressed to be issued with its authority, and in fact issued in the supposed exercise of the functions of an office assumed to exist in the court. The appeal should be allowed, and the notice declared irregular and void." 
What the legislature did was to purport to invest the State court of Western Australia with federal jurisdiction by means of a proclamation. It also purported to appoint certain officers of the court.- The decision of the High Court indicates that the issue of that proclamation was not a proper exercise of the powers conferred by Parliament under section 77 of the Constitution Act. The amending bill, as honorable senators will see, expressly confers the necessary jurisdiction upon those courts to do this particular work. Honorable senators will also notice that the words " controlled by the court " have been substituted for the word "officer of the court." It has been found that in one instance Parliament did not exercise its powers correctly, and in another that it exceeded its powers. It is imperative to introduce this legislation at this juncture, because there are similar courts in every capital city, in connexion with which officers have been appointed in the same manner as they have been appointed in Western Australia. Notices in bankruptcy have also been sent out in the same way as in the case referred to, and are open to challenge. The decision of the court has a very far-reaching effect upon the operation of the Bankruptcy Act throughout the Commonwealth, in view of the fact that what has been regarded as the effectual vesting of the State Courts with Federal jurisdiction has been declared to be of no effect. The measure is designed to remedy defects in the Bankruptcy Act, which have been disclosed by the judgment to which I have referred. It is important that it should be passed without delay, as the act is ineffectual in essential particulars. I have already brought the facts under the notice of the Leader of the Opposition, with whose concurrence I moved the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable the bill to be passed without delay. 
I have had an opportunity to study this measure, and it does not appear to contain anything to which exception can be taken. It occurred to me when the Minister was speaking, that Parliament should not have made such an obvious error as it did when considering the Bankruptcy Bill. Section 77 of the Constitution provides that the Parliament may make laws investing " any court of a State with federal jurisdiction." Apparently an attempt has been made to exercise that power by way of proclamation as is provided in the act. I subscribe to all that the Minister has said regarding the immediate necessity of validating what has been done under the powers which we thought existed in the principal act. The registrar exercises certain powers and his appointment is affected, but not necessarily to the same extent as is the jurisdiction of the court. As the registrar holds an important office, and exercises jurisdiction in the performance of certain functions, it is necessary that this measure should immediately be passed. 
I offer no objection to the passage of this bill, because to me it seems only a legal method of crossing t's and dotting i's. But I should like to take this opportunity to say that I shall be glad if the Government will, as soon as an opportunity offers, introduce an amending Bankruptcy Bill, the need of which is being felt particularly in Queensland. At present we are finding that the Bankruptcy Act is functioning ineffectively, and many complaints have been made. I realize that the introduction of an amending measure is impracticable at this stage of the session, but I ask the Minister, who is a lawyer, and who doubtless is aware of the difficulties which exist, to keep the matter before him for consideration early next session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8 - 
Nothing in this act shall affect the rights of any person under a judgment or order of a court given or made prior to the commencement of this act. 
Amendment (by  Senator Daly)  agreed to - 
That after the word " rights " the words " or liabilities " be inserted. 
Clause as amended agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
Thirdreading. 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  proposed - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [4.57]. - I do not take exception to the passage of this measure, as the Government has done only what is necessary. But I take this opportunity to direct the attention of the Minister to the fact that at least one individual has suffered grievous wrong because of the error made in framing the legislation which is now being amended. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to safeguard the Government between the date on which it abolishes the Commission and that on which it takes over the control of the Federal Capital Territory. Upon assuming office, the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr. Blakeley)  interviewed the Third Commissioner who stated that he would not embarrass the Government during the transition period. Recently, however, he tendered his resignation to the Minister. The resignation could not be received by the Minister but by the Governor-General. A meeting of the Commission was then held. The Third Commisisoner attended, and agreed to withdraw his resignation. Although he has withdrawn his resignation, he has appointed  Mr. C.  W. Davies to act in his stead. The appointment of a  deputy  is provided for in the act. The act also sets out there shall be meetings of the Commission at least once a fortnight. This bill provides that the Chief Commissioner shall have power to call meetings. The Commission will meet fortnightly if, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner or the Minister, such meetings are necessary. The principal act provides that where the Third Commissioner absents himself from three consecutive meetings his seat becomes vacant. Under the amending bill, absence from six meetings is necessary to disqualification. It will be seen that under this amending measure in the first place, the Chief Commissioner will have the power to call meetings ; and, in the second place, that the number of meetings which the Third Commissioner may miss without having his seat declared vacant has been increased to six. Both of these provisions safeguard the life of the Commission. The Government could have introduced a bill to provide for the abolition of the Commission, but that was not considered desirable. Arrangements for taking over the Commission are well under way, and a bill to abolish it will be brought down next year. This is a non-contentious measure which will enable the affairs of the Federal Capital Territory to be carried on without any dislocation. I commend it to the Senate. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [5.4]. - I have no objections to this bill being proceeded with, but I have one or two remarks to make regarding it. It is rather remarkable that the Government, which before it came into office claimed that it would not hand over its powers to boards or commissions, now proposes to hand over certain powers, exercisable by the Minister for Home Affairs, to the Chief Commissioner. Had the Minister exercised his powers he would have got over his difficulties and the introduction of this bill would not have been necessary. The Third Commissioner, apparently regarding it to be his duty to hold up the business of the Commission, decided to appoint a substitute. Had the. Minister exercised his power to give the Third Commissioner leave of absence, the business of the Commission would not have been brought to a standstill. The act provides for regular meetings of the Commission, but there is also a proviso by which the Minister can set aside those stated intervals. Honorable senators will, therefore, see that when the Third Commissioner went on strike, as he appears to have done, a proper exercise of the ministerial authority would have rendered unnecessary the introduction of this bill. I give the Government credit for considerable political astuteness, in that, notwithstanding its professed objections to boards and commissions, it has shown more courage than the previous Government exhibited in regard to this matter, and has now cast off some of the responsibility which formerly rested on the Minister. Evidently it had visions of any ratepayers waiting on the Minister's doorstep, or of a recalcitrant, elected commissioner causing trouble. To avoid the consequences it has transferred its responsibility to the Chief Commissioner. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The late Government appointed the Commission, but it also retained some ministerial control over it. The present Go vernment proposes to hand over that controlto the Chief Commissioner.  Senator Rae  had better read the bill, for I feel certain that in the recent election campaign he blamed the late Government for handing over its power to boards and commissions. This bill will give the Commission more power. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I have heard that at one time there were two kings in Denmark, but so far I have not heard of there being two Commissions for the administration of Canberra. Whatever its faults, I do not think that the Government would appoint two Commissions to control the Federal Capital Territory. I shall not oppose the bill, but it seems remarkable that it should have been introduced when by a proper exercise of ministerial authority the Commission could have got along without a third commissioner. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 (Short title). 
I think the title of the bill should be altered. The Minister, in introducing it said that it was a bill for the purpose of safeguarding the Government. I suggest that the title should be altered accordingly. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.11 to 8 p.m. 

.  - I have no business to place before the Senate, but I have made inquiries as to the state of the business sheet in another place, and anticipate the receipt of a message very shortly forwarding the Appropriation Bill for our consideration. I know that honorable senators are anxious to have as much time as possible for the discussion of that measure. I therefore suggest,  Mr. President,  that you leave the chair and have the bells rung when the message arrives. 
I shall leave the chair until I am informed that business has reached the chamber from another place, whereupon the bells will be rung to notify honorable senators. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.2 to 10.22 p.m. 

.- I move- 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
The taxation proposals of the Government are well known. "We had a fulldress debate upon them in the discussion of the budget and the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech, so that I presume honorable senators will not expect me to deal with them at length in submitting this measure. As honorable senators are aware, there are two acts relating to the collection of income tax - the Income Tax Assessment Act and the Income Tax Act. The former is the machinery measure. It defines the taxpayer and indicates who are liable to pay taxation. The Income Tax Act, which fixes the rates payable, is submitted to Parliament each year. The first four clauses of the bill are identical with those in the Income Tax Act of 1928, with the exception of the years stated iri clause 2. Clause 4, sub-clause 4 re-enacts the imposition of the minimum tax of 10s. payable by persons who, but for this provision, would be liable to pay an amount less than 10s. The principle of a minimum tax was introduced in the In come Tax Act 1926, when the amount was fixed at fi. That rate produced f51,200 in revenue, but, owing to many complaints of harshness in the case of absentees whose income from Australian sources amounted to only fi or slightly over, the previous Government reduced the minimum tax to 10s., which lower rate reduced the revenue from this source to an amount estimated to be not more than £20,000. Sub-clause 5 of clause 4 reenacts the former rate of tax payable by a trustee whether the trustee is a company or not. This provision was inserted in the act for the first time in 1927, following upon a decision of the High Court that a trustee company could not be taxed at more than ls. in the fi on the taxable income of any trust estate being administered by it. In many cases the rate of tax which would be payable by the beneficiary on an income exceeded ls. in the pound, and in other cases it was less than fi. As a result certain estates were obliged to pay more taxation than should have been paid, while others escaped with a lower tax than equity required. Subclause 6 of clause 4 re-enacts the existing basic rate of ls. in the fi payable by a company on its own taxable income. The proposed super tax on companies is dealt with in clause 5, paragraph  b.  This clause is an enlargement of section 5 of the Rates Act of last year, in order to specify the super tax on companies in what is considered to be the most appropriate place in the bill, and it also more definitely associates the trustee rate with the rates payable by individuals. Paragraph  a  of clause 5 repeats the words in section 5 of last year's act, so as to reenact and continue the super tax of 8s. on the basic rate set out in the schedule to the bill. Hitherto the super tax of 8 per cent, has not been payable by companies ; it has been applicable only to individuals, and those assessable as individuals, namely trustees of all kinds. This super tax came into operation for the first time in connexion with income tax assessments for the financial year 1927-28. It represents the lowest point reached in the successive reductions in rates which began in 1922-23. 
It may be mentioned that the rates of tax specified in the first, second and third schedules are the rates originally imposed in 1915. That point is an important one for honorable senators to keep in mind when they are considering the actual effect of this new income tax rates act. These rates have been adhered to by Parliament in each subsequent year of the operation of the income tax as a basic rate upon which percentage increases have been superimposed. These increases have been varied from time to time. They reached their maximum point in 1920-21 when the ruling rates represented an increase of 70§ per cent, in the basic rates. These peak rates operated for two years, in 1920-21 and 1921-22. Then there began a reduction in the' percentage increase as follows: - In 1922-23 there was a reduction of 10 per cent., making the super tax 53i per cent, above the basic rates. That reduction also operated in 1923-24. In 1924-25 there was a further 10 per cent, reduction, making the super tax 38 per cent, above the basic rates. Honorable senators will bear in mind that by "basic rates" I refer to the rates obtaining in 1915. A further 12£ per cent, reduction 'was made in 1925-26, making the super tax 20 per cent, above the basic rates. That reduction also operated in 1926-27. In 1927 a further reduction of 10 per cent, was made, making the super tax 8 per cent, above the basic rates. This reduction also operated in 1928-29. 
Paragraph b of proposed section 5 deals with the proposed super tax on companies, amounting to a 20 per cent, increase of the present rate of ls. in the £. Let us assume that the basic rate for 1915 was 100. Last year the rate would have been 108, and it is upon that that the super tax is imposed. 
Clause 6 deals with the proposed super tax on the incomes of individuals, and those assessed as individuals. The percentage increases now proposed in the existing rates, the original basic rates plus 8, represent the following percentage increases in the original basic rates: - 

<graphic href="122332192912123_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

As honorable senators know that 10 per cent, applies to taxable incomes of £201 to £1,500 the 15 per cent to incomes of from £1,500 to £3,000, and the 20 per cent, on incomes of £3,000 and over. There has been some misunderstanding on the part of honorable senators as to what that actually means. Honorable senators have apparently been under the impression that the taxes superimposed by the Government apply to net incomes of £201 and over. This is not so. There are certain reductions to be made in the case of either married or single men. In the case of single men, before the super tax proposed by the Government is payable the personal individual concerned has to earn £450, after deducting insurance premiums and other statutory allowances. A married man, after deducting the allowances granted to a single man, plus a deduction for children, will have to pay super tax if his net income amounts to £450 and over. So that a taxable income of £201 really means that a man must in each case have a net income of £450, after deducting the various statutory allowances. The particular percentage of the new increase in rate now proposed, which will be applicable in any case, will be determined by the amount of the taxable income upon which the taxpayer will be assessed. That is, the taxable income derived by him during the year, or the period substituted therefore, immediately preceding, the financial year for which the tax is being levied. This actual taxable income is the taxable income of the last year in the averaging period by reference to which the average taxable income is calculated for the purpose of ascertaining the rate of tax payable by the taxpayer. The averaging system mentioned is expressed in section 13 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The averaging period is five years, where that number of years exists ; otherwise it is a lesser number of years according to the circumstances. 
The following are typical of possible cases, and are cited in order to illustrate the. operation of the Government's proposal : - 
Actual taxable income of the last year in the averaging period, say, £4,000. 
Average taxable income of the averaging period, say, £1,000. 
Present personal exertion rate of tax on £1,000 is 7.29d. 
As £4,000 actual taxable income falls into the class subject to 20 per cent, increase in rate of tax, this taxpayer's  rate  becomes 8.74Sd., being 7.29d. plus 20 per cent. 
The tax on £4,000 at 7.29d. is £121 10s. 
The new tax will be £145 16s., which represents an increase of 20 per cent, on the former amount of tax. 
In the proposals of the Government the actual income earned during the taxation period will be the determining factor as to which class of super tax is to be paid. If the average taxable income of the averaging period is £4,000, the person concerned falls within the 20 per cent, category. But the actual rates upon which the percentage would be superimposed would be the rates based upon his average income, so that he will pay for the income earned during the taxable period at the rate payable for the averaging period, plus the super tax proposal of the present Government. 
Take another case, that of a man with an actual taxable income for the last year in the averaging period of, say, £1,000. 
Average taxable income of the averaging period, say, £4,000. 
Present personal exertion rate of tax on £4,000, 19.44d. 
Present tax on £1,000 actual taxable income, at 19.44d., £81. 
Seeing that the actual taxable income falls into the 10 per cent, grade of percentage increases in rates, the new rate will be 19.44d., plus 10 per cent, which equals 21.384d. 
Proposed tax on £1,000, at 21.384d., £89 2s. 
This represents an increase of 10 per cent, in the present amount of tax payable. 
Paragraphs 2 and 3 at the end of the resolution are the usual paragraphs which are required for the purpose of determining the period of operation of the new rates. 
Paragraph 3 applies principally to persons who are leaving Australia during an assessment year after having derived taxable income in that year. The paragraph authorizes the Commissioner of Taxation to collect income tax from those persons at the rates then in force, although they primarily relate to income derived during the immediately preceding financial year. If the paragraph were not in the act it would not be possible to collect income tax from the persons indicated prior to their departure from Australia. 
Summarized, the position is that this Government has maintained the basic rate of taxation. The increase has been made in the super tax so far as individuals' are concerned, and the super tax has been imposed upon companies, upon which no such tax was imposed by the previous Government. As I pointed out earlier, the proposals of the Government have already been debated at considerable length on other occasions, and there should be no need for me again to traverse ground already covered. I submit the bill to honorable senators for consideration. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [10.45]. - It has often been said that there are two things which are inevitable - death and taxation. Both are extremely disagreeable, and I venture to say that when the taxpayers of Australia read in  Mansard,  the explanation of the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly)  of these additional taxes ranging from 10 per cent, to 29 per cent, they will begin to wonder if the advent of a new Government has been such a blessing as some thought it would be. The taxation proposed by the Government is highly excessive, and comes with ill-grace from a party which twelve months ago was screaming about the heavy taxation imposed by the Federal Government at that time. If the previous Government flogged the taxpayers with whips it can truthfully be said that the present Government is flogging them with scorpions. I think the Government is unnecessarily flogging the Australian taxpayers, and it will be apparent before long that in consequence of the heavy direct taxation, and the tremendous load of indirect taxation, which will be piled upon the people as a result of the new customs duties imposed during the last week or two, there will be a tremendous surplus at the end of the present financial year. When these rates were fixed by the present Government no consideration was given to the enormous revenue to be received from the new tariff imports. It has to be remembered that in addition there is a sum of £1,200,000 under the control of the Government which it is not accounting for. It is making no proposal to extend it. There has not been any suggestion of crediting the deficit with that amount as we proposed to do. The Government is keeping it up its sleeve, and does not say whether it intends to use it to balance its accounts so that it is clear that it is taxing the people unnecessarily to the extent of at least £1,200,000. The taxpayers will perhaps, derive solace from the fact that these high rates of taxation are being imposed in order that 'the wealthy picture producers of the United States of America shall be relieved of contributions towards the taxation of this country. If the amusements tax had been put into operation by the late Government it would have had the effect of relieving the industries of this country of having to find at least £600,000 of the taxation which the Government now propose to collect. It will not be much satisfaction to the taxpayers, loaded as they will be with heavy taxes, to know that they are making sacrifices on behalf of those big picture interests situated at Hollywood. This Government, that speaks so much of the needs of the workers, is placing this load on them in order to relieve their cousins in the United States, who are taking their toll in every civilized country in the world of this taxation. This is not the only direct taxation which must be met by the taxpayers of Australia. "When they study the States, budgets they will find that there- is scarcely a State in Australia that is not increasing its direct taxation. I should like to contrast the class of taxation which this Government is putting forward with that proposed by the late Government. We proposed a super tax on incomes; but what was it? To tax the wealthy classes of this community by imposing a 10 per cent, tax on taxable incomes of £2,000 and over. What is the proposal of the Labour Government - a Government which claims that it represents not the wealthy but the poorer classes of the community? This Government is not content with taxing men with taxable incomes of £2,000 and over, but under this measure it is bringing its taxation down to the man who has a taxable income of £201 and placing upon him a super tax of 10 per cent. This Government, which pretends to represent those who have the least of this world's goods, is not following the example of the late Government by imposing taxation upon those who have enough and to spare, but is bringing it down to those with smaller incomes, including a section of the professional and middle classes, and the trading and higher class artisans, who will have to pay an additional 10 per cent, in order that no burden shall be placed upon the shoulders of the American picture producers. We had the spectacle the other day of a deputation of unemployed musicians, who had been discharged because picture patrons have American " canned " music dinned into their ears, waiting upon the Prime Minister concerning the effect of " talkies " with canned music upon the employment of Australian musicians.  Mr. Stuart  Doyle was at the deputation. I did not know that he was a member of the Musicians Union. I wonder who invited him. Did the Prime Minister ask that he should attend to give him moral support in dealing with the request? At any rate he was there, and as I have not yet heard that he is a member of the Musicians Union, I can only conclude that he attended as an ally of the Labour Government. 
The right honorable, gentleman should be certain of his facts. 
From what source? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Through the medium of the press, in which a 'report of the deputation appeared. 
It was not a deputation ; it was a conference, as stated in the press. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What is the difference? 
It was a round table conference, and all the men got was a "kick in the shins," as is usual at such conferences. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.What is the difference between a conference and a deputation ? The taxpayers of this country are welcome to what solace they can get from the knowledge that these enormous sums will be taken from them in order that  Mr. Stuart  Doyle and his confreres shall avoid the taxation which the late Government intended to impose on them. 
What does this additional taxation mean to the industries of Australia? Some Australian industries which are barely making a profit to-day will, as the result of it,, have to go out of business. What does it mean in the last resort? It means ' unemployment. The proposed taxation on the profits of companies will probably represent the difference between success and failure. This is vicious and inequitable taxation, and will have a disastrous effect upon the well-being of the Commonwealth. It is being imp'osed by a Government that has come from the electors with  a majority, and we must assume that it has the authority of the people for such heavy impositions; but I venture to say that when the electors have an opportunity they will speak with a more effective voice than we are capable of at this juncture. 
 We have heard this little story about the American picture interests so often that I am beginning to think that honorable senators opposite really believe that it is true. It is very difficult for those who watched the activities of the previous Government to understand the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition, who was a member of that administration, now posing as the friend of the men whose income is about £450 a year. What would the Bruce-Page Government have done to the public servants of this country who were earning that amount? What did the right honorable gentleman say in this chamber concerning the intentions of the Government of which he was a member?  His  proposal was to dispense with arbitration in the Public Service and to place the members of that service under regulations with respect to conditions of employment. 
That is one of the old quibbles for which the honorable senator is noted. I have heard many times of the use of the pruning knife. The first attempt of the previous Government would have been to prune the wage conditions; but what was going to happen to the wages of the members of the Public Service? We were told in this chamber that as the result of the change over there was going to-be a saving of £150,000 a year in the Public Service. 
The taxpayers were not being robbed of that amount. Here we have  Senator H.  E. Elliott, who was one of the chief supporters of the late Government saying that the public servants of this country have robbed the Government of £150,000. 
He did not prove anything of the kind. The public servants of this country have never robbed the taxpayers of £150,000. 
Order! I ask the Minister to confine his remarks to the subject matter of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 - 
This act shall also apply on all assessments for financial years subsequent to that beginning on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine, made prior to the passing of the act for the levying and payment of the income tax for the financial year beginning on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty. 
A little elucidation of sub-section 2 of this clause would be acceptable to honorable senators. I am not certain what is intended, but I take it that it refers to assessments already made. 
I am informed by the Taxation Department that it relates to persons who left the Commonwealth before the rates were actually declared. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedules and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Thirdreading. 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  proposed - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 
Before the curtain is rung down on this act of unequal taxation, I should like the Leader of the Government  (Senator Daly)  to tell the Senate what proportion of the additional £800,000 contemplated to be raised under this measure will be extracted from taxpayers with a taxable income of between £201 and £1,000, and between £1,000 and £2,000. I did not expect the second reading to be agreed to with such celerity, but apparently, honorable senators feel that they cannot amend matters here. We shall have to bide our time; and, in the meantime, point out the shortcomings, the injustice, and the inequalities of this measure. Persons of slender incomes are to be called upon to pay income tax which the previous Government would not have asked them to pay. No doubt their sense of patriotism will be greatly stimulated when they find that the Labour Government, which they believed would hold the scales evenly, demands from them taxes which, had the previous Government remained in office, they would not have been called upon to pay. If this measure increases their patriotism, it will have accomplished something. The inequality of the Government's taxation proposals is revealed in the rates of taxation. A person with a taxable income of £201 will be taxed at the same rate as another person with a taxable income of £1,000. Even where the income ranges from £1,500 to £3,000, the rate of tax is only 5 per cent. greater. A person receiving £2,999 per annum will be called upon to pay only 5 per cent. more than a person whose income is a modest £201 per annum. 
If that is fair play, then the term has a different meaning from what it had in the past. I always understood that the Labour party claimed to be the champion of equality in taxation, and I concluded thatit would advocate a greater difference between the rates paid by the two classes of taxpayers. If the taxpayers, who placed the present Government in office, are called upon to pay taxes, which they would not have had to pay if there had been no change of government, all I can say is that it is their own funeral. I have no doubt that the Government will offer an explanation for taxing the people of slender incomes. There is nothing that it cannot explain to the satisfaction of the electors, for they are very credulous. Indeed, the credulity of the public is the Government's best asset. I am aware that further revenue must come from somewhere; but if it were a choice between taxing the industries of this country and the amusements of its people, I should not allow the amusements to escape by adding to the burden of men who are already at their wits end to find work for their fellow men. Under this measure, industry will be taxed, whereas no one would have been injured by the late Government's proposal to tax the motion picture industry. I am not here to apologize for the Government. Apparently it is well able to look after itself, for the people are willing to believe anything so long as it is told in a plausible manner. 
The recent election was not a general election, but an auction sale, where men auctioned their consciences for votes. I desire to ascertain what proportion of the £800,000 proposed to be raised in excess of the previous Government's proposals is to come from the people of slender means. It is possible that the Minister has already supplied that information ; but I was unable to follow him in his involved explanation of the Government's proposals. A schedule of income taxation is at any time difficult to explain. The man in the street probably does not understand it, but he will soon know that under this schedule he will be called upon to pay taxation which he would have escaped under the proposals of the last Government. We, on this side, do not believe in taxing people who cannot afford to pay; but we do believe in taxing those who can pay. ' Under, this measure, the salary of Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks will not be taxed, whereas the working man in receipt of a taxable income of £201 a year will have to pay his share of the expenses of government. The man who is scratching for a living in the dry areas of Australia will be required to pay his share of taxation, while Hollywood stars escape. Mary Pickford will now be able to buy more rouge. To-morrow morning, as she sits before her mirror, she will be a happier Yankee than she was yesterday. She will have a high opinion and a tender regard for the Government representatives in this Commonwealth Senate - a body which springs from the loins of the people, and whose maxim is even-handed justice . to every citizen and an equitable sharing of the burden of taxation. Douglas Fairbanks will be able to smoke half-crown cigars at the expense of the unfortunate settler living in the out-back districts of Australia whose hair sticks out through his hat and whose toes protrude through his boots. And to think that this is the work of a Labour government ! To paraphrase Madam Roland's well-known words, " Labour, Labour, what injustice is committed in thy name!" The man whose hair is sticking through his hat will find no consolation in this bill, but poor Mary  Pickford's  butcher and baker are secure! To save their own pockets those responsible for film production in Australia have painted the Nationalists as black as black can be. Is that fair play? The Senate must accept this taxation, but I disagree with the sentiment expressed by  Senator Rae  that there are men in this chamber who express the opinion of the dead past. The system of rotation as applied to members of this chamber was especially designed by the framers of the Constitution to secure a seasoned opinion in Commonwealth legislature, and in the control of the public affairs of this country. They recognized the wisdom of having men of experience in the chamber, and for that reason,  Senator Rae,  who has just been elected to this chamber, will find himself in six years' time the victim of the very gibes he has uttered to-day. I hope that the Minister in reply, will be able to give me the graduations of income tax-payers from £201 upwards, to the stage where the 20 per cent, super tax begins to operate. That information, if available earlier, would have enabled honorable senators to give a more intelligent decision on the bill. I certainly support the third reading. There would be a hullabaloo throughout the country if I opposed it. But at the proper time, I intend to expose the hollowness of a party which pretends to hold the scales fairly and does so by increasing the taxation on the poor section of the community while allowing the Yankees to go scot free. 
 The number of residenttaxpayers with taxable incomes between £201 and £300 is 26,330 and the number of absentees with taxable incomes between those amounts is 521. The respective figures for resident and absentee taxpayers with taxable incomes between £301 and £400 are 15,689 and 316, and in the case of those with taxable incomes ranging from £401 to £500, the respective figures are 11,288 and 231. The total of individual tax-payers whose incomes range from £201 to £500 is 54,370. To-morrow I shall lay on the table the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation. It will give  Senator Lynch  all the information he requires for his campaign of exposure. I regret to have to delay honorable senators, but a charge has been made against the Government, and if no reply is made to it, the people may conclude that there is no answer to it. I doubt whether Mary Pickford or Douglas Fairbanks were liable to Commonwealth taxation during the régime of the previous Government. But I can safely say that neither artist has paid one penny in taxation in Australia. 
Neither would have clone so. 
The picture industry had been in existence for years before the previous Government introduced a scheme of taxation which was foreign to its policy, and put up a yarn about utilizing it to tax Americans. The Labour Government has not exempted Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, and if we could reach them at the present time we should do our best to collect some taxation from them in order to relieve  Senator Lynch's  anxiety. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 
 11.25 
 to 
 11.35 
 p.m. 

.- I move- 
That the committee do  not  insist on this amendment. 
The amendment inserted at the instance of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  has been considered by another place and rejected for the reasons given in the message. Honorable senators opposite have now to ask themselves whether they will stand to the amendment and give a demonstration of their strength or whether, in the light of the refusal of another place to accept the amendment, they will give it further consideration. Again I put it to honorable senators that the principle of mobilization and prohibition of the export of gold in certain circumstances, having been accepted by the Senate, there is no sound reason why gold held by any State Savings Bank should be exempted from the provisions of this bill. The gold reserve of £211,000 in the vaults of the State Savings Bank of South Australia, to which  Senator McLaohlan  particularly  directed our attention, is being retained for no practical banking purpose what ever. It is being held merely as a reserve against the possibility of a run on the bank such as was threatened in the early years of the war. But sentimental reasons alone should not influence honorable senators in the consideration of this important issue, especially since the amendment has been rejected by the popular chamber. 
It is regarded as the popular chamber just as the Senate is looked upon as the House of review, and I submit that it is the duty of honorable senators now to review their decision The Senate rejected an amendment to exempt the gold-producer from the operations of the bill. It took the view that if it were deemed expedient and in the interests of our currency and credit to mobilize the gold in the Commonwealth, the interests of the producer should be made subservient to the interests of the nation. I ask honorable senators to apply the same line of reasoning to the proposal to exempt the State Savings Bank. Can we advance any better reason for the retention of the gold by these institutions? 
It is possible to adduce stronger reasons for the exemption of the producer of gold than for the State savings banks, which hoard it in their vaults. 
The Senate should not, for sentimental reasons only, stand, fast to its decision to exempt the  institu  tions concerned. The measure and the amendment have been carefully considered in another place and the Government has stated in unequivocal terms that it has no intention of harassing these banking institutions ; that it may not be necessary to mobilize the gold resources, but that, if the occasion does arise, the savings banks will have to take their place side by side with the gold-producer and surrender their gold reserves. 
I urge honorable senators to realize that the issue is not big enough to warrant their blocking the legislation of the Government. They must realize that it is a serious matter to hold up the legislation of the Government. It is a power that should be exercised only in extraordinary circumstances. The Senate was quite in order in returning the bill with this amendment to another place, but as it has been returned for the reconsideration of the Senate, honorable senators should satisfy themselves that a vital national principle is involved before they decide to adhere to their previous decisions. 
Can the honorable senator tell me what that vital national principle is? 
I regret that the Government is unable to comply with the desire of honorable senators who wish to have these banks exempted, but I suggest that the issue is not sufficiently big to justify them preventing the legislation going through. 
.- As the senator responsible for this amendment, I feel it incumbent upon me to say a few words in reference to the refusal of another place to accept it. I had an opportunity to listen to the reception given to this amendment in another place. It was somewhat jocular, and characterized with great levity - a jocularity and levity in which, I am glad to say, the responsible leaders of the House did not join. I could not help being impressed by the fact that there was not a proper appreciation of the reasons that actuated myself and other honorable senators in endeavouring to place the amendment within the four corners of the measure. We have heard the Leader of the Government in this chamber outline the reasons  that he assigns to our action. We supported reasons that were advanced by hard, shrewd business people who control the State savings banks. They did not put forward their proposals with any sinister design, or with the somewhat miserable motive that has been suggested. Their desire was to safeguard the interests of their depositors, and to protect the credit of Australia. That is the big principle that is behind the amendment. Our State savings banks are in the nature of trustee institutions for the savings of the poor. Our forefathers who drafted the Constitution displayed a little more wisdom than we are displaying to-day. They protected those institutions, and it is our desire to perpetuate that protection. If, through jealousy or enmity, that protective legislation should fall to the ground, the responsibility will be on this Government. If any other eventuality should occur and we should, unhappily, have disturbances which none of us desire, thrust upon us, then the responsibility for any unseemly  i  happenings in the more distant States of this Commonwealth will rest upon the shoulders of this Government. 
I recognize that the contention of the Minister is quite sound ; that this it not a matter of such vital concern that we should differ from the opinion of the popular House and hold up this legislation. It is not a matter of large moment, although it may prove to be a matter of great importance to the credit of the country, and have a reactionary effect. I feel assured, from the utterances of members of the Government in another place, and also from what I heard from the Treasurer, that there is no intention at present on the part of the Commonwealth Bank to lay hands upon the gold of any of the State savings banks. That being so, I do not know why the amendment could not be accepted by another place. The amount involved is so small that it would scarcely be worth the time of the great Commonwealth Bank to commandeer the few thousands of pounds that lie in the vaults of the South Australian Savings Bank. 
Does the Minister suggest that it is not in the bank? 
The Government has failed to adopt a wise and long-sighted policy. Whatever its reason may be, our State savings banks have not received from the Government that consideration to which they are entitled. I cannot press the matter further, but I feel that a grave injustice has been done to those institutions by the Government refusing to accept this amendment. 
 I hope that the Senate will insist upon the acceptance of this amendment. I remind honorable senators that they are elected especially to protect the rights of the States. In this case a guarantee has been given to depositors by the States' savings banks, and a refusal to incorporate this amendment in the bill will dishonour that guarantee. - 
I say deliberately that if the bill is passed without this amendment the States savings banks will have to dishonour their guarantee, which is to pay their depositors in gold. 
I know that even the Commonwealth Bank Act provides that it is not necessary for the Commonwealth Bank to keep a gold reserve of more than 25 per cent, of its note issue. It is realized that only a small proportion of depositors are likely to demand payment in gold. 
The State savings banks guarantee that their depositors will receive their money back in gold, if necessary. 
I know that at the present time it is legal tender, although the Commonwealth Bank Act compels people to go to Sydney for their gold, instead of being able to collect it from any branch office. 
I have stated the exact position. It is true that the banks could pay in notes, but the notes are convertible into gold. Should this proclamation ever be put into effect the convertibility of our bank notes will disappear, and the State savings banks will have to dishonour their promises. 
I know that Parliament can alter the law, but it always is regarded as a dishonorable thing for a Government to alter the terms of a contract in order to avoid fulfilling its obligations. 
Can  Senator Daly  mention a law that authorizes State savings banks to pay other than in gold? 
It is the duty of this chamber to protect the interests of the States. Moreover, the framers of the Constitution must have held the opinion that at some time a difference of opinion would arise between the two branches of the legislature, and it specifically provided that the Commonwealth should keep its hands off the State Savings Bank. I do not think the committee will ever be able to get a clearer case than this on which to take a stand. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator McLachlan  say that in company with the Leader of the Opposition and other honorable senators he heard the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  in another place say that there was nothing to fear in regard to the gold held by the State savings banks. Surely we should accept the words of the Prime Minister, and I cannot understand why  Senator H.  E. Elliott should have any doubt in the matter. I remind honorable senators that when I asked the Leader of the Opposition if he had been in consultation with Melbourne bankers in connexion with this bill, and he assured us that  he  had not, his statement was accepted.  Senator H.  E. Elliott is opposing this provision on different grounds from  Senator Lynch,  who, to my mind, is like a blackfellows' dog running around the country full of fleas and barking at his own shadow. We should accept the assurance of the Leader of the Government in another place. 
Hundreds of thousands of people in Australia have accepted his word, and if it is not accepted by  Senator E.  B. Johnston I am not to blame. 
The Leader of the Opposition and  Senator McLachlan  were present when the Prime Minister definitely stated that the State savings banks had nothing to fear, and in these circumstances I suggest that the amendment should not be insisted on. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [12.5 a.m.] - I think it would be idle to suggest that the £200,000 in gold held by the South Australian Savings Bank is of the least importance in this connexion. We should not regard this subject from the viewpoint of the Government's mobilization scheme, or that of the commissioners of the South Australian Savings Bank. I would go so far as to say that if the confidence of depositors in South Australian Savings Banks was shaken there would be less likelihood of a run on the bank if the gold was not there to meet a demand, than if this £200,000 was available. Every one would then be making a mad rush to get his share. I hope that the committee will insist upon its amendment purely on the constitutional ground that the Commonwealth has no right to seize gold held by State savings banks. If the amendment is not pressed I hope that, should the occasion arise, the State savings banks will  test  before the High Court the right of the Government to act in this way. 
Very careful consideration was given to this measure by the Senate; but only two of the four  amendments made by us have been adopted by another place. The two amendments inserted in the bill in this chamber contrary to the wishes of the Labour party have been disagreed to by the House of Representatives, and there has not been any suggestion of a compromise. 
The operation of this law could be limited to the amount of gold at present . in the banks, but that is a compromise with which I should not agree. The attitude of the Government in this connexion is that it is not going to accept any amendment to its proposals. I fully agree with the opinion expressed by  Senator Sir Hal  Colebatch, that this is a matter which is vital to the interests of the States, and particularly to the smaller States. I doubt very much if it was ever intended that the Commonwealth should compete in every line of banking business, particularly in the way it is competing with State banks. It appears to me that if the banks in the sovereign States have gold reserves, or wish the gold produced in those States to be retained by them, this chamber is quite right in adopting the attitude it did. As to the assurance given by the Prime Minister, I tell  Senator Dunn  that I am at all times prepared to accept the word of the Prime Minister; but we are legislating for the people of Australia, and the decisions of the Prime Minister and his Ministers in such matters should be embodied in legislation. There has been no spirit of compromise, and I trust the committee will adhere to the decision which it reached a few hours ago. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia) [12.10 a.m.]. - In view of the speeches made by certain honorable senators on this side of the chamber, when this measure was last before the committee, I voted for this amendment, but I recognize that the committee has failed to impress its necessity upon another place. We could adopt the course of insisting upon our amendment, which might mean the loss of the bill and eventually a conflict between the two 
Houses. The time may come when such a situation will arise, and if it does I trust it will be on some important principle. By giving way I do not wish it to be thought that I have reversed my opinion; but this is not a question upon which there should be a conflict between the two Houses. For these reasons, I do no intend to oppose the motion. 
I move - 
That the committee do not insist on this amendment. 
The reasons I gave for not insisting upon a previous amendment apply also in this instance. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia) [12.16 a.m.]. - I am sorry that the Government has not seen its way to accept this amendment, which I think embodies a reasonable proposition. I know that a statement has been made by the Prime Minister in another place, which certainly puts a different construction on what is proposed to be done under this measure in regard to the gold taken from the private banks. If it had been said earlier that it is proposed to arrange, through the Bank of England, for a large portion of the gold taken from the private banks to be held here for credits in London to those institutions, it would have made a considerable difference to my views on the subject. Nevertheless, I am sorry that the Government will not limit the operations of the bill for the period advocated, when it could, if necessary, have been re-enacted. The committee adopted the amendment, which was sent to another place, where the Government with the backing of a big majority, rejected it. I do not propose to ask the committee to insist on this amendment. The responsibility is with the Government which has brought forward this legislation. The question whether it should be of a permanent nature is not a principle upon which it would be justified in holding up the bill, or causing a conflict between the two Houses. I believe that before this Parliament expires an occasion will arise when this chamber will have to take a stand which will probably lead to a conflict between the two branches of the legislature. I trust that those who wish to insist on the amendment will realize that they may do so with perfect safety, provided there is a sufficient number of honorable senators voting against them. But I ask them to remember that they may do what  Senator Rae  and ex-Senator Gardiner did on an historic occasion. They may precipitate a dispute when they do not intend to do so. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. I would suggest, therefore, . that honorable senators should carefully study the position, and vote against the Government at a more suitable time, and when a more important principle is involved. "We must choose our time and see that the principle at stake is of such importance that we should be justified in asking the country to decide which chamber is right. In this instance the principle involved is notsufficiently important, in my opinion, to warrant that course of action. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH  (Wesern Australia) [12.20 a.m.]. - The right honorable the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  has expressed his regret that the Government has not seen fit to accept the amendment. I regret it also, but not to anything like the extent to which I regret the remarks of the right honorable gentleman. This bill contemplates a drastic change in the method of conducting the business of Australia with the outside world. No fair-minded man would suggest that we had an adequate opportunity of considering from all points of view a measure of such great importance.  Senator Pearce  says that by insisting on this amendment we might block the bill. If we do, who must accept the responsibility - those who insist upon a reasonable provision, or those who refuse to accept such a provision? Had time permitted, no reasonable government would have resisted a proposal to refer the bill to a select committee in order that it might be carefully investigated, and its probable effects ascertained. There is no time to do that. But I do insist that it is perfectly reasonable to say to the Government, that if it thinks a temporary emergency will arise it can have the power necessary to meet the emergency, but before the legislation takes a permanent place on the statutebook, we are entitled to an opportunity to consider it. That opportunity we have not had so far.  Senator Pearce  spoke of issues of great importance. I know of nothing of greater importance than the trade and commerce of this country. I know of no measure in connexion with which the Senate is more entitled to take a firm stand than one which we all fear - which  Senator Pearce  fears - will operate injuriously to the trade and commerce of Australia. For that reason I do not hesitate to say that I shall do all I can to induce the Senate to insist on its amendment. 
One must congratulate  Senator Colebatch  on the persistence  with  which he attempts  to  secure  the  supremacy of this chamber over the other, for  that is  really what he means by  his  desire  to  insist on the Senate's amendment. If Parliament should, in the future, regard the continuance of this measure  on the  statute-book as inadvisable, Parliament can readily remove it. There is no such thing  as  permanence in legislation. I repeat that there is no argument for  the  limitation of this measure which would not apply equally to practically every other act on the statute-book.  Apparently, it is  the desire of  Senator Colebatch  and some other honorable senators to keep the control of legislation  in the  hands of the Senate, which,  at  present, does not so well represent the views of the people as does the other more recentlyelected chamber. 
 It is an attempt to keep the control in this chamber and harass the Government should it desire to retain this legislation on the statute-book. Clearly, any measure which is to be used only in an emergency must be ready to be applied when the emergency arises. Honorable senators do not seem to realize that this bill does not mobilize gold; it only gives the power to mobilize it. That power must be used when occasion demands; otherwise there is no virtue in possessing it. To imagine that mobilization might be required in the near future, and that there will be no necessity for it twelve months hence, is to look ahead in. a way for which there is no warrant. I trust that the Senate will t insist on its amendment. I agree wim the Leader of the Opposition that, if we are to have a conflict between the two Houses, we should have it over a principle worth while fighting for. In. that case I shall not be loth to take up the challenge. 
I suggest to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly)  that this chamber should be willing to meet another place in a spirit of compromise. If, by limiting the operation of' this legislation to twelve months, we incur a risk of hurried action being taken, I suggest that the period be extended to eighteen months.  Senator O'Halloran  suggested that the end of the year, when farmers were busy with their wheat crops, was not a good time to deal with so important a matter. Then let us consider it in the middle of winter. I suggest that the amendment be amended in the direction I have indicated with a view to a compromise being arrived at. 
There are several considerations which should weigh with the Senate when determining the attitude it should take up in connexion with this bill. One of them is the statement of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly),  that the Government has no intention of tampering with the present system by which the currency is controlled by the Commonwealth Bank. That certainly is most reassuring to me, and I believe also to other honorable senators, and it goes a long way, if not the whole way, towards allaying our fear as to what might lie behind the measure. The second consideration is that we have now been given to understand that the Commonwealth Bank Board, as at present constituted, approves of the measure as it stands. The third reason is that it is rumoured that it is intended to make some recompense to those banks one of whose assets will be wrenched from them. If there are banks with plenty of resources and if there are elements in our social make-up against which some of us are constantly tilting, nevertheless they demand fair treatment. The devil himself will give the devil his due. These banks, which are in charge of the surplus earnings of the people, have wielded a very beneficial influence in Australia, and it is manifestly an act of rankling injustice to them to peremptorily demand from them their gold reserves, without giving them something in return. These gold reserves, by the way, they hold at a loss to themselves, but must hold in order to secure their own stability. I should like to know if it is correct that the banks will get a corresponding advantage in securing London credits to the extent of the gold taken from them. 
Was it not the place of the Minister in charge of the bill to tell us that ? Why should we have to depend on hearsay to learn what is going on in another chamber with which this chamber is co-equal in most respects? Even in regard to matters of finance the Senate does not take second place to the other chamber. Our power of suggestion is just as great as the direct action of another place, and it is not justice to us that we should have to depend on a rumour carried here by some circuitous blast. 
The statement made in the other chamber by the first Minister in the land, was not made for an idle purpose. It was intended to influence opinion or alloy suspicion, or make the bill more acceptable to honorable members in another place. But this chamber of equal power should also have been given the information. 
It is a healthy indication that the Senate is, at last, gradually being recognized as a co-equal to the other chamber in the parliamentary government of Australia. Too long has it been ignored. It is entitled, to every piece of information, even down to the last syllable. But we do not want to precipitate a conflict on the matter now before us, and in the circumstances, our attitude should be to throw on the Government the whole responsibility of seeing that the measure is as good as its sponsors have assured us it is. 

 Senator DALY (South Australia- VicePresident of the Executive Council) ance for which  Senator H.  E. Elliott has asked. It is the opinion of the Government that no postponement would prove desirable. It is not a question of victory going to the other chamber; nor is it a matter over which any section can gloat. Honorable senators honestly expressed the opinion that they feared the provisions of this bill, and they asked for the inclusion of certain safeguards which another place has deemed unnecessary. There has been an honest difference of opinion. The Senate, being a chamber of review, has taken the proper attitude.  Senator Pearce  has prophesied a conflict between the two chambers. Speaking for myself, I cannot conceive of Labour carrying out its promises to the electors without such a conflict, and I do not think it is many months ahead. When that conflict takes place the electors must decide whether the Government, which controls the destiny of another place, shall also control the destinies of the Senate. But until that conflict arises, there is no need for us to be concerned. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolutions reported. 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  proposed - 
That the report be adopted. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the  Hon. 
Kingsmill). - I am afraid that it is not in my power now to rectify that matter. The honorable senator should have directed attention to it at the time. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Plain).I  may explain,  Mr. President,  that I heard only one" No " called when I put the question, and I therefore declared it passed in the affirmative. 
Action should have been taken at the time in committee. Now that the bill has reached another stage, I am afraid I cannot do anything. 
I suggest that if there was any misunderstanding, the only available course now is for the Senate to recommit the message. 
Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
Motion (by  Senator Daly)  agreed to - 
That the messagebe recommitted for the reconsideration of amendment No. 4. 

<graphic href="122332192912123_48_4_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="122332192912123_48_4_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 In committee (Recommital) : 
I desire to bring under the notice of the Senate a statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr. Theodore)  in another place, and to put the matter as concisely as possible I propose to read an extract from the Minister's speech. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Kinsgmill). - The honorable gentleman must know that it is out of order to quote or allude to the debates of the current session in another place. He must choosesome other method. 
I refer,  Mr. President,  to a statement made by  Senator Reid  in this chamber a day or two ago under the privilege of Parliament. 
If the honorable senator is man enough to make his statement outside and publicly,  Mr. Theodore  will have his remedy. I have known that gentleman for the last twenty years, and I strongly deprecate the charges, which are calculated to injure him in the eyes of the people.  Mr. Theodore,  who has hud a long and honorable public career, is unable to defend himself against the accusations of  Senator Reid,  for the simple reason that they have been made under cover of parliamentary privilege. I again appeal to the honorable senator to withdraw his statements. No one on this side would think the less of  Senator Reid  if he withdrew his objectionable insinuation. I have made political statements in this chamber and have withdrawn them at your suggestion,  Mr. President.  I was engaged in the State of New South Wales as a licensed victualler, and I know that 'that body has not financed the Labour party in its propaganda campaign. The chief source of the revenue of the Labour party for that purpose is the pockets of the trade unionists. Some honorable senators might suggest that a royal commission should be appointed to investigate the sinister motives which have prompted  Senator Reid  and others- 
The  PRESIDENT.  The honorable senator must not get further out of order by imputing motives to another honorable senator, whether they be sinister or otherwise. 
I again appeal to  Senator Reid  to withdraw his insinuations, which are absolutely false. 
The PRESIDENT. The honorable senator must not  Bay  that the statements of another honorable senator are false. It is more graceful and the correct parliamentary procedure to say that an honorable senator has been misinformed. 
I leave my appeal to the good sense of  Senator Reid. 
It is not necessary for me at this late hour, to make any comments. I shall make a statement on the subject when we resume. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate  adjourned at  1.3 a.m. (Friday). 
I propose to-day to lay on the table of the Senate the cable messages which passed between the British Government and the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth in relation to the matter mentioned by the right honorable gentleman. ' 
I ask you,  Mr. President,  if a copy of "The People's Patriotic Memorial," which was presented to the Duke and Duchess of York in Western Australia in 1927, and which,  inter alia,  records the fact that " conceived and advocated by him in 1887, Empire Day was publicly originated by an Australian citizen of British birth, lineage and diplomas  (Mr. F. Lyon Wise)  " has been filed in the records of the Senate in .accordance with the resolution of the Senate carried on 22nd November last.? 
I have much pleasure in informing the honorable senator that that has been done. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is a fact that the Coal Commission now taking evidence in Sydney, in addition to inquiring into the condition of the coal-mining industry in New South Wales, is investigating also the possibility of utilizing by-products of coal, and will the Government see that this subject is thoroughly studied during the recess, after the report of the commission is received? 
As to the first part of the honorable senator's question, I understand that all aspects of the coal industry are being inquired into by the com mission. Certainly the terms of reference are wide enough to cover the subject mentioned by the honorable senator. As to the second part of his question, it will depend upon the nature of the report and the policy of the Government. 
The Government has given very serious consideration to the subject, and it has authorized  Dr. Rivet,  the Director of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research who will be visiting Great Britain, to visit Germany to make the necessary investigations after he has attended the entomological conference to be held in London at an early date. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether, in view of the fact that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Fenton)  is about to leave for London to attend the Naval Conference, the Government will instruct him to emphasize the importance of the Singapore Naval Base as a factor in the safety of this country? 
The Government will give to the Minister for Trade and  Customs,  all the instructions which it deems to be necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is the Government in possession of the necessary information to enable it to make an announcement regarding the establishing of an airplane service between the mainland and Tasmania? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The question of establishing the service referred to by the honorable senator has had the earnest attention of the Defence Department, but it has not yet been found possible to allocate funds for a regular and efficient service with aircraft suitable for the work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the strength of the infantry units of the militia forces in officers, N.C.O.'s and men at the present time? 
What was the strength of these units at the termination of compulsory service? 
Referring to my question on the11th inst. on the subject of the action of certain municipal councils in regard to voluntary enlistment, which was reported in the press in Victoria, will the Minister have inquiries made into the matter; and if the reports are correct, what action is proposed to be taken in the interests of recruiting? 
Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Were any of the 72 further tariff increases, which were imposed by the Government on the 11th instant in a new tariff schedule, recommended by the Tariff Board? 
If so, will the Minister lay the Tariff Board's reports thereon on the table of the Senate ? 
Will the Minister indicate which of the items in the said schedule were not recommended by the Tariff Board ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 1, 2 and 3. Information on these points will be furnished when the tariff schedule is under discussion. 
On the llth December,  Senator E.  B. Johnston . asked the following question :  - 
What rentals are the various departments and Government instrumentalities, including the Federal Capital Commission, paying for premises occupied by them respectively in Canberra ? 
I have ascertained from the Minister for Works that the rentals being paid for the accommodation of Commonwealth departments in leased premises situated at Canberra are as shown on the attached schedules :  - 
The rentals paid by the Commission for properties occupied in the capital are as follow: - 
City Cafe - £48 1 5s. per calendar month: £585 per annum. 
Kingston Cafe - £436s. 8d. per calendar month; £520 per annum. 
The Commission rents window space in this latter cafe at 12s.6d. per week, i.e., £32 10s. per annum, therefore the net outlay by the Commission is £488 per annum. The Commission also leases portion 177,Uriarra, from the New South Wales Government at £1 per annum. 

<graphic href="122332192912134_2_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="122332192912134_3_0.jpg"></graphic>


 Mr. THEODORE. 

Statement by  Senator Reid. 
A few days ago I made certain references in this chamber to the public career in Queensland of  Mr. E.  G. Theodore, the Treasurer. The charges which I then made were challenged by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Daly).  Since then another long statement has been made, a report of which I hold, and in reply now, I shall be as brief as possible. At the outset I should explain that I was one of the founders of tha Labour movement in Queensland, and, like many others who were identified with it in its early days, I suffered a good deal : I was a member of the political executive from the inception of the party and for a number of years I was its  chairman.  In the course of time when I left the party of my own free will, I parted the best of friends with my colleagues in the movement. Some of them have been my life long friends. During the time that we were associated we rendered good service to the movement in that State. The work which we performed voluntarily called for a great deal of self denial, because Labour then had command of very little money, and if I were to tell honorable senators upon what slender resources we fought State and Federal elections they would be astonished. Because of my active association with the movement, I was thoroughly conversant with the avenues from which it obtained money to carry on. In 1915, the early closing of hotels was a burning question throughout Queensland. The Denham Government practically promised to introduce early closing, Queensland at that time being the only State where hotels were allowed to trade after 6 o'clock, and there was an agitation in favour of early closing. As the election campaign proceeded, a good deal was heard about the attitude of the licensed victuallers, and it was common talk that they were behind the Labour party. The party was hard up for money, as it always had been, but during the campaign it splashed money all over the place. It had its paid agents going about all the time. I knew some of them personally, and, as I wasmeeting them almost daily, I asked them where the money was coming from. Some said they did not know. 
I shall tell the honorable senator presently. 
The Vice-President of the Executive Council has not raised a point of order. I hope, however, that  Senator Reid  will adhere strictly to the unsolicited promise which he made at the outset of his remarks and be as brief as possible. I may add that I very much' regret that this Chamber should be made the battleground of a controversy of this kind. I had intended to say this at the close of the honorable gentleman's remarks. What I propose to say now is that I do not consider the Senate the proper place to ventilate this matter. May I suggest to the parties that it might be made an interesting, if not an agreeable subject of correspondence between them, if necessary, in the press? I certainly object to the Senate being made the vehicle for a discussion of this nature. 
I should prefer the honorable senator to defer his question until the termination of  Senator Reid'?  remarks. I do not wish the continuity of the honorable senator's statement to be interrupted unnecessarily. 
Address-in-reply, had not the Minister  (Senator Daly)  stated in the course of it that the Labour party had never received anything from combines or similar organisations. 
Order ! The honorable senator is going too far. 
Order ! 
The honorable senator sought the permission of the Senate to make a personal explanation. I cannot permit him to debate the matter. 
I do not think that I am justified in permitting the honorable senator to ask a question at this stage, but in the special circumstances, I shall allow him to do so. 
The honorable senator should have raised a point of order when  Senator Reid  was speaking. Did  Senator Reid  quote from  Hansard?  I have no evidence that he did. 

 - Senator Dunn was good enough to inform me that he proposed to quote from a  Hansard  report of a debate in another place during the current session.  Senator Reid,  in discussing this matter, mentioned a statement made in another place, but so far as I am aware, did not quote from  a  speech delivered in another place during this session. 
 Order! It is distinctly out of order to make sarcastic, derisive or frivolous suggestions. 
I desire to make a personal explanation concerning an interjection I. made yesterday when the Minister  (Senator Daly)  was referring to the Arbitration (Public Service) Bill introduced by the Bruce-Page Government. It was to the effect that the Public Servants had robbed the taxpayers. As that interjection might be misconstrued, I should like to explain that the matter to which I referred was in connexion with the travelling allowances paid to postal linesmen who, during a period of nine months, had been paid, under an award of the Public Service Arbitrator, a travelling allowance of £4 4s., and which, at the end of nine months or so after the case had been re-heard, was reduced to 35s. a week. A sum of £80,000 represented the difference between an allowance of £4 4s. and 35s. a week. Of course these men were entitled to draw the extra money payable under the award, but it was quite clear that the decision of the Arbitrator was due to the fact that he had been misled by the evidence put before him in the first place. 
The honorable senator is now debating the matter. He should confine himself to a personal explanation. 
In making a personal explanation the honorable senator is in order in modifying, denying or explaining a statement previously made. Such an explanation, however, must not be lengthy or one in which new matter is introduced. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be  now  read a second time. 
This bill proposes to amend the Iron and Steel Products Bounty Act 1922-27, amendment being confined to clause 2. The schedule to the principal act is to be amended to make the bounty on galvanized sheets £4 10s. per ton instead of £3 12s. per ton. In dealing with this bill, the Senate must consider whether the industry is of such national importance as to justify its being protected; and, if so, what form that protection should take. Prior to the establishment in Australia of the galvanized iron manufacturing industry by Lysaghts Ltd., practically the whole of the galvanized iron used in Australia was imported from England, the Australian premises of Lysaghts Limited being really a clearing house for the British product. A previous Commonwealth Government prevailed upon the directorate of that company to establish the galvanized iron making industry in Australia. 
That was in 1920. when  Mr. Hughes  was Prime Minister. Realizing that this is an Australian industry which employs Australian workmen and uses Australian raw material, Parliament, on the recommendation of the Tariff Board, has given it a measure of protection. The present duty on galvanized iron is 20s. per ton British preferential, 55s. per ton intermediate, and 60s. per ton general. There is also a bounty of £3 12s. per ton on galvanized iron manufactured in Australia. In 1926 the Tariff Board recommended a bounty of £4 10s. per ton to operate with the existing duty of 20s. per ton. There is also a deferred duty of £5 10s. per ton 
British preferential and £7 10s. per ton general. Great Britain is the only country which supplies any appreciable quantity of galvanized iron to Australia. The importations from Britain are valued at about £2,250,000 per annum. On a number of occasions the local manufacturers have asked that the deferred duty of £5 10s. per ton be made operative. After inquiry, the Tariff Board decided that if the deferred duty were to operate, a very heavy burden would be placed upon the consumer, and that it would be better to retain the then existing duties and grant a bounty on the production of iron in Australia, so that the burden would fall on the general taxpayers of the country. 
Not necessarily. As  Senator Lynch  can visualize the wide open spaces of Australia carrying a large population, so we on this side look forward to the time when our secondary industries will employ many more thousands of workers. The deferred duty was not embodied in the tariff schedule recently introduced, for it was felt that the time had not yet arrived when we could say that the tariff wall was a sufficient protection without creating a state of affairs which would make the price of galvanized iron almost prohibitive and would result in further unemployment in Australia. If the deferred duty of £5 10s. per ton were made operative, the bounty of £3 12s. per ton would, of course, cease. But that would mean the introduction of an amended tariff schedule. As, however, manufacturers have doubtless taken into account the amount of the bounty when calculating their selling price, it is practically certain that if the bounty were withdrawn and the duty increased, the price of galvanized iron in Australia would increase by at least £3 12s. per ton. The galvanized iron manufacturing plant at Newcastle is capable of producing between 25,000 tons and 30,000 tons of galvanized iron per annum, whereas between 120,000 tons and 130,000 tons of the material are used in Australia each year. The present production represents only about half the requirements of New South Wales. 
Last year the firm produced 28,000 tons of galvanized iron. To increase the duty would be to levy a much greater burden on the whole of Australia than would have to be borne if the bounty were increased by 18s. per ton as asked for by the industry and recommended by the Tariff Board. 
It is 20s. per ton British preferential tariff. The industry has asked that the duty be increased to £5 10s. per ton, but, as honorable senatorswill see, the imposition of that higher duty would impose too heavy a burden on the building trade in Australia, seeing that the Australian factory cannot supply the whole of our requirements. The company has spent over £500,000 at Newcastle, and plans are now in progress to extend the mill to enable it to produce 60,000 tons per annum by the end of 1930. Even that will be only about one half of Australia's present requirements. It will be seen that this company has not merely collected the bounty and, as it were, rested on its oars. A further programme of extension is also contemplated to enable the Australian factory to supply the galvanized iron which is now imported from Britain. Those importations represent between 75 per cent. and 80 per cent. of our requirements. Since the bounty came into operation in 1923, the company has produced 139,628 tons of galvanized iron. In the first year of production, 16,000 tons of iron were produced, increasing to over 28,000 tons in 1928-29. The total paid to the company by way of bounty to the 4th December, 1929, was £404,816. It has been calculated that by increasing the bounty from £3 12s. to £4 10s. per ton from the 1st January, 1930, the date mentioned in the bill, the additional expenditure for this financial year will be about £9,000. I point out that, in order to qualify for the bounty, the Australian manufacturers, must use Australian materials and pay the wages set out in awards of the Federal Arbitration Court. There is, therefore, a guarantee that the industry in Tasmania, which supplies part of the materials used, will be assisted, and that the Australian standard of living will be maintained. 
That will depend upon a number of considerations; but even in that direction some protection is afforded. Legislation already passed provides that the profits must not exceed 15 per cent. The company has not taken advantage of the assistance granted to it to pay huge dividends to shareholders, for since this Parliament afforded the industry its protection the company has paid only one dividend of 5 per cent. 
That is what any company which is given the assistance of a bounty ought to do. I emphasize the desirability of increasing the bounty rather than imposing a higher duty. 
Yes. Australia's requirements over and above the capacity of the Australian plant are imported from the parent company in Great Britain. Nevertheless, the Tariff Board is convinced that the Australian company is making an honest attempt to establish the industry in Australia with the object of supplying the whole of Australia's requirements. 
It might assist the Senate if I were to give the figures for each year since 1923-1924. I have here a statement setting out the number of employees, the annual production, and the amount of bounty paid : - 
I understand that the Tariff Board's report has already been made available to honorable senators. I commend the bill to the Senate, and trust that honorable senators will see the wisdom of increasing the bounty as the best means of assisting this Australian industry. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [12.45]. - I view this proposal with grave misgiving. In an endeavour to get our secondary industries on a sound basis, we are sponsoring a policy of bounties and high protective duties. I believe that more effective help could be given to those industries by the employment of other methods. Statistics disclose that there has been a steady improvement in the galvanized iron industry of Australia. During the last four years the importations were as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_8_3.jpg"></graphic>

The importations decreased by 20,000 tons in the last twelve months, which is equivalent to a reduction of 20 per cent. The particulars of local manufacture are - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_8_4.jpg"></graphic>

or an increase of 10,000 tons since 1925-26. 
I should also have mentioned that since 1926 the Australian price fixed by Lysaghts has dropped from £29 to £24 10s. a ton, so that our consumers have reaped a considerable advantage. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Those figures indicate that the industry has made appreciable progress. It employs approximately 500 men, and it is now proposed to pay to it a bounty of £135,000, which "is equal to £270 per employee in the industry. 
-I remind the honorable senator of the Tasmanian industry. They have to pay Australian prices for their raw material. 
  Senator Sir GEORGE  PEARCE.Honorable senators should seriously consider the proposal. It is extraordinary that we should be asked to pay such a bounty, which must come out of the pockets of the taxpayers, to an industry that has made excellent progress. That proposal should make us pause. What is preventing this industry from capturing the entire local market? I consider that we should relieve it of some of its burdens. It is suffering, primarily, from the excessive price charged for coal. The industry must consume great quantities of coal or coke. It is situated in our principal coalfield, Newcastle, yet it has to pay from 5s. to 6s. a ton more for coal than it would pay if it purchased that commodity overseas. I recall to the minds of honorable senators the undertaking of the Broken Hill Proprietary Steel Works, that if the price of coal were reduced by 5s. a ton it would employ an additional 600 men. That is the best kind of bounty that we can confer on any industry. What is the use of handicapping an industry on the . one hand and endeavouring to remove the handicap on the other. It has been pointed out that the sale of Lysaghts' products is practically confined to the State of New South Wales. Yet the whole of the taxpayers of Australia are asked to subsidize an industry that cannot produce a ton of its product capable of competing with the outside market. 
The Nationalist Government spent nearly £500,000 in assisting the industry. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.If the price of coal were brought down by 5s. a ton, which would still leave an adequate charge, the galvanised iron manufacturing industry would have a tremendous load lifted from its shoulders. If in addition the maritime industries of Australia were placed on the same basis as all other industries - and that is what the late Government was leading up to - this industry would be enabled to send its products to other states on a competitive basis. I believe that we are going the wrong way about assisting the industry. I cannot altogether blame the present Government; it is merely perpetuating the mistakes of past governments to some of which I belonged. We should inaugurate a new policy and endeavour to lighten the burden on the shoulders of the industry, so giving it greater buoyancy. At present we are merely loading it down at one end and endeavouring to prop it up at the other. 
I am amazed at the statement emanating from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  in relation to one of our finest secondary industries. The time has come when there should be a showdown in regard to the development of both our primary and secondary industries. Such representative men as  Mr. Sievers,  the  president  of the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures, and others, declare unequivocally that the introduction of the new Tariff Schedule by this Government will enable Australian manufacturers to effect a re-organization of their industries, which will give employment to 100,000 unfortunates who are at present walking our streets, as a result of the maladministration of Nationalist Governments.  Senator Pearce  would force our splendid galvanised iron industry to go into the open markets of the world against competitors in the black country of Great Britain, the Ruhr Valley, Germany, and elsewhere. T cannot understand his desire to imperil this splendid Australian industry. 
The Leader of the Opposition also dealt with the price of coal. That is determined not by the workers engaged in the industry, but by a small coterie of colliery proprietors who specify what the rates shall be. It is a case of continuously milking the cow to their great advantage. 
You are dry all the time. 
Order ! I have already pointed out to the honorable senator that all interjections are disorderly. I add that they are more particularly disorderly when directed personally to an honorable senator. If the honorable senator would restrain himself in his use of the second personal pronoun, he would not cause such a lot of trouble. 

 Senator Pearce dealt with the operation of the coastal clauses of the Navigation Act. As  Senator Rae  aptly interjected, that measure was piloted through this Senate by  Senator Pearce  himself. Now that the honorable senator is the responsible Leader of  His  Majesty's Opposition in this chamber, he desires a repeal of the legislation that he sponsored. He wishes to expose an Australian industry, conforming to Australian conditions and paying the rates of wages stipulated by our Arbitration Court, to the competition of those situated in countries where the standard of living is deplorably low. He would have our shipping companies compete with the P. &amp; 0. Company Ltd., which employs black labour. 
The party associated with  Senator Pearce  has often declared its adherence to the White Australia policy, yet the right honorable senator would repeal the Navigation Act and allow an Australian product manufactured by good. Australian trade unionists enjoying Australian conditions of work, and the Australian standard of living, to be carried on vessels manned by coolie labour. There is nothing to fear in regard to the industry to which this bounty is to be paid and I am pleased that the Government has the courage to stand by the secondary industries of Australia. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Wes know how it happens that in this very brief session, so brief that we are compelled to pass short emergency measures upon important matters of public policy that need to be dealt with as speedily as they can, time is found to make an additional present to just this one industry.  Senator Dunn  speaks of it as one which is of special importance because it has established itself. I deny that it has established itself. So far as it has gone in that direction, its progress is entirely due to gifts made to it at the expense of other industries, and that being so, I see no need for increasing the annual present. When a present is made to an industry is it not worth while asking ourselves who pays it, and whether it is just or wise that the people who do pay it should be compelled to do so? It is quite obvious that a present cannot be given to any person or industry unless it is provided by someone. It is very easy to discover who contributes this particular present. There was a time when in the cities of Australia galvanized iron was largely used for roofing purposes, but that time has gone; tiles and other roofing articles have taken the place of galvanized iron in the cities. It is not, therefore, in the largest extent, the city dweller who makes this contribution. It is the man in the country, the farmer, the miner, or any person engaged in primary production.  Senator Dunn  has talked about the " Australian standard of living " and " good trade unionists." Are the trade unionists in this particular industry any better than the good trade unionists working in the gold mines of Kalgoorlie? Is the honorable senator not aware that the latter have to work under harder conditions and for lower wages than are prescribed for the workers in the galvanized iron industry to whom they have to contribute presents? Is he not aware that the workers in country districts, mostly good trade unionists, are obliged to work longer hours and for  lower wages than they ought to be receiving in order that money may be taken out of their pockets to make presents to people engaged in another industry? After all is said and done, it is the working man who pays; it is not in a general way the employer. We have a very strong indication, in this measure, that when a start ia made in giving presents to an industry it does not lead to the building up of a self-reliant industry. As a matter of fact, its self reliance is knocked out of it. An industry that is built up in this way. will keep coming to Parliament asking for more and more. Here we have one whose demand is apparently so insistent that even in this short session it is heard above the demands of the great industries of Australia whose position to-day is indeed perilous, and at whose expense this present is to bc made. There is no justice in that. It is a caricature of justice to compel employers and employees in suffering industries that are being developed without assistance and in the face of enormous difficulties to make gifts to urban industries in which both employers and employees fare much better than people in country areas. There is no suggestion that the users of. galvanized iron, the farmers and the miners, should be guaranteed a profit of 15 per cent. They do not make it ; they have very little opportunity to make it; their profits are dwindling and dwindling very rapidly. It is not only unjust to pay these bounties at the expense of those engaged in primary industries ; it is also unwise to do so. Every additional man placed in employment bv reason of subsidies provided for favoured industries, at the expense of others, means that two men are cast out of employment because of the intolerable burden placed on the industries that have to provide the money. 
This bill is only another example of the effort that has been continued for a long time in Australia to secure a big lump of public patronage for an industry which, we are told, is not in a good way and that is likely to fall on evil days or come to an untimely end if assistance is not given to it. We have heard these stories before in this Parliament, While I am not impugning in the slightest the story told about this particular industry, I am perfectly sure that this Parliament has, in the past, been told stories as to the conditions of particular industries which were entirely incorrect but succeeded in getting for them a big lump of protection, and en couragement far beyond that given to other industries. I was living at Lithgow some twenty odd years ago, when galvanized iron was being manufactured there. I cannot, for the moment, recollect the amount of protection it got, but it would appear that it must have had some, otherwise the industry would not have been established there.  Mr. Sandford  was then in control of the works. They subsequently came under the control of  Mr. Hoskins,  and he came to this Parliament and presented repeated claims for a stiff protective duty for his industry, which he led Parliament to believe was in a very bad condition. I well remember him appearing before successive commissions asking foi a rate of duty on every particular com modity  he produced from the time the iron left the bloom until it assumed one of the manifold forms of manufacture. There was not a single classification of manufacture on which he did not ask for a duty, and he generally got it. Every one knows that he died a millionaire. I stood on the top. of the Commonwealth Bank building in Sydney one winter's morning and there was a big building almost like a Mohammedan mosque standing up out of the mist, almost blotting out the landscape. I was told that it belonged to 
and H. Hoskins. I asked whether the building belonged to that ironmaster who had been able to convince the Federal Parliament that his industry was in so bad a way that it could not carry  on  unless a stiff levy was placed upon the people of Australia. I was told that it did, and that out of the proceeds of the industry he controlled,  Mr. Hoskins  had become a millionaire and had built this enormous structure in Sydney. 
Good luck to them. But what about the other fellows, upon whose wares this firm has levied such a heavy toll, by the aid of this Parliament f We have heard a lot of talk about the late 
V. McKay, who was also able to convince this Parliament that his industry was sadly in need of protection. He died worth £1,250,000. Is it fair play that men can become millionaires in so short a space of time, while their fellows engaged in primary industries are impoverished? It is not the fault of this Government. It is only following the policy laid down by other governments - foolishly, I say - and among them governments which I have supported, but not in this respect. 
As for the bill itself, I should be loth to turn 500 men out of work if I felt that the mere trifle of £5,000 would prevent it, but the time has come when we should be very slow to believe all these stories we are told, and should jealously guard the interests of those people referred to by  Senator Colebatch,  the people who have to pay the piper, but who unfortunately have hitherto received very little consideration at our hands. Are we always to be giving benefits to those who line their pockets and become inordinately rich in a very short space of time at the expense of others? In 1913, Australia's primary production sold on the markets of the world was valued at £72,000,000. By 1927, it had increased to £S7,000,000, an increase of 20 per cent., notwithstanding all the handicaps imposed on all our primary industries. But what has secondary industry done in the same period? In 1913, the products of our secondary industries sold outside Australia were valued at £2,300,000. In 1927, the value of the exported output of our secondary industries had fallen to £2,100,000, a decrease of 6 per cent, in fourteen years. Do those figures indicate that the people engaged in secondary production are standing up to their job? Why are they not imitating Canada ? 
Yes, but its tariff is lower than ours, and the Canadian worker is not always snarling at his employer, or looking at him with a jealous eye. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  put his finger on one of the vital causes of the present unwholesome and unhealthy condition of our industrial and economic life. The price of coal is the governing factor iu industry. Coal at n reasonable price is vital to all our industrial activities.  Senator Dunn,  I notice, is absent from the chamber; but doubtless there are others on his side who try to reason away economic facts, and declare that industry is languishing, because, so they say, the coal-mine owners in New South Wales are extracting inordinate profits from the industry. If that is so, why do not these industrial wizards apply the remedy? It is to their hand. If they want advice I will give it to them, and not charge for it. Some time ago I  put a question on the notice-paper of the Senate relating to the coal position in New South Wales, and I was informed that scientific research had disclosed that with 1,000 square miles of the known coal-bearing area in that State, the estimated deposits of coal were something in the neighbourhood of 20,000,000,000 tons. In other words, the available coal at the present rate of consumption was enough to carry on Australian industries for the next 2,000 years. But that is by no means the whole of the story. I was further informed that there is a further area of 15,000 square miles in which, the potential coal deposits have not been surveyed. This Government proposes to save £150,000 by a cut in the defence vote. Very well. I can suggest a profitable avenue for the employment of that sum. Let the Government put it into a coal-mine and test its theories. Any consulting engineer in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth or any other capital city will supply the Ministry with reliable information about the cost of opening up a coal-mine in New South Wales. The Government could start producing governmentowned coal to-morrow morning, so to speak. Let these Labour Ministers show the people of Australia what they can do. We have heard altogether too much about coal-mine owners' profits and exploitation of employees. 
Certainly. 
---If the Government  were really in earnest about this coal-  mining problem it could wipe out John Brown or any other coal-mine owner almost in a twinkling of an eye. Let us hear no more of these yarns about John Brown. Labour members and industrial leaders remind me of the mechanical doll which, if pressed on the chest, says, " Mamma," and if pressed harder says " Papa." Press these latter-day Labour men on the stomach hard enough, and all you will get from them by way of exclamation is " John Brown ! John Brown !" Now they have an opportunity to test their theory. Let them get moving and persuade this Ministry to start a government coal-mine to show the world what they can do. 
The Government is asking the .Senate to agree to the payment of a bounty. Of course, the Senate will pass it. I suppose £9,000 is not very much. It is, however, a lot to some people. If the Government, is looking for, a remedy for our industrial ills, I can offer it free of charge. The Leader of the Senate has promised to bring in a bill to establish a Commonwealth coal mine to produce cheap coal for Australian industries. Let him do that. He will have my support, even if I have to get up in the middle of the night and walk barefooted over a heap of broken bottles to vote for the bill. But I am opposed to this proposal, because it is not the real remedy for our constantly recurring industrial troubles. 
We do not hear these industrial leaders saying a word or two occasionally for our wheat-growers - fellow Australians who have to earn their living by much sweat, and live, so many of them, in lean-to shanties. Nor do we hear of them working to better the conditions of the women fo'lk of our pioneer producers; those women who stand so loyally by their mates and help them to produce from what so often proves to be little better than a barren wilderness. What bounties do they get from the Commonwealth Government? None at all. They have to labour under extraordinary hardships, and market their products overseas in competition with cheap labour countries, which are nearer to the world's markets than we are. There is no 44-hour week for them. Their lot is vastly different from that of their fellow workers in our industrial centres. This bounty cannot be drawn from the vasty deep. This Government cannot strike a rock and draw from it a golden stream of wealth. The only way this sum can be produced is by taxation of the people of the Commonwealth, including our pioneer settlers, who have to earn their living under such terrible handicaps. This is not fair play, as I understand it. It may be the modern idea of fair play, but I shall never stand for that, and I shall never cease to condemn, and reprobate it, because it means the placing of an unfair burden on one section and that, by the way, the poorer section of our people. Why should we hobble ourselves in this way? 
Unfortunately so many of these secondary industries have a habit of not growing up. For years we have heard the plea that these infantile secondary industries must be helped by means of tariff duties or bounties. We heard this cry more than twenty years ago, and we hear it to-day. How long must we continue to maintain industries which never seem to cast off their swaddling clothes ? It is time we asked them to stand on their own feet. That is the manly way and, indeed, the only way to real prosperity. Does any one suggest that it is fair to.be for ever coddling certain of our secondary industries, and at the same time neglecting the just claims of those pioneer settlers who are endeavouring to wrest a living from hostile nature in remote parts of the Commonwealth? This is not fair play. The time has come when these people should be told to stand up to their jobs. There should be more of that pioneer spirit that has inspired our land workers to produce £87,000,000 worth of exportable products upon which the solvency of the Commonwealth depends. Our primary industries, perhaps because they have not been coddled overmuch, have progressed whilst so many of our secondary industries have been dwindling. 
I do not blame this Government for the introduction of this bill, but I do lay some blame upon the industrial leaders, who are the supporters of this Government, because they are not manly enough to search for the root causes of our industrial trouble. . They prefer to remain silent ;  they know that if they spoke the truth they would lose votes. If  Senator Rae  were managing a fish shop to-morrow and if, among his employees, there was one man who was full of discontent and was engaged continuously in stirring up trouble among his fellow employees, would  Senator Rae  be able to make his fish shop pay? Of course not. Failure would be inevitable. Now that has peen the position in Australia for many years past. Although the Nationalist Government was nominally in charge of the affairs of this country for some years, it was powerless to control the industrial situation, and just as  Senator Rae  would be unable to make his fish shop pay whilst one of his employees acted the part of a disturber of the peace, so also was the Nationalist administration impotent without the loyal co-operation of industrial leaders to give this country a push along the road to prosperity. 
I am not, and never have been, satisfied with this state of affairs. I have always protested against one section of the Australian people being the beasts of burden for the other and more fortunate section, and I intend to oppose this measure because it is not a remedy for the industrial evils from which the Commonwealth is suffering. 
 Invariably when a bill of this nature is before us we are obliged to listen to observations about the relative merits of free trade and protection. I am afraid that the majority of honorable, senators are geographical free traders. I intend to support the bill because I believe that it is a step in the right direction. I have before me a statement prepared in August of last year by the managing director of Lysaghts, giving certain details which I feel sure will be of interest to honorable senators. When the firm in question commenced the manufacture of galvanized iron in Newcastle in 1920, the price of the manufactured article was between £25 and £40 per ton. Since then the price has been receding, and the industry is now in need of financial asistance. One reason why the bill should be supported is that the whole of the raw material is either manufactured or produced in the Commonwealth. I am advised that the duplication of the present plant will mean the employment of an additional 400 or 500 men, the use of an additional 35,000 tons of steel, an additional 5,000 tons of Tasmanian zinc, and an additional 200,000 tons of coal as well as a large number of fire bricks, large quantities of sulphuric acid, and a greatly increased demand for electric power. I also remind honorable senators that the large number of people employed in the industry must wear clothes and that they will provide an enlarged market for Australian commodities. The payment of this bounty will mean a larger field for employment of our people, and such are the ramifications of industry that we are all more or less living upon one another. I do not wish to discuss the measure at length. A definite promise of assistance was given to Lysaghts in 1920 by the then Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Greene)  and later by the late  Mr. Pratten,  and the Tariff Board reported favorably on the request for the bounty. 
 I cannot allow the bill to pass without entering my protest. We have heard a good deal about the position of the Senate as the States house, and I propose to consider, this measure from the point of view of Western- Australia. I am not a free trader. If this were the first application for a bounty I should view the bill in an entirely different light. If, with the assistance of a duty on imported iron and the bounty that has been paid hitherto, these people cannot produce on a competitive basis, then God help every other industry in the Commonwealth. Under our present uneconomic policy industries have been loaded to such an extent that it is impossible for them to carry on without being spoon-fed from the public purse. The iron and steel industry has already received from the Commonwealth Government over £400,000 by way of bounties, and I contend that any industry that has received that amount should be well satisfied.  Senator Colebatch  correctly stated that comparatively little galvanised iron is used in the cities, and that the major portion of that produced in Australia is' utilized in industries which are providing our exportable surplus of primary products. It is all very well for the Government to continue the payment of bounties to such an industry as this, but the time will come when there will be nothing left to give, and when we shall expect something in return. I cannot see any justification for more than is at present being paid. It has been mentioned that the increased bounty is equivalent to 18s. a ton, and that . the industry will be able to increase its output from 30,000 to 60,000 tons a year. The increased expenditure for the remainder of the present financial year will be £9,000, and it is against that expenditure that I am protesting. 
I was glad to hear the Minister admit that the payment of a duty instead of a bounty would be a burden on the whole of the people, because we have often heard the protectionist element in this chamber, and another place, as well as those outside contending that high duties reduce the burden on the people, and result in cheaper production. That is a theory to which I cannot subscribe. 
According to a report of the Tariff Board, Western Australia, in her present state of development, is bearing a very heavy burden in consequence of the high duties imposed on agricultural implements, as well as other commodities, such as fencing wire, wire netting, and galvanized iron. The Western Australian people are unable to use Australian galvanized iron. Whatever they contribute towards this bounty comes out of the general revenue, and they do not get any return at all. Yon, sir, as an authority on timbers and their by-products, know of the mistletoe that develops on growing timbers. I have come to the conclusion that industries such as the one under discussion, are as the mistletoe; they are living on the Commonwealth, and are sucking the life blood out of it. 
.- I am not one of those who believe that any particular fiscal policy is, in itself, so much a matter of principle as an expedient according to the time and circumstances. Neither am I partiicularly concerned about the very amusing tirade of my one-time colleague,  Senator Lynch,  who stigmatized this measure as undue interference with industry. I should like to say a word or two concerning what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  said against the further fostering of this industry, the price of coal, and the operation of the Navigation Act. Briefly referring to the last-mentioned subject, I  may say that I was a member of this chamber when the present Leader of the Opposition was piloting the Navigation Bill through the Senate. That measure was not the product of one government. After its introduction it was several years before it was finally passed by Parliament.  Senator Pearce  then professed to be strongly in favour of the principle he was advocating, and I do not know why he now should be so bitterly opposed to ii. 
It is peculiar how experience changes one's opinions. I am not one of those who believe that one is bound to hold the same opinion all through life; but how is it that as a distinguished member of the_ previous Government, the right honorable gentleman took an active part in passing measures providing for payment of bounties on dried fruits, wool tops, wine and other products? 
These political lightningchange artists are, according to their own political fortune, apparently, changing their opinions. The previous Government was noted for fostering the industries producing commodities such as those I have mentioned by way of bounties. 
I wish to refer more particularly to the present price of coal which the Leader of the Opposition said was one of the main factors in retarding the progress and development of our secondary industries. It is not wages which primarily affect the price of coal, but the huge concealed profits of those engaged in the coal industry The profits of thi?  industry are now being inquired into by a royal commission which is endeavouring to determine the cost of production and the use of by-products of coal and so forth. One has to admit that most of the facts given to the commission are being studiously and deliberately suppressed in order that the public shall not have a clear understanding of the actual position of the industry. The coal area of this country was referred to by  Senator Lynch  who mentioned the possible existence of some 20,000,000,000 tons, but that has very little bearing upon the cost of coal to the consumer. There are more coal-mines in Australia than we require, so that our present coal problem cannot be solved by opening up new deposits. We also have to remember that while there are millions of tons of coal in the bowels of the earth, the method of mining and marketing is cumbersome, and that its cost is excessive because of the wasteful methods employed. In the best seams less than onethird of the coal is obtained from the pit; the remainder being buried during mining operations in such a way that it will be impossible to ever profitably extract it. While this wasteful method goes on the cost to the public is more than treble what it would be under sane management.  Senator Lynch  suggested that the difficulty could possibly be overcome by the Commonwealth owning and conducting its own coal-mines ; but under our present Constitution that is impossible. I remind the honorable senator, however, that the State coal-mine at Lithgow, which is controlled by the New South Wales Railways Commissioners, has fewer industrial disputes than any other coal-mine, pays higher wages, and is the most profitable in the State. The gibes thrown out against State enterprise are, therefore, wholly undeserved. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Navigation Act was to some extent responsible for the necessity of subsidizing secondary industries; but I should like to know what is the policy of the Leader of the Opposition in this respect. Does he wish to see our ships manned with lascars, such as are employed on the Peninsular and Oriental boats? Does the right honorable gentleman wish the labour conditions of the white seamen brought down to the level of those employed on ships owned by the Inchcape trust ? I should like to know where honorable senators opposite stand. They all indignantly deny that they wish to lower wages, and when we charge them with wishing to do so we are told that we are making slanderous statements. Every argument they adduce is in the direction of getting cheaper labour in order to make our industries pay. 
I do not wish to circumscribe the debate; but I suggest that the honorable senator now turn his attention to the bill. 

 Sitting suspended from 12. 1/S to 2.15 p.m. 

.- In the discussion on this bill, the old controversy between freetrade and protection  has been revived. I regard the iron and steel industry as one of great importance in the development of this country. Lysaghts Limited commenced the manufacture of galvanized iron in Australia under a policy of protection. Three years ago, the Tariff Board recommended a further measure of protection, whereupon the company arranged to install further plant to enable it to double its output. The factory is equipped with an up-to-date plant; it supplies a good article for which there is a constant demand; it uses Australian materials ; it operates under a system of piece-work; and, generally, it is a concern which merits assistance. During the whole term of its operations in Australia, the company has declared only one dividend of 5 per cent., so that it cannot be said that its shareholders are making huge profits out of the people of Australia. The industry deserves our assistance, and I shall, therefore, support the bill. 
In my speech on the Address-in-Reply, I said that the legislation foreshadowed in the Governor-General's Speech was practically all directed to bettering the conditions of city dwellers. This bill comes within that category. Queensland uses a great deal of galvanized iron ; even in the cities and- larger towns of that State the roofs of dwellings and other buildings are almost entirely of galvanized iron, while in country districts, especially in the north and north-west, many of the buildings are wholly constructed of that material. Men who go into the out-back parts of the country in order to engage in primary pursuits should be given some consideration when matters affecting the price of galvanized iron are under consideration. I am not opposed to bounties which induce people to engage in undertakings which will benefit the Commonwealth, and which, without the assistance of bounties, could not be established. So far, the company's output of galvanized iron is very far short of Australia's requirement's; but when, by extending its plant, it is able to supply the whole of the local market, we have no guarantee that it will be able to compete in the markets of the world. In considering bounties, we should have regard to the permanency of the enterprise. I shall, however, support the bill. 
 I understand that when galvanized iron was selling in Australia at about £35 per ton, the then Government promised Lysaghts Limited that if it would undertake the manufacture of galvanized iron in this country, a full measure of protection would be afforded to the industry. On the strength of that promise the company established  a  factory in Australia.  Later,  when the promised protection was not forthcoming, the company appealed to the Tariff Board, which recommended increased duties. This bill has been .introduced in fulfilment of the promise made, to Lysaghts Limited. On' receiving an assurance of further protection, the company decided to duplicate  its  plant. Three years have elapsed since then, and nothing has been done; I believe that the work of extending the plant is practically at  a  standstill. When in going order, that plant will employ an additional 500 or 600 men, and indirectly that will mean the employment of many others. While supporting the bill, I desire to make it clear that if it is true that this factory is an industrial hell, I reserve the right to refuse  il  my further assistance. An industry which can carry on at  a  profit should treat its employees decently. In my opinion,  it  should employ trade unionists. I support the bill, but the continuance of my support to the industry will depend on the manner in which it is conducted. 
 The only argument urged against the bill has been advanced many times when the relative merits of freetrade and protection have been discussed. 
I should have thought that the type of protection which this measure affords would appeal to  Senator Chapman,  for it places  a  burden on the whole community, not on  a  particular section of it. A bounty on the production of iron -and steel is not different in principle from  a  bounty on wine, which has the support of  the honorable senator. It may be that from  Senator Chapman's  standpoint bounties differ, as tariffs differ, according to whether or not a South Australian industry is affected. In considering the galvanized manufacturing industry, the Government necessarily had regard to the £400,000 already spent to assist it. The Government also has taken into account that 538 men are employed in the factory; that expensive plant had been installed, and that other industries which provide the raw material were concerned. Having considered the question from all angles, the Government decided on a bounty as the best means of granting assistance. Some honorable senators indulge in strange reasoning. In this case the Government acted on the recommendation of the Tariff Board, yet it would appear from the statements of some honorable senators that it ought not to have done so. Yesterday, the Government was taken to task by the same senators for having done something without first having consulted the Tariff Board. Are we to understand that the attitude of some honorable senators is that the Government is wrong, whatever it does? If the Senate is to be a house of review, honorable senators should direct their activities to advising and guiding the Government along right lines. Irrespective of whether honorable senators intend to condemn the Government, no matter what it does, it will continue to do what it thinks to be right. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is now submitted in order that Parliament may make the necessary appropriations to give effect to the proposals for loan works and services which were announced on the 22nd November when the Estimates were transmitted to this House. Works and services in progress at the 30th June last have been continued out of funds obtained in Supply under " Advance to the Treasurer," pending loan appropriation becoming available. Those funds are becoming exhausted, and it is desired that parliamentary appropriation to cover the programme should be made as early as possible. 
The total of the loan programme announced with the Estimates is £5,520,345, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

This amount is the same as the total programme which was submitted by the ex- Treasurer in his budget proposals on the 22nd August last. The figure of £5,520,345 then submitted was arrived at in accordance with the decision of the Loan Council in August, that there should be a further all-round cut of 20 per cent. on the respective Commonwealth and States programmes submitted to, and approved by, the Loan Council earlier in the year. A comparison with last year is as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_18_1.jpg"></graphic>

The following statement shows a comparison' under the main items between the estimated expenditure for the current year and the actual expenditure last year :  - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_19_7.jpg"></graphic>

It will be noted that the total amount included in this bill is £6,045,795. The difference between this sum and the estimated expenditure of £5,520,345 is explained as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_19_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="122332192912134_19_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="122332192912134_19_8.jpg"></graphic>

It is necessary to include in the bill the gross provisions of the various items set. out in the estimates without any deduction of estimated savings. This is the usual practice. The expenditure will be closely watched to see that the allotment of moneys by the Loan Council is not exceeded. With regard to the North Australia Commission an amount of £122,100 is included in the schedule. This covers the £50,000, being the requirements for the current year and also £72,100 being tho amount advanced to the commission up to 30th June, 1929, in anticipation of loan raisings. 
It has been the usual practice for some years to. provide that the unexpended balances of appropriations made in loan acts of the preceding year shall lapse. That practice is being adhered to on this occasion with one exception. Loan Act No. 2, of 192S, contains an appropriation of £3,000,000 for "Loans to Federal Capital Commission." This amount was intended to cover the repayment of advances that had been made in anticipation of the raising of loans. It is proposed that this appropriation be specially kept alive so that when loan moneys become available the necessary appropriations will be made in repayment of advances. On the 30th June, 1929, the amount of advances outstanding was £1,752,055. In the programme now submitted certain adjustments have been made within the total allotment compared with the estimates submitted by the late Government. 
These adjustments are as follows: - 

<graphic href="122332192912134_19_9.jpg"></graphic>

These alterations- provide for a net increase of £210,000, but it is proposed to keep within the total programme by making general savings. Clause 2 of the bill gives authority to the Treasurer to borrow moneys not exceeding in the whole the amount of £6,300,000. This amount is arrived at by adding to the amount of the bill a sum to cover discounts and the cost of raising the moneys to meet the expenditure authorized by the bill. 

 Senator Sir HAL COLEBATCH (Western Australia) [2.46]. - I want to throw out a suggestion to the Government that, because of the influence it is able to exercise on the Loan Council, it should endeavour to induce the whole of the governments of Australia to deliberately trim their financial policy according to the prevailing breeze. Private industry is doing this. I can give a case in point, although it is a rather delicate one. Most of us remember that just before the recent dissolution honorable senators received from certain motion picture interests, a communication telling us of their anxiety to. assist in relieving the unemployed difficulty. We were told that if the proposed tax was imposed their industry would be so injured that they would not be able to do all they wished to do in regard to providing employment, and one company expressed its intention to build in Adelaide a new picture theatre costing £200,000. We all know the view which the public took, and that the proposed taxes were not imposed. But the picture company which announced its intention to build this picture theatre in Adelaide, has now announced that, because of the prevailing condition of affairs in Australia, it has decided to amalgamate its interests with those of another company, and there will be no need for the progressive and competitive programme it contemplated. The first work it is intending to abandon is the theatre in Adelaide. I am not suggesting that it has lost its interest in the welfare of the Adelaide unemployed. I prefer to believe that it takes the sounder economic view that the expenditure of £200,000 on an unwanted building would, in the end, increase rather than reduce unemployment. But I am suggesting to the Government, in all seriousness, that it would be a very good thing if the Australian Governments would, of their own volition, deliberately decrease their loan programmes. They are certainly decreasing them to-day, but only under duress. They say "Instead of spending £30,000,000 or £40,000,000 this year, we are spending only half of that amount because we can not get the full amount." They still appear, in the eyes of the investor, as eager as ever to secure the full amount, and they are not spending the full amount only because they cannot get it. It would be a splendid gesture and have a wonderfully good effect if they said " We will not take the full amount, even if it is available, because we recognize that we have been spending too much. We shall all cut down our policy by one half." If they did that ; if they went on the London market with the complete programme cut down to between £15,000,000 and £20,000,000, spread over all the States and the Commonwealth, and raised in seven small loans in the names of the Commonwealth and the six States they would get a great deal more money and at a better rate than they ever will get by pursuing the. present policy of trying to secure all the loan money they can. What the London financier who takes a real interest in Australia desires to see is a reform of heart on the part of the people of Australia in the direction of spending less, not because they cannot get more, but because they say they can and will do with less. If we take up that attitude we shall be advantaged from every point of view. It is not well to cut down a loan policy from a large expenditure to nothing all at at once. Violent alterations of that character cannot be made without doing great injury; but if we could cut our loan expenditure down by half, I am sure we could get our money at a much more reasonable rate than by any other method. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia) [2.51]. - I did not intend to speak; but the remarks of  Senator Colebatch  make it necessary for me to say a few words in defence of the bill, which is practically on the lines framed by the last Government. What  Senator Colebatch  has said should be done is exactly what has been done. When the last loan estimates were submitted to the late Government, they were well over £10,000,000, and there were included in the schedule works all of which could be justified. The Commonwealth Government, knowing that it would have to approach the Loan Council, thought that it had better set a good example and immediately set to work to cut out every work that could be postponed, and in doing so cut out many that could well be justified. Let me give a few illustrations of some that were cut out. The transAustralian railway is not paying, partly because it is not linked in an effective manner with the broad-gauge system of South Australia. It only, needs a proper connexion between Port Augusta and Adelaide to make the trans-Australian line pay, and such a connexion could easily be regarded as an urgent work, or at any rate as one which would justify expenditure upon it. It would also help to increase the revenue on' the Alice Springs railway, by providing a quick stock route to the Adelaide market. The work had already been recommended by the Public Works Committee; but the Government struck it out of the schedule. Furthermore, the transcontinental line has not yet been ballasted. Year after year the late Government cut out of the loan expenditure the money set down for making that railway more efficient by ballasting it. Money is also needed to provide additional rolling-stock on the trans-Australian line. At present there is not sufficient stock available to permit of the release of any for painting and repairing in the Port Augusta workshop. But the late Government came to the conclusion that the times did not justify au increase in rolling-stock on this railway. The conditions under which members of the police force in North Australia are obliged to live are disgraceful. Yet, because of the financial stringency, the late Government had to cut out of the loan schedule the money provided to build decent residences for these men, who are in some cases to-day living in whurlies like blackfellows. 
It is not fair to Australia to make it appear that we are not practising self-denial. The bill itself represents selfdenial on the part of the Commonwealth before it met the State Treasurers at the Loan Council and asked them to cut down their loan proposals. The fact that this year the loan proposals of the Commonwealth and the States do not exceed £28,000,000, whereas two years ago they amounted to £44,000,000, shows that what  Senator Colebatch  requires has already been done. It ought to go out to the world that this year Commonwealth and State loan expenditure has been cut to the bone, and that everything that could possibly be postponed has been postponed, because the governments of Australia recognize that this is not a time for spending money if expenditure can possibly be avoided. 

 Senator LYNCH  (Western Australia) [2.551.  -  It is recognized on all hands that we must get through the business  of  the Senate to-day. At the same time some consideration  has to be given to tha  manner in which we shall dispose of it. The late arrival of the Loan Bill, along with other important measures, makes it very difficult for us to do our work in a proper manner. We cannot do justice to ourselves or to the country. I suppose that there is an excuse for the present occasion, but in the past there has been very little excuse for the practice that has obtained of heaving a number of important bills at the Senate at the last moment and  asking  us to do the best we can by way of dealing with them in  a  proper fashion. A certain event which occurred last October, and considerably altered  the  political landscape, has again brought us into that position. We are pressed for time; but there are a fewthings we cannot escape noticing. It is recognized on all sides that the Commonwealth of which we are all so proud to form a part, has not as good a name in the money markets of the world as it should have. Many reasons could be assigned for this, but the naked fact stands out that this great Commonwealth with its immense natural resources, and a sturdy people is going back instead of improving. We have to ask ourselves why this should be. I do not want to be dragged into that seductive topic. I content myself with comparing the position of the Commonwealth with that of other dominions and the States. Instead  of  being in the front rank as a first-rate borrowing nation, the Commonwealth is in the second or even the third rank.  We  must have some introspection to ascertain why our credit is not as good as it should be with the consequential loss that has to be borne by the taxpayer. During the two years and three months prior to September last, according to figures I  have  been able to obtain from the Treasury, the Commonwealth has been borrowing in two markets: London and New York, and these figures indicate that our bond holders receive a very much higher rate of interest than do those who hold the stocks of almost every other British dominion. Those who held Commonwealth bonds received £5 3s. 5d. per centum in interest. Those who held bonds of the State of Victoria received £5 3s. 2d. per centum. In the case of Western Australia, the return to the bond-holders was £5 3s. 3d. Tasmania and New Zealand were also in a more favorable position. The Tasmanian bond-holders received £5 ls. Sd., and the holders of New Zealand bonds £4 17s. 9d. If we turn to South Africa, where there has been so much talk of late years about "cutting the painter," we find that even that country is regarded in a more favourable light by the British investor, because he was content with the return of £4 19s. 8d. per cent., as against the return of £5 3s. 5d. per cent, on Commonwealth bonds. Canadian bond-holders- had to be content with a return of £4 13s. 6d. Stated in other terms, the financial standing of Canada, New Zealand and South Africa, our three sister dominions, is appreciably higher than that of the Commonwealth. If our credit in London stood as high as that of Canada, the interest bill on our total Commonwealth and State loan liability of £1,072,000,000 would be £5,360,000 per anum less than it is today. If our credit stood as high as that of New Zealand over the same period, the yearly interest bill would be £3,063,000 less than it is, and if it were even as high as that of South Africa, we should be saving £2,000,900 a year in interest. Surely it is about time that we applied the remedy, which is to maintain a more efficient control of industries and make them pay. What happens in connexion with most of our public works? The Murray Waters Scheme was estimated to cost £4,000,000. That undertaking has been so altered and enlarged that the expenditure to date is in the neighbourhood of £11,000,000. Increases due to higher wages and increased cost of material may be excusable, but something should be done to make the final cost of our public undertakings approximate more closely to their estimated cost. Australia is in much the same position' as a private . mortgagor. If a mortgagee believes that a mortgagor is not standing up to his work, and is not in a position to pay 20s. in the £1, or a bit over, he either shortens his credit or calls upon the mortgagee to pay a higher rate of interest. That is what is happening in the Commonwealth. Our credit, instead of being higher than that of New Zealand or South Africa, and at least equal to that of Canada, lags far behind that of our sister dominions. I mention these cold facts, in the hope that they may be productive of some good, and in the belief that if the leaders of government and the leaders of industry, who surely are interested in these problems, face them honestly and squarely, our taxpayers will not be penalized by way of higher interest charges, as they have been hitherto. I shall not oppose the bill, which, by the way, provides for £1,000,000 less than the amount asked for in a similar measure last year. I should like information in regard to some of the items, but I believe that this Government is merely following the example of the previous Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  
Bill read a second time. 
Clauses 1 and 5 agreed to. 
Schedule - 
I notice under the heading of defence an item of £31,000 towards the construction of buildings and works for the production of new munitions. I gather, from reports that have appeared in the press, that it is the intention of this Government to convert a number of defence factories to the manufacture of automatic telephones and similar articles. If that is so, the items should not be camouflaged in this way, but should appear under the department of the Postmaster-General. 
I am prepared to accept the Minister's assurance that this is genuinely intended for munition works. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I notice on page 6 of the financial statement in connexion with the budget, reference to a further temporary advance in London by the issue on 10th November of treasury-bills to the amount of £5,000,000. The bills were issued on the 20th November and are to mature on the 30th June, 1930. There is a discount rate of £5 7s. 6d. and an effective interest rate of £511s. I should like to know if these bills were issued at £94 12s. 6d. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
.-The report reads- 
The joint committee, having considered the petition and papers presented to Parliament since the last meeting of the committee recommend the following be printed: - 
Coal Industry - Interim Report of the Royal Commission - Constitution - Report with appendices of the Royal Commission on the Constitution - North Australia Commission - Second Annual Report for the period 1st July, 1927, to the 31st December, 1928 - Papua Annual Report for the year 1927-28. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Very briefly, I desire to ventilate a matter of paramount importance to my State - one which has been a burning question in Tasmania for many years. I refer to the operation of the Navigation Act. Early this week I was amazed to read in the press that the present Government proposed to repeal the coastal clauses of that act. I was the more amazed when I remembered that the present Prime Minister, when in Tasmania last October, stated emphatically that he stood for the Navigation Act, and that Tasmania could expect no relief from its operation if a Labour Government was returned. Many Tasmanians have for some years been agitating for relief from the coastal clauses of that act, and to secure a fair deal for the most spacious and magnificent harbour in the Commonwealth - that of Hobart. In view of the Prime Minister's definite statement, I did not think that there was the slightest possibility of a Labour Government granting Tasmania relief from the Navigation Act. But yesterday, in reply to a question, the Leader of the Government in this chamber said that a  Gazette  notification had been issued, but had since been revoked, and that permits were to be issued to enable individual vessels to trade and carry passengers between Hobart and Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. One should not impute motives ; but I wondered at the time whether the announcement had anything to do with the Franklin by-election. I wondered why, having once issued the proclamation, the Government modified it so soon. 
I should be glad if the Leader of the Government would explain whether the following news item, which appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 11th instant, had anything to do with the Government's action: - 
 I shall not make any apology for again speaking on the subject of defence. The aspect of the matter with which I intend to deal has developed since I last spoke in connexion with the budget. The Minister for Defence in another place became very animated in his references to  Colonel White,  the honorable member for Balaclava, who has an active command in the militia, for venturing to criticize the defence proposals of the Government. I sympathize entirely with the Minister iu his attitude. The position that arose should not exist in any army. I have, on other occasions, drawn attention to that fact in this chamber, and suggested that we should institute a system similar to that which prevails in regard to British Army officers when they are elected to the House of Commons. Such officers are, upon their election to Parliament, seconded from military duty. When  a  military officer  is elected to this Parliament he is placed in a somewhat invidious position. He may consider it his duty to his electors to criticize the vote for his department, yet feel restraint because, possibly, he possesses information gained through his official position. It is very difficult for such an honorable member to divide his mind into two watertight compartments. During this debate I shall endeavour to rely upon information that I have gathered from the newspapers, and to disregard information obtained in my official capacity. If the Minister thinks that I have failed in my duty as a military officer, he has only to request me to resign, and I shall be happy to meet his wishes. 
Somehow, the Ministry appears to think that by having no efficient defence force it can evade war. So long as the causes of war exist, war will always bt possible, and those who are responsible for the defence .organization of their country must at all times bear that hard fact in mind, however anxious they may be to preserve peace. I fear that the Government, in pursuance of the ideals which the members of the Labour party enunciated during the long years that it was in opposition, when it occupied an irresponsible position, has jeopardized the safety of Australia. I shall quote a reference in this connexion from -President Coolidge, delivered on Armistice day, 1928 :- 
All human experience seems to demonstrate that a country which makes reasonable preparation for defence is less likely to be subject to a hostile attack and less .likely to suffer a violation of its rights which might lead to war. To be ready for defence is not to be guilty of aggression. We can have military preparation without assuming a military spirit. It is our duty to ourselves and the cause of civilization, to the preservation  of  domestic tranquility, and to our orderly and lawful relations with foreign peoples, to maintain an adequate army and navy. 
I commend those wise and patriotic words to the present Government of Australia. Our military forces at present are dangerously inadequate. We have, nominally, what the Minister would term the nuclei of two. cavalry divisions. If the Minister were to mobilize those ' divisions tomorrow, he would be unable to find horses for the men. The Minister claimed, in another place-, that he would have at least six months warning of any hostile act on the part of an aggressor country. Even assuming that he got six months warning, how would it be possible for him to raise horses in that time to mount two full divisions Of cavalry? 
 There were thousands of admirable remounts going to waste in the Northern Territory. 
The other day, I noticed a statement in a Sydney newspaper to the effect that the 4th Infantry Battalion, which was one of the most famous Australian Imperial Force units, is to-day only 70 strong. Recruiting has failed to fill its ranks. Among those 70 men there are 30 officers, a similar number of non-commissioned officers, and only ten of the rank and file. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr. A. Green)  stated that aeroplanes from the Australian Air Force were to be utilized to perform useful jobs, such as the carrying of mails and (passengers. I presume, on the same reasoning, that General  Sir Harry  Chauvel and his staff will be employed to deliver letters. The one suggestion is as absurd as the other. It is ridiculous to use expensive, uneconomical aeroplanes, which simply eat up petrol, to carry mails and passengers. It only emphasizes that this change was entered upon by the Minister, as he now admits, without consulting one single officer, high or low, of his department. The answer given by the Minister in reply to a question on this subject was quite unworthy of him. He said, " Of course I did not consult one of them on the subject, for he would not advise doing away with hia own job ". Quite apart from the fact that the Government had announced that the changes would not involve an officer in the loss of his employment, a promiseno doubt made with the tongue in the cheek, this is a most unworthy suggestion. It is obvious that the public will, not tolerate . a system of having twoofficers for every man to be trained. General Chauvel is so near to the retiring age that the- question of the loss of his job would not enter into the question. The Minister was also in a position to consult General Monash and General White, who are upon the Defence Council, but they are for the time being civilians, and no question of the loss of their jobs would arise. Why this want of confidence in the public and the Parliament? Why all this evasion ? In my opinion it is due to the people of the Commonwealth who permitted themselves to be fooled at the last election. They should insist upon ai straight out declaration from the Ministry whether it really desires to have any defence force at all. If it is really in earnest in establishing the voluntary system, let Ministers take an interest in the matter.  Let the Minister for Defence  (Mr. A. Green)  conduct a campaign infavour of recruiting. So far as I can learn, no Minister has been sufficiently interested in the success of recruiting to. issue an appeal for volunteers. I have drawn attention to the action of various municipal councils controlled by the Labour party, who have not scrupled to proclaim their hostility to the militia, forces. In this they are only following, the lead of  Mr. Brennan,  and other mem-, bers of the Ministry. If  Mr. Scullin,  wished to make a gesture in favour of the voluntary system, I have no doubt that the military board would arrange for him to become honorary colonel of the regiment recruited in his own electorate, and to change its name to that of " Scullin's Scout's " . or " Scullin's Rangers ". The attitude of these municipal councils is such that the young men in ' their 'districts feel that they will be regarded as " scabs " or outcasts if they join up. I have known- of cases in these districts where the parents have put pressure on their boys to prevent them from enlisting. One boy, an excellent shot who won a prize I offered at the last match, told his officer that his father had announced that if he joined up he would have to leave home. The  Labour Daily  of the 12th November last speaking of the Sydney University Rifles, said - 
Every design is being used to capture volunteers. Even Professor Wallace has given his aid with fair words. Needless to say, few are responding. 
I warn the Government that the success of the compulsory system was largely due to the voluntary efforts of officers and noncommissioned officers who did fur more than was legally required of them. But if they have no men to train they will not spend night after night and Saturday after Saturday in attending parades and rifle practice. Their enthusiasm will rapidly wane. 
Another point is worthy of emphatic mention. The Minister for Defence caused Brigadier-General Dodds to announce to all officers that possible recruits should be informed that smart-coloured uniforms would be issued to make the service more attractive. . 
Force are to be the only uniforms available. But why that was necessary is perfectly obvious. The Treasurer had announced far and wide that £150,000 would be saved by not holding the training camps this year. It was the solitary saving he was able to announce on the budget despite his previous allegations about the wanton extravagance of the late Government, and it could not be made if the promised brighter uniforms were provided. Enrolment under the voluntary system is expected to reach 35,000, and as each uniform costs £6 it would involve the country in an expenditure .of £210,000 to equip the volunteers with new uniforms of a smart type. That would be £60,000 more than the amount expected to be saved by not holding the training camps this year. It is clear that the Minister could not have been sincere in his promise about the smart uniforms. 
It has been the fashion to disparage the compulsorily-trained force. In order to do so use, quite wrongly, has been made of the reports furnished by General Chauvel. That distinguished officer  had in his mind as a basis of comparison the Australian Imperial Force or some other force ready to take its place in the field, and the purpose of his criticism was to show how far our present forces fell short of that ideal. One consolation I have about this change is that I can look forward to General Chauvel's report upon the voluntary system. Last year we got a different point of view.  Major Eddy  came to Australia as a liaison officer for the War Office, and his report astonished everybody. It showed clearly how much superior the Australian compulsory system was to the voluntary territorial system of Great Britain. Under our compulsory system the work of training was done in camps by the noncommissioned officers and junior officers on the methods adopted in the Australian Imperial Force. If a man did not voluntarily attend additional schools of training it was our practice to get rid of him. Where .recruits are scarce all sorts of inducements have to be offered, and in the case of Great Britain, although men of social position are attracted to take the positions of officers in the Territorials, pressure cannot be brought to bear on them to spend time in study. The consequence is that when the Territorials go into camp the actual control of them is in the hands of the permanent noncommissioned officers and the adjutants and commanders who are regular soldiers. In action all of these may be destroyed in the first engagement, and the men may be rendered leaderless. In the Australian Imperial Force there were always reserve men .who had attended the training schools to take up the place of others who were killed.  Major Eddy's  report showed that General Chauvel's previous criticism was wrongly based. There is a marked difference between the voluntary system of training even in a closely-settled country, where it has every material advantage, and the system in operation in Australia.  Major Eddy  was in a position to speak of the voluntary system in operation in Great Britain, and his report was available to the Ministry at the time they made their decision. 
I apologize for referring to a personal &gt; matter, but  Senator Dunn,  in my absence the other day, took upon himself to claim that he was as good a soldier as I am. I withdraw all claims to any comparison of that nature. I am reminded of what happened to me in Egypt. A British staff officer called me up and said, "  Colonel, you  are not obeying the King's regulations which provide that no soldier must shave his upper lip." I replied - "I am not a soldier; I am a solicitor, who has come over to help you put out a bush-fire that has been raging in the backyard of the Empire." I assure  Senator Dunn  that I do not wish to enter into a competition with him as to our relative military qualifications. I am willing to accept him at his face value, and to agree that he is a better soldier than I am. 
Order! The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
Again I remind honorable senators that the exchange of personalities is entirely out of order. 
I think the honorable senator has already said that once. 
Order ! The honorable senator must withdraw that statement unreservedly. 
I ask the honorable senator to resume his seat.  Senator 
Elliott will, I believe, now see what follows from the exchange of personalities' across the chamber. I ask him to desist. 
I wish now to say a few words about the Attorney-General's Department. Through the courtesy of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Brennan)  I was permitted to inspect the file relating to the John Brown case, and I advise other honorable senators to follow my example if they wish to ascertain the facts for themselves. I may add that I have the permission of the Attorney-General to refer to information contained in the file in the same manner as if it had been laid upon the table and had become a public document. During the recent election  Mr. Maxwell  and many other candidates had a good deal , to say about what was termed the base behaviour of the Bruce-Page Government towards the suffering miners. I was anxious, therefore, to satisfy myself as to the facts, relating to the prosecution which had been withdrawn. The file discloses that  Mr. Latham,  in February or March last, soon after the cessation of work at the mines, sent an officer of his department to consult with  Mr. Bondy  Hoare, the  president  of the Miners Federation, and  Mr. Davies,  the secretary, upon the subject. Through these officials he met a union organizer named Ward, who put him in touch with five men who appear to have been employed by  Mr. John  Brown. In fact they were some of the men alleged to have been oppressed, and over whose alleged oppression  Mr. Maxwell  has wept. It is extraordinary that these oppressed people, instead of welcoming the opportunity of delivering  Mr. Brown  up to an outraged justice, demanded, through  Mr. Ward,  to be paid for the time during which they were engaged with the man who .was detailed to prepare their case - this official from the Attorney-General's department - to be paid, moreover, at award rates and double time because it happened to be Easter Monday. Does this suggest that they considered they were oppressed, and really required deliverance from their oppressor? Surely if, as alleged, they were oppressed, they would have welcomed the appearance of the officer from the Attorney-General's department. 
But a further surprise awaits those honorable senators who may care to inspect the file. They will find that the basis of the evidence which these. men tendered on these terms was that some months before,  Mr. Brown,  or  Mr. Brown's  manager had called a meeting of the men in the mine had pointed out to them that the output had fallen far below normal and begged them to restore it to normal, as he had a market for all the coal he could produce, at a profit.  His  request was refused. At no time, it was admitted, had  Mr. Brown  asked the nien to reduce the award rates, although the award had long since expired. Can honorable senators wonder then that when such evidence as that was relied upon to establish a prima facie case, the owners would be very chary about having anything to do with a conference? Would not they have good reason to believe that their words and actions would be noted to bolster up a charge against them? I should have thought that the very facts tendered as evidence against him would be regarded as proof of the innocence of  Mr. Brown.  It is shown that he was eager to increase his output, because of the grave risk that he would lose his business. If my clerks had a rule that a fair day's work was done at 11 a.m'. or 12 noon, and that they would see no clients after that time, it would not be long before I had no clients at all, and I should have to go out of business. But, apparently, if my business were conducted under an award it would be prima facie evidence of my guilt and an offence against the act if, before closing, I interviewed my employees and begged them to change their practice to save me from ruin. Could the operation of any law be more absurd than that? It is no wonder that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  now announces that he is not in favour of any prosecution under such an act. It would appear that he is now in full agreement with the action of the former Government that compulsory arbitration is an absolute failure. All this information was readily available to honorable members in another place, including  Mr. Maxwell,  and honorable senators who were then in opposition in this chamber, had any of them shown the slightest desire to get at the truth. I assume, therefore, that they knew all the facts perfectly, but for political purposes ignored them, and worked this confidence trick on the public by pretending to be in favour of an act in which they had no belief at all, and in abusing the Government for not proceeding with a prosecution which either must have failed for want of evidence or which would have been very unjust if, by a technicality, it had succeeded. To what a farce, then, has the administration of the industrial law been reduced ! I should say that, judging by the volume of unemployment in this country, the man who begs his employees to get out as much.coal as they can should be regarded as a benefactor rather than a man to be shot. 
 I shall be as brief as possible in my defence of this Government against the charges made by  Senator H.  E. Elliott. It has given ample evidence that it intends to do the right thing as regards naval construction and the encouragement of the volunteer system of military service. The people applaud the Ministry for raising to the status of full generals two brilliant military leaders in 'the persons of General Monash and General Chauvel. I understand that, when this matter was under consideration, the names of a number of other generals came up for review. Included in the number was one whose name I do not care to mention, but I can say that physically he is a big man, and he represents one of the southern States. He was, I gather, regarded as too bombastic, and I think also a very stupid man. I do not know what was in the mind of the Government, because I was merely a soldier who served not only in New Guinea and Egypt, but in Sinai, and in Prance and Flanders, as the army records will show. While I am not a tall man and perhaps not as gifted as others are, when I compare myself with some others whose names I could mention, I feel that I should be justified in throwing bouquets at myself, because I think I am just as great intellectually as some of the big men I meet in everyday life.  Senator H.  E. Elliott seems to have an obsession. Perhaps he regards himself as a modern Napoleon. He apparently holds the view that because we now have a Labour administration in the Commonwealth, the defence of Australia is to be thrown to the winds. As a portion of the British Empire we shall always be willing to do the right thing. There are other men in our midst who are quite as intelligent and as courageous as these so-called big fellows, who at last have fallen with a big thump. 
There is no necessity for me to refer at length to the position in the northern coal-fields, but I feel it my duty to mention the action of the State Government of New South Wales in introducing a system of volunteer labour to work a certain colliery. Under this scheme volunteer labour will be asked to accept a lower rate of wages than would be- accepted by those unfortunate men who have  Deen  locked out of employment for so many months. It is a definite attempt on the part of the New South Wales Government to lower wages and bring down the condition of living of men engaged in the industry. As these volunteers will need protection and the police may possibly be called in to assist, there may be an opportunity for some of these so-called military experts and others who held high rank in the Australian Imperial Force to go to the coal-fields and display their big muscles in whatever direction they may consider necessary. 
Earlier in the day I raised a question concerning the issue of treasury-bills in London, when I was informed by the Minister that the subject could not be raised on the bill then under discussion. I now  wish to direct attention to the fact that treasury-bills to the value of £5,000,000, issued in London on 20th November, are to mature on the 30th June, 1930. These bills, which have been discounted at an average rate of £5 7s. 6d. per cent., were quoted at £94 12s. 6d. If we are paying £5 7s. 6d. for a period of seven months, the interest rate will work out at approximately £9 8s. per cent, for twelve months. I raise this point, because, when these treasury-bills were issued, particular prominence was given in certain sections of the press to the floating of a loan of £5,000,000 in the early part of the year by the previous Government for a period of twelve months, at £6 3s. per cent. When these two flotations are compared it will be seen that £9 8s. was the rate of interest paid on the last occasion, whilst that paid by the previous Government was £6 3s. If that is the case the public of Australia should be told, so they will have an opportunity to decide whether the money recently raised was actually obtained at a cheaper rate than that previously obtained in London. 
Some time ago I understood the Minister  (Senator Daly)  to state that an opportunity would be afforded the Senate to discuss the Singapore Naval Base; but that opportunity up to the present has not been given us. The establishment of a naval base at Singapore was first mooted by the British Government, but the people of this country felt that something additional should be done in order to insure the safety of Australia. But how do we now stand? A previous British Government went about the work of establishing this base in a thorough fashion, but only up to a certain point. When the present British Government came into power we heard very little of the project, and later  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald told the world that the Government, of which he is the leader, intended to slow down on the job. Some may be of the opinion that the Singapore Naval Base was not kept in mind during the proceedings of the Washington Disarmament. Conference. 
Yes, as I am going to show for the benefit of the Minister. 
Yes, but some may forget it. The attitude of the British Government in slowing down on that work is not in keeping with the attitude of the delegates who attended that conference. At that conference consideration was given to the position of certain possessions in the Pacific, and the delegates deliberately came to certain conclusions as honorable senators will find on page 39 of the report of the conference, some of which I shall quote. One paragraph reads - 
I withdraw the expression. I was delighted to hear the brave warrior opposite me talking about his bravery! A brave warrior always talks about his bravery ! 
So far as Digger Dunn is concerned- &gt; 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I ask! the honorable senator to address the Chair. 
I must look up my history and see what royal letters patent can do for me. Long before  Senator Dunn  inflicted his person on the Senate, I dived to save a life, not to take one. That incident took place in the distant past, but it earned for me the award of the Royal Humane Society. Why cannot I be called Diver Lynch, by royal letters patent? How does Digger Dunn like the sound of "Diver Lynch"? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator must address himself to the question before the Chair. 
 Mr. Fenton  is now on his way to London. He ought to be able to make out a good case for the Singapore Naval Base being proceeded with on the ground that its completion is a vital necessity to our national safety. Why is it that, when other naval bases are being equipped, work on the Singapore Naval Base is held up by the British Labour Government? Throughout the country the question echoes and re-echoes - Why? Are the naval bases in Britain no longer to be retained ? The right honorable Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  told us what the  President  of the United States of America is doing for the defence of that country. Australia is defenceless; and the very spot from which would radiate the only power upon which we can depend is that where work has been brought to a standstill by the British Labour Government. I want the Federal Government to stand up to its job and do its work, that work being to cable to  Mr. Fenton  and tell him how vital the completion of the Singapore Naval Base is to Australia. 
I should not have spoken had it not been for some remarks made by  Senator Dunn.  It is evident that the Government is not desirous of terminating the debate today. 
 Senator Dunn  referred to the high esteem in which the Government is held by the people. It would be easy to quote from Nationalist and Country party publications, views of an entirely different character; but I shall not do so. Nor shall I attempt to express my own opinion of the Government, for if I set out to do so, I fear that before long I should be at variance with the Standing Orders which govern parliamentary language. What is the opinion of the Labour party's own supporters as to the Government they have placed in power?  Senator Sampson  read a report expressing the views of the seamen of Australia. That body of men says that the Government has grossly betrayed them. A Labour journal has described the betrayal of the coal-miners by this Government as " cowardly and callous." The Labour party kept the coal-miners on strike longer than was necessary, urging them to stand out until a Labour government was in power in the Commonwealth. There will be many this Christmas who will be hungry in the coal-mining districts, because of the contemptible and cowardly action of the present Ministry. 
The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
The honorable senator must withdraw the words " contemptible and cowardly ". 
I previously desired the honorable senator to withdraw the two adjectives " cowardly " and " contemptible " ; but he has offended again. I ask him to withdraw those expressions particularly as they have now been declared by the Minister to be offensive to him. 
Order ! I heard the honorable memberspeak of "The cowardly and contemptible action of the present Ministry " and later something about a " base betrayal ". Probably the latter expression was a quotation. 
If the honorable senator will accept my advice, he will tone down his remarks. 
I am rather sorry that the debate on this measure has deteriorated during the last hour. Prior to that, I was rather interested in certain advice tendered by the Opposition. I suppose that there is some excuse for people who are rather disappointed because the present Government has not been wrecked as quickly as they imagined that it would be. I suppose that that is the real reason behind  Senator Foil's  attack on the Government. It is a most remarkable thing that  Senator Foll  should laud to the skies certain people who are criticizing this Government for adhering, as they say, too closely to the ideals of Nationalism. If what the Workers Industrial Union and other bodies have said is correct, one would naturally conclude that that furnished a reason why honorable senators opposite should compliment the Government. 
I should imagine that the honorable senator would be only too eager to offer congratulations to any government that got so near to his ideals of Nationalism. 
The honorable senator need never be afraid of the Labour party betraying the people. 
The Labour party has not betrayed anybody. It was elected to power upon a definite pledge and platform. 
At no stage of its existence did the Labour party promise to open the coal-mines. It attempted to open them, and did more than any previous Government did to bring about peace in that industry. Unfortunately, it did not secure the co-operation necessary to make its efforts effective. The dispute would have been settled at the first conference, had all parties concerned in the dispute been imbued with the same ideals and aspirations as the Labour party, and the men would have been working to-day. 
I do not know where the honorable senator obtains his extraordinary information from.  Mr. Beasley  did not say that h'e favoured' ;a general strike. The' matter to which'  Senator Foll  referred had nothing to do with a coal strike. ' It was a lockout; No matter from which angle one views the position, one must conclude that the miners were locked out. 
Because the Labour party refuses to practise that which it does not preach. Its policy is against all penal provisions in an industrial code, and in the administration of that policy it does not discriminate as did the Bruce-Page Government in its administration of the law. That is one reason why John Brown has not been prosecuted. 
It might have been considered a lame reason in the days when  Senator Pearce  was a member of the Labour party. 
The policy on which this Government was returned to power favours a repeal of the penal provisions of the Arbitration Act. 
Ever since it was elected to power the Government has been working at high pressure. It has no desire to tinker with this legislation, which needs serious consideration in order that the details of the scheme may be worked out. I assure  Senator Foll  it will be introduced in the near future. I hope that, with the assistance of himself and other honorable senators opposite, the Government will be able to introduce a better system of arbitration than that which now exists; a system which will not permit the occurrence of such a position as that now obtaining in New South Wales. I hope that  Senator Foll  will assist the Government to pass a bill which will prevent that which happened on the northern coal-fields. 
I trust that we sholl be able, to enact legislation that will pre-r vent an employer from engaging men at rates below those prescribed by the Arbitration Act, and that even the Premier of a State will not be permitted to open coal mines and work them at reduced rates. 
The Prime Minister advised an agreement, which was never arrived at. Se did not ask the Premier of New South Wales or anybody else to open up the Rothbury coal mine under the conditions proposed by  Mr. Bavin,  the Premier of New South Wales. 
I would favour a compulsory time limit on the speeches of some honorable senators. I presume that  Senator H.  E. Elliott refers to the subject of compulsory military training. 
The honorable senator has an unfortunate obsession, that of compulsory military training. I assure him that I will devote at least three minutes of my reply to that subject. 
Evidently  Senator. Foll  has been misinformed. At all times it has been the policy of this Government to endeavour to effect a settlement of the coal-mining dispute. Nobody was more disappointed than the Government when negotiations broke down. The mines would have been opened in a fortnight, had the Prime Minister of this country received the support pf all concerned in the dispute. 
Regarding the matter raised by  Senator Cooper,  I am able to inform him that the Treasury officials indicate that the announcement contained in the financial statement is quite correct, and that the effective rate of interest will be as described in that statement, namely, £5 lis. 
I am not concerned with that. The Treasury has confirmed what appears in the financial statement on the matter. That will be the actual cost to the Australian public. 
I assure  Senator Sampson  that there was no gross betrayal in connexion with the Navigation Act. Unfortunately, some honorable senators appear always to fasten on to statements that detrimentally affect that Government, and neglect to read the other side of the case. 
That reply was perfectly accurate and it does not amount to a gross betrayal of Tasmania by this Government. The policy of the Government has never altered in regard to the Navigation Act, and it has never been kept a secret. This party does not stow away its platform in a secret vault. It circulates it, also its pledges, and they are available to the public. Even the report of the proceedings of its annual conference is made public and may be seen by honorable senators in the parliamentary library. 
Regarding  Senator Pearce's  contentions about migration, I reiterate what I said on the Address-in-Reply, that our normal migration, when the Commonwealth Government entered into the £34,000,000 agreement with the British Government, was 30,000 migrants per annum. The then Prime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  and  Sir Victor  Wilson agreed with the British Government to speed it up to something like 40,000. In return, Great Britain was to give us the equivalent of about £15 per migrant. It pays not the £75, but the equivalent of ten years' interest based on a two-fifths proportion of the interest on the £75 loan. We, on our part, were to pay £12 passage money and guarantee that for every £75 advanced we. would absorb one migrant. It was really the intention of the British Government that the scheme should be used for the * purpose of land settlement and it is to be regretted that the Bruce-Page Government failed to co-operate with the States to compel the rich land-owners to unlock their lands. Honorable senators have complained that the fall in wool and wheat production is due to drought conditions. I could take them to the south-east of South Australia, which has had its usual rainfall, and prove that there are less sheep to the acre in that country than there were 25 years ago. Men have amassed wealth from those properties and are content to hold them incompletely stocked: The Bruce-Page Government should have co-operated with the State Governments and opened up those landlocked estates, in order to establish a proper system of land settlement. That Government was greeted with a fanfare of trumpets and lauded to the skies for having obtained £34,000,000 of cheap British money. Australia never got a penny from the British Government. We agreed to raise the £34,000,000, and to pay £12 passage money for each migrant. The British Government was to pay two-fifths of the interest on the £75 advance for each migrant over a period of ten years, and then the lot was to fall back on Australia. I made it quite clear that the Development and Migration Comission  did some excellent developmental work, but that it failed to keep within the absorption responsibilities, for the reason that it was impossible to do so. 
I now come to  Senator H.  E. Elliott's obsession, compulsory military training. One minute the honorable senator tells the Government that he is anxious to help it in its defence policy; in the next he begins to malign, not only the Minister for Defence, but certain officials. I advise the honorable senator to read his own speeches in  Hansard,  and to ask himself whether he really would not be the most disappointed man in Australia if the voluntary system were to succeed. If he answered that question conscientiously he would feel compelled to resign from his present position, and make way for somebody more enthusiastic over Labour's defence policy. I urge him to do his duty and cease criticizing the voluntary system of military training. Instead, lie should do what he can to make it a  success. The Labour party has no fear so far as Australia is concerned. Labour had an adequate system of defence when it was previously in power. It has been blamed for not consulting generals and colonels. I point out that it told the people that if it were returned to power it did not intend to conscript youths who have not a vote. The Government said that it would repeal the compulsory clauses of the Defence Act. When it was returned to power the annual camps were just coming on, and it did the only thing possible under the circumstances. I trust that, within the next few months, the Senate will be able to pass a law which will render the compulsory system inoperative for the future. The honorable senator spoke of aviation and about the expense of providing bright uniforms. I ask him to note what it has cost Australia for defence since the war, and to read General Chauvel's criticism of our forces, and then ask himself whether the results achieved are worth the £64,000,000 we have spent. The Government is determined to cut out a lot of the wilful waste which  Senator H.  E. Elliott would probably uphold. It will be time to criticize us when we have had time to bring the voluntary policy into operation. 
Another statement made by the honorable senator was that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin)  was in agreement with the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  that compulsory arbitration was an absolute failure. I was not aware that  Mr. Bruce  had said that compulsory arbitration was an absolute failure. He may have thought it, but he was not game to say it. Since the election some of his supporters in this chamber have produced documents and challenged the supporters of the Government with wilfully distorting the facts in saying that the ex-Prime Minister was opposed to compulsory arbitration, yet  Senator H.  E. Elliott would now have us believe that the present Prime Minister and the ex-Prime Minister have both stated that compulsory arbitration is an absolute failure. . 
That better system was apparently the round-table system by which the weaker party at the table is soundly kicked on the shins. The Labour party believes in a system which will make round-table conferences of more effect. 
They may have done so in the honorable senator's day; but there is no need for it to-day. All those precautions are unnecessary now that we have a pure and wholesome party. However, I do not wish to hurt any one's feelings, and I should not have said that at this late stage of our proceedings. 
On an appropriation bill, Ministers are usually the cockshy for every charge that can conceivably be raked up, but the complaints that have been made to-day have been of a very mild character. I think that that was what  Senator Lynch  must have felt when he had to bring out an atlas in an endeavour to restore the Singapore Base. 
Not doing anything! Did not honorable senators opposite tell us yesterday that the Government had passed one of the most serious measures in the history of Australia? Was that nothing? That measure was so important that the Senate said it was not prepared to bring about a deadlock between the two houses and risk shelving it. It is a measure designed to put the finances of Australia on a proper and scientific basis. 
The honorable senator is quite welcome to all the satisfaction he can get out of that. But he differs from his leader who threw On the Government the full responsibility for the measure, and disclaimed any credit for it. To make assurance doubly sure, I asked the right honorable gentleman to adhere to his attitude because in the past ether parties have taken credit for the best legislation that Labour has placed on the statute-book. 
I intend to ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  to make the same statement before we put our imprimatur on any piece of legislation we introduce. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses  1  to  3  agreed to. 
First schedule agreed to. 
.- I regret that the vote for Northern Australia has been reduced by  £10,000.  The attention of the previous Government was frequently drawn to the niggardly treatment of this part of Australia, better known as the Northern Territory. Little or nothing of a developmental nature has been done in North Australia, despite the criticism levelled at the previous Government by members of this Ministry, and its supporters. A considerable amount of pioneering work has been done by the North Australia Commis sion, which was appointed by the previous Government. Railway surveys and plans for other works, including wellsinking along stock routes, have been put in hand. All these works seem to be held up, because of the reduction in the vote, and people who would have been employed in that part of Australia will be obliged to return to the southern States to swell the ranks of our unemployed. I have no doubt that  Senator Daly  and his South Australian colleagues, Senators O'Halloran and Hoare, are better informed as to the position in Central and North Australia than are other honorable senators, and I am sure they will realize how necessary it is to proceed with a continuous policy of development. The previous Government closed down work on the railway extension from Katherine, and we gathered from the criticism then offered, that had Labour been in power the line would have been extended to Mataranka. I regret very much that expenditure on a number of important works is being curtailed, especially in view of the fact that within the last few years, improved administrative machinery has been devised for the development of North and Central Australia. I trust that the Government will, in the near future, take steps to carry out all those developmental proposals that have been planned to encourage settlement in that part of the Commonwealth. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity,  Mr. President,  on behalf of the Senate to convey to you the season's greetings. Political partisanship is overlooked and feuds forgotten, as we approach the Christmas season, and our thoughts turn to the ideal of the King of Kings - On earth peace, goodwill toward men. I am sure that I am voicing the sentiments of every honorable senator in extending to you, sir, our Christmas greetings. I trust that you may enjoy to the full all that the festive season means to us, and I hope that when we re-assemble in the New Year you will still be blessed with health and strength to preside over this  chamber  with that impartiality which has distinguished your occupancy of the chair. I also extend similar greetings to the members of the  Hansard  staff and the other staffs, as well as to the representatives of the press in this chamber. I can assure you, sir, that you will always have from the supporters and members of the Government in the Senate the assistance we have endeavoured to give you during the session, and I trust that the happy relations which have existed between you, sir, and all of us ever since you have occupied the presidential chair, will continue. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Westtern Australia) [5.46].  -  I desire,  Mr. President,  to associate myself with the remarks of the Minister  (Senator Daly)  in regard to yourself. We also extend our best wishes to the  Chairman  of Committees, who I am sure the Minister intended to include- 
 Hear, hear! 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.As well as to  Hansard  and other officers of the House. Although the VicePresident of the Executive Council may have thought honorable senators on this side of the chamber at times somewhat unreasonable in their attitude towards the Government, I can assure him that it was nothing to what it will be later on. I hope that during the Christmas vacation he will derive some comfort from the fact that in his new office he has had only a taste of what is likely to happen. On behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber, I wish, specially, to congratulate  Senator Daly  upon the manner in which he, as Leader of the Government in this chamber, has conducted the business of the Senate. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear! 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.We all recognize that he has had a very hard time, and that his task has been greater than ever during the last few days, owing to the illness of his colleague,  Senator Barnes.  Our hope is that the Assistant Minister  (Senator Barnes)  will soon be restored to normal health. 
I am sorry that  Senator Foll,  the Opposition Whip, is temporarily absent from the chamber, as, in view of the approaching Christmas season, I should like, as Government Whip, to intimate to him that a little incident which occurred a short time ago will, so far as I am concerned, be forgotten. I hope we shall still be friends. 
 I thank the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator Daly),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Pearce)  and honorable senators generally, very heartily for the extremely kind expressions of good will which they have tendered to me. Permit me to say that it is not I who should be thanked but honorable senators generally who have borne with me during the sort of trial run that we so far have had. 
Exactly. I am treating it in that way and regarding it only as an earnest of what may come later on. I thank honorable senators generally for the kind wishes they have expressed concerning the approaching festive season, and desire heartily to reciprocate them. The relations which have existed between us all have been such that it will be a real delight and something to look forward to, for me to meet you all again. I wish honorable senators the compliments of the season, and thank them for their kind wishes. 
 I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Daly)  if honorable senators are to be supplied with a complete schedule showing the items in which alterations in customs duties have been made? 
 For several days I have had a question on the notice-paper relating to the removal of the embargo upon the importation of certain literature, but it has not yet been officially answered. I thought it would be of interest to some honorable senators to know that the Prime Minister personally has assured me that the embargo is to be removed, and that the people of Australia will now be free to read what they wish. 
 I made inquiries from the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Fenton)  concerning the point raised by  Senator Carroll,  and he informed me that the procedure usually followed in con.nexion with tariff schedules will be adhered to when the revised duties are under consideration in this chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 5.51 p.m. till a day and hour to he' fixed by the  President. 
