[3.2].  -  by leave  - I move - 
That we, the members of the Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, on re-assembling, take advantage of this first opportunity to express our deep sympathy with the people of Belgium in the death of King Albert. 
The news of the death of the King of Belgium in such tragic circumstances  on  the 17th February last stirred theworld. The late King was one of the truly heroic figures of the Great War, and earned for himself the title of "Albert the Brave." He bore the misfortunes of the war with a fortitude and courage that won for him the respect of the Allied Nations. Not only in war, but in peace also he manifested wonderful qualities which endeared him to his people. After the war, he busied himself with projects for the welfare of the Belgian nation, and not in material things alone, for he strove also to foster the intellectual life of his country. It is fitting that we extend to the people of Belgium our sincerest sympathy in the great loss that they sustained by the death of their King. 
I may add that immediately after becoming aware of the death of King Albert of Belgium in February last, the following message was telegraphed to the British Ambassador at Brussels for conveyance to the Belgian Government: - 
The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia have learned with feelings of great sorrow of the death in such tragic  circumstances  of His Majesty the King of the Belgians. Australians will mourn with Belgians the passing of one whose selfsacrificing and tireless devotion to the cause of his country and people during the Great War made his name a household word.Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to the members of the Belgian Royal Family and to the Belgian nation. 
.- I second the motion. The death of so great a man as King Albert of Belgium was, I am sure, a severe blow to the people of that country. He was a distinguished figure, not only during the Great War, but also subsequently in the days of peace. Although we in Australia may not have an intimate  knowledge  of the many good qualities of the deceased sovereign, I am sure that the people of this country associate themselves with the sentiments that have been expressed by the Leader of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.5]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate records its deep regret at the death of Viscount Novar ofRaith, a former Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, and expresses its profound sympathy with Lady Novar in her bereavement. 
Viscount Novar passed away on the 30th March last. When news of his death was received, a message in the following terms was sent to Lady Novar by  His  Excellencythe Governor-General :  - 
The Government and people of the Commonwealth of Australia, as well as my wife and myself, have received with profound regret the announcement of the death of Viscount Novar. We recall with the highest appreciation his outstanding services during the extended term of his occupancy of the office of Governor-General of the Commonwealth, which was attended with peculiar difficulties, and included the whole period of the great war, and the subsequent visit of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales to the Commonwealth. Will yon please accept our deep sympathy. 
Viscount Novar was, as  Sir Ronald  Munro Ferguson, Governor-General of the Commonwealth from 1914 to 1920. He thus occupied that high office during the most critical years in the history of Australia. Soon after assuming office he was called upon to consider a question of grave political importance, namely, whether there should be a dissolution of both Houses of the Parliament. Again, early in his term of office Australia entered into the conflict of the great war, and during the whole period of the war he participated enthusiastically in patriotic activities and projects for the welfare of members of our forces and their dependants. Those of us who made his acquaintance will remember his personal charm and his deep knowledge of all matters pertaining to the duties of his office. 

 His Majesty, not unmindful of  Sir Ronald's  outstanding service to Australia and the Empire, elevated him to a peerage of the United Kingdom, as Viscouut Novar ofRaith, soon after his return to England in 1920. Honorable senators will, I am sure, join in expressing sympathy with  Lady  Novar in her great bereavement. The women of Australia will remember the great work carried out by Lady Novar during the war, particularly in connexion with the Red Cross and other organizations working on behalf of our kinsfolk  then  engaged in that great conflict. 
.- I second the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.7] -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the honorable  Sir Jos  ia h Henry Synion, K.C.M.G., K.C., a former senator for the State of South Australia and Minister of the Crown, places on record its appreciation of his notable public service, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
By the death of  Sir Josiah  Symon, another member has been removed from the ranks of that fast disappearing band of distinguished jurists and statesmen who participated in the conferences which led to the establishment of the Commonwealth. He was a member of the Australasian Federal Convention of 1897-98. In 1901 he was elected as a senator for the State of South Australia, and occupied that position until 1913. From August, 1904, to July, 1905, he was Attorney-General in the ReidMcLean Ministry. Prior to entering the Federal Parliament, the late gentleman had been a member of the House of Assembly of South Australia, from 1881 to1887. In 1901 he was honoured by  His  Majesty by being made a Knight Commander of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George. After a life of distinguished public service, he passed away on the 29th March last at the ripe age of 87. 
I suppose I had a longer personal association with the late  Sir Josiah  Symon, as a member of the Senate, than had any other honorable senator. I  well  remember the distinguished  band of  South Australian representatives  in the  first Senate. They were men of outstanding ability amongst all the members of the first Federal Parliament, and none of them ranged higher than  Sir Josiah  Symon. He possessed exceptional gifts and a remarkable personality, and, during the time he was a member of the first Senate, he made a mark in the history of Australia that will endure. I esteem it a great privilege to have been associated with so great a man, and to have seen the qualities which he displayed in those early days of federation. 
.- I  second the motion. Those of us who had an opportunity to become acquainted with some of the great work done in the early days of federation by that great jurist, the late  Sir Josiah  Symon, will remember that he was a very important figure in Australian politics at that time, and did much to influence the history of this country.  His  death will be felt, not only by the members of his own family, but also by the people of the State with which he was particularly identified. 
 As a South Australian senator, and as one who knew the late  Sir Josiah  Symon for almost  40  years,  I  desire to add my personal tribute to his outstanding ability. In two branches he occupied an extraordinarily high position. As an advocate in the courts of law, he attained in his own State an unrivalled eminence.  His  forensic abilities were known throughout the length and breadth of Australia. He brought to the service of this country great mental powers that were enriched by a wide knowledge of literature. By reason of his legal attainments, he played an important part in the framing of the Commonwealth Constitution, and he served as member and Minister in this Parliament and as a member of the Parliament of South Australia. Although he was not born in this country, his sentiments were entirely Australian, and we all lament the passing of one whom we may fittingly term a great Australian. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.13]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honorable Miles Staniforth Cater Smith, a former senator for the State of Western Australia, places on record its appreciation of his public services, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
The late gentleman was a member of the first Senate, in which he represented the State of Western Australia. At the first election for the Senate, he headed the poll in that State. He had previously been Mayor of Kalgoorlie and the remarkable vote in his favour, both in the gold-fields districts and in the other parts of the State, was a recognition of his fitness to represent, particularly, the goldfields population. After serving his first term as senator, he did not seek reelection, but entered into the administrative service of Papua. Later he served for a time in an administrative capacity in the Northern Territory. He was most enthusiastic in his work, and rendered valuable service, notably in the development of tropical agriculture. After relinquishing Government employment, he took up land in Western Australia, where he died quite recently. During the war, he volunteered for service abroad and served with the Australian Imperial Force from  1916  to  1919,  and was mentioned in despatches. We remember him as a man of kindly disposition, and a general favorite with his fellow senators. I am sure that all his old friends mourn his death. 
.- I second the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.16]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of former  Senator Henry  Kneebone and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their sad bereavement. 
The late gentleman was appointed by the Parliament of South Australia to fill a vacancy in the Senate caused by the death of  Senator Chapman.  Although he was a member of the Senate for only a short period, all of us who knew him recognized his remarkable capacity, great energy, and devotion to public duty. I am sure that we all deeply regret his decease. 
.- 1 second the motion. The late senator was well known to me personally for many years as a journalist and as one who took a very active interest in the welfare of the people of this country. Able and sincere, as a journalist and as an active member of society in many other walks of life he rendered great service to his country, and I know that his death will be a severe blow to his partners in effort for the welfare of the people of South Australia and the Commonwealth generally. I join sincerely with the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  in expressing our deepest sympathy with his widow and family. 
 I desire to support the motion. The deceased gentleman was not a member of the Senate sufficiently long for honorable senators not previously acquainted with him to assess his real worth. At one period of his life, he was the secretary to an official representative of Australia in London, and his work in that capacity was carried out with credit to himself and to the chief with whom he was associated. He was an able journalist, and devoted his activities to the promotion of the Labour cause, particularly in connexion with Labour newspapers. He was a man of untiring effort and outstanding ability, and those who knew him best loved him most. I do not think that any man, within the Labour movement, at any rate, was more highly respected than the late Harry Kneebone.  His  word was his bond.  His  actions bore the hallmarks of sincerity and honesty of purpose. He was a kind and loving father and an excellent husband. The passing of such a man  is a  great loss to Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.20]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the member for Martin, the Honorable William Arthur Holman, K.C, places on record its appreciation of his notable public service, and tenders  its  deep sympathy to his widow and daughter in their bereavement. 
I feel sure that I am expressing the views of honorable senators generally when I say that we all were deeply grieved at the news of the death  of  Mr. Holman.  He was new to federal politics, having been a member  of  another place as the representative  for  Martin during the present Parliament only, but he was not an unknown man when he entered this Parliament. .  His  achievements in the State politics of New South Wales were realized throughout the Empire and in many foreign countries.  Mr. Holman  held the exalted position of Premier of that State on several occasions, including the stirring period of the Great War. The deceased gentleman was possessed of a rare culture, and, by his kindly nature endeared himself to all with whom he came in contact. To his widow and daughter, I express  our  sincere sympathy in their sad bereavement. 
I second the motion. Those  who  had the privilege of knowing the late  Mr. Holman  in his younger clays, and of listening to his oratory, well remember the enthusiasm with which he inspired his contemporaries. He was  a  particularly able man, and had outstanding forensic ability. He took an active part in the early forward political movements in Australia, and implanted in the minds of the people new thoughts that have borne fruit in the legislation  of  this country. He rendered great, service to Australia, and I am sure that we all sincerely regret his passing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[3.23]. - I move- 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of  Sir Robert  Gibson, G.B.E, places on record its appreciation of his notable public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
By the death of  Sir Robert  Gibson a distinguished figure has been removed from the commercial, industrial and banking life of Australia. Whilst we naturally think of  Sir Robert  Gibson in connexion with the Commonwealth Bank, he rendered valuable service to his country in connexion with the Repatriation Commission, of which he was the first  deputy chairman.  Those who recollect his work in that regard will long remember his splendid efforts in helping to lay the foundation of our repatriation system. In more recent years he devoted all his energies to assisting to guide the Commonwealth through the doubtful days of the depression. In his capacity as  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank Board he won for himself undying renown.  His  Majesty honoured him on several occasions, and, in 1932, he was created a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire. Our sincerest sympathy goes out to his sorrowing widow and family in their sad bereavement; but they have the consolation of knowing that by his great public service  Sir Robert  Gibson reared in the hearts and minds of the people a monument that will long endure. 
In seconding the motion, I endorse the tribute that has been paid by  Senator Pearce  to the great work of  Sir Robert  Gibson as  chairman  of the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank, but I venture to express the personal view that he would have done even greater things in that capacity had he been permitted the freedom enjoyed by his predecessor, the late  Sir Denison  Miller, instead of being restricted, as he was by other members of the board.I deeply regret his death. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister inform the Senate if the Government has yet decided whether or not it will ask the Parliament to restore to the Commonwealth public servants the amounts that were taken from their salaries and wages by the Scullin Government in 1931 under the Financial Emergency Act? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable  senator is aware that it 13 nor. customary to make any statement of Government policy in reply to questions. Obviously, the matter to which he referred will be taken into consideration in  connexion  with the budget. 
Has the Minister in charge of Development noticed a newspaper report that the Mareeba Experimental Tobacco Farm has been closed? If the farm is to be closed permanently, can he inform the Senate of the reason? I ask this question because it is believed that the closing of the farm will seriously affect the tobacco industry in North Queensland. 
The experimental farm at Mareeba is no longer controlled by the Commonwealth Government. The honorable senator will remember that a sum of money - the amount was, I think, £10,000 - was set aside by the Commonwealth to enable the State Governments to deal with certain phases of tobacco-growing. At a conference of Ministers of Agriculture and their officers in conjunction with officers of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research at Hobart in February last, it was decided to increase the amount and that under the new arrangement, control of the Mareeba  and  other farms should be entirely iri the hands of the State Government. The Commonwealth is, however, doing what it can to assist the State by retaining certain officers at the farm for the time being. 
Recently the Commonwealth appointed a Royal Commission to inquire into the circumstances relating to the retirement of LieutenantCommander Casey of the Royal Australian Navy. Will the Ministry authorize the Commission to investigate the longstanding grievance of Captain Conway also? I understand that the Minister for Defence is conversant with that officer's complaint. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What were the terms and the general conditions of the engagement of Captain Adkins of England, to act as bandmaster for the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
Were there any bandmasters in Australia who could have undertaken the duties that Captain Adkins was called upon to perform? 
The honorable the Postmaster-General has supplied the following answers : - 
The services of Captain Adkins were made available to the Commission by the War Office for a period of not less than two months in Australia, during which time he was to undertake such duties as were decided on by the Commission including the conducting of bands and the development of military band music. He was paid a fee of £500 sterling and £100 in Australian currency to cover his expenses in Australia.. His fare to and from Australia was also paid by the Commission. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Italy made demands on the United States of America for a general revision of Italy's debts to that country? 
If so, will the Treasurer also demand a general revision of Australia's debts to the United States of America: if not, why not* 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
The Government has no official knowledge  of  demands made by Italy on the United States  of  America for a general revision of debts. 
It is gathered from newspaper sources that the United States demanded a resumption of repayments by Italy on its war debt. The latter country is reported to have refrained from making such payments, and stated that,  while  awaiting a settlement, which she believes possible, she would have been prepared to demonstrate her good will by a token payment. The debts referred to are war debts due by the Government of Italy to the Government of the United States of America. 
There are no war debts or other debts due by Australia to the Government of the United States. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact  that  thesum of £1,537,000 additional to the grant for the year 1932-33 was provided on the defence estimates in the year 1 933-34? 
Is it a fact that the Prime Minister in his budget speech merely indicated that he hoped that the naval sloop costing £280,000, which was to be built, would be built in Australia? 
Is it a fact that the new gun units for coastal defence will be built overseas? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes 
Yes. The sloop is, in fact, beingbuilt at Cockatoo Island under contract with Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Company Limited. 
The new gun equipments required for coast defence are beyond the manufacturing capabilities of our munitions factories, and it would be uneconomical to extend their activities to includethese items owing to the comparatively small number of equipments required. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What action, if any, does the Government intend to take against the policy of the United States of America in refusingentrance of Australian wine and spirits into that country? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer :  - 
Australian wine and spirits are not being refused entry into the United States  of  America. 
I move - 
That this order of the day be read and discharged. 
This motion is submitted because it is the intention of the Government to introduce a more comprehensive measure at a later date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[4.0]. - I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
It is anticipated that a supply bill will be passed by the House of Representatives to-day, and that that measure will be before this chamber to-morrow, when the Senate will be asked to discuss it. Next week, the Senate will be asked to deal with the bills of which the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator McLachlan)  gave notice to-day, and possibly some other measures which may come from the House of Representatives. The main measure which wo are expectingwill be an amendment of the Income Tax Act to give effect to some of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Taxation, but it is unlikely that that bill willbebefore this chamber next week. The House of Representatives expects to be considering the redistribution proposals at an early date, and if these are adopted complementary motions will be necessary in the Senate. 
Earlier in the proceedings to-day, it was my mournful duty to move several motions concerning the deaths of exmembers of this chamber andothers. There is also a fairly long list of deaths of ex-members of the 
House of Representatives, and, although it has become an established practice not to move motions of condolence in this chamber with respect to such deaths, I think that I should make some reference to them. The  Hon.  Agar Wynne, who represented the Balaclava electorate from 1906 to 1914, and was Postmaster-General from June, 1913, to September, 1914, died on the 12thMay, 1934. One of the pioneers of federation, the  Hon.  Sydney Smith, who represented Macquarie from 1901 to 1906, and was Postmaster-General from August, 1904, to July, 1905, died on the 21st February last. The  Hon.  Thomas Brown, who was a member of the' House of Representatives from 1901 to 1913, and who represented Canobolas and Calare, died on the 23rd March, 1934.  Mr. Percy  Edmund Coleman, mem  ber  for Reid from 1922 to 1930, died on the 25th May, 1934.  Mr. Coleman,  who was a comparatively young man, was known to all of us as an active member of the House of Representatives, and as one who rendered distinguished public service.  Mr. Edward  Ernest Heitmann, who was  member  for Kalgoorlie from 1917 to 1919, died on the 30th January, 1934. The deceased gentleman may be unknown to some honorable senators, but he was known to many Western Australians as a patriotic and earnest citizen. He was one of those who, although well advanced in years, enlisted for active service during the  war.  The strenuous life he led doubtless sapped his constitution. Another death to which I should like  to  make reference is that of Lady Northcote, the wife of a former Governor-General. Lady Northcote's name may not be familiar to some honorable senators, but those who were in the Federal Parliamentwhen Lord Northcote was Governor-General will remember the great work which she rendered in Australia, especially in encouraging and helping women's philanthropic movements. She also did much to encourage culture in Australia, particularly in connexion with music. After her departure from Australia, she took a  great  interest in the progress of the Commonwealth, and by her death, Australia has lost a good friend. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjournedat 4.5 p.m. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is a fact that on the evening of Thursday, 28th June, a conference was held at the residence of the Prime Minister in Canberra, at which the following persons were present: -  Mr. Lyons,  Prime Minister;  Mr. Parkhill,  Postmaster-General ;  Senator Sir George  Pearce, the Leader of the Government in the Senate;  Dr. Earle  Page, M.H.R.; and  Mr. Paterson,  M.H.R. ? Can he say  further,  if, at that conference, the date of  the  elections was discussed, and if union of the United Australia party with the Country party was considered on the basis of a further reduction of the Australian tariff? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There are certain inaccuracies  in  the honorable senator's question. I am not aware of any conference having been held at the residence of the Prime Minister, so  it  is apparent that the honorable gentleman has been slightly misinformed. The Government, and the  party  with which  it  has conferred, have nothing  to  hide. The Government held a conference with the leaders of another party on a matter of major political importance and of great interest to the primary producers, and, indeed,  the  whole of the people of Australia. 
Has the 
Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs noticed a statement made by theFederal Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  that the people of the 
Dutch East Indies, because of statements made by irresponsible people in Australia, have the idea that the Commonwealth tariff is the highest in theworld? If so, will the Government take steps to restrain these irresponsible persons, particularly the extreme freetraders who support the Government in theSenate, from creating such misapprehension in the minds of the people of other countries? 
The view of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate is correct. An honorable senator when asking questions of Ministers may not comment upon the political views of other honorable senators.  Senator MacDonald's  question is, therefore, disallowed. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer if, when the report of the Royal Commission on Taxation is being considered with a view to appropriate action being taken, the Government will consider the advisability of exempting from the necessity for making returns all persons over 70 years of age whose nett income does not exceed £100 per annum. 
Will the Ministor representing the Minister for Trade and Customs furnish the Senate with information as to the quantity and value of importations into Australia of the following commodities :  - Cotton lint, coffee, castor beans, peanuts, jute and kapok? 
I shall see that the information desired by the honorable senator is supplied to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
How much of the vote of £250,000 for bounty on fertilizershas been expended to date? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The expenditure to date is £239,700. It is anticipated that the total expenditure will be £248,200. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received the report of the Tariff Board on the cotton industry? 
Is it a fact that large quantities of cotton are being imported into Australia and that local cotton of a similar nature is being exported ? 
Will the Government take such action as will ensure that wherever suitable, Australian cotton will be used in the manufacture of local yarns! 
Is it the intention of the Government to restore to the industry all or portion of the bounty that was reduced by 20 per cent. under the Premiers plan, in view of other restorations that have been made?  
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
No. 
The Government is considering a scheme whereby both the primary and secondary sides of the industry will be fully protected. 
This is a matter for consideration in connexion with the budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that increased importations into the United Kingdom from foreign countries during the first three months of this year as compared with the first three months of last year amount to: - 

<graphic href="144332193406295_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

If so, do these figures not suggest opportunities for closer trading relations with Great Britain? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
The dominions enjoy preferences in the United Kingdom market of 2s. per quarter on wheat, and 10 per cent. ad valorem on the other items. Those preferences afford protection to dominion exporters, but the trade is, of course, affected by other economic factors. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as stated in the  Age  newspaper of 7th June, 1934, that" while Great Britain's imports of flour and wheat from Empire countries during the first quarter of this year declined by 36 per cent., her imports of these two commodities from foreign nations increased by leaps and bounds? 
If so, and in view of the Prime Minister's statement that Great Britain has decided to encourage agriculture to the highest possible level, and will not be deflected from her agricultural policy, which contemplates the imposition of restrictions upon imports, will the Government consider the advisability of negotiating with Great Britain for the termination of any portion of the Ottawa agreement conditions which may be jeopardizing the expansion and progress of our secondary industries? 
During the first quarter of 1034, imports of wheat, and flour into the United Kingdom from foreign countries increased substantially, compared with the first quarter of 1933. The dominions enjoy preferences in the United Kingdom market in respect of both wheat and flour, which would, in normal circumstances, have diverted the import trade to the dominions. The present extraordinary international conditions affecting the marketing of wheat and flour have, however, caused foreign countries to export increasing quantities of those products to the United Kingdom, despite the existence of the duties imposed under the Ottawa agreement. 
No circumstances have arisen which would, in the opinion of the Government, justify the termination of the Ottawa agree- ment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate a statement showing the value and quantity of exports to Great Britain of all goods referred to in Schedules A, B, C and D of the United Kingdom and Australia Trade Agreement Act 1032, for the years 1931, 1932 and. 1933? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs states that the return asked for will be supplied. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received any information from the Government of Great Britain concerning the imposition of quotas on the imports of primary products from Australia? 
If so, will the Government convey the information to the Senate? 
The Prime Minister has, on several occasions, publicly explained fully the position in regard to this matter. A further statement on the subject will be made at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the export of chilled beef from Australia to Great Britain be limited in any way because of any trade agreement entered into between Great Britain and the Argentine? 
If so, will the Government give the Senate full details relating to such agreement as it affects Australia? 
The export of beef, including chilled beef, from Australia to the United Kingdom, is not directly affected by the agreement between the United Kingdom and the Argentine, but is dealt with in the Ottawa agreement. 
A statement setting out the provisions of the Ottawa agreement, and the agreement between the United Kingdom and the Argentine regarding meat will be laid on the table of the Senate. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
When does the Government expect to receive the report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry? 
Can the commission be asked to present an interim report, with the object of enabling legislation for the assistance of wheat-growers and the stabilization of the industry to be placed on the statute-book before the coming election ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answer: -  1 and 2. The Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry will furnish an interim report at an early date so as to enable consideration to be given to it during the present session. 
Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible to  Senator Johnston's  question with regard to a trunk telephone service between Wiluna and Geraldton, Western Australia. 
 Senator E.  B. Johnston has asked a series of questions concerning the proposed  establishment  of a national broadcasting station in the southern districts of Western Australia. Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister received the report of the Tariff Board on the production of feldspar in Australia? 
If so, when will the report bo available to the Senate? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
The Tariff Board's report has not yet been finally considered by the Government. It is not the practice to release Tariff Board reports until the Government makes a decision in regard to the board's recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate a copy of the correspondence that passed between the Commonwealth Bank Board and the Loan Council during the recent meeting of Premiers? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer states that, as the correspondence is confidential, he regrets that the request cannot 'be complied with. 
In regard to the question asked by  Senator Collings  concerning the control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
In view of the importance of the applegrowing industry to the Commonwealth, and the unsatisfactory position of the overseas trade, will the Government cause an investigation to be made to discover in what manner the industry can be assisted, and placed on a more profitable basis? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The sum of ?125,000 was granted to the apple industry this financial year, to compensate it for losses incurred on export. The Government is at present considering the measures which may be taken to enable the industry to meet, more satisfactorily, present market conditions. 
?12,000,000 COMMONWEALTH LOAN. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
As a result of the over-subscription of the recent loan, is it apparent that Australia is making progress toward financial stability? 
If so, how long will it be, at the present rate of progress, before Australia is out of debt? 
If not, how long will it be before Australia is financially bankrupt? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 1 to 3. The over-subscription of the recent loan is gratifying evidence of confidence in government finance. The future stability of Australian finance is dependent on the continuance of sound government. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 1 and 2. I have not received any further reports on the DeRaeve method of chilling beef. I undertook in reply to a question asked by the honorable senator on 16th November, 1933, to give consideration to the question of obtaining a further expert opinion on this process, if I were supplied with full details indicating that improvements have been effected since the process was investigated by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. No further details have been supplied to me. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Has the Government any intention of sending a number of men from Canberra to work on the east-west railway in South Australia? 
If so, who will pay railway fares for the men in question? 
What will be the cost of fares and other expenses of conveying the men from Canberra to their destination? 
Are the fares Or any other expenses to be repaid by the men in question? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice  - 
Is it intended to send a large number of unemployed men from Canberra to work on the Port Augusta-Kalgoorlie railway? 
If so, why is preference for this work being given to residents of Canberra, when Western Australia can supply the whole of the men required for this work, without cost of transport? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.To both questions the Minister for the Interior has supplied the answer that the matter is still under consideration. 
When speaking to my amendment prior to the division on clause 2, I had exhausted the time allotted to me under the Standing Orders, and was unable to finish what I had intended to say. I propose to do so now. I direct the attention of honorable senators to a cable message which appeared in the newspapers of this country a few months ago. It dealt with remarks made by one of the leaders of a trade union congress in India, which is supposed to be one of the most backward of the industrial countries. This official, at the termination of the conference, exhorted his followers to endeavour to retain whatever rights they possessed, otherwise, he said they would soon find themselves reduced to the coolie level of the Australian workers ! That clearly indicates what other people think of the condition of the working classes in Australia. 
Under the Prime Minister's Department provision is made for the expenditure of £10,250 in connexion with the shipping and mail service to the Pacific Islands, which amount, I understand, is to cover a portion of the subsidy paid to Burns Philp and Company. The annual payment on this account is approximately £40,000. 
I understand that. With the suspension of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. overseas vessels are now engaging in  the trade between. Australia and Papua and the Mandated Territory, to the detriment of Burns Philp andCompany, which pioneered the trade with the Pacific Islands and developed it to a remarkable degree. The unfair competition with which that company has to contend is seriously affecting its operations in the Pacific. The steamers under the control of Burns Philp and Company which trade between Australia, Papua, the Mandated Territory, and the Solomon Islands are manned by white crews, whereas the vessels now conducting cruises to the South Sea Islands, and with which they have to compete, are worked by coloured labour. The men employed on the Burns Philp steamers are working under awards of the Federal Arbitration Court, while the owners of the vessels with which they are competing are not subject to the awards of that court. These overseas companies first commenced by conducting a pleasure cruise from Australia to Port Moresby, but they have since extended their opera- tions to Samarai, and according to the latest information available their ships are now to visit Rabaul. 
The interjection of the honorable senator shows that he is in favour of the employment of coloured labour. The vessels of the Inchcape group are now operating in direct competition with those under the control of Burns Philp and Company. 
That may be so. It isinteresting to note that the Union Steamship Company was compelled to withdraw the  Manganui  from the Pacific Islands trade, and place it on the AustraliaSan Francisco route owing to the vessels of the Matson Line interfering with its trade. This resulted in  400  Australian seamen being forced to walk the streets of  Sydney and Wellington in search  of work. If the present competition is not checked, and a larger subsidy granted to Burns Philp and Company, which is now carrying mails and passengers to the Pacific Islands and generally providing a highly satisfactory 
Service, it will be forced to withdraw some of its ships, and thus throw additional men on the labour market. I trust that the Government will give greater consideration to this company, which is paying its officers, seamen, cooks and stewards the rates of wages prescribed by the Arbitration. Court. 
.- It is most refreshing to hear the leader of the Lang Labour party in this chamber trying to "grease the fat pig." I do not know what he has in mind, because every one knows that Burns Philp and Company, which is providing a magnificent service to the Mandated Teritory of New Guinea and elsewhere, is in a sound financial position. One has only to look at the current values of the company's shares, and to study the dividends paid, to see that it is a prosperous company. It deserves to be prosperous, because of the service which it renders to the community, and because of the attention which it gives to its ships. Not. long ago, I applied for a passage from Australia to New Guinea on one of the Burns Philp boats, and although I tried to book a berth five weeks before I proposed to sail, I was informed that the ship was full. I applied twice subsequently, and each time was told that there was no room, which shows that the other vessels engaged in the trade are not interfering with the operations of Burns Philp and Company. My experience shows that the trade is prosperous, and that is possibly due to the excellent service which Burns Philp and Company is rendering, and to the manner in which it is assisting, in the development of the Mandated Territory and the Pacific Islands generally. I am glad to learn that other vessels are carrying passengers to the Mandated Territory, because I believe that there is room for them all. ' I am particularly anxious that New Guinea shall become more popular with tourists. The Australian people cannot have any idea of its potentialities and what it means to Australia, unless they visit it. It is ridiculous to suggest that Burns Philp and Company is being ruined by the advent of other vessels, when their ships are crowded on every trip. I cannot understand the attitude of  Senator Dunn,  who usually denounces the activities of those engaged in private enterprise. 
The vessels of the Burns Philp line are manned by white men who enjoy good conditions and who realize that they are working for a good company. They are treated as white men should be treated. I thought it only right that I should place these facts before the committee in refutation of the absurd allegations made by  Senator Dunn. 
[3.7]. - Having recently assumed Ministerial control of the territories mentioned on behalf of the Prime Minister, I am glad that attention has been directed to them. I am reminded that from the 9 th November, 1931, Burns Philp and Company agreed to reduce the payment under the contract for providing shipping and mail service to the Pacific Islands, from £55,000 to £44,000 - a reduction of 20 per cent. That reduction was made when the financial crisis was at its peak and when others were making substantial sacrifices in an endeavour to meet the situation which then existed. I have noted what has been said by  Senator Dunn  and will inform my mind concerning the actual position. I shall, if necessary, confer with the honorable senator on the subject. 
.  - Provision is made in the schedule for the expenditure of £29,400 for salaries and general expenses in connexion with the electoral office. I trust that honorable senators will not accuse me of having what is sometimes termed a " bug " in regard to this matter. If we can suggest an improvement in the present electoral system we should do so. For over twelve years, J have been studying the working of the preferential system of voting adopted in connexion with federal elections, and I have made suggestions for its improvement in this chamber from time to time. On one occasion  Senator Reid  agreed with the proposal I made that different political parties should have the right to arrange their candidates within the group as they desired, instead of in alphabetical order as is necessary under the electoral law. If the candidates nominated by a particular party were named, say, Anderson, Jones and Murphy, their names would, under the present law, appear on the ballot paper in that order, notwithstanding that the party might wish Murphy's name to appear first. If the different political parties were permitted to group their candidates and one party wished to place Murphy at the top of the group it could do so. In Queensland, where the Labour party operates the plebiscite system, it was found unsatisfactory to be compelled by law to place the names in the order determined by the electoral law. We should have the right to place them in the order we desired. This is not a party matter and the alteration I suggest would increase the success of the preferential system of voting. A good deal of expenditure is incurred in conducting the electoral office and those in authority should be asked to submit proposals to improve the present preferential system. 
That would be decided by the party organisation, regardless of whether it worked on the executive or the plebiscite principle of selecting its own candidates. 
I propose to deal with that aspect of the question. On one occasion  Senator Reid  supported my proposal, probably because his surname commences with the letter " R " and, under the present system, appears towards the bottom of the ballot- paper regardless of the wish of his party. 
I am glad to hear that, and I hope it will include reform in the direction I have indicated. Regarding  Senator Lawson's  question, the placing of groups on the ballot-paper in alphabetical order is an absurd system. 
It has been said frequently that political parties endeavour to secure suitable candidates whose surnames commence with the letter " A " because of the supposed advantage such a candidate would enjoy in having his name placed at the top of the ballotpaper. In a recent political ballot, I noticed that out of 25 candidates the names of no fewer than eight began with the letter " B " It is imagined that because of the position of " B in the alphabet, the plebiscite selectors will prefer men whose names begin with that letter, because, having their names at the cop of the ballot-papers, they think they will be placed at the top of the ballot paper and thus have the best chance of election. The electoral officers should give serious consideration to this matter. I suggest that a better system would Joe to choose by lot the party whose representatives should be named at the top of the ballot paper. This selection could be undertaken by the electoral officers in the various States. I was glad to hear the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  mention that action is likely to be taken to amend the present electoral law. 
I propose to reply to the criticism offered by  Senator Payne,  who, referring to my claim for the protection of the white Australians engaged in the coastal shipping trade, said that I was advocating " the greasing of the fat pig". The members of the marine trades industrial group in Sydney are much concerned about the sabotaging of the coastal steamship companies by the overser.3. companies. So far as Lord Inchcape's control of the shares in the latter companies is concerned, I have no entree to those select clubs and circles which are open to  Senator Payne.  I am not aware of the whole of the ramifications of " Comrade " Inchcape, or any other industrial go-getters.  Senator Payne,  of course, is in close contact with the commercial houses of London and Japan, which are interested in cheap labour. The Australian steamship companies employ white officers and white crews, and I am pleased to have the assurance of the Minister that he will investigate their disabilities.  Senator Payne  comes from Tasmania, where, I am proud to say, a Labour Government was recently returned to office. I am not ashamed to place on record in  Hansard  the fact that one of the planks of Labour policy is the socialization or nationalization of the Australian shipping trade. Part of the policy of the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Scullin),  when he swept the polls in Tasmania, was the provision of a national steamship service between Tasmania and the mainland. 
The crews, of the  Aorangi  and the  Niagara,  of the Union Steamship Company are Australians. . They total 600 and the wages and overtime paid yearly amount to approximately £60,000. Each time either ship comes into port, about 750 men are employed in getting the vessel ready for sea for the following voyage, and the two ships visit Sydney thirteen times a year. The expenditure in Sydney during the twelve months in wharf labour, repairs, stores, docking, &amp;c, amounts to about £81,000. A similar circulation of money occurs in Australia as a result of the operations of other coastal steamship companies. For instance, Burns Philp and Company, which trades to Papua, the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and the Solomons, employs white crews who are employed under awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. Incidentally, I am of opinion that the standard of living provided for by that court should be improved.  Senator Payne  is in favour of Japanese and other coloured labour manning the ships that trade to this country, so it is idle for him to say that the members of my party stand for the greasing of the fat pig. Itis true that private enterprise controls the coastal steamship companies, but they give employment to thousands of Australians, and their work results in the expenditure in Australia of hundreds of thousands of pounds a year. I refer to the operations of the Union Steamship Company, Burns Philp and Company, the Adelaide Steamship Company, Huddart Parker Company, Howard Smith Company, and the Australian Steamship Company. These companies are being forced into competition with overseas shipping lines, and many of their vessels are tied up from time to time, with the result that Australian seamen have to walk "the streets and live on the dole. I hope that the Government will lose no time in taking steps to remedy this evil. 
I protest against the Postal Department being satisfied to continue with the building in Queen-street, Brisbane, known as the general post office. It is inadequate for the needs of that city, and is not in keeping with the finer structures that have been erected in its immediate neighbourhood during the last few years by private enterprise and the State Government. 
The present post office was erected in i860, and the people of Brisbane are not satisfied with the alignment of the city buildings, for while their post office is a two-story structure, other edifices on both sides rise to ten stories. The post office therefore is eighty years behind the times. 
The honorable senator may not make more than a passing reference to that matter. 
I was interested in what  Senator MacDonald  said about the grouping of the candidates on the ballotpaper.  His  suggestion reminded me of the fact that in the last election for Adelaide a gentleman whose name began with Z was unfortunate enough to be at the bottom, of the poll. That would appear to lend support to the contention of  Senator MacDonald  that a man whose name begins with the letter A has a better chance at the ballot box than has a man whole name begins with, say, the letter J. In the case to which I have referred,  Mr. Z  secured only 655 votes out of a total of 431,634 votes; but he lost his deposit not so much 'because of his name as because of his political views. He was a Communist. I think  Senator MacDonald  might be well advised to begin his reforms with his own party, before be asks Parliament to agree to abandon the present system of listing alphabetically the names on the ballot paper. Only a year ago,  Mr. Yates  failed in an election for the South Australian Legislative Council, being beaten by a candidate whose name commenced with 0. I understand that it is a rule of the Labour party that when two or more of its candidates contest the same election their names shall appear on the ballot paper in alphabetical order. 
The practice in connexion with plebiscites within the party to which I belong is to place the names in alphabetical order on the voting paper, but I am suggesting that when the panel of candidates has been chosen their names should be grouped on the electoral ballot paper in the order of preference indicated by the plebiscite. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without, requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[11.27] .  - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill is to grant Supply in order to carry on the services of the Commonwealth for the first three months of the coming financial year. The amount involved is £6,079,175, which includes the following sums for ordinary services :  - 

<graphic href="144332193406295_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

The items making up these sums are based on the appropriations passed by Parliament for the present year, and represent approximately one-quarter of the appropriation. In addition, the usual provisions are made for " refunds of revenue " and " advance to the Treasurer ". The amount set down for "refunds of revenue" is £400,000, and for " advance to the Treasurer " £1,500,000. This latter item is required to carry on uncompleted works in progress on the 30th June, 1934, and other urgent works, and to cover unforeseen and miscellaneous expenditure, including special grants to South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. These special grants will be continued on the same basis as during the present: financial year, pending consideration of the report of the royal commission which is at present inquiring into the circumstances of each of these States and the introduction of new bills. 
Provision is made in the bill only for the amount which is estimated to be sufficient to carry on essential services on the same basis as that provided for in the appropriation for the current financial year; 1933-34. No provision is made in this measure for any new expenditure or for any departure irons existing policy. It is hoped to introduce the budget early in August, when the full financial proposals of the Government will be submitted to Parliament. 
As we have almost reached the end of the present financial year, honorable senators will no doubt be anxious to know what the financial results for the year are likely to be. I am not yet in a  position  to supply even an approximate statement of the financial position for the full year, as final returns from the various departments and branches in all States will not be received for some days after the 30th June. I may mention, however, that the revenue for the year has been particularly buoyant, especially the customs and excise revenue, which, up to the 31st May, showed an increase of approximately £1,600,000 over the budget estimate for that period. Post office revenue also disclosed a considerable improvement on the budget estimate, the receipts for the eleven months being £270,000 in excess of the  pro rata  budget estimate. The statement of receipts and expenditure for the eleven months ended the 31st May showed an excess of receipts of £2,625,000. In considering this balance, however, 'it is necessary to take into account that very heavy expenditure has had to be met during the month of June, including expenditure on new works commenced late in the year. The balance of £1,400,000, in respect of relief to wheat-growers, completes the total of £3,000,000 appropriated under that head. "While it is too early to forecast definitely the financial position fer the full year, it is apparent that when all returns are to hand they will show that the  balance  of the Consolidated Revenue Fund is on the right side of the .ledger. I hope to be able in about eight or ten days to submit to honorable senators a statement of the Consolidated Revenue Fund under various headings, showing the approximate results for the year. A more detailed statement will, of course, be submitted with the budget for next year. As honorable senators are aware this is one of the annual measures that must be dealt with at this stage of the financial year. We may regard the passing of this bill as practically a formal procedure, for it does. not involve any new financial policy, and. I ask the cooperation of honorable senators in giving the measure a speedy pass-age.* They will have ample opportunity later to discuss financial policy. 
I hays' no intention to 'discuss the details pf the bill at tins juncture, for as the Minister has ^pointed out, ample opportunity to debate the Government's financial proposals will be afforded later in the session. According to press reports published during the long recess that we have just experienced, the Government has been well aware of the buoyancy of the revenue. Knowing that the Estimates of receipts were being greatly exceeded, the Government might well have taken action to deal with the grave problem of unemployment, which is wide-spread throughout Australia. It should have used some of its extra revenue to provide employment for the workless. Deputations representing the unemployed and the secretaries of industrial organizations have drawn the attention of the Government to the desperate position of these men; so the Government cannot plead ignorance of the conditions that prevail throughout the land. Ministers are most blameworthy for not having made a determined effort to relieve the situation. The Government is certainly deserving of a vote of censure for the ineptitude displayed by it in this regard. 
The announcement has been made in the press recently that the Government intends to propose amendments to the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act during the present session. Several important amendments are required, and I shall  direct attention to one in particular. The last amending bill contained a most atrocious provision, the significance of which none of us realized at the time. It might have slipped through Parliament even if every member had been a King's Counsel; but the Government, of course, had at its disposal the services of legal experts. As a result of that amendment, on the death of a pensioner the department can claim the proceeds of his life insurance policy in order to recoup itself for the amount paid to him by way of pension. I do not believe that that amendment would have been passed by this Senate without serious opposition, had honorable senators, irrespective of their party views, 'realized at the time how serious the effects would be. Sub-section 4 of section 476 of the Victorian Companies Act 19,18, provides - 
Notwithstanding' anything contained in his will or any codicil thereto, on the death of any person the property and interest of such person in any policy or policies of assurance on his life not maturing only at his death shall not to the extent of One thousand pounds of the sum assured be assets for the payment of his debts except those (if any) for the payment of which he in such will or codicil declares an intention to make such property and interests assets by words expressly referring to such policy or policies and expressly negativing the provisions of this section. 
I do not know whether a similar provision is contained in the company law of other States. Under that sub-section the insurance cannot be claimed by any creditor, but is reserved to the widow or to a member of the deceased's family; but under the amendment of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act made last session, the department can claim even so small a sum as £50 in order to recoup itself for pension payments. I hope that the Government will give early consideration to the need for rectifying this anomaly. 
We have been told by the press that the Government intends to send 100 men from Canberra to work on the East- West railway. It is said that they will be selected by the railway authorities and sent 1,000 miles or more to engage in the work of re-sleeper ing that line. I have a telegram from the Australian Workers Union in South Australia expressing strong resentment of this proposal. The work involved is usually carried out by members of that organization and the secretary informs me that there, are 17,000 registered unemployed in South Australia to-day, so there is ample labour available locally. It seems absurd that the Government should incur the heavy expense of transporting 100 men from Canberra to Port Augusta. The cost of their fares alone would be probably  £1,000.  We are told that Commonwealth money is to be expended on this work, and therefore the Commonwealth Government is entitled to send men from any part of Australia to participate in this relief. That argument might be convincing if no labour were available in the vicinity of the work to be undertaken, but thousands of men are available in South Australia, and as the people of that State are taxpayers of the Commonwealth, they have a prior right to employment in their own neighbourhood. The Federal Capital Territory comprises about 900 square miles, and surely this Government has sufficient ability to find employment in the Territory for the 100 unemployed whom it proposes to send to Port Augusta. The Government has £4,000,000 more revenue than was estimated, and the unemployed in Canberra, who are undoubtedly entitled to work, should be found employment near their homes. .  
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Can the honorable senator connect his remarks with the bill under, consideration ? 
The money that would be expended in sending Canberra unemployed to the East- West railway would have to be taken from the sum to be appropriated by this 'bill. The Government recently approached the money market with most satisfactory results. According to newspaper reports, the £12,000,000 asked for could have been subscribed in. about two hours, and £25,000,000 could easily have been obtained. The Government claims that that response to its appeal is evidence of the confidence of the people in the present Administration. One is entitled to complain when a government which finds the borrowing of £12,000,000 as easy as the kissing of a girl, fails to care for those of its citizens who live practically on the doorstep of this Parliament House. 
I have, however, no desire to delay the bill, and shall not oppose its passing. 
1  agree with the, Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  that nothing that we on this side may do can prevent the passing of this bill. Nevertheless, this measure, which seeks to appropriate over £6,000,000 for the service of the next financial year, affords an appropriate opportunity for criticism of the Government's administration. During the recent long recess, many senators have visited States other than those they represent in order to make themselves conversant with conditions throughout Australia. I visited every State, but not the Northern Territory. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in common with many of their camp followers, boast that conditions in Australia are better to-day than they have been for three or four years. They tell us that prosperity is just around the corner. But the  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank Board,  Sir Claude  Reading, told us recently that conditions in this country are uo better than they were about two and a half years ago, in the middle of the depression. So serious does he consider the position to be that the Commonwealth Bank has stopped all further credit. In their policy of misrepresentation, responsible Ministers have been aided and abetted by the first civil servant of the Commonwealth, the High Commissioner in London. In a congenial atmosphere, with mellow wine and good food on the table,  Mr. Bruce  spoke into the microphone, and his words were heard by thousands of listeners sitting in comfort in their homes throughout Australia. Unfortunately for the Government, the  chairman  of the Commonwealth Bank Board has, as it were, thrown  a  spanner into the works. The Premier of South Australia,  Mr. Butler,  is another who is out of step with the Com* monwealth Government. A critical situation developed recently when  Mr. Butler  raised a loan in his own State, and informed the Loan Council that in the future South Australia would arrange its own borrowing. Since then,  Mr. Ogilvie,  the new Labour Premier of Tasmania, whose recent election has given the 
United Australia Party a nasty jolt, has stated that Tasmania is on the dole. He warned the Commonwealth Government that unless Tasmania obtained further relief from the Commonwealth, the people of that State would be given an opportunity to decide whether or not they favoured secession. Ministers continue to say that all is well in relation to the agreement signed at Ottawa; but a consideration of many of the items in this schedule, particularly those connected with the Department of Commerce, forces us to the conclusion that all is not well. When in Western Australia recently, I found that the only industry -in that rich State which showed evidence of prosperity was . gold-mining. Although- - Western Australia is now probably the leading wheat-producing State of the Commonwealth, the wheat-farmers there are in a very bad way indeed. Notwithstanding, bounteous rains and good seasonal prospects, the &gt; high capital value placed on their land imposes a burden too heavy for them to bear. Many of the small farmers of Western Australia are practically dependent on the dole, and those with larger holdings are experiencing great difficulty in meeting their commitments. These conditions exist notwithstanding the optimistic forecast of the effect of the Ottawa Conference on the primary and secondary industries of this country. In New South Wales also, the position of the wheat-growing industry is serious; nearly one million acres of wheat laud has gone out of production in that State in recent years. The Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart),  from time to time, endeavours to encourage the wheat-farmers of Australia by a variation of the old adage, " Live, horse, and the grass will grow ". The only industry in New South Wales which shows any evidence of prosperity is the pastoral industry, which has benefited from the increased price of wool. Closer observation reveals a decline in the production of wool in Australia due to the somewhat clearer international atmosphere. Nations which were preparing for war, are, at the moment, not so active in that way, probably because their warehouses are already fully stocked. During recent years, science  and invention have made remarkable progress, and have done much to shape the course of nations. We are now told that a German scientist has discovered a process by which synthetic wool can be produced. Such a discovery must inevitably have a serious effect on the Australian wool-growing industry. Further evidence that all is not well is the failure of the attempt to regulate wheat production throughout the world. Thu ink was scarcely dry on the agreement, which the High Commissioner signed on behalf of Australia, when the Argentine and other wheat-producing countries commenced to " scab " on the other signatories to, that agreement. One wonders whether trie, action of the Argentine Republic is in any way connected with the fact that British interests J have invested over £700,000,000 in  the industries of Argentina. Because of the policy of economic nationalism 'that is being preached itf all countries,' even by the present coalition Government in Great Britain, the outlook for the farmers of Australia is very serious, and their plight demands the immediate attention of this Government. 
The schedule to the bill contains1 items dealing with certain phases of the Government's defence policy. It is well known that the Government intends to earmark £4,000,000 of its estimated surplus of £6,000,000 for defence purposes. I and my colleague,  Senator Rae,  are quite willing to vote supply for the ordinary purposes of the Government, but I tell the Minister plainly that when its defence measures come before us they will have our uncompromising opposition. 
I am aware of that. Nevertheless I am entitled to offer some general criticism of. the policy that was outlined lately by the Minister for Defence, and it is idle for the Minister to split straws with me over the matter at this stage. The Government's defence proposals are linked up with this Supply Bill because provision is being made for payment of the salaries and wages of employees in that department. 
The honorable senator must accept the assurance of the Minister and confine his remarks more closely to the subject before the Chair, . 

 Senator Barnes referred to the proposal to transfer a number of unemployed from Canberra to Port Augusta, in South Australia, for work on the transcontinental railway. The condition of the workers in all States is most unsatisfactory, due to the operation of the Premiers plan, under which wageearners were forced to suffer drastic reductions of wages, as well as loss of employment through the cessation of public works. Actually, many of the leaders of the workers had to " take it on the chin ", during the regime of the previous Commonwealth Government, following the acceptance of the Premiersplan. 
The fact that the recent loan of £12,000,000 at 3£ per cent, was subscribed so eagerly shows that there is something fundamentally wrong with the alleged prosperity of this country under the rule of the present Government. Banking and other financial institutions, insurance companies, merchant  princes  and manufacturers with money to spare rushed to take up government bonds in preference to investing money in industry and so providing remunerative employment for our people. Their chief concern is to get the best return on their investment regardless of the way in which they exploit the great mass of people employed in both primary and secondary industries, or how much they squeeze the farmers, who have been obliged to pay anything from 6 to 12 per cent, for money advanced to them to carry ou their operations. Some sections of big business, notably the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, enjoy even higher dividends. 
I shall, not warn the honorable senator again. He must confine his remarks more closely to the subject before the Chair. 
I shall vote for the Supply Bill,  because  I have no wish to delay payments due to thousands of " wage plugs ". But I warn the Minister in charge of the bill that the time is rapidly approaching when Ministers and their supporters will be obliged to go before the people to give an account of their stewardship, and I feel sure that they will find it very difficult to justify all the misery and degradation which the people of Australia have suffered from the operation of the Premiers plan. Because of the vacillation and the "backing and filling" by this Government, the electors are now in a frame of mind to demand, in no uncertain manner, the immediate introduction of more effective measures to alleviate the sufferings' of the people. This Government has not dealt justly with Public Service employees. Under the Premiers plan, which was adopted by the Scullin Administration, they suffered reductions of salaries ranging up to 22J pgr cent. Those reductions should be restored. When the measure is in committee I shall have, some further comments to make with respect to the political tripe which has appeared in the newspapers during the last few months concerning the activities of this so-called " prosperity " Government. 
Honorable senators on this side of the chamber intend to adhere to the decision that factious opposition shall not be offered to the passage of the bill. I shall reserve any comments which I wish to make upon financial matters generally until the budget papers are before the Senate. At this stage I shall content myself with making an observation concerning pensions. There is another phase with respect to insurance policies, in addition to the point taken by my leader  (Senator Barnes),  and I ask the Minister to give attention to it. On the death of a pensioner, not only is his insurance policy treated as an asset from which the Commonwealth Government can retrieve the amount of pension paid, but it is also treated as an asset during his life, which, in my opinion, is even worse. To-day when a  deputy  commissioner is deciding whether a person is entitled to a pension, and if so of what amount, his assets are taken into consideration. An insurance policy valued at £40 or £50 will not be available to the pensioner or his relatives until after death, but its value is treated as an asset during his life-time, and the sum, however small, is used to bring his assets of all kinds above the statutory limit and the pension is reduced accordingly. I am using moderate terms when I say that such action is deplorable and discreditable. This is a matter which could be adjusted by administrative act, even before the budget is considered. It is cruel to allow the present system to continue for 48 hours longer. I am sure that honorable senators will treat this as a non-party matter, and that they do not favour a continuance of the present, system. As the Minister has assured us that the bill does not provide for any new expenditure, I shall assist in giving it a speedy passage. 
I wish to say a few words with reference to the Government's proposal to send unemployed men from Canberra to work on the East-West railout from Port Augusta. As was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  there is a considerable number of unemployed men in South Australia, and at Port Augusta ' itself. The proposal of the Government to send 100 men from Canberra to engage in work on the East-West line has drawn protests, not only from Labour men, but also from the members of other political parties, and I think it would be fair to say that protests have been uttered by representatives of every section of the community. The reason for such protests are these : The unemployed at present at Port Augusta are nearest to the work and their employment would, as a matter of course, obviate the cost which would be involved in sending men from Canberra to Port Augusta. Moreover, it is quite probable that the unemployed at Port Augusta are more accustomed to the local conditions and to the work which is to be made available, than men sent from Canberra could possibly be. There is nothing to show that the men whom it is proposed to send from Canberra are in any way specially qualified for the work. If it were work on which experts should be employed, and such experts were available only in Canberra, there would be something to be said in favour of the Government's proposition, but those conditions do not obtain. As the Leader of the Opposition said, suitable men can be obtained on the SpOt and it is therefore reasonable to ask that they should be employed. I appreciate the Government's difficulty. It ils all Commonwealth work, and Commonwealth  money is to be expended. Naturally, the Commonwealth Government feelsthat it is under a special obligation to its former employees who are at present out of work, but the unemployed men in Canberra are actually  no more the concern of the Commonwealth than are the unemployed men who reside at Port Augusta or in any other part of South Australia. All are Australians, and should receive equal consideration. The men at Port Augusta are closer to the work, and their services could be more readily employed, and at a lower cost to the taxpayers. The intrusion, if one may use the term, of the unemployed of Canberra at Port Augusta is bound to lead to friction with those on the spot who have been deliberately overlooked. The proposed action of the Government also suggests that preferential treatment is being given to those residing in the capital city. A question was asked to-day concerning details of the unemployed as revealed by the latest census figures, and although the reply was that the figures were not available, it would be interesting to know how the proportion of unemployed in the Federal Capital Territory compares with that in the States. Probably it would be found that the percentage of unemployment in Canberra is not so high as it is in some of the States. I do not suggest that there are not difficulties" associated with the problem, or that the Government is not trying to do what it thinks fair; but I do not think that it is prudent or businesslike to do as . the Government suggests. I sincerely trust that the Government will reconsider the matter, and make the work available to those who are experienced, and are already on the spot. 
 I do not intend to make a long speech on the motion for the second reading of this bill, but I take this  opportunity- to refer to a few important matters. Yesterday the Minister in charge of development  (Senator McLachlan)  replied to a question I asked concerning the reported closing down of the Government Experimental Tobacco Farm at Mareeba. The reply by the Minister was to the effect that this farm has been passed over to the control of the State authorities, but I was precluded by the rules of the Senate from making any comment at the time. 1 have before me a paragraph which appeared in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  in which  Mr. Bulcock,  the. Minister for Agriculture and Stock in Queensland, referred to the closing down of the experimental farm ait Mareeba. The paragraph concluded with this sentence - 
Some of the messages he had received indicated the belief that the farm was conducted by the State Government; but it was purely a Commonwealth institution. 
That statement conflicts with the reply given to me by the Minister in Charge of Development. I direct the attention of the Minister in charge of the bill to the contradictory nature of the two statements. 
I protest against the effect of existing pensions legislation. ' I cannot expect the Government to adopt the Labour party's policy and restore invalid and old-age pensions to the rates and conditions which were in 'force before a reduction was made - which a. majority of Australians believe to be the undoubted right of pensioners- - but I direct the Minister's attention to the practice adopted in dealing with the property of pensioners, and also to amounts pensioners may receive under the present system. It is unreasonable to expect every member of a family seeking employment to be equally successful in industrial life, particularly under the present order of society. One member of a family may be comparatively successful and another meet only with failure. I know a family one female member of which was successful - it may not have been due entirely to individual effort - and could live comfortably without the aid of a pension.  Her  sister, who -had not been so fortunate, needed a pension. The more fortunate, out of kindness of heart, offered to provide a higher standard of comfort for her sister, who undoubtedly deserved it. Because one sister gave the other a home, the department deducted 12s. 6d. from her miserable pension of 17s. 6d. a week. That sort of treatment tends to dry up the springs of private benevolence. I believe that many similar eases have occurred throughout Australia. Immediately a pensioner receives a sum of money, such as a bequest or inheritance, above a small amount, he or she is called upon to submit to a reduction of the pension. The great majority of Australians look upon the old-age pension as a payment to which elderly folk are fully entitled. Under the capitalistic system, all cannot succeed. The success of one man may be due to the failure, through circumstances over which they have no control, of ten others, or, in the case of great financial success, to the failure of a thousand others. I trust that the old system will soon be restored entirely. 
A case recently came under my notice in which an aged couple received a pension of 12s. 6d. a week each. Before the days of the depression, they had accumulated a property which they sold for £300; but, unfortunately, they did not receive payment. Occasionally, the purchaser gives them £1 or £2 by way of interest, but they have no immediate prospect of any payment of the principal. The  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation informs me that the property is valued at £300, and that there is no proof that it is a hopelessly bad debt. Consequently, these pensioners are compelled to submit to a reduction. 
Yes. The Government has callously deprived a great number of pensioners of money to which they are justly entitled. If the Ministry hopes to survive at the next election it will have to repeal those provisions of the act which allow the property of  pensioners  to fall into the hands of the department to be used in recouping it for pension payments. Such legislation is disgraceful. It is stated that the provisions relating to contributions by relatives of pensioners are to be repealed, but there are evenworse provisions in the act. 6 
Yes. It is a standing disgrace for the Government to claim credit for having made savings, considering that it has remitted taxation to the wealthy sections by robbing the pensioners. Until the present policy of the Government is reversed, there will be no peace in this country. I am happy to state that the pensioners are organized throughout the Commonwealth, and that the number of members of their organization is rapidly increasing. Any conservative senator who wishes to retain the present unjust provisions in the Pensions Act will meet his "Waterloo at an early date. 
The fact that the Treasury made the a  arrangements  necessary for the raising of the recent £12,000,000 loan affords ample justification for criticizing the loan  om  this bill. We are told that the ease with which the Government can obtain loan money is proof of returningprosperity based on the confidence of investors ; but I contend that the ease with which the last loan was floated, and the fact that it was considerably oversubscribed show that there is not great opportunity for profitable investment in other directions. 
Yes. The safety of the Commonwealth loan induced investors to rush in their applications for the stock. When State Ministers receive deputations from the' unemployed, they account for iiic meagre allowance for relief works h.v saying that they have only the money which the Loan Council allots to them for that purpose; yet the PostmasterGeneral boasted recently,' when speaking in connexion with the Martin by-election, that the Government had raised £38,000,000 by way of loans in the last ye.ir, and out of that money provision had boon made for relief works in the States. Very few of these works will be nf a reproductive nature, and the fact that they are to be financed out of loan money clearly shows that the  so-called  prosperity is of an unsubstantial nature, and will lead to a greater collapse thanthat from which Australia is supposed to be emerging. Certainly, the expenditure of. loan money on relief works has led. to a temporary revival in some industries; but, if the mere ability to raise moneyby loan is an index to prosperity, Australia should be one of the most prosperous countries in the world. 
The honorable senator probably gauges the prosperity of others by his own success. Although the Government has taken great credit to itself for having pulled Australia out of the depression, a country that relies upon wholesale borrowing can enjoy but a transitory prosperity. To say that unemployment is decreasing under the regime of the present Ministry is merely to express one of those half-truths which, in effect, are worse than lies. The number of unemployed is not decreasing, because there is no justification for regarding as employed every person who receives a few days' work intermittently as the result of the expenditure of loan money. It is useless to attempt to cover up the fact that unemployment is still as bad as it was in the worst days of the depression.  Sitting suspended from 1S.U5 to 2.15 p.m. 
We have learned from the newspapers that the Government intends, ' when introducing its budget, to propose the expenditure of twothirds of its surplus on defence. I take this opportunity to protest against such expenditure at a time when there is noproposal to restore Public Service salariesor the " cuts " made in pensions and in  other social services. While I remain, a member of this Senate, I shall oppose to the limit of my powers any such expenditure on defence. Hundreds of thousands of people in Australia to-day arestruggling to maintain a bare existence,, and the difficulty experienced by householders in balancing their domesticbudgets has not been lightened by the boasted prosperity which for so long has. been "just round the corner," and still remains there. The expenditure on, munitions will be a waste of publicmoney: that criticism applies equally to many other items in the defence votes. We shall have an opportunity later to deal  with such proposals at length. For the time being, I shall content myself with saying that we must keep a keen eye on this expenditure; indeed, I should be glad to have an opportunity to reduce even the amounts provided in this bill for the service of the Defence Department during the next three months. 'I consider that most of the expenditure authorized by the Government has been for the purpose of helping those most able to help themselves, and oppressing those who occupy the lowliest positions in the community. Such a policy can only have the unswerving opposition of any man who styles himself a democrat. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [2.20]. - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  said that no provision had been made by the Government for the unemployed, but I remind the honorable senator that the Government included in its last budget a greatly increased provision for unemployment relief as compared with the previous year. In 1932-33, the amount provided for new works from revenue amounted to £874,392. In 1933-34, the provision was £L,624,8S0. In 1932-33, there was no provision for new works from loans, but in 1933-34, £810,000 was provided. Thus the total provision for new works in 1932-33 was £874,390 as against £2,434,SS0 in 1933-34. These figures re.fute the statement that the Government has been blind to its obligation towards the unemployed, and has done nothing to alleviate their position. This bill is merely to provide for essential services, for three months, based on last year's expenditure. 
Several honorable senators have referred to the proposed employment of the workless in Canberra on re-sleepering and regrading and ballasting the EastWest railway line. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  stated, in reply to a question, that the subject was being further considered. During this debate, honorable senators have stated their objections to the proposal, and  Senator Duncan-Hughes  reviewed it in a judicial and very fair manner. I assure honorable senators that no finality has yet been reached. The whole matter will be further considered, and when a decision has been reached, a full statement will be made to the Senate. At this stage, I must . ask honorable senators to be satisfied with that promise. 
I take this opportunity to correct a statement by  Senator .Dunn  that the recent £12,000,000 loan would yield to subscribers a return of. 3 per cent. As a matter of fact, the loan was issued at £98 10s., and carried an interest rate of 3$ per cent., the effective yield to investors being £3 7s. 8d. per cent. 
With regard to the criticism of proposed expenditure on defence, I assure honorable senators that full statements of the Government's policy will be made when the budget is introduced, and the fullest opportunity will be afforded for a free discussion of the whole matter. 
Several honorable senators referred to pensions, and, in particular, the Leader of the Opposition mentioned the inclusion of an insurance policy in the assets of a pensioner when assessing the rate of pension he is to receive. The honorable senator cited the Victorian Companies Act, which gives to insurance policies up to the value of £1,000 immunity from liability for debts: I assume that a similar principle is to be found in the statute laws of all the States. The point taken by  Senator Barnes  is deserving of the fullest consideration, and I promise that it will be referred to the appropriate authority for attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Issue and application of £6,079,175). 
I move- 
 That, the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the amount by £1. 
In looking through this bill I find that no provision has been made to relieve the  burden placed upon officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. Those employed at Canberra have lost £39 as &amp; result of the cessation of the special allowance, and, with other officers in all parts of the Commonwealth, have during the last three years lost a total of .£42 as a result of cost-of-living, adjustments. These reductions were included in the general reduction of salaries which applied to the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service. There was last year a partial restoration, but it amounted to very little. The Government is content to make remissions to the wealthy taxpayers of Australia, especially those in Sydney, and is doing nothing to help the public servants. 
In connexion with the mail services to the Pacific islands, nothing has been done to assist an Australian steamship company and its employees engaged in that trade. In that company millions of pounds of Australian capital are invested, but it is likely to be forced out of business owing to the suspension of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. If they are to be swept away by vessels of the Inchcape line - a line built up by Lord Inchcape from a fortune made out of the sweat and blood of the coolies he employed - the outlook for the white employees of the Australian steamship companies which pioneered the trade is black, indeed. 
I hope that the Government, which boasts of the bouyancy of its revenues, will realize its duty and give 'to the public servants of the Commonwealth a greater measure of justice. The Government seems -to 'be concerned only with conduct? ing hole and corner conferences with the Country party; but, even as windowdressing such conferences are no better than dead lambs in a butcher's shop on a Friday afternoon. At the dictation of the private banks, the Government has robbed its own servants. 
At this stage the honorable senator is not justified in dealing with the general subject of banking. 
Order ! 
I support the amendment. Since the expenditure during the past year is the basis for the expenditure covered by this bill, I take it that I shall be in order if I criticize the expenditure for -the yea-r 1933-34. 
In the past, a great deal of money has been expended in wrong directions. The Government has given scanty consideration to the poorer classes of the community, which have 'been most severely hit by the depression. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  says that an increased amount has been provided for public works, with a view to absorbing some of the unemployed, but I submit that the Government has made no proper attempt to deal with the national ills which are the outcome of the depression. It is content to allow things to drift, and from time to time .to offer some temporary relief, such as a dole to the farmers when the price of wheat is low. It has not done anything to prevent a recurrence of a similar national collapse in the future ; but has 'been content with a hand-to-mouth, stop-gap policy of voting a little money here and a little money there in order to grant some small measure of relief to suffering people. Either Parliament is capable of dealing with these problems, or it is not. If Parliament is not capable of dealing with them, it should be honest enough to recognize its impotence, and to seek elsewhere for a remedy. If, however, Parliament considers that it is capable of dealing with the situation, it should set to work to do so. The policy of drift which characterizes the present Government may lead us into insolvency earlier than some of us expect. 
The public works policy of the Government will lead us nowhere because, with a few exceptions, the works which are undertaken are not reproductive. Moreover, that policy tends to break down permanently the Australian standard of living. Various organizations and semi-governmental institutions, such as water and sewerage boards and municipal councils, are voted portions of these loan funds for the carrying out of work at the least possible cost and with no regard to arbitration awards. In that way, inroads are being made into the normal and settled rates of wages, hours of labour and other working conditions in this country. In order to grant temporary relief to a few unemployed persons recognized standards are being thrown overboard. 
The Government, which professes to favour arbitration, appears to be doing its best to destroy that system. 
If my criticism of the actions of the Government in the past will lead to an improvement in the future, surely my remarks are justified. Should the Government end the financial year with a surplus it should immediately restore to the public servants the amounts taken from them under the financial emergency legislation. Reductions of salary were made only to meet a financial emergency, and, therefore, with the removal of the cause, no question of 25 per cent. or 50 per cent. restoration should arise; the whole amount taken away should immediately be restored. What confidence can be placed in a government which fails to honour its solemn promise? Apparently the Government does not consider that its promise need be kept merely because no definite date for the restoration was mentioned. It is like a person who, when asked to call at any time, says that he will be round some day, and, merely because no definite date was mentioned, considers that no breach of promise has been committed by his failure to call. 
For the most part, they get what is due to them. It is true that certain voluntary loan conversion operations have been undertaken in recent years, and bondholders have made a satisfactory bargain by taking long-term bonds in return for the securities which they surrendered. The fact remains that this Government, which believes in private enterprise, has lived up to its reputation in that respect by affording relief to an enormous extent to large taxpayers while still requiring public servants to suffer salary reductions ranging up to  22½  per cent. It has assisted the most prosperous elements in the community at the expense, largely, of public servants and invalid and old-age pensioners. The fact that this percentage deduction is still levied upon public service salaries gives the lead to private employers to treat employees in a like manner, and I know from personal knowledge that the employers are doing this to such an extent that the arbitration law has become a dead  letter.  In New South Wales, shopkeepers and persons controlling big businesses are paying less than award rates. They require their employees to sign dockets for the full amount for  fear  of dismissal. The whole system of arbitration has broken down, largely because of the connivance of this Government and its unjust policy of retaining the emergency deductions made in public service salaries. 
That is so. My contention is borne out by a statement made recently by  Sir Henry  Gullett who attacked the Government on this point. While not claiming to he a financial expert, I affirm with every confidence that the policy that is being pursued by this Government is demoralizing and debasing the Public. Service of this country. By its system of unemployed relief, it is seeking temporarily to camouflage the real position with regard to unemployment. It is not making any serious attempt to tackle the real problem. Unless something is done soon to rectify the position, we shall find ourselves, industrially and otherwise, down to the level of the lowest nation on earth. 
It is my intention to support  Senator Rae's  amendment, but I do not wish to give a silent vote on this matter. I, and I assume other members of my party, would have spoken in a similar strain, but it was understood that the passage of the bill would not be delayed in any way. I agree with what  Senator Rae  has said. This Government has not made any serious attempts to grapple with the serious problem of unemployment. Instead of taking 100 men from Canberra to Port Augusta, where they are to be provided with work on the EastWest railway, it should consider proposals which I have advocated on other occasions in this chamber, namely, the unification of the railway gauges and the building of - a railway to the Northern Territory, via Western Queensland. Those works would provide employment for tens of thousands of men instead of a paltry hundred or so who will be given work on the transcontinental line. I should like to see the division on the amendment taken without delay, so that we may consider the items in the schedule. All members of the Labour party are fully seised of the need for a well considered plan to relieve unemployment, and, as regards the Public Service, we believe that there should be a full restoration of the salary deductions. I may add that, prior to my election to this chamber, I was a public servant in Queensland and suffered a reduction of £80 a year under the Moore Government, and there were thousands suffering similar losses. Naturally, I felt bitter about the wholebusiness. That was really one of the reasons why I am now a member of the Senate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this bill is to furnish the Government with a means of carrying into effect certain provisions of the trade agreement concluded with New Zealand last year, and ratified in this Parliament towards the close of last session. Article 9 of that agreement contains a reciprocal provision which, in short, recognizes the right of New Zealand to ask Australia to admit goods from that dominion at the same rates of duty as New Zealand applies to the like Australian goods, and vice  versa. If Australia fails to comply with a New Zealand request, of this kind within three months, New Zealand is at liberty to raise its tariff on the goods covered 'by the request to the level of the Australian rates on the like New Zealand goods. The agreement with New Zealand contains two schedules. One specifies the actual rates of duty payable in New Zealand on a long list of Australian products. The other sets out the specific duties payable in Australia oh a list of New Zealand products. These lists cover the classes of goods of chief interest to the two dominions. In regard to the remaining classes of goods, that is, the residual items in the respective tariff schedules, the agreement provides that they shall be subject to the rates of duty imposed under the respective British preferential tariffs of the two dominions. Article  9  deals only with the goods not specifically mentioned in the schedules to the agreement, and it is to goods falling within this category that the bill now before honorable senators refers. This provision was practically insisted on by New Zealand for the reason that the level of the Australian British preferential tariff is higher than the level of the New Zealand preferential tariff, and, therefore, a mere exchange of British preferential tariff rates was inequitable. During the time Parliament has been in recess, New Zealand has requested that it be accorded rates equivalent to the New Zealand British preferential tariff on three lines of goods. In the absence of any enabling provisions in the Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference)  1933,  we hud to ask New Zealand to await the re-assembling of Parliament, when immediate action would be taken to comply with its requests. The exports to New Zealand in all three lines are considerable, and Australia would be distinctly the loser if the dominion exercised its right and raised the duty against Australia in the event of non-compliance within the three months allowed by the agreement. 
The proposed amendment provides the machinery to enable requests of this nature from New Zealand to be met promptly. Delays in compliance lead to friction. New Zealand is a very valuable outlet for many classes of Australian goods. It is desirable to develop a spirit of reciprocity in the trade relations with our sister dominion. Without some general provision such as  ib  proposed in this bill, circumstances will arise in which it will not be possible to comply with the requests within the three months allowed, and we cannot reasonably ask New Zealand to meet our convenience on future occasions. The growing extent of Australia's trade with New Zealand in the three lines to which I have referred will be seen from the fact that the value of the exports to the dominion of knitted or locks tiitched piece goods of silk or artificial silk amounted to  £498  in  1930 ; £11,592  in  1931 ; £21,498  in  1932 ;  and  £35,717  in  1933.  Australian exports to New Zealand of wireless broadcast receiving sets, not mounted in cabinets, were valued at  £5,343  in  1930, £4,136  in  1931,  and  £37,114  in  1932.  Dry batteries and dry cells to the value of  £4,090, £11,838,  and  £34,807,  respectively, were exported to New Zealand in the same years. I assure the Senate that this is merely a machinery measure, which is in accordance with the spirit of the agreement which has already been adopted. In drafting the measure certain items were overlooked. 
.- I accept the Minister's assurance that this is a machinery measure which will benefit Australia. When arrangements for reciprocal trade between the two dominions were being considered, I endeavoured to get something done in connexion with sporting ammunition, which was being manufactured in Melbourne. The Minister was good enough to say then that he thought the matter could be arranged in future negotiations with the Government of New Zealand. I should be glad to know if anything has been done in that direction. 
 The matter referred to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  was discussed with the New Zealand Government when  Senator Massy-Greene  visited that dominion, but I do not know with what result. I shall have inquiries made and inform the honorable senator later of the result. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.' 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Bates of duty on imports from the Dominion of New Zealand). 
.-- This clause refers to the rate of duty on imports from New Zealand, whereas I thought that we were dealing only with exports to that dominion. 
In that case the question of the importation of potatoes from New Zealand arises. 
Tasmania is endeavouring to build up an export trade in timber with New Zealand, but finds it almost impossible to got ships to carry the timber there. If a regular shipping service between Tasmania and New Zealand were established, a considerable trade could bc built up. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title t:greed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report, ado;,ted 
Bill rend a third time. 
[8.1]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of theHon. David Morley Charleston, a former senator for the State of South Australia, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his relatives 'in their bereavement. 
Since the last meeting of the Senate, the  Hon.  David Morley Charleston, who was a member of the Senate for South Australia from 1901 to 1904, has passed away. Prior to entering the Federal Parliament, he was a member of the Legislative Council of South Australia from 1891 to 1901, except for a very short period. Probably he was unknown to the majority of the present members of this chamber, but I recollect him well as one of that remarkable band who represented South Australia in the first Senate. He died at the ripe age of 86 years. I am sure that all present will desire to express their sympathy with his relatives in their bereavement. 
.- I second the motion, and associate members on this side with the remarks made by the Leader of the Senate. We extend our deep sympathy to the relatives of the deceased gentleman. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, if, in view of the precarious state of the apple industry, the Government will make available a sufficient sum to induce the shipping companies to reduce the overseas freights to pre-war levels ? 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is a fact that the general elections will be held on the' 15th September. If so, will the right honorable gentleman inform the Senate why the Government has decided to go before the electors five months befor the effluxion of the term of this Parliament ? 
Will the Government undertake to tell His Excellency the Governor-General the true reasons for an early election? 
Order ! 
The honorable senator must' put this question in an acceptable form. 
The honorable senator, who is fairly resourceful in the use of language, should frame his question without imputing motives. He is not in order asking "the Minister if he will tell the truth." 
Order ! The honorable senator is entitled to ask the Leader of the Government to give reasons why an election is to be held on a specified date, but he must do so in a proper manner. 
Having regard to the obviously short period available for carrying on parliamentary work, and conducting an election campaign to enable our views to be placed before the people, can the Minister, indicate when the session is likely to terminate? 
Question not answered. . 
On the 29th June,  Senator E.  B. Johnston addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following questions,  upon notice :  - 
When does the Government intend to provide a trunk telephone service between Wiluna and Geraldton, Western Australia? 
Is there any other town in Australia with a population comparable to that of Wiluna, which is denied telephone communication with its nearest seaport and the rest of the State? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
Unfortunately, a heavy cost would be entailed in establishing telephone communication between Gerald ton and Wiluna, and in present circumstances the department would not be justified in undertaking the work. 
I am not aware of any other town where the conditions are similar to those existing at Wiluna. 
On the 29 th J une,  Senator E.  B. Johnston addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following questions,  upon notice :  - 
What is delaying the erection of a national broadcasting station in the great southern districts of Western Australia? 
Has a site beenselected for this proposed station ? 
If so, where? 
When will the station be completed and ready for broadcasting? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
There has been no avoidable delay. The equipment is on order, and will be ready for installation as soon as the building is erected. 
Yes. 
The site chosen is suitable for servicing the area, but until purchase negotiations are completed it is undesirable to give particulars as to its exact location. 
It is expected that the station will be in service about May next. 
On the 29th June, Senator; Collings addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following question,  upon notice :  - 
In view of the resignation of the  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr. Charles  Lloyd Jones, will the Minister consider the need for a thorough inquiry into the present management and control of the commission before making any arrangement for the appointment of a new chairman? 
I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - 
It is not the intention of the Government to institute an inquiry into the present management and control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Has the attention of  the Leader of the Senate been drawn to the following report appearing in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on the 4th July, 1934 : - 
-I ask the Minister for Development what qualifications, if any,  Dr. Gilruth  possesses to enable him to make a report upon the mineral potentialities of the Northern Territory? Is it not a fact that  Dr. Gilruth  is attached to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research as a veterinary scientist ? If  Dr. Gilruth  has no qualifications that entitle him to express an opinion on the mineral potentialities of the Northern Territory, will the Government take steps to see that his mouth is closed upon such matters? 
I am not aware that  Dr. Gilruth  has expressed any opinion on the mineral potentialities of the Northern Territory. I understand that he has given an historical review on the subject from his view-point, and that his remarks are based upon an examination of mineral production in the Northern Territory. Perhaps at a later stage I shall have an opportunity to make a statement with respect to the publicity given to the matter. 
With respect to the last point raised by the honorable senator, I admit that it is most unfortunate that publicity has been given to some of the information conveyed to one  of the bodies attached to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research.  Dr. Gilruth's  duties are almost entirely devoted to veterinary science, and I understand that the information published was sought by a committee dealing with the chilled beef industry. 
The matter is being carefully examined by me. 
The point raised by the honorable senator has not been overlooked. At present the Government has officers conducting a closeand searching inquiry into the position of lessees and others producing beef in portions of the Northern Territory, with a view to improving the means of egress of stock for shipment overseas, and for Australian consumption. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the total internal debt of Australia, and how much of it is held by savings banks, insurance and assurance companies, and friendly societies,respectively ? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSONInquiries are being made and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice- 
What was the total paid-up capital of all private trading banks in Australia in 1915? 
What is the total paid-up capital of all private trading banks in Australia at the latest date for which figures are available? 
What premium capital has been subscribed since 1915 to date? 
What is the amount of reserves held by these banks? 
What is the total profits of these banks since 1915? 
What is the total amount of dividend distributedon paid-up capital of thesebanks since 1915? 
What is the average rate of dividend granted on paid-up capital by these banks since 1915? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that of great gross staples, Britain produces only a little over one-third of her requirements? 
Is it a fact that during 1932 the home production and imported Quantities were - 

<graphic href="144332193407043_5_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="144332193407043_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above figures indicate that the domestic production of some commodities greatly exceeded one-third of United Kingdom requirements, while, of other commodities, the local production was only a smallproportion of the total requirements. Of the total requirements of the above commodities, domestic productionwas less than one-quarter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What amount per acre was paid by the State Governments to necessitous wheatfarmers in each State of theCommonwealth under the provisions of the Wheat Relief Act 1933? 
What other assistance was given to necessitous farmers under this act in each State? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
The Commonwealth Government is advised that only preliminary payments are at present being made to wheat-growers by the State Governments. The rate per acre, on which final payments will be made, cannotbe determined by the States until all claims have been approved ? 
It is understood that the bounty is being distributed on an acreage basis, with the exception that in Western Australia an amount of approximately £70,000 is being reserved by the State authority for distribution to settlers considered to be in exceptionally poor circumstances. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has his attention been invited to a press report stating that at the annual convention of the Federal Council of the Graziers Association, at Sydney, it was decided to request the Federal Nationalist Government to negotiate with Soviet Russia, with a view to completing a trade agreement for the exchange of meat and wool for oil? 
Is it a fact that not many months ago members of the Graziers Association of Australia referred to Soviet Russia as " The Red Menace ", and protested against any move to open trade relations between Australia and Soviet Russia? 
Is it a fact that a deputation of the above-mentioned association recently in conference waited on the Minister for Commerce, and requested him to enter into a trade pact between Australia and Soviet Russia, based on a goods exchange of Australian wheat and wool for Russian oil, &amp;c. ? 
Is it a fact that the Government is now in communication with the High Commissioner for Australia in England, and is instructing him to approach the Trade Commissioners for Soviet Russia to enter into a conference for the purpose of discussing a trade treaty pact between Australia and Soviet Russia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Yes. 
I have no knowledge of this. 
No. The Minister for Commerce has not received any such deputation. 
No. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the naval ratings of the Australian torpedo flotilla, which recently arrived from England, went on strike in Gibraltar naval harbour owing to the lack of proper foods, accommodation - sleeping, sanitary and otherwise - and also owing to excessive sea duties? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the naval ratings of H.M.A.S.  Canberra  recently went on strike in Hobart and held wharf and forecastle-head meetings as a protest against excessive sea duties, lack of proper foods, reduction in wages, reduction of shore leave and excessive punishment? 
What were the reasons advanced for H.M.A.S.Canberra, and  Australia  and their crews not participating in the annual Tasmanian regatta held at Hobart in 1934? 
Is it not a fact that for many years past (excepting of course, during the war period) the AustralianNavy has always participated in the above-mentioned regatta? 
No. I would direct attention to my reply to question number6 of the same character as this question. 
Owing to considerable changes in the crews of the ships having taken place, gunnery drills and practices were essential to work up efficiency, and these took place in Jervis Bay from30th January to 17th February. 
Yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What amount of renthas been paid by the lessees of Cockatoo Island Dockyard since it has been leased; and what amount of Australian ship-building has been done in the dockyard, other than the keel of the sloop for the Royal Australian Navy now being built, since the above dockyard has been leased? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that any sick leave taken by returned soldier employees of the Commonwealth Public Service, due to the effect of war injuries, is deducted from the statutory period of sick leave allowed public servants under the Commonwealth Public Service Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the suspension of certain provisions of the Navigation Act has caused the withdrawal of some Australian steamers from the Australian -American Pacific trade, and is also causing distress and anxiety to Australian steamship companies and their employees engaged in the South Sea Islands trade? 
asked' the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister give consideration to the setting-up of an interchange railway transport system as between the Commonwealth and the various State Governments, that will enable the unemployedto be conveyed to possible contacts of employment throughout Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.From inquiries made, it is considered that it would be impracticable to make an arrangement of this nature. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that there are over 3,000 unemployed men and youths in Broken Hill, New South Wales? 
Will the Minister give consideration to the issue of military clothing and boots to the Broken Hill Unemployed Committee for distribution among the many distressful cases in that locality? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Whether he will furnish the Senate with information as to the quantity and value of the importations into Australia of the following commodities :  - 
Cotton lint; 
Coffee; 
Castor beans; 
Peanuts; 
Jute; 
Kapok? 
The information required by the honorable senator is as follows :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407043_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Whether, when the report of the Royal Commission on Taxation is being considered with a view to appropriate action, he will consider the advisability of exempting all persons over 70 years of age with no income exceeding £100 per annum from the necessity of making returns ? 
The Common wealth does not require any person (other than an absentee), whether over or under 70 years of age, to lodge returns if his income does not exceed £100 per annum. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that merino stud rams have been recently exported to Japan from Australia with the concurrence of the Government? 
Is it true that Corriedale rams have also been exported to Japan ? 
Is it a fact that Japanese statesmen and newspapers have for some time been publicly stating that they hoped to breed up flocks of sheep in their newly-acquired territory, so as to dispense with Australian wool? 
In view of these facts, will the Minister, inform the Senate why permission has been given for the export of high-close stud sheep to build up the flocks of foreign competitors? 
Will he state how many sheep,and the sex and breed of each variety, have beenso exported during the last twelve months, and the countries of their destination? 
No. 
Yes. 
I am not aware that any authoritative statements to that effect have been made. 
The embargo on the exportation of stud sheep, except with the consent in Writing of the Minister for Trade and Customs, was imposed in the interests of Australia's fine wool industry. It has not been considered that any good purpose would be served by prohibiting the exportation of breeds other than merino, for the reason that such sheep can be obtained from New Zealand and other countries. New Zealand is the home of the Corriedale breed. The question of whether the prohibition should be applied to breeds, other than merino, is under consideration. 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With reference to question asked by  Senator E.  B. Johnston on the 31st May, 1933, as follows :  - "1. In view of the result of the referendum held in Western Australia on the 8th April last, at which the question of the State of Western Australia seceding from the Commonwealth of Australia was submitted to the electors, who decided by 138,053 votes to 70,700 votes in favour of secession - a majority of 67,947 votes. - is it the intention of the Commonwealth Government to assist the Western Australian Government and Parliament in carrying the will of the people of that State, as expressed by the referendum, into effect? 
If so, is it the intention of the Federal Government to endeavour to defeat the decision of the electors of Western Australia in favour of secession and home rule?", and  Senator Sir George  Pearce's reply, as follows : - " The Commonwealth Government is aware of the result of the referendum to which reference is made, and does not propose to take action in either of the directions suggested " - 
Has the Government appointed a paid committee to oppose the wishes of the majority of the people of Western Australia in favour of secession? 
If so, how does the Government reconcile such action with its promise that it would not take any action to defeat the decision of the electors of Western Australia in favour of secession and home rule? 

 Senator SirGEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister supplied the following answers :  - 
The Government has appointed a committee to prepare a reply to the " Case for Secession." 
The Government will take such action as it thinks fit to maintain the Commonwealth of Australia as established under the Constitution. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has  Mr. W.  Somerville, a member of the State Arbitration Court of Western Australia, been appointed to a federal committee which has been set up to oppose the wishes of the majority of the people of Western Australia in regard to secession? 
Did the Federal Government adopt the usual courteous course of communicating with the Government of Western Australia in regard to its desire to secure  Mr. Somerville's  services before approaching him on the subject? 
If not, why not? 
Is it a fact, as stated in the press in Western Australia, that  Mr. Somerville  has been promised a permanent position in the Federal Service? 

 Mr. W. Somerville is a member of a committee which has been constituted by the Commonwealth Government to prepare an answer to the " Case for Secession." 
The Prime Minister communicated with the Premier of Western Australia with regard to the release of  Mr. Somerville  to enable him to act as a member of the committee. 
See answer to No. 2. 
No such promise has been made. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has a committee been appointed by the Federal Government to oppose " the case of the people of Western Australia in support of their desire to withdraw from the Federal Commonwealth and to restore Western Australia to its former status as a separate selfgoverning colony in the British Empire with Dominion Status "? ' 
If so, under what legislative authority was the said committee appointed by the Government? 
Who are the members of the said committee ? 
What remuneration, expenses, and allowances, are being paid to the members ofthe said committee? 
Has the expenditure been approved by 
Parliament? 
If not, from what source are the expenses of the committee being paid? 
Will the Government lay on the table of the Senate a copy of the instructions which have been given to this committee in regard to its duties? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister supplied the following answers :  - 
The Commonwealth Government has constituted a committee to prepare a reply to the case for secession. 
The committee has not been constituted under any special legislative authority, but the Government has the right to take such action. 
The Honorable John Henry Keating,"  Sir Robert  Garran, K.C.M.G., K.C.,  Mr. David  John Gilbert,  Mr. William  Somerville. 
Payments as follows have been approved :  - 
The Honorable J. H. Keating a fee of 100 guineas, together with fares from Melbourne to Canberra and return, and an allowance at the rate of 25s. per day from the time of his departure from Melbourne until the time of his return to Melbourne. 

 Sir Robert Garran a fee of 150 guineas. 

 Mr. D. J. Gilbert a fee of 100 guineas, together with fares between Perth and Melbourne, and an allowance of 25s. per day from the time of his departure from Perth until the time of his return to Perth. 

 Mr. W. Somerville a fee equal to the salary he would have received as a member of the State Arbitration Court of Western Australia during the period of his absence from duties on the court, together with fares between Perth and Melbourne, and an allowance of 25s. per day from the time of his departure from Perth until the time of his return to Perth. 
No, but the necessary provision will be included in the Supplementary Estimates for 1933-34, and in the Estimates for 1934-35. 
Treasurer's Advance pending Supplementary Estimates for1933-34, and pending Appropriation for 1934-35. 7 and 8. The verbal general instruction is to examine the case for secession, and prepare an answer thereto. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Federal Government received representations from the Government of Western Australia in regard to assistance in the establishment of a modern dock atFremantle, Western Australia? 
If so, what is the nature of the representations made on this subject? 
Has any decision been arrived at in the matter ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
Reference was made to an agitation for the provision of a dock at Fremantle, and to a recent deputation to the Premier which sought support ofthe project from the State, Commonwealth and Imperial Governments. It was stated that the State Government recognized that a definite necessity existed for the provision of this facility, and was completely in support of the proposal for the construction of the dock, but under present financial conditions was quite unable to undertake a work of this magnitude as its sole responsibility. The hope was expressed that the Commonwealthand British Governments might as a defence measure be prepared to co-operate with the State Government in arriving at some satisfactory arrangement for the provision of the necessary finance. 
The State Government was informed that after careful consideration of its representations, and of the reports which had been obtained in connexion therewith, the Commonwealth Government was unable to see its way at the present time to make available for the project any of the funds which it was in a position to provide for defence purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What action has been taken by the Government as a result of the Royal Commission's report on the heavy amounts levied by the Australian Performing Right Association on the owners of theatres and halls and the producers of public entertainments, throughout the Commonwealth? 
Have the recommendations of the commission for the relief of the Australian public from these charges been carried into effect? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
. Thehonorable senator's attention is invited to the Copyright Act1933, dealing with this matter. 2 and 3. Owing to international andlegal difficulties, it was not possible to give effect to all the recommendations of the commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What feesand allowances were paid to each of the various members of the Royal Commission on Taxation ? 2.What was the total cost of such Royal Commission ? 
The Honorable  Sir David  Ferguson  (chairman), travelling allowance only (no fee is being paid),  £705 12s.;  Mr. E.  V. Nixon, fees and travelling allowance, £1,812 3s.1d. 
To 30th June, 1934, £6,439 15s.1d. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What developments have taken place since the last sitting of the Senate in December, and what is the present position, with reference to the entry of barley into Belgium ? 
The honorable the Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer: - 
There is at present no restriction upon the importation of Australian barley into Belgium. The Minister in the House of Representatives stated that strong efforts were made to come to a favorable trade agreement with Belgium within the period of six months under the temporary agreement signed in December last. A further period which will not expire until 1.5th August remains within which it is hoped that an agreement will be arrived at. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators will recollect that, as a result of the requests of this chamber on  the  Customs Tariff Bill which was dis- cussed over a lengthy period and passed bv Parliament at the end of last year, several items in the customs tariff schedule were renumbered. In the mean- time. however, the Customs Tariff (Ex- change Adjustment) Act has been passed by  both  Houses, and in order to bring the schedule to the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Act into line with the Customs Tariff 1933, a resolution was tabled on the 3rd November, 1933. The purpose of the present bill is to confirm that resolution, and so to adjust the schedule to the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Act as to make it agree with the schedule to the customs tariff. I assure honorable senators that this is merely a machinery measure, which does not affect the levying of customs duties. 
.- I accept the Minister's assurance that this is a machinery measure to give effect to a decision arrived at by the Senate last year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Further variation of duties). 
.- Will this bill deal with goods which are imported from Japan, and will it affect the European exchange rate? 
.- The bill will not affect such things at all. Last year, two measures were dealt with  - a  customs tariff, and also a measure to adjust matters in relation to exchange. Subsequently, in order to maintain the  status quo,  it was found necessary to. introduce a resolution into the House of Representatives. This bill merely gives effect to a decision already arrived at; it sets up the machinery. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is to supersede the present Customs Tariff (Papua and New Guinea Preference) of 1926, and to ratify the non-collection of duty on certain good3 not included in that act. In accordance with the Ottawa Agreement, the Customs Tariff 1933 provided fo'r the free admission of certain products of the British Colonial Empire on which a duty bas been imposed under the general tariff. Some of these products are produced in Papua and New Guinea, and are dutiable under the general tariff, because the products of Papua and Now Guinea are not admissible under the British preferential tariff. The present Papua and New Guinea Customs Tariff exempts from duty certain tropical products which were dutiable under the 1921- 30 tariff, and in order to extend the list to additional products which, in. the 1933 tariff, were made free when produced in British nonselfgoverning colonies and protectorates, proposals were tabled in this House on the 9th March and the 30th November, 1933. These proposals are now operating, and the list of commodities affected is set out in the schedule to this bill which is designed to ratify the resolutions of the dates mentioned. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator BARNES  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to ratify certain duties which have been provided by customs tariff (Canadian preference) proposals since the 14th October, 1932,- on certain Canadian goods which were entitled to the intermediate tariff by reason of the Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) 1931. Since the 14th October, 1932, there has been no intermediate tariff in operation, and consequently it has been necessary to specify certain rates of duty for these goods. The rates included in the schedule are the same as those which operated in the intermediate tariff immediately prior to the 14th October, 1932. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[4.6]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to ratify the maritime conventions signed in recent years by the maritime powers of the world and to incorporate such conventions in the Navigation Act 1912-1926. The most important of these relate to the safety of life at sea and the load-line. I fee) sure that honorable senators will desire that a measure having such worthy objects shall have a speedy passage. The bill does not in any way deal with those sections of the Navigation Act which provide for the protection of Australian coastal shipping against unequal competition of overseas services. It is merely the machinery measure to implement conventions agreed upon by the nations of the world. The representatives of 30 countries, including the United Kingdom and Australia, agreed to the load-line convention in 1930, and 23 of these countries, including the principle maritime powers of the world, have since ratified it. The convention for the safety of life at sea was signed by eighteen countries, eleven of which have ratified it. It will be appreciated by honorable senators that the conventions have no legal status in any country until ratified. The text of the load-line and safety conventions is given in schedules 6 and 7 of the bill. A printed memorandum has been prepared and circulated showing by means of italics and black type the effect of the amendments proposed by the bill upon the relative sections of the principal act. 
The loss of the  Titanic  in  1912  created an insistent demand for more stringent laws relating to the safety of life at sea, demonstrating as it did the need for the carrying of life-boats for all, including passengers and crew., The outbreak of the World War delayed progress in the matter, but in  1929  a number of countries, including Australia, accepted the invitation of the Governments of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to take part in a conference which assembled in London. The object of this conference was to agree on a basis which would be acceptable to all countries for ensuring the utmost safety of life in passenger ships engaged in international trading. The present convention is the first effective international agreement on this important subject. An international voyage means, of course, a voyage from one country to another. The matter of regulating the coasting trade within its own territorial waters was left to each country to deal with. It will he gratifying to those who were associated with the earlier amendments to the Navigation Act to know that in a number of important matters provisions which are already in the act have anticipated the findings of the recent conference and the requirements of the convention. The general features of the safety provisions of the convention fall under the following heads: - (a) Construction; (fe) lifesaving appliances; (c) radio telegraphy; and  (d)  safety of navigation. There are also machinery provisions of which the principal relate to (a) certificates; and  (6)  equivalent appliances. The convention provides that the life-boats and buoyant apparatus must comply with the following conditions: -  (a)  they must be capable of being got into the water safely and rapidly; (Z&gt;) it must be possible to embark the passengers in the boats rapidly and in good order; and (c) the arrangement of each boat and article of buoyant apparatus must be such that it will not interfere with the operation of other boats and buoyant apparatus. The safety convention also provides that all ocean-going passenger ships shall, in addition to life-boats and life-jackets for all, carry light, buoyant apparatus sufficient for the support, in the water, of  25  per cent, of the persons on board. Such apparatus, in the form of light, buoyant rafts, which can be easily man-handled and thrown from the ship's deck, has, in practice, proved of great value when the. rapidity of the disaster has made it impossible to get the passengers away in the boats. Regulations annexed to the safety convention deal with the means of ingress to, and egress from, the various compartments and decks, and their lighting. 
Stringent restrictions are also imposed on the carriage of dangerous goods in passenger ships, and provision is made for the carrying of fire extinguishing appliances. Both these matters are already dealt with, to some extent, in the Navigation Act. The amendments now proposed will 'bring the existing provisions into line with the convention. All ships engaged in international voyages, except cargo ships of less than  1,600  tons gross, are required, under the convention, to carry an efficient wireless installation, and at least one qualified operator. 
At the International Load-Line Conference held in London in  1930,  an agreement was reached adopting universal rules for the assignment to ships of loadlines, fixing the limits within which they may load in different parts of the world during different seasons of the year. Representatives of  30  countries, including Australia, attended the conference. The convention, which was adopted by the conference, has, up to date, been ratified, or acceded to, by nineteen maritime countries. Its provisions will, consequently, apply to practically the whole of the merchant ships of the world. It is the first international agreement which has been made fixing loading limits for merchant ships, although there has been for some years a considerable measure of uniformity, based on the British rules, in those adopted by certain other principal maritime nations. 
As will readily be understood, one of the most important factors in securing the safety of cargo ships is the enforcement of laws and regulations relating to loadlines and overloading. That so many countries have come into line on this matter is a great step forward. Incidentally, the adoption of a uniform load-line system will be of great benefit to British shipping. Previously, certain countries placed no load-line restrictions on the loading of their vessels. Their ships, therefore, could, and did, load more deeply than was permissible under British law for British ships. This was of great advantage to them, as the extra earnings amounted, on certain voyages, to thousands of pounds. The convention will make the rules in the various countries completely uniform, with a far wider application than the old system ever had. 
Other conventions are dealt with in a statement which has been circulated for the information of honorable senators. Five other international conventions of relatively minor importance are also given effect by the bill. These relate to - 
The minimum age for admission of children to employment at sea. 
The minimum age for admission of young persons to employment as trimmers and stokers. 
The compulsory medical examination of children and young persons employed at sea. 
Unemployment indemnity in case of loss or foundering of ship. 
The unification of certain rules of law respecting collisions between vessels. 
Mention was made in the House of Representatives of the provisions of the bill in regard to the survey of ships. It was suggested that, in the matter of survey, this bill was not " on all fours " with the British Merchant Shipping Act. The Government some time ago communicated with the Board of Trade in Great Britain on this particular subject and ascertained that, allowing for the essential differences between the maritime conditions prevailing in Great Britain and those prevailing in Australia, the standard of surrey provided for here was in no way inferior to the standard prevailing there. In the Merchant Shipping Act of Great Britain, four classes of surveyors are appointed under section 724, viz., ship surveyors, engineer and ship surveyors, ship (nautical) surveyors, and wireless telegraphy surveyors. The three last-mentioned have their counterparts in the surveyors anointed under the Navigation Act. 
The ship surveyor is a specialist, usually a graduate in the theory of naval architecture, with added practical experience in the design and construction of ships. There are no ship surveyors on the staff of the Commonwealth marine branch, and there is no necessity for them. The special province of the ship surveyor is in the field of ship building, examining and checking plans and specifications ti secure stability and general seaworthiness, and the subsequent supervision of the actual construction of the vessel in the ship-building yard. The work usually attended to by ship surveyors in Groat Britain is divided up between the engineer and ship surveyors, and the nautical and ship surveyors on the staff. That our surveys are, in- the view of the Board of Trade, equally as efficient as its own, is shown by the fact that two of our officers - one engineer and ship surveyor and one nautical and ship surveyor - have just been formally appointed by the beard to be an engineer and ship surveyor and a ship (nautical) surveyor, respective to survey here, for a Board of Trade safety certificate, certain passenger ships registered in the United Kingdom and engaged in international voyages from Australia. This was done with a knowledge by the board of the status of these officers and of the parts they take, under our system, in the survey of ships. 
The Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  has given an assurance that there is no intention whatever to limit the area of operations of engineer surveyors. He has ako undertaken to see that the demarcation of duties of the various types of marine surveyors is safeguarded in the regulations under the act. This, I feel sure, will be acceptable to honorable senators as it is to the marine industrial organizations. To a large extent, the measure is technical. It has been passed by the House of Representatives, and can, I submit, be accepted with confidence by the Senate as a definite step in the direction of bringing us into line with other countries which have already accepted those conventions. 
.- Honorable senators have not had an opportunity .to study the bill or the. explanation of it by the Assistant Minister. He referred to the circulation of copies of the proceedings of other conventions, which I have not yet seen, and also to  a  reprint of the act, showing in special type, the amendments now proposed.  As  honorable senators should have time to study such an important measure, I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The measure relates to the proof in a court of law of statistics or abstracts thereof compiled and tabulated by the Commonwealth Statistician pursuant to section 20 of the Census and Statistics Act. In connexion with proceedings recently for an offence under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1930, it became necessary to prove the index numbers compiled and tabulated by the Commonwealth Statistician. The  Quarterly Summaries of Australian Statistics  containing the index numbers and purporting to be printed by the Government Printer were tendered as proof of the index numbers, counsel contending that mere production was sufficient proof, under section 9 of the (Commonwealth) Evidence Act 1905. Counsel also relied upon sections 5 and 6 of that act. The Special Magistrate held, however, that the documents were not admissible under these sections, and, in the absence of direct proof of the index numbers, they were held not to have been proved, The matter is one of some importance in relation to the enforcement of awards of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, and to facilitate proof of the index numbers it is proposed that the Evidence Act 1905 should bo amended so as to provide that evidence of any statistics or abstracts thereof compiled by the Statistician may be given by the production of a document published by the Statistician and containing those statistics. The bill is a procedure measure and relates entirely to the proof of the contents of documents containing statistics and abstracts. No question, therefore, arises as to the method of compiling those statistics. The statistics are compiled pursuant to the Census and Statistics Act, and it is highly desirable that some expeditious mode of bringing the results of the Statistician's compilations before the courts should be provided. That is the object of the bill. Before the point was successfully taken in the Arbitration Court, it was thought that the law was as is now provided in the bill. In these days, when statistics play an important part in our economic life, it is important to have a speedy method of proving certain official documents. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[4.24].  -  I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Probably the Senate will adjourn to-morrow in time to enable honorable senators to catch the night train. This prospect, however, is subject, to one qualification. It is the desire of the Government that as soon as the electoral redistribution proposals have been dealt with in the House of Representatives, they should be placed before the Senate. The Government is unable to forecast when that measure will be received from the House of Representatives, but, at any rate, honorable senators will be required to reassemble next week. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There is no rush at all. If any honorable senator is not ready  to speak to-morrow and asks for the adjournment of a debate, the Government will not oppose his request. We desire to allow proper time for the consideration of the measures needing our attention. 
SenatorCollings. - The right honorable gentleman spoke about catching the train. 
1 have merely intimated to honorable senators who may desire to leave tomorrow night the probable course of business. If very little, or no business at all, is before us, no advantage will be gained by keeping honorable senators here unnecessarily, and the present indications are that the state of the notice-paper will permit of their leaving to-morrow night. 
SenatorDUNN (New South Wales) [4.26]. - Earlier this afternoon I asked the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  whether it was a fact that naval ratings of the Australian torpedo flotilla, which recently arrived from England, had gone on strike in the Gibraltar naval harbour owing to lack of proper food and poor sleeping, sanitary and other accommodation, and also owing to excessive sea duties. The right honorable gentleman replied - 
No. I would direct the attention of the Senate to the fact that it is a well-known practice in communistic propaganda, for the purpose of causing discontent in the Defence forces to allege that certain things have happened in the service, in order to suggest that they should happen. 
I take the right honorable gentleman to task for that reply. I am not a member of any communistic party ; I belong to the Australian Labour party of New South Wales. For over 20 years I have been a member of that party, and I would remind  Senator Pearce  that earlier in his political career hewas one of the leaders of the Labour party, and was the principal mover of the May-day resolutions of that party on the Terra bank in Melbourne and elsewhere. At that time he was a respectable member of the Labour party. It ill becomes the right honorable gentleman to try to be politically funny now that he has become highly respectable as a member of the United Australia party, by describing members of the Labour Opposition as advocates of communism. It is well known that the government of the day brought a legal action against the Sydney  Truth,  because of its remarks about discontent and mutiny in the Royal Australian Navy in Western Australia, and that that action was dismissed with costs against the Government. The right honorable gentleman, as Minister for Defence, takes umbrage at criticism from Labour senators of the administration of his department, but surely the Defence Department is not sacrosanct. As the Minister knows, discontent in the navy is rampant. 
Representations were made to the Prime Minister, as the honorable member for Wilmot, after a section of the Australian Navy had been prevented from participating in the Tasmanian regatta at Hobart, although naval vessels had regularly attended the regatta for many years previously. The reason given for their absence , on the last occasion was that the men were required for naval practice at Jervis Bay and elsewhere. It is stated by many men of the lower ratings that they have suffered from severe punishment, lack of food, and general reductions of pay. Did the Leader of the Senate  (Sir George Pearce),  in his reply refer to the brand of communism advocated by Bernard Shaw in a speech that was broadcast over the air. That gentleman was invited to visit New Zealand as a guest of the citizens of that dominion, yet he made an indictment of the political system operating in New Zealand and Australia.  Mr. Shaw,  who has been honoured by being invited to garden parties given by the King, definitely stated that he was a Communist. On the other hand, a recent conference of Australian graziers, pastoralists and squatters, made representations to the Commonwealth Government, which is now led by a Labour renegade - I refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)- 
Order ! The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw it. I shall say that the Government is led by an ex-member of the Australian Labour Party, who made it clearly known by his criticism of the late  Senator Ogden  that he had " ratted " on Labour principles. 
The right honorable gentleman will no doubt have an opportunity to reply to my remarks. "We find that the Graziers Association suggested to this politically pure Government that trade compacts should be made between Soviet Russia and Australia. It seems to those on the Labour side that the gold of Soviet Russia is good enough to go into the pockets of the graziers, and, later, it may go into the political funds of the United Australia party and the Country party. If the Minister for Defence replies to my comments, I hope he will say something about the history of the recent proceedings against a Sydney newspaper which condemned his administration of the navy, lock, stock and barrel. 
The Senate is to adjourn until tomorrow. The Government ought to be ashamed to ask honorable senators to rise before 5 o'clock this afternoon, so soon after a recess of over seven months. 
Within the last 4S hours we have been told that the Minister in Charge of  Development   (Senator McLachlan)  has been urged to have inquiries made as to the possibility of extracting petrol from wheat. This country produces enormous quantities of wheat which is badly needed in some countries, but, apparently, the only solution for the present difficulties of our growers is the adoption of some process to convert the grain into petrol! This Government has been backing and filling ever since it entered office. By means of pres3 propaganda, a good deal of it of a lying nature, it has endeavoured  to persuade the people that it has a definite programme for the future. ; 
The administrative cost of ' this branch of the legislature runs into tens of thousands of pounds per annum. Yet the Government can provide no work for it. I notice in the visitors' gallery a number of spectators, doubtless citizens and taxpayers of New South Wales. Soon they will see members of this chamber retire to the nice apartments that have been provided for their convenience. Later, we shall  enjoy  a sub stantial dinner; but hundreds of thousands of men and women throughout Australia, whose only crime is that they have no work to do, will be hard put to it to get something to eat. 
The Leader of the Senate is, as usual, sneering at what I am saying. If he had to face the electors at the coming election, the reception given to him would very quickly take that smirking smile off his face. But the right honorable gentleman is secure - he has another three and a half years to go. He has been for 30 years a member of this chamber, and for a great proportion of that period has enjoyed the fruits of office. Endowed with a convenient political conscience, he has always been willing, from the inception of federation, to trim his sails to every political wind that blows, and so has been a member of various governments. He began life a3 a working carpenter and a trade unionist; but soon sacrificed all his political principles in order to make secure his place in this chamber. 
The right honorable gentleman this afternoon made light of the dissatisfaction among the lower ratings in the Australian Navy. No one can doubt that this discontent exists, and it is not confined to the lower deck. Quite recently, as a result of press propaganda and other pressure, the Government appointed a royal commission to inquire into the circumstances surrounding the death of LieutenantCommander A. D. Casey, a former resident of Tasmania. Perhaps it will be suggested that M. Stalin,  President  of the Soviet Republic, was in some way responsible for the death of that naval officer. It is, however, well known that he resented the many pin pricks to which he was subjected by the administration. Let the Minister for Defence smile that off when he appears before the royal commission. Let him go to Tasmania, and see how he will be received by the friends and relatives of the  deceased officer, who got such a raw deal from the higher ranks and the Naval Board, under the administration of the Leader of the Senate. 
In the course of a few weeks we shall, I suppose, be all on an equal footing, because then we shall be appearing before the electors, at street corners and  elsewhere, and stating our views of recent political developments. When we are out among the people, candidates representing my party will have no president to check them, and no standing orders to observe. I have no doubt about the reception that will be given to the Leader of the Senate when he appears before the people of Western Australia. 
The people of New South Wales are all right. I have a very fair idea of their view of this Government's administration. If the right honorable gentleman feels disposed to test their feeling, I invite him to come along with me and meet them. He need not fear physical harm. They are not likely to greet him. with empty bottles, nor will he need the protection of the policeman's baton. The right honorable gentleman will get a fair " go," but he will have to stand up to some very solid criticism from the taxpayers of the State which I represent in this chamber. 
I am not very much concerned' about the issue there, because Labour is right in Martin, but I imagine that the Government is concerned, in view of the vote given by the people of Tasmania at the recent general election. 
Perhaps  Senator Hardy,  the Cromwell of the Riverina, will have something to say on this motion for the adjournment. There is ample time before the usual dinner hour. We are here to express our views on issues that come before us. At all events, I am clear about that being the reason for my presence in this chamber. If I get " bumped " at the coming election, there will always be the dole, or perhaps I shall again accustom myself to pick-and-shovel work. But, while I am in the Senate, tuy job is to talk about all phases of political happenings. I should like to hear  Senator Hardy  on the conferences that are being held behind closed doors in this Parliament House between Ministers and representatives of the Country party. Can he tell us if decisions which may be reached there will have the endorsement of the rank and file of Riverina farmers? I am hoping, also, that  Senator Elliott  will have something to say. That honorable gentleman, we are told, is being " dumped by the powers that be in Victoria, and will not be included in the Senate team, simply because he has been sniping and sharp-shooting Ministers and supporters through the columns of the Shepparton, Castlemaine, and Mildura papers which are under his control. Perhaps he will enlighten us about the opinion of the rank and file of the Country party in Victoria concerning recent political developments. 
When the Leader of the Senate visits Western Australia, after the impending dissolution, to take part in the election, he will, I am sure, be again decorated with the "order of the raspberry " which was conferred upon him when he was in that State in connexion with the secession campaign. I would very much like to hear Senators Hardy and Elliott airing their views as to the difference of opinion in the minds of the rank and file of the Country party with regard to the alleged pact approved by the secret meeting of party leaders. I have heard it said that  Dr. Earle  Page, the leader of the Country party, has no authority to commit his followers to any agreement such as has been outlined; they do not approve of this proposed rush to the country, five months before the people would, in the ordinary course of events, have an opportunity to censure this Administration for its many faults. 
What does the Government intend to do, before Parliament dissolves, for the farmers, and especially those who are on the dole in New South Wales? Also, what are its proposals for the relief of unemployment? It has remitted about £9,000,000 of taxes to the wealthy sections of the community, and intends to set aside £4,000,000 of the estimated surplus of £6,000,000 for defence expenditure. Against whom is it proposed to defend this country? Is it feared that Hitler will shortly turn his attention to Australia, and cut off a few heads? What is the fear underlying this proposal for increased defence expenditure? I protest against the adjournment of the Senate at this early hour. After the long recess the Government should have business to put before honorable senators. 
.- I should not have risen to speak but for the extraordinary statements made by  Senator Dunn.  That honorable gentleman has alleged that there is disaffection in the Australian Navy, caused by ill treatment of the lower ratings. The honorable senator addressed a question on this subject to the Minister for Defence to-day, and the reply, I thought, hit the nail on the head. The Minister suggested that the question was really inspired by a desire to create disaffection among the naval ratings. I happen to know a little about the efforts that have been made, in recent years, to cause trouble in the Australian Navy. It ill becomes  Senator Dunn  to make these allegations, in view of the fact that the propaganda to which I have referred is of Soviet origin, and has -been used very much 'by gentlemen whom he honours as his associates. I well remember when H.M.A.S.  Australia,  called at Burnie, an individual associated with the .cause supported  by  Senator Dunn  was detected dis  tributing  Soviet literature to t;he man on guard at tho gangway. The literature in his possession was issued  by  the Friends of the Soviet Union, an organization of which I think  Senator Dunn  knows something. My  only  regret is that the authorities did not take prompt action on that  "Occasion  to deal with the offender. Fortunately. the literature did not reach its intended destination. It was seized by the police, but whether or not any action was taken against that individual, I do 11Ot know. 
The individual concerned still boasts of his position as an agent of the Soviet. I am acquainted with a good many of the ratings in the Navy, most of whom are happy in their jobs. They are treated well. and it is very unfair of  Senator Dunn  to allege that disaffection is rife among them. 

 Senator Dunn also suggested that, as a means of punishing the men, the Australian Navy did not visit Hobart for the annual regatta this year. The explanation of the fleet's absence from the regatta was given by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to-day. Every intelligent resident of Hobart accepted the decision of the Naval authorities that, in the interests of the training of the men, the fleet should not visit Hobart this year. The honorable senator's suggestion that the action taken was -in the nature of punishment is ridiculous. I deplore the efforts which are continually being made to create disaffection among the personnel of the Navy, and I hope that the authorities will take strong action to deal with any individual who is' found guilty of such an attempt. 
.- 1  rise to express my dissatisfaction with the reply given to-day to a number of questions I asked with regard to the capital reserves, profits and dividends of the Australian private banks. The Minister, in reply said - 
It is regretted  that  the information, on the basis desired by the honorable senator, is not officially compiled. The only particulars of banking; officially compiled are those appearing in the  Finance  Bulletin,  issued yearly, by the Commonwealth Statistician. Tho latest information available appears in Bulletin No. 23, pages 40 to 51. 
For some time I have been studying the  Finance Bulletin  referred to in an effort to extract information from it. In my opinion, one of the duties of a member of Parliament is to obtain, from official sources, information which will be of assistance to the public, and so far as I am aware, no honorable senator asks questions for any other reason. Had members more time at their disposal, they could possibly obtain for themselves much of the information which they now seek at question time; but since every government department contains experts, who are well versed in the matters under their control, the asking of questions -in Parliament seems to be the most satisfactory and expeditious means of obtaining reliable information. I understand that the legislation controlling banking in Australia provides that the trading banks shall supply to the Government particulars of their transactions during each year. If that is not the case, it ought to be. I thought that the information sought by me would have been readily available to the Minister. I strongly protest against the flippant answer given tome. 
Last week, the Government promised to supply to honorable senators copies of the interim report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, and to give them an opportunity to discuss it this session. 
-I am glad to hear that interjection. Since the promise was made, the Government has announced that an election will take place in September. The wheat-growers of Australia are not willing that Parliament should adjourn before legislation to assist the wheat-growing industry has been placed on the statute-book. After a recess of about seven months, Parliament has re-assembled, and it should continue in session long enough to pass legislation for the stabilization of this important industry, and for fixing an Australian price, under the control of the growers themselves, for that portion of the Australian wheat crop which is consumed within the Commonwealth. The growers of wheat have to pay artificial Australian prices for a great many of their requirements, and, as some compensation, we should ensure to them an Australian price for that portion of their crop which is consumed in the Commonwealth. Whatever legislation is to be introduced to assist them should be placed on the statute-book before this Parliament closes. The wheat-growers of this country, who have had four years of unprofitable prices for their product, now want more than a promise that their case will be considered after the election. The legislation which, during recent years, has been introduced to assist them, has always been brought forward a short time before Parliament has gone into recess. Successive governments have, in effect, said, " Here is a bill for the assistance of the wheatgrowing industry; take it or leave it, there is no time to amend it". The wheat-growers do not want merely temporary relief; they ask that the industry be stabilized on a permanent basis. Government candidates at the forthcoming election will be at a great disadvantage if legislation has not been passed to assist the wheat-growing industry. Promises will not suffice; all honorable senators remember a previous unfulfilled promise of 4s. a bushel for wheat. I emphasize the need for prompt and permanent assistance to the wheat-growing industry. 
If the Government's present intention is carried out, a serious state of affairs is likely to arise in South Australia. As we have been informed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that a general election is to be held within a few weeks, 1 urge him to advise the Government to instruct the Tariff Board to keep its hands off the motor body building industry. Two years ago the industry in South Australia employed 400 men; but to-day approximately 5,000 men are engaged. 
The representatives of Great Britain have now said that they want a share of this trade ; but I remind them and the Government that it will be useless to knock down the tariff barrier and allow goods to be landed in Australia if, through the resultant unemployment, the Australian people are unable to purchase them. The employment of these 5,000 persons in South Australia has been the means of removing 20,000 persons in South Australia from the list of dole recipients. It was the intention of  Mr. Holden,  and also of  Mr. Richards,  to extend their motor body building activities, even to the point of manufacturing the steel they require; but, after spending £160,000on one plant,  Mr. Holden  has now to submit to an examination by the Tariff Board as to whether some of the trade which he now controls should not be given to Great Britain". If the protection of the industry is reduced, Great Britain will send goods to Australia, men will be thrown out of work, dragging others with them, and the market for the commodity they are producing will thereby be depleted. This matter should interest the representatives of Tasmania in this chamber, as the Holden factory is one of the largest purchasers of Tasmanian timber, and if it is interfered with, Tasmania will be seriously affected. 
Certainly not. The Government, which has referred the matter to the Tariff Board, has already received from the board 60 reports on. other items with which it has yet, to deal. It is afraid of making a definite pronouncement with respect to this industry before the election, but honorable senators on this side of the chamber will tell the employees of the industry that their future depends upon the defeat of this Government. If the present Ministry is returned to power, it is uncertain that the industry will be carried on as at present. This protest is being made, not only iby those associated with the party to which I belong, but also by members of every other political party in South Australia. Is it suggested that all these gentlemen are wrong, and that  Senator Sampson  is right, ? 
I am particularly concerned with the maintenance of the motor body building industry in South Australia. The honorable senator might very well voice a complaint with respect to Oregon against the present Government; he could not do so against the Scullin Government. I urge the Government to remove the uncertainty which at present exists in the minds of  Mr. Holden  and  Mr. Richards  as to whether it, would be safe to extend the important industry which they are controlling. It is useless for the Government to attempt to justify its action on the ground that it is complying with the terms of the Ottawa agreement. That agreement was intended to encourage reciprocal trade within the British Empire, and not merely reciprocal trade between Australia and Great Britain. The object of the inquiry, as stated by the representatives of British manufacturers, is to place Australia in the position which it was intended to occupy under the Ottawa agreement. 
Apparently, Australia is not to manufacture steel panels, but is to purchase them from Great Britain. The panels are to be sent to Australia, and Australian workmen are to assemble them. The request I have submitted is supported by the Premier of South Australia, who is not a Labour man, and is backed up by the Chamber of Manufactures, the business men, and every industry directly or indirectly associated with motor body building. I submit this request, not in any party spirit, but in the earnest hope that the Government will remove the uncertainty which exists in the minds of those associated with the industry in South Australia. The Government should withdraw the reference to the Tariff Board, and leave the matter to be determined by the incoming government. 
I expect that allhonorable senators opposite will doubt, in some measure, the sincerity of the remarks that I am about to make. I rise with a great deal of diffidence to take up the time of the Senate at this juncture, because, when it oan be avoided, honorable senators should not unduly avail themselves of the motion for adjournment to bring forward matters of public concern. I am obliged, however, to seize this opportunity to voice a very definite protest against Parliament being in recess for about seven months, during which important things have been done behind the backs of the representatives of the people. To-day, within a week of our reassembling, we were told that we must he ready to scurry into recess again, on this occasion with the object of facing the people. I suppose that I would not be believed if I said that I have not the slightest objection to this Government being sent before its masters at the earliest possible date. I believe that the Government, is already tainted with the defeatist complex and that that complex will be proved to have been well founded. 
I can understandthat the honorable senator cannot lisi.en to any comments on this subject without suspecting the critic of selfinterest. It is true that I will not be affected by the results of the forthcoming election, but I may inform the honorable senator that three of his colleagues will not be here when Parliament reassembles, because Queensland will definitely return three Labour men to the Senate at the next election as it did on the last occasion. I have four years yet to serve, but I am protesting, as I have done on previous occasions, against the disgraceful waste of time which has occurred. Parliament has been in recess for many months and the Government now proposes to hustle the business through in the shortest possible time. To-day, the AssistantMinister moved the second reading of a bill of considerable proportions and importance, which we are asked to pass without having had sufficient time to consider it. Other important measures to be brought before the Senate to-morrow will be disposed of without receiving adequate attention. I cannot be accused of insincerity when I say that I do not belong to the Communist party. I am not a believer in its methods or principles but nothing will drive tlie people of Australia, particularly the class represented by the Australian Labour party in this chamber, into the arms of the Communist party, more speedily than the discredit which this Government is bringing upon constitutional government. As a believer in constitutional government and as* one who wishes to see Australia continue along the path of parliamentary reform, I have no hesitation in saying that we cannot keep Parliament in recess for seven months in one year and yet make the people -believe that this institution is necessary to their progress and welfare. The majority of the members of this Parliament have been busy during the recess, but the point I wish to make is that Australia either needs this Parliament or it does not. If it does need it, we should be here to do our job; we cannot do it when we are in recess. The Senate met last week for the first time this year, and, this afternoon the Leader of the chamber said that if we transact the business before us without wasting time we may catch the train from Canberra to-morrow night. 
I support the protest made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  with respect to the manner in which questions are answered by responsible Ministers. A few months ago the honorable member for Brisbane  (Mr. George Lawson)  and I sent a joint telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  advising him that certain officials at the national broadcasting station, 4QG Brisbane, had been dismissed, and that other employees had received notice of dismissal. "We said that we viewed with alarm the condition of affairs prevailing with respect to the administration of that station. A day or two later we sent another joint telegram in which we expressed our surprise that no reply had been received, and asked that for the time being matters be allowed to remain as they were. To that message we received the following telegram on the 11th May from the Prime Minister : - 
Reference your telegram 10 May Acting Postmaster-General had advised me that no changes are being made in departmental staff station 4QG. Possibly your telegram refers to men employed by Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
That was most unsatisfactory, as our telegram made it perfectly clear that we were referring to dismissals and further threatened  disratings  and dismissals of employees of the 4QG broadcasting station, and not to the mechanical employees under the control of the PostmasterGeneral. Everyone knows of the terrorist condition's brought about by the present general manager,  Major Conder.  No such trouble was experienced under the management of  Mr. H.  P. Williams, whose regrettable death occurred about eighteen months ago. Since the present general manager assumed control the conditions have been most unsatisfactory. Station 4QG was established ten or more years ago, under the control and ownership of tho State of Queensland. During that time it has built up a considerable staff. The first manager was  Mr. W.  J. Robinson, a highly capable officer, who had previously been in charge of 2FO Sydney, which was formerly conducted by Farmers Limited.  Mr. Robinson  was brought to Queensland and given supreme control. The Premier of the day,  Mr. Theodore,  said that he knew nothing about, wireless, and  Mr. Robinson  was asked to take complete charge. "If you fall down on the job ",  Mr. Theodore  said, " it will bc your funeral."  Mr. Robinson  so conducted that station that it became a revenue-producing concern, although we are sometimes told' that a State enterprise cannot prosper with a Labour government in power. All the spade-work was accomplished, and a capable staff was organized.  Major Conder  himself, when he became  General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, wrote personal letters to a large number of the staff, thanking them for their loyal and successful services, and asking them te carry on their good work. Se remarked that although they were only temporary employees, they would be confirmed in their positions as soon as possible. Yet their appointments have never been confirmed. On the contrary, wholesale dismissals have occurred. 1 have nothing to say against the commission system of control, but it is doubtful whether it can be satisfactory under the present conditions. The members of  the  commission are only part-time employees; they have private commercial interests, and are merely paid a small salary for a part-time job. Probably a better system would be to have a smaller body composed of full-time men, each an expert in his particular department. They should be paid adequate salaries. 1 also suggest that divided control of the technical and broadcasting branches is unwise. At present the PostmasterGeneral controls the technical side, while the programmes and thic artists are under the direction of the  commission.  T  shall relate a few of the things that have happened in Queensland under the new control; similar things have occurred, in Sydney and other parts of Australia. Ono of the innovations made by  Major Condor  has been to send touring  artists of various kinds to the national broad casts stations. I suggest that if their services are worth retaining, they could give their performances at one bf the important southern stations in Melbourne or Sydney, and the landlines of the PostmasterGeneral's Department could be utilized for the purpose of relaying the programmes to 4QG and other stations. Yet  Major Conder  sends these artists from one capital city to another,, and they are  broadcast from 4QG often after they have been heard by Queensland listeners who are able to tune in to Melbourne or Sydney. These artists are ordered to Queensland, regardless of expense, and consequently we cannot obtain engagements for our local artists of greater ability. 
I shall also refer to glaring incidents in regard to the staff that was built up in Queensland before the advent of  Major Conder. Mr. Harry  Borrodale,  one of Queensland's leading elocutionists, has had lengthy theatrical and broadcasting experience, but he wa3 summarily dismissed from the position of announcer. I am personally acquainted with this gentleman, and I consider that, as an elocutionist, he has no superior in Australia. That is generally admitted by those who are in a position to express an opinion regarding him. No reason was given for his dismissal, and he was replaced by a son of  Sir Alexander  Gordon, from Sydney.  Mr. Gordon's  work cannot be compared with that of  Mr.  Borrodale,  but he is paid more for his work than had been received by his predecessor. Miss Olive Donoghue commenced work with 4QG as a girl. She advanced gradually, and became first a senior typist and then treasurer.  Her  work was of a high standard.  Major Conder  wrote to her last Christmas, complimenting her on her splendid work, and asking her to continue it. He also sent her a gold medallion brooch as a gift from the commission. Yet a few months later she was coolly dismissed, and another girl was sent from Sydney to replace her.  Major Conder  had the temerity to demand the return of the medallion, but this request was refused. At Christmas she was congratulated on her work and on her loyalty and efficiency, but in April, she was called into the office of the divisional manager and was informed that as  Major Conder  was sending  a  girl from the south she would have to leave. Later she asked for notice in writing, but this was refused.  Her  work was more than satisfactory, and drew praise from the secretary of the Commission. Despite her years of service, she was mercilessly " sacked " to make room for somebody without experience to whom  Major Conder  desired to give a position. This roughshod treatment should not be tolerated. Miss 
Donoghue should be immediately reinstated. I despatched a telegram to the Postmaster-General before her dismissal, for it had come to my ears that another woman was to be given her position. 

 Mr. Stanley Phillips, Queensland's best sporting commentator, was humbugged by the commission for several weeks, and the threat of dismissal was held, over him. A B class station made an offer to him and he went to it, taking with him thousands of A class listeners.  Mr. David  Felsman  manager of the programme department, and a first class officer with years of service - I have known him since he was a lad - was disrated to the post of relieving announcer, and his position was handed to a junior official with no experience and less ability in the matter of compiling programmes. In recent months a number of artists have been unloaded upon Queensland. Maggie  Teyte,  Tudor Davies and Yelland Richards arrived from England under contract to J. and N. Tait. They appeared in Melbourne in public, but their season was a hopeless failure. They were then booked by  Major Conder  and sent on tour of Australia at £165 a week. If their performances had been worth listening to, which they were not, they could have been relayed from Melbourne. Their salaries were not paid directly to the artists, but were handed over to J. C. Williamson Limited, which firm, I should say, obviously brought them out to Australia, unloading them upon the commission when they had proved a box office failure. These artists were sent to Queensland after local programmes had been arranged, and the divisional manager knew nothing of their pending arrival, which upset the whole of the advertised programmes for a considerable time ahead. 
Some time ago  Senator Dunn  asked a question about the military band which performed under  Major Adkins.  I intend to ask for a statement as to the financial result of the tour of this band. After it had visited the capital cities, it was unloaded upon the national broadcasting stations throughout Australia in order, no doubt, to cover up the fact that its tour had resulted in a heavy financial loss. The broadcasting stations had to take the band after the public had had its fill of it, and the fees paid to it for broadcasting helped to reduce the loss on the tour. I shall also tell honorable senators what happened to two Queensland artists of Australian-wide repute, about whose qualifications there is no doubt whatever. Arthur Sharman, a brilliant Brisbane pianist, left for London, where he studied for some time. Before returning to Australia he wrote to the commission stating some of the works which he could perform.  His  letter, with full details, was personally handed to  Major Conder,  who stated that he would arrange recitals by  Mr. Sharman.  On his return to Australia  Mr. Sharman  was informed chat the commission had never heard of him. A B class station quickly took him up, and he is now in the employ of one of the principal B class stations. Ruth Portrate,  one of Queensland's brilliant sopranos, returned to Australia after a successful season abroad, during the course of which she appeared at the British Broadcasting Commission's studios and as principal soprano with the Carla Rosa Opera Company. On reaching Sydney she approached the commission, interviewed  Major Conder  and was told that she would be given engagements. She waited in Sydney at her own expense for three weeks and refused other lucrative engagements, on the strength of the general manager's assurance to her. No letter was forwarded to her, and in disgust she left for her home. 
I understand that the Auditor-General has been asked to investigate some of the matters to which I am now about to refer. When it was decided to refit and refurnish 4QG, Brisbane, the general manager visited that city, called in a firm of decorators and furnishers, and ordered work and material running into a cost of about £1,400 without calling for quotations from other firms. The decorations, carpets, &amp;c, were chosen by  Major Conder.  When the refurnishing was complete, he again visited Brisbane, and, apparently, not caring for the carpets he himself had chosen a few weeks previously, bad them replaced by more expensive carpets sent up from the south. 
Because he did not like the painting which had been done, he had it done again at much additional cost, in spite of the fact that he had himself ordered it only a few weeks previously. On one occasion, the general manager was requested hy the staff to provide a small and inexpensive ice chest for the benefit of the employees. However, their request was refused as positively unnecessary, and nothing more was said about the subject. But what happened? Subsequently, a very lavish and expensive electric refrigerator was purchased at a high cost and sent to the station. So elaborate was this piece of machinery that it had to he installed in special quarters. There was no excuse whatever for the purchase of an expensive electric refrigerator, especially as the original request was for an exceedingly modest household ice chest. Other things relating to  Major Conder  could be mentioned, but probably I have said enough to inform honorable senators of the real position. "With  Mr. George  Lawson, M.H.R., I made definite representations to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  asking that  Major Conder's  hand should be stayed in some way, and an inquiry held. Taking advantage of the first opportunity that presented itself on Friday last, I asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following question : - * 
In view of the resignation of the  chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission  (Mr. Charles Lloyd Jones)  will the Minister consider the need for a thorough inquiry into the present management and control of the commission before making any arrangement for tlie appointment of a new  chairman  &gt; 
The only information I received was that it was not the intention of the Government to order such an inquiry into the  management and control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Mr. Charles  Lloyd Jones, who has just resigned the chairmanship of the commission, had full knowledge of the facts which I have related, and possibly a great deal more. Sad the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  or the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Parkhill)  referred to him, they would have been told that things were not ; as they should have been with the commission, and that there was every justification for a thorough inquiry into the management of that body. Every one who takes an interest in the Australian network of 
A class stations knows that they confer a very great benefit on the people of Australia, particularly those citizens living in the more remote parts of the Commonwealth. It should therefore be the duty of every member of this Parliament to guard jealously the interests of all concerned. I assure the Senate that the last word 'has' not yet been spoken on this subject. We in Queensland are determined that the present reign of terror shall end. The people who have done so much during the last nine years to make that station a credit to the Commonwealth, will use all the means available to them to bring about the desired end. 
 I support the remarks of  Senator Daly  concerning the position of the motor body building industry in South Australia. Holdens and Richards', with subsidiary industries, in Adelaide give employment to about  7,000  persons. So it will be realized that this enterprise is of great importance to South Australia, where the number of unemployed is greater than in any other State. South Australia is really in a very bad way, and it would be a calamity if any action by the. Government, acting on the advice of the Tariff Board, jeopardized the motor-body industry.  Mr. Holden  has, I believe, stated that tariff reduction would mean the closing of the works. Is Parliament to accept willy nilly the recommendations of the Tariff Board ? Will members of this Parliament allow  5,000  men to be thrown out of work merely to give preference to Britain in respect of certain tariff items? If the tariff is altered there will be a heavy increase of imported motor bodies, to the destruction of the South Australian industry. Even if the number of workers displaced were only  2.000,  it would be a serious addition to the total number of unemployed in that State, and the extra workless persons would be a further burden on the taxpayers. The Government should declare emphatically that Parliament, and not, the Tariff Board, has the final say in these matters. The Tariff Board should simply be an advisory body. Surely Ministers do not expect members  if this Parliament to accept, without question, the .decisions of the Tariff Board. The secondary industries of this country should have adequate protection. In this matter the people of Australia will support their representatives in this chamber. If we accept all recommendations of the Tariff Board, the investment of capital in secondary industries will decline. This Parliament should give every encouragement to the management of establishments like those of Holden and Richards to increase their plant and provide more employment for our people. Any one who has visited Holdens' . works must have been impressed with the highly efficient system of mass production in operation there. We have not yet been informed of the Government's intention, but according to a statement by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  not long ago, it is proposed to accept the recommendations of the Tariff Board. If the report in this instance should recommend a reduction of customs duties, an important Australian industry will be at the mercy of competitors in Great Britain. Our experience in connexion with the Ottawa Agreement,' as it has affected other Australian industries, should convince us of the folly of accepting the Tariff Board's recommendations in this matter. If, as the result, of government action, following .advice from the board, the motor-body building industry in South Australia is destroyed, it, will be a serious reflection upon this Parliament. Even if the House of Representatives should agree to a reduction of duties, I hope that the donate will be strong enough to reject the proposals. It has done this on other occasions, and the issue in this case is so important that it should not hesitate to do so again. Every member of this Parliament should do all that lies in his power to protect Australian industries, especially during this period of depression. We should not heed the dictates of an outside body. If the Government interferes with this South Australian industry, its candidates will be punished when they appear before the electors. If Ministers wish to help our primary industries, they should ensure that secondary industries have adequate protection so that they may widen the field of employment and thus increase the home market for the sale of primary products. We shall not be doing that if we agree to any proposal to give a further concession to the United Kingdom in connexion with the manufacture of motor bodies. When the Scullin Government was in power, a request was made for an increase of 12 per cent, in the duty on motor-car bodies. This additional protection, it was urged, would enable Australian firms to meet overseas competition. The necessary encouragement having been given, the industry made wonderful strides. Before long it was exporting bodies, and, in an overseas exhibition, actually won first prize. Surely an industry which has become so efficient and gives employment to so many thousands of Australian artisans should be given every consideration. A few weeks ago, I visited the West Coast district of South Australia where I was distressed to find the farmers in a deplorable state. Many of them are still living in the bag houses which they built when they took up land there many years ago. These men are broken financially and in spirit; they are without hope. Numbers of farmers have already walked off their farms, and others will soon follow their example if assistance is not forthcoming promptly. I speak with personal knowledge of the conditions in South Australia, although I understand that in the other States also many farmers are in a bad way. For many months, South Australia has been practically without rain ; I do not know whether any rain has fallen within the last few days in that State. 
I am glad to hear that; it may mean much to the stricken farmers there. 
I support the protest by  Senator Collings  regarding the cavalier action of  Major Conder  in dismissing men from certain broadcasting stations. I know  Major Conder,  and it may be that his version of the story will throw a different light on this subject. All I ask for is justice. If action such as that of which  Senator Collings  has complained is allowed to go unchecked, the excellent men now associated with station 5CL, Adelaide, may be dismissed, to make room for others not so capable. I shall await, with interest, the Minister's reply to  Senator Collings. 

 Senator MacDONALD (Queensland) f5. 55]. - The country is entitled to an explanation of the decision of the: Government to hold an election in September, on a date which, apparently, has not yet been finally decided. It is ridiculous that, after a recess of nearly seven months, mid before any business of importance has 1,een 'brought before Parliament, the Government should decide to appeal to the electors. Why could not tuc Government's budget proposals have been ready for Parliament when it met? The explanation probably is that the United Australia party and the Country party lui ve not yet composed their differences. Only about ten weeks remain before the election, and if, as is rumoured, the budget is not to be introduced until the first week of August, a short and strenuous election campaign is inevitable. One would expect the present Government, which is controlled largely from Melbourne and Tasmania, to desire to remain in office during the centenary celebrations in Victoria, and the visit of the Duke of Gloucester. Its decision to hold an election in September is inexplicable, and shows an utter contempt for the parliamentary institution. The two political parties which are now negotiating for a working arrangement have been wrangling for years, yet they expect the electors to accept them as a united party. One recollects the charge of " gross treachery " hurled by the Country party against that party with which it now seeks to unite. I would be lacking in my duty if I failed to protest against the treatment of Parliament by the Government. The royal visitor should not be expected . to come to Australia immediately after what may be a bitter election campaign. 
In order to indicate the desire of the electors for definite action by the Government to relieve pensioners, I shall quote from a letter I have received from the 
Queensland branch of the Invalid and Old-age Pensioners Association - 
I am instructed by a general meeting to request you to put before the Government our just claims to the full restoration of pensions as soon as possible. It behoves any party in power to study the interests of the old pioneers of Australia. 
The letter, after quoting instances of pensioners, who had reared large families in Australia, being compelled to live on a paltry 17s. 6d. a week out of which they had to pay rent and buy food, clothes and medicines, continued - 
We would like von to bring under the notice of the Government that, owing to the great depression which affects us all, our families are unable to render us any assistance., as the great majority are on relief themselves. 
This is only one of a number of subjects with which the people of Australia expect this Parliament to deal before it adjourns. At present, the Senate is practically marking time-, a few unimportant measures have been brought before us in an attempt to impress the people that Parliament is dealing with the business of the country. 
 6.4 1 . - The discussion on the adjournment has shown how unnecessary was any announcement by the Government about the election.  Senator Collings,  who mentioned certain matters relating to broadcasting, does not, I feel sure, expect me to be personally acquainted with them, but I shall bring his remarks under the notice of the Postmaster-General. 
Both  Senator Collings  and  Senator MacDonald  appear to think that there is some virtue in Parliament sitting continuously throughout the year. They appear to object to a recess of six or seven months. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.They have said that when Parliament is in recess they are taking money under false pretences. Those honorable senators have the highest regard for Labour governments. Apparently a Labour government can do no wrong; but a government consisting of members of the United Australia party is always wrong. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I suppose that a Labour government does right by design and not by accident. Let us study the example set by the Queensland Labour Government, which is not hampered by a legislative council. Listening to some honorable senators opposite one would imagine that a Labour government does not go into recess at all. The Queensland Labour Government went into recess before this Parliament; it has not yet re-assembled,  and, according to the latest report, will not meet until  Mr. Forgan  Smith, who is now enjoying himself abroad, returns to Queensland. In the opinion of some honorable senators opposite a parliamentary recess is a crime when proposed by a government consisting of members of the United Australia party, hut a virtue when proposed by a Labour government. 
In reply to the remarks of  Senator Daly  and  Senator Hoare  I assure the Senate that the Government has no sinister intention towards the motor body industry, and I know of no government proposal calculated to injure it. I was interested, as I am sure were all honorable senators on this side of the chamber, to hear that when the Scullin Government was in office, the industry in South Australia got into such a condition that only 400 men were employed, and that 5,000 men are now engaged. That is a wonderful proof of the return of prosperity due to the confidence which this Government has restored in Australia. Surely when the men engaged in the industry have these facts brought under their notice, they will have no fear of the future, but will do all they can to ensure that there is no change of government. 
The Government. is as much concerned as is  Senator Johnston  in keeping the farmers on their farms, and will take such action as is necessary in that direction. On two previous occasions it acted in time to give the wheat-growers relief when it was needed, and in connexion with the coming harvest the Government, in this or the next Parliament, will see that whatever assistance is rendered is given at the proper time. 
The Leader of the Opposition complained of the answer given to a question by the Minister representing the Treasurer in this chamber. I do not think it fair that the country should be put to the expense of obtaining information that is not contained in official documents. The Government should not be expected to employ some one to glean information that is readily available to any one who takes the trouble to apply to the right source. Official answers are given on official figures. The reply to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition was that information on the basis desired by the honorable senator was not officially compiled, and that the only particulars of banking officially compiled were those prepared by tho Statistician, which were contained in the bulletin, the number of which was given. If the Government were to do as  Senator Barnes  has suggested some one would have to be employed to search at libraries or other sources for information that could be gathered by the private secretary to the honorable senator. 
I sympathize with  Senator Dunn  in his suggestion that I should appear before the electors of Western Australia before whom the honorable senator himself has recently appeared. I understand from reports that he had quite an arctic reception, so cool indeed that when he returned he referred to the people of Western Australia in anything but flattering terms. The honorable senator's mission to Western Australia was most unsuccessful. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator must withdraw those words. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Senator Dunn had a cool reception in Western Australia when he endeavoured to convince the members of the Labour party in that State that they should follow  Mr. Lang.  Naturally he thinks that others will be similarly received. The honorable senator invites me to appear before the electors of Western Australia; I shall do so in due course, but not when the honorable senator desires me to do so. 

 Senator Dunn complained of the answer I gave to a question asked by him this afternoon. I suggest that the more he conceals that answer the better it will be for him when he faces the electors. He asked two questions concerning alleged strikes in theRoyal Australian Navy, and the reply which I gave to one was - 
I would direct the attention of the Senate tothe fact that it in a well-known practice incommunistic propaganda, for the purpose of causing discontent in the Defence Forces,to allegethat certain things have happened in the services in order to suggest thatthey should happen. 
I ask the electors of New South Wales to note that answer, and also toremember that two questions which the honorable senator asked to-day were based on allegations appearing in the Communist press of Australia. 
I have read in Communist papers the allegations contained in the two questions. 
I withdraw the word "based ". 
One of the honorable senator's questions read - 
Is it a factthat the naval rating's of the Australian torpedo flotilla, which recently arrived from England, went on strike in Gibraltar naval harbour owingto the luck of proper foods,accommodation (sleeping, sanitary and otherwise), and also owing to excessive sea duties? 
That allegation appeared in the Communist press of Australia, as also did that contained in questionNo. 11 on to-day's notice-paper. As mentioned by  Senator Payne,  communistic publicationsare circulated among the rank and file of the Australian Navy. As the question had relation to groundless reports published in the Communist press, I was justified in making the statement I did. 
The honorable senator referred to the prosecution of a newspaper which goes under the name of the Sydney  Truth,  and he attempted to justify his attitude because a certain prosecution failed. Prom his point of view, he could not have mentioned a more unfortunate case. If honorable senators read the report of that case, they will find that in the summing up, the point was made that the prosecution had proved that the article complained of had been published, and that it was calculated to cause disaffection. A conviction would have been recorded but for the defence advanced that the article had been published without the knowledge of the publisher. That' was the only reason why the prosecution failed. It was an instance of the gutter press, if not the communistic press, publishing a report about an alleged strike at Port Melbourne. No such strike occurred. Honorable senators must know that on no fewer than three occasions, reports have been published of alleged strikes in the navy, although no strikes took place. Surely, we must look for the motive for action of this kind. The motive in the case of the communists is clear. They publish these reports because they wish a strike to occur ; they desire to cause disaffection in tho Royal Australian Navy. I suggest that  Senator Bunn  is doing a disservice to this country by repeating in this chamber, under the guise of asking questions, press reports which have been proved to be false. In doing this, he is taking a dangerous course. Nobody imagines that there are not some discontented men in every service, and it. is unwise to suggest to them that the way to redress their grievances is to go on strike. Generally speaking, the Australian .Navy is a contented service, and nobody should know that better than  Senator Dunn,  because he has sent to me probably more letters than any other member of Parliament from men who were in the navy and are now trying to get back into it. I refer, not to men who have been expelled from the navy, but to those who were retrenched when tho expenditure on the navy was reduced, and to others whose service had expired. They were members of the service when the conditions were not so good as they are to-day, for they have been improved out of all recognition within the last two years. Men who knew the navy under worse conditions are now trying to return to it, and  Senator Dunn  has been asking me to take them back ; but he now tries to make it appear that this is a discontented Service. If be is sincere in the statements made by him this afternoon, and wishes to deal honestly with these men, he should advise them not to attempt to rejoin the navy. Nevertheless, he has asked that their claims should be given every consideration, and, ,1 may SAY, full consideration will be given to each case. 
This year we shall recruit 600 men because the new cruiser is to be. placed in commission, and from every side we 

 Senator 
 Sir 
 George Pearce. are receiving applications from ablebodied young men who are anxious to serve their country in the navy. The conditions on these ships are not unknown. The vessels travel from State to State, and the members of their crews mix with the civil population, with the result that their comrades on shore receive information as' to conditions in the Service. If these conditions were such as has been suggested to-day by  Senator Dunn,  is it likely that hundreds of young men would be anxious to join the navy? The very fact that large numbers of recruits are offering shows that tb* men are well treated. We should not make any arm of the defence forces the sport of party politics. During the time I have been Minister for Defence, and particularly in the last two years, I have deliberately refrained from attempting to make political capital out of defence policy. In Sydney, a few months ago, when I outlined the Government's defence policy, I appealed to the electors not to allow this to be made a - party question. If it docs become a party issue, speeches such as that made by  Senator Dunn  to-day will be made again, merely to discredit the government that happens to be in power. I suggest to the honorable senator that when he reads bis speech in  Hansard,  he will realize that he has cast a slur on the Australian Navy by suggesting that the men are discontented. The Government believes that they are proudly serving their country, and it has tried to give them the best conditions that Australia can afford. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Can the Leader of the Senate say if there is any truth in the rumour heard in the lobbies of this chamber that it is the intention to adjourn the Senate to-night at 6.30 for seven days or possibly more? 
I ask the Vice-President of the Executive Council - (1) Is it the intention of the Government to vacate the tobacco experimental station at Mareeba? (2) Is it the function of the Commonwealth or the States to carry on experimental stations on the lines of Mareeba? (3) Can assurance be given that tobacco-growers in the Mareeba district will be provided with adequate instruction and assistance? 
Ianswered a similar question last week, but to clarify the position, I am now able to furnish fuller information, the honorable senator having given me notice of his question. 
At a meeting in Hobart in February last of the Standing Committee on Agriculture, on which the States were represented by the permanent heads of the departments of Agriculture, agreement was reached unanimously that Commonwealth activities in respect of tobacco should be confined to research into disease and the conduct of tests of smoking quality, and that the States should assume full responsibility for field investigations into disease, selection, yield and quality improvement, and for instruction, demonstration, and field experimental work; further, that of the sum of £20,000 per annum provided by the Commonwealth for instruction in connexion with the tobacco industry, £15,000 per annum should be paid to the States and £5,000 per annum to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Queensland's share is £3,750 per annum. In order that there should be no misunderstanding between the Comwealth and the State in regard to the conduct of the tobacco experimental station at Mareeba, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  informed the Acting Premier of Queensland by telegraph onthe 26th J une, 1934, that the station was not required by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research for the conduct of the work allotted to it by the Standing Committee on Agriculture, and that, in these circumstances, advice would be appreciated as to whether it was considered that the station was of value from the point of view of the tobacco industry; also, if it was considered of value, why the Queensland Department of Agriculture declined to take it over, bearing in mind the functions allotted to the States and the funds provided from Commonwealth sources towards the cost of carrying out such functions. The Acting Premier replied by telegram on the 28th Juno as follows :  - 
Your telegram twenty-sixth connexion Mareeba tobacco experiment station, Department of Agriculture considers cost of maintaining station would be too great in relation to information to be gained therefrom which would be of value only to a limited number of growers even in Cairns hinterland. In view of wide variation in climate and soil types of tobacco lands in Queensland it is considered detailed information of greater value to growers generally and to individual tobacco-growing localities is to be obtained from our existing policy of extensive scheme of experiment plot work embracing trials in various districts and on the different soiltypes in each district. 
I  ask  you,  Mr. President,  as Chairman of the Joint House Committee, who authorized the locking of all doors and prevented access  to  the dining-rooms and lounge room for nearly three hours to-day? Was it for the purpose of excluding from those privileged places all members who did not desire to hear  Mr. Latham's  stirring story  of  his adventures during hisjaunt to the East, at the expense of the Commonwealth? Will you see that members are not, in future, excluded from those privileged places in this building to suit the convenience of  any  Minister who desires to put over his " thrillers"- 
Order ! 
The honorable senator's questionis saturated with inferences and expressions of opinion. I therefore rule it out of order. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate if it is the intention of the Government to pass, before the impending election, the necessary legislation for the assistance and preservation of the wheat industry? 
[3.9]. - I lay on the table the following paper: - 
Statement of the receipts and expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, for the year ended 30th June, . 1934. 
move - 
That the paper be printed. 
When submitting the Supply Bill to the House of Representatives for consideration on the 28th June last, the Prime Minister informed members that he hoped to be in a position, within a few days, to submit a statement of the Consolidated Revenue Fund under various headings, showing the approximate results for the financial year 1933-34, which has just closed. 
The financial returns for the year are not yet complete, but I am now able to give to honorable senators a statement showing the approximate results for the year. These results are subject to minor amendments when final returns come to hand. 
The statement shows a balance of receipts over expenditure of £1,301,616, as compared with the deficit of £1,176,490 which was anticipated when the budget for 1933-34 was presented to Parliament. The results, therefore, indicate an improvement of approximately £2,478,000 as compared with the budget estimate. The budget did not include £3,045,000 provided during the year for relief to wheat-growers, of which £1,254,000 was obtained from the flour tax temporarily imposed subsequent to the budget. The relief to wheat-growers thus absorbed £1,791,000 of the ordinary revenue. Eliminating wheat relief expenditure and the flour tax, the total improvement in the budget may be set down at £4,269,000. 
This improvement is principally due to increases in revenue as compared with the budget estimate, the chief increases being :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407054_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The increased yields under all  these  heads of revenue are striking evidence  of  the general improvement of the conditions in Australia during the past year. In particular, the higher revenue from customs and excise, sales tax, and the post office, is a reflex of improved trade in many industries. The higher prices for wool also, of course, contributed  to  the general improvement. 
The  total  expenditure for the year, including £3,045,000 provided for  relief to  wheat-growers, was £72,647,000, as compared with the estimated expenditure  of  £72,801,000. The actual expenditure thus closely approximates the expenditure provided for in the budget. No payments were made during the year in respect of Australia's war indebtedness to the  Government  of the United Kingdom. The savings made by the conversion of  Commonwealth  debts in London in February last are not reflected in last year's  results,  whilst the full annual cost of  the  concessions made last year in respect of pensions, salaries, and taxation, was not borne by last year's budget. 
When the budget is brought  down,  more detailed particulars of  last year's results  will be submitted  for the information of  honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the  affirmative. 
Will the Government, in interpreting the Ottawa agreement, consult beforehand with the States which would be affected by any decision it may make? 
Are not the various States sisters of the Commonwealth, and, in view of the fact  that  the Ottawa agreement is a unique compact, would not the Government be agreeable to a departure from the orthodox procedure ? 
I give notice of the question. 
In considering any scheme for effective coastal defence, will attention be given by the Government to the necessity for the provision at Fremantle of adequate docking facilities? 
Has the attention of  the  Leader of the Senate been drawn to the following letter in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 4th July last: - 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been directed to the following item in the Sydney  Sun,  of the 5th July: - 
In view of the fact that the cost of the Australian political mission to the East, headed by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Latham),  will have to be paid by the Australian people, why have not the reports of the mission been made public ! What were the nature and names of the declarations and titles bestowed on  Mr. Latham  and other members of the delegation by the Governments of the countries, including Japan, through which the mission passed ? 
In referring to the delegation as a political mission the honorable senator is clearly expressing an opinion, and, therefore, his question cannot be allowed. 
Order ! The honorable senator will be in Order in referring to the delegation as a diplomatic mission, but not otherwise. 
Will the Minister for Defence lay on the table of the Senate the written applications for positions in the Australian Navy forwarded to him during the last two and a half years by  Senator Dunn  ? Will he also state how many, if any, of such applications have been successful? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The matter will receive consideration. 
Will the Government, in framing its rural rehabilitation scheme, consider the inclusion of measures to protect mortgagors from being sold up before the effective introduction of that plan? 
What was the reason for the concellation of the meeting at Hunter's Hill at which the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  proposed to deliver a political speech in favour of the United Australia party candidate at the Martin by-election? 
.- I move - 
That the Senate at its rising adjourn till to-morrow at 9 a.m. 
I do so because of the great uncertainty in the minds of the people of Australia, and even of members of this Parliament, in regard to the marketing policy of the Government, and the prospect of future markets in overseas countries, particu-1 larly the United Kingdom. That uht certainty  ha3  been increased, rather than lessened, by the recent visit of the High Commissioner,  Mr. Bruce.  Many Australians, including myself, followed closely the newspaper reports of  Mr. Bruce's  progress through Australia. Incidentally, I may say  that  most  men in  public life have come to regard newspaper reports of statements by public men as being like a child of which the  speaker  is the father and the reporter the mother. The child so often takes after the mother. Both in Western Australia and South Australia,  Mr. Bruce  emphasized the importance to Australia of the British market. He said that it represented practically the only overseas market for the things which Australia can produce. Those of us who hoped that his emphasis of the importance of that market would be realized by the governments of Australia, were disappointed when  Mr Bruce,  speaking at Melbourne, advocated a policy of reduction of production and restriction of exports. He said a good deal about quotas in relation to imports into the United Kingdom.  Later,  at Brisbane, he advocated a standstill policy for two years. The vacillating nature of his remarks left us bewildered. A stand-still policy is a policy of retreat. No country or individual can stand still; there must be either progress or retrogression. I had hoped that  Mr. Bruce  would bring home to the people of Australia the urgency of the Commonwealth Government establishing the closest possible relations with the Government of the United Kingdom. But apparently, as a result of the visit of  Mr. Bruce,  on the 22nd June, the Hobart  Mercury  informed its readers that a representative of the Commonwealth Government had expressed doubt regarding the possibility of expanding our trade with the United Kingdom, and had indicated the intention of the Government to concentrate on foreign markets. That report caused a sinking feeling within me, because I had hoped that there would be a better understanding by the leaders of public thought in Australia of the spirit and opinion of the people of Great Britain. Summarized, the report in the  Mercury  reads - 
It is futile for lis to expect Great Britain to alter hor policy or to place our hopes in greater inter-Empire trade. I wish to refer to those who urge that Australia by some magical process should endeavour to foster greater Empire trade ... It sounds very simple, but it displays an utter disregard for three paramount facts. The first ia that if we permit the unrestricted import of manufactured goods, many employees in secondary industries will be put out of work because 55 per cent, of our primary products are consumed in Australia the greater proportion of it  by  persons dependent upon the prosperity of our secondary industries. The second point that is overlooked is the crux of the whole position. It is this: Great Britain has decided to encourage her agriculture to the highest possible pitch of production. She has, in the last two years, evolved elaborate marketing  machinery  directed towards this end, and  she  has determined to make herself as far as possible economically self-contained, and will not be deflected in the slightest degree from her- declared agricultural policy. The third point disregarded is that the United Kingdom has contracted obligations in her treaties with foreign countries which prevent her imposing severe restrictions upon foreign meat and dairy products unless she also imposes restrictions upon dominion products of the same kind. 
He went on to say - 
These are not idle words because any one who has followed the trend of British thought in this direction must know that the present British Government is absolutely determined to pursue the course upon which it has embarked. Those who urge that the solution of our marketing difficulties is to be found in reduced tariffs for our secondary industries surely have forgotten what recently happened when New Zealand . . . made a similar proposal to Great Britain. Briefly, what New Zealand proposed was that in return for free  entry of British manufactures there should be free entry into Britain of New Zealand products - chiefly dairy products. That proposal, so similar to that which is being Canvassed in Australia to-day by a small section, was not accepted by the British Government. The utterances of British leaders within recent months show how futile it is for us to expect Great Britain to alter her policy or place our hopes in greater inter-empire trade. 
What, then, was Australia to do? If Britain, the greatest consumer of Australia's primary products, flatly says, " This much and no more," two courses were open to the Commonwealth. The first was one to which every reasonable person must be opposed - that of restricting exports. The Government was opposed to that course. The second course was to seek vigorously for foreign markets. This the Government was doing. 
To me that appears to be a hopeless statement so far as our trade with Great Britain is concerned, and is, I submit, a misinterpretation of public opinion in Great Britain to-day. Some honorable senators may 6ay that the New Zealand Government made a gesture to the British Government which waa rejected; but if they pursue the matter further, they will find that it was not an offer to Great Britain, but merely an inquiry submitted by  Mr. Forbes  to the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs as to whether a proposal on such a basis would be considered by the British Government. I understand that a statement was made by  Mr. Thomas,  the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs, to the effect that the British Government could not deal with the Dominion of New Zealand alone, and that, if it had to reopen the issue, similar gestures should be made by the other oversea dominions. In discussing the Ottawa agreement or intra-Empire trade generally, it has never been suggested that there should be unrestricted imports of British goods into Australia. It has always been distinctly laid down that the dominions should have the right to develop their own secondary industries. This was specifically dealt with in the Ottawa agreement. Instead of jeopardizing the position of thousands of employees in our secondary industries, as was suggested by the representative of this Government, their position will be jeopardized unless we can devise some means whereby the purchasing power of those engaged in primary production can be .increased. Unless the Government is fully alive to the situation and increases our trade with Great Britain, it will not be acting in the best interests of the Australian people. 
In the House of Commons on the 16th May last, I find that  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain said - 
We shall have to adapt ourselves to new conditions and make up our minds to the fact that although we can still increase our export trade we cannot assume that we shall be able to export the quantity or value of goods which we did only a very short time ago. That being so there are two alternatives. One is a continued extension of the homo market. In my opinion we have not by any means at present reached the limit of the expansion of the home market. The other is to be found in the development of interImperial trade. 
That is the opinion of a most influential member of the British Cabinet. His words are almost an invitation to the Commonwealth and the other dominions to meet at a round table conference in an endeavour to develop trade between the Old Country and the dominions. He went on to say - 
It is a very striking fact  that  while  our  exports to foreign countries have decreased so considerably during the last twelve months our exports to the dominions and to  the  countries of the Empire have increased. 
The dominions were in a worse condition than we were at the time of the Ottawa Conference. They are beginning to show very great improvement in their position. The first thing they had  to do at that  time  wai  to find a better market for their own production. The result of that is already beginning to show, and it will continue  to  increase as they feel more confident and show greater ability in buying for themselves. 
Maintenance and expansion of the home market, the development of the inter-Imperial agreements, began and only began at Ottawa, in these two directions this country (United Kingdom) will have to find its compensation for losing so much foreign trade, which  we  shall probably not be able  to recover  in  the  lifetime of most of us here. Toward that end the policy of the Government is directed. 
If  that  is not an invitation to Australia and to  the  other dominions to devise a means to cultivate our garden of empire, I do not know what it is. On the other hand,  Mr. "Walter  Runciman, one of the  most able members of  the  British Government, on  the  7 th May, said  that - We have already made,  outside the  British Empire, trade agreements with nine foreign countries. We have seven more under negotiation  at  the present time, and I hope  that  before the end of this year there will be  no  important trading community in the world with whom we are not on more intimate terms than we are to-day. 
That is the other side of the question, and emphasizes the urgency of Australia establishing the closest possible relationship with the British market, and of adopting an attitude other than that to which so much prominence has been given in the press, and by some public men in Australia to-day. 
During April,  Mr. Runciman  struck another blow at the British and dominion farmers when the formal negotiations for a pact were resumed with representatives of the Dutch Government.  Mr. Runciman  has apparently made up his mind to give the Dutch farmers a specified portion of the British market in cheese, poultry, eggs, tinned milk, cream and other primary products. Meanwhile Dutch primary produce is being imported into the United Kingdom at prices that give the British farmer no chance of successful competition. This also can be regarded as a challenge to Australia and to the other dominions to consult with Great Britain in problems which vitally affect them. Lord Winterton, speaking in the House of Commons, said - 
Empire trade is the ideal cherished by the vast majority of the Conservative party and  Mr. Thomas  gratuitously taxed it. 
There again, we see a fertile field for successful representation for the purpose of securing increased trade. In this connexion,  Mr. Amery  said - 
Empire trade is being strangled by the black pact with the Argentine. 

 Sir Herbert Samuels, a gentleman whom we did not expect to express this opinion, stated - 
The way out of the glut of goods is not to restrict and contract supply, but to ^develop Britain and the dominions, expanding" purchasing power in the largest single unit in the world. 
Those remarks were cheered by members of the House of Commons, but they are diametrically opposed to the present policy of the Commonwealth Government. We find farmers throughout the United Kingdom passing resolutions, affirming that, in the United Kingdom market, the British farmer should take first place, the dominion farmer second place, and the foreigner what was left. As many as fifteen meetings of this character were held on one day in various parts of Great Britain, and at all of them there was unmistakable evidence of the attitude of the people towards this marketing problem.  Mr. L.  S. Amery, speaking in the House of Commons, on the 7 th May, with regard to the British trade pact with Argentina, said - 
I regard the Argentine Treaty as one of the most disastrous events of my lifetime. I do not blame members of any particular Ministry, but I doubt if any conservative ca.n have any great confidence in negotiations conducted by  Mr. Runciman. 

 Mr. Runciman, the  president  of the British Board of Trade, has no sympathy at this juncture with the policy for which we stand. The debate in the House of Commons disclosed that in the view of Labour members, at all events, it was the foreign imports, and not the imports from the dominions, that had upset the British market for the home  producer. The people of the Mother Country are now alive to the fact that the quota system is of no particular advantage to the British consumer or the British producer. Neither is it helping dominions development, but there is definite evidence that the foreign producer is taking advantage of the quota to secure much higher prices for the smaller quantity of goods he is permitted to export to Great Britain. For this reason, the people of Britain are now advocating a new policy - the substitution of duties for quotas; a policy of natural development of production instead of one of restriction and quotas. 
My purpose is to emphasize the need to concentrate on the market that is ours - the market of the  United  Kingdom. It is open to us, and we should develop it. Last year, Denmark increased slightly her purchases from Britain. Whilst Britain sold to that country goods of a total value of £15,854,000, Denmark sold to Britain goods to a value of £34,606,000. At the present time, the Danish Government is negotiating a trade agreement with Germany, and to further those negotiations, refuses to grant to Danish merchants the necessary import licences to make purchases from Britain. Denmark, apparently, is prepared to grant extraordinary concessions to Germany, France, and other countries with which she is negotiating. 
We have not had the vision to appreciate the possibilities of, and to live up to, the Ottawa* agreement. For the first four months of this year, compared with the same period of last year, the overseas dominions sent into Britain £3,918,000 less grain and flour, whilst foreign exports of those commodities to the United Kingdom increased by £2j074,000. For the first four months of this year, the imports of food, drink and tobacco into the United Kingdom were valued at £18,253,065 more than for the corresponding period in 1913. 
I think the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce will agree with me that, at this juncture in our affairs, we want trade, not politics. He will also, I hope, agree with my contention that agriculture is Australia's greatest industry, and that it is an efficient productive industry; but the key to agricultural prosperity is no longer skill in production, but ability to sell. Efficiency in production is no longer a protection against an overcrowded market. Rather is it a contributing cause. The battleground has been transferred from the farm to the market. "We in Australia should awaken to the need for a marketing sense. "There is not yet evidence of this in the community, or, I. fear, in the minds of the Australian Governments. 
The solution of this problem is not to be found in reduced production, but in expanding markets. Where are we to find those markets? World markets are not going to be restored to us on the old international basis. International trade rests upon two rocks: firstly on the free exchange of commodities and money, and secondly on peace. The first has been shattered by economic warfare, and the second has been undermined by political dynamite. If we rely for our overseas trade upon foreign markets, our entire economic structure will collapse, and that will be a calamity* The British market presents the greatest field for the development of our industries. It should not be forgotten that it is the great market upon which converges the great bulk of the agricultural exports of the world. We are not alive to. its possibilities, nor do we realize the harvest that will be ours if we approach this business of developing the British market in a spirit of good will. Last year the 
Mother Country took from the dominions 80 per cent, of its butter imports, and 79 per cent, of its beef imports. The yearly food bill of the United Kingdom amounts to £640,000,000, and, notwithstanding the development of British farming operations, following the encouragement given by  Mr. Elliot,  the Minister for Agriculture, the fanners of the Mother Country produced only 40 per cent, of the requirements of the home market. Foreign nations contributed 39 per cent., and the colonies and dominions of the Empire only 21 per cent. Although last year Great Britain took 56 per cent, of our exports, we are only on the fringe of chat great market. What a harvest awaits us if we approach it in a spirit of give and take. In 1932, Canada increased its exports of foodstuffs to the United Kingdom by 50 per cent.; New Zealand advanced its figures by 13 per cent. ; but Australia, I regret to say, increased its exports of foodstuffs by only 5 per cent. 
We should regard the Ottawa agreement merely as a foundation upon which to build an edifice of intra-Empire trade. But we must approach it with a determination to honour and live up to the spirit as well as the letter of that document. We shall have to abandon the policy of death and despair, referred to by one honorable senator as represented by those three horrible words - restriction, reduction, and quotas. It is hardly necessary to question the meaning of the first two words. We know what they mean, but have forgotten that nature takes a strong hand in interpreting them. What is still worse, it would mean governmental and departmental control of our great producing industries. If once we allowed this to happen, we should never be able to shake the governments off, and the days of greatness for our industries would be numbered. Anything that interferes with private initiative and enterprise destroys individuality and the very citadel of man's work. 
Regarding the word " quotas " there is less understanding. Some Ministers and High Commissioners have described them as measures to restore prosperity to agriculture. They do nothing of the kind. The quota system is an iniquitous means of attempting salvation to stricken industry. Actually it will bind industry with  fettei'3 of control more complete and unyielding than thi3 country has ever experienced. We have been told that it is necessary to develop agriculture in England. We have no objection to that policy. We support it, because a weak England means a weak British Empire. Those who have studied this subject intimately have come to the conclusion that Great Britain, under the best circumstances, could not produce more than 50 per cent, of its foodstuffs. This fact has, apparently, been overlooked by persons who are rather diffident about boldly approaching this great, problem. A self-contained Australia is a bankrupt Australia. One of my first lessons in economics was received from the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  when . he was Premier of Tasmania. Speaking to me of the undeveloped forests and water resources of that State, he said, "We hear these spoken of as assets, hut they are liabilities until they are converted into earning power." If the Governments of Australia would take that statement as their text, what a wonderful field of opportunity would open up for Australia in the markets of the British Empire ! 
In order to convey to honorable senators a graphic survey of the position of the British markets, I have prepared several diagrams showing the average exports and imports of the United Kingdom for the years 3928-1932. The imports into Britain averaged £879,684,000 a year. We are given the impression that, most of these goods came from British dominions or colonics, but that is not so, because goods to the value of £628,000,000 were obtained from foreign countries, and only £253,000,000 worth of goods was obtained from Britain's overseas Empire. The cost of foodstuffs imported from foreign countries was £274,296,000, and £136,000,000 was paid for foreign raw materials, all of which could be produced within the British Empire. Over the same period the total exports from Groat Britain amounted in value to £513.966,000. of which only £286,000,000 worth went to foreign countries, and £227.000,000 worth to the overseas  Empire  n difference of only £60,000.000. The total commodity balance in  favour of  the foreigner was £341,500,000. 
The adverse balance against the overseas Empire was only £24,000,000. We are told, sometimes, to remember the tremendous amount of British capital invested in foreign countries, as compared with the outer Empire. Well, let us see what it i3. According to  Sir Robert  Kindersley,  writing in the  Economic Journal  for June, 1933, the nominal value in December, 1933, of investments in the overseas Empire, on which interest was payable in Britain, was £2,187,000,000 which -returned £109,000,000 a year in interest. The amount invested in foreign countries totalled £1,538,000,000, and returned an annual interest of £76,000,000. Over the period mentioned, the average quarterly adverse balance of British trade with the United States of America amounted to £125,000,000; with Argentina, £3S,000,000; with Germany, £31,000,000; with France, £13,000.000; with Belgium, £17,500,000; and 'with Italy, £1S,900,000. 
I have made a survey of the " black " pacts, as the foreign agreements negotiated by  Mr. Runciman  have been described. The countries which had negotiated commercial treaties with Britain are Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Argentina, Germany and Finland. The latest board of trade figures refer to the first quarter of this year and relate to a total trade of £45,000,000 with those six countries. Britain has gained an additional trade of £1,212,000 with them, compared with the first quarter of 1933, but they have increased their trade with Britain by £3,230,000. Those foreigner? have gained nearly two and a half times the advantage which has come to Britain. Other foreign countries, realizing the advantages of concluding trade agreements with Britain are now negotiating for similar pacts. A trade agreement with Russia wa3 signed in February, and negotiations are now in progress with Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, France, Uruguay, Turkey, and Holland. A Dutch delegation was in London at the end of April. Holland's hope is to become a more formidable rival to British and Empire dairy farmers. Under the AngloDanish agreement, Britain guaranteed to Denmark annually a market for 2,300,000 cwt. of butter. In the first three months of this year, Denmark sent to Britain 594,366 cwt., compared with 545,474 cwt. for the same period of last year, at an average price of 16s. per cwt. less than last year's price. At the end of April Danish butter was 8'2s. a cwt. in London. In Denmark the domestic consumption price is stabilized at 102b. a cwt. Owing to the depreciated currency the Danish exporter receives in addition b subsidy equivalent to 20 per cent, ou all produce shipped to England. The Dutch butter exporters receive a subsidy of nearly 100 per cent. They ere quoting butter to Dutch consumers at 190s. per cwt. But they are exporting it. to England at 50s. per cwt. at their own ports. 
Argentina sells to Britain £41,600,000 worth of goods a year, and Britain sells to Argentina £13,000,000 worth. The disparity is remarkable. The advantages which Britain confers on Argentina are astonishing. 
The position in respect of imports of foreign agricultural products into Britain is serious to Australia as is shown by the following figures: - 
emphasize the importance of the governments of Australia attempting immediately to take advantage of the public opinion prevailing in Britain today, by showing that Australia is  ready  to help the Mother Country to promote the policy that  Sir Edward  Grey laid down in 1911 " To hold what we have, to develop it, and in developing it, lo make as few enemies as 'possible. That, gentlemen," he said, " is th$ foreign policy of Great Britain ". 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
[3.57]. -  Senator Elliott  courteously advised me last night that he intended to move the adjournment of the Senate to-day in order to discuss the marketing policy of the Government. I have listened with interest to his remarks, and while I do not pretend to be in a position to reply offhand to the whirlwind of figures with which he has overwhelmed us, I may say that the Government finds itself in agreement with the principle of the policy advocated by the British and Scottish farmers.  Senator Elliott  said that a motion had been carried at a meeting of farmers in Great Britain, who advocated that in trade Britain should come first, the Empire second. and foreign countries third. That is a very crude way of putting the position. The policy of this Government is to protect the people and industries of Australia first. 
Australia pioneered the policy of preference to British products. Tor more than a quarter of a century imperial preference has been advocated here, and it has found expression in the statute law of this country. Therefore, it cannot, be, alleged against this or preceding Governments that they have not adhered to the policy of promoting trade within the Empire. They have not advocated empire free trade, and the present Government, does not stand for that policy, but it does believe in trade reciprocity and trade preference, consistent with tho protection and conservation of Australian interests. #1 wish to remove what appeared to me to be misunderstandings regarding the policy of this Government.  Senator Elliott  is under a misapprehension as to the statements made by the High Commissioner. As a matter of fact,  Mr. Bruce  did not come to Australia to advocate any policy. That would not be within the scope of the duties and obligations of the High Commissioner. The policy of Australia is determined by the Government. 
Honorable senators may make facetious observations of that kind, but the High 
Commissioner did not advocate  a  reduction of production, nor did he ask for  a  restriction of exports. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSONYes. The honorable senator stated, in effect, that  Mr. Bruce's  statements were fathered by the man who was supposed to be making them, and mothered by the newspaper reporters, and sometimes the father did not recognize his offspring. The High Commissioner did not advocate a reduction of production or a restriction of exports, but he did advise this country of certain developments that were taking place overseas which might ultimately have &amp;! adverse effect on the expansion of some of our industries, and he gave the Government the benefit of his advice and observation of the whole position. He made the Government acquainted with the " atmosphere " and the trend of events in European markets. He provided data and information as to negotiations of which he had a first-hand knowledge, to enable the Government to decide its policy and frame its course of action. I ask the Senate to accept this explanation as a true statement of the High Commissioner's recent visit to Australia. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has made definite statements as to where the Government stands in regard to the export trade. I asked my colleague the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  for certain information, and he has furnished me with an interesting statement as to the general position. Time will not permit of my giving the whole of it, but one paragraph may advantageously be read. Referring to the visit of the High Commissioner, my colleague states - 
The Commonweath Government gave the most careful consideration to the whole matter and called the State Premiers and Ministers for Agriculture into consultation. Subsequently, the Prime Minister announced, in clear and precise terms, the Commonwealth Government's policy. On the 30th April, 1934, he carefully traversed the position and made the following declaration ''The Commonwealth Government has always  been  opposed, and is still strongly opposed, to the policy of restrictions on production and export." 
We know that when matters of this kind were discussed at the World Economic Conference the High Commissioner declared that the reduction of production was a policy of despair.  The  statement by  the  Minister for Commerce continues - 
It Bees in such a policy the direct opposite to that which is desirable for Australia, viz., one of continued expansion and development. In the interests of Australian primary, producers, the Government will not institute regulation of the export of butter and meat, unless, and until, it is absolutely unavoidable. 
There can be no misunderstanding  regarding  the meaning of those words. Referring to the consideration which the Government was giving to the basis of consultation with the United Kingdom, the Prime Minister stated - 
The Government of the United Kingdom has not yet made any proposal, nor has the Commonwealth Government. When the time ' conies for the consideration of quotas, thi* initiative, as regards quantities, will actually rest with the United Kingdom. 
He then proceeded to indicate that the Government was considering the possibility of securing other markets, because the policy of the United Kingdom, while it might not cause a diminution of supplies from Australia, might impose a check on further expansion. The Prime Minister's words do not permit of misunderstanding. They were - 
The future of Australian development depends, not on a static condition in regard to the volume of export, but on an enlargement of the demand. If, therefore, owing to the protection of British agriculture, and the commitments of the United Kingdom in her foreign treaties, Australia is to be limited in the British market, we must do our utmost to secure foreign markets. 
On the 8th May, 1934,  Mr. Lyons  amplified his statement in some respects. He then stated - 
The best way to avoid the  necessity  to regulate the export of butter and meat is to expand foreign markets. In the past, Australia lias concentrated efforts chiefly on Empire markets, but must now seek an expansion of foreign trade. There is an ever increasing, disposition for countries to confine their pur chases to countries which buy from them. Australia will be forced to do the same. Foreign countries which do not buy freely from Australia cannot expect the continuance of Australia's custom. On the contrary, we must aim to improve the relative position of our good customers in our import trade. 
It is rather significant that the statement of the British Chancellor of the 
Exchequer, to which  Senator Elliott  referred, in which he indicated three points of policy and urged that the Objective must be an increase of imperial trade, was made just after the declaration of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  in regard to this matter at Adelaide. These facts will enable honorable senators, to draw their own conclusions. Australia is knocking at the .door of Britain all the time, and asking for a greater share of the British market. It must not be assumed - and I hope that  Senator Elliott  did not wish it to be inferred - that the Government has knocked with a palsied hand. Through the proper channels it has been pressing for a larger share of the British market, because it realizes that there ought to be an opportunity there for the disposal of more Australian produce. Honorable senators must, however, not lose sight of the fact that, notwithstanding the Ottawa agreement, and indeed, following that agreement, Great Britain concluded treaties with a number of foreign countries. Those treaties are an obstacle to the free development of our trade with Great Britain, and prevent us from obtaining a larger share of the British market. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Government has nothing to hide in this connexion. It realizes that if we are to get the right view of the position, we must know the facts. It is well known that world marketing conditions have presented colossal difficulties during the last few years. During the world depression, countries which were formerly important markets for agricultural products, have severely reduced their purchases, and have limited imports by prohibitive duties, quotas, and other forms of restriction. This contraction of foreign markets, accompanied, in some cases, by increased production in Empire countries, resulted in greater quantities of foodstuffs being1 thrown upon the United Kingdom market. Increased supplies, combined with the lower spending power of consumers in the United Kingdom, led to a serious fall of prices. That was the position when the Ottawa Conference met. At that gathering^ as the result of the policy decided upon by this 
Government, preferences were secured ou a wide range of agricultural products. The preference for dominion meat was secured by the imposition of quotas upon foreign supplies. Preference for dairy products took the form of customs duties on foreign supplies, while dominion products were guaranteed free entry for three years. The British Government reserved the right, in the interests of British farmers, to include dominion products in plans for import regulation, after the 30th June, 1934, in regard to meat, and after August, 1935, in regard to dairy produce. Wheat produced in the dominions was guaranteed free entry, while wheat produced in foreign countries was to pay a customs duty of 2s. a quarter, subject to the condition that wheat produced in the dominions should be offered for sale at world parity prices in the United Kingdom. A similar proviso was made in the case of preference on metals. Other preferences took the form of specific ad valorem customs duties. 
At the time of the Ottawa Conference, it was made clear by the United Kingdom delegation that the protection of the domestic producer was a definite part of the British Government's policy. At the same time, subject to the limitations imposed by the preferences to the dominions, Great Britain retained freedom of action in regard to future relationships with foreign countries. Immediately after the Ottawa Conference the British Government commenced negotiations with foreign countries, and has since concluded trade treaties with a number of foreign primary-producing countries - Denmark, Argentina, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia - and negotiations are proceeding with ' Netherlands, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Lithuania and Uruguay. At the time when the United Kingdom was negotiating with Denmark and Argentina, the Commonwealth Government, through the High Commissioner, expressed concern lest treaties with those countries should re-act to the disadvantage of Australia. Those treaties, however, were concluded, and were followed, by others with the countries I have mentioned. I desire to make it clear that the British Government had a perfect right to conclude those treaties, and that, in doing so, it lias not infringed the provisions of the Ottawa agreement. Let me emphasize, however, that Great Britain commenced to negotiate those treaties immediately following the Ottawa Conference. That action was merely an indication of the British Government's belief iu the importance of foreign trade, and of its determination to pursue &amp;&amp;- vantages in the markets of those foreign countries which were substantially dependent on the United Kingdom as an outlet for their produce. 
I have already said that nothing has been, or will be, wanting on the part of the Government in vigorously urging the claims of Australia to a full and increasing share of the British market. I regret that time will not permit me to traverse in detail all the provisions of the foreign treaties made by the United Kingdom since the Ottawa Conference, but a brief reference to a few important products will be sufficient to indicate the general position. 
In the agreement with Denmark, the United Kingdom undertakes not to charge on Danish butter a higher duty than 15s. a cwt. - the duty provided under the Ottawa agreement - and, in the event of the imposition of restrictions upon the importation of butter, to allot to Denmark a quota of not less than 115,000 tons. If the total permitted import of butter exceeds 405,000 tons, the share of Denmark is to be increased proportionately. Tha.t agreement, which was signed on the 24th April, 1933, came into force on the 20fh June. 1933, and is to remain in force till the 20th June, 1936. Similar Undertakings have been entered into with other foreign countries. 
In the agreement with Argentina, which was signed on the 1st May, 1933, and which is to remain in force till the 3 st May, 1936, the United Kingdom Undertakes not to impose restrictions on chilled beef below the imports in the year ended the 30th June, 1932, unless such Action is necessary to secure a remunerative level of prices in the United Kingdom  market  and no such restrictions will be maintained -if it appears that the imports so excluded are being replaced by increased imports of other kinds of meal, other than experimental shipments of chilled beef from other parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations. The position is that Great Britain has entered into certain obligations, and its markets are not absolutely free to us. If we. in Australia, can do anything to increase the sentiment in favour of Empire trade reciprocity, it will be to our advantage. 
A development of Empire sentiment might have the effect of freeing the British market from the entanglements which now exist, and be of great advantage to Australia. I hope that I have removed certain misunderstandings from the minds of honorable senators. Surely there can be now no ground for misrepresentation regarding the attitude of the Government to these vital issues. The charge is that the proposal to obtain a footing in foreign markets is opposed to the spirit of Empire. The answer to that charge is that Great Britain, which is vitally concerned in any matter affecting Empire unity and development, has not found it inconsistent with the Empire spirit to conclude trade treaties with foreign countries. Britain has always relied largely on foreign trade. It may be of interest to honorable senators to learn that the Federal Graziers Association has urged the Commonwealth Government to conclude treaties with foreign countries in the interests of Australia's export trade in wool and wheat. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.I am not advised on that point. Presumably, the Federal Graziers Association is also guilty of having disregarded Empire interests. 
In various quarters it has been urged that restrictions on imports from Australia have been imposed by various countries by way of reprisals against our tariff policy, and that if we were to slash into our customs tariff, Britain would respond nobly. In this connexion, 1 desire to quote from a document which will reveal to the Senate the negotiations which have taken place between the Governments of New Zealand and Great Britain. On the 25th October, 1933, the Governor-General of New Zealand sent to the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs, the following telegram:- 
My Prime Minister has asked me to send you the following telegram: - 
With reference to question of quantitative regulation of agricultural produce imported into United Kingdom, there is a widespread belief on the part of producers in New Zealand that if we undertook a drastic reduction or removal of New Zealand's protective tariff on United Kingdom goods  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom would guarantee continuance of unrestricted entry of New Zealand primary products.  His  Majesty's Government in New Zealand would be grateful if  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom would indicate their attitude towards this suggestion. - Bledisloe. 
The reply of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs, dated the 22nd December, 1933, was as follows :  - 
Your telegram No. 78 of 25th October. Please convey following message to your Prime Minister: - 
I much regret delay in replying to your message, which required careful consideration in consultation with my colleagues. 
We desire in the first place to make it clear that the policy adopted by  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom is, designed to promote the planned marketing of argicultural products in the interests of all concerned and involves where necessary control of home production as well as of home marketing.Its object is, by correlating supply with demand, to raise the price of the commodities concerned, and to maintain it at a level at which it will once more becomes remunerative to all producers supplying the United Kingdom market. 
It is true that in present circumstances regulation is likely to involve a check to immediate expansion, but orderly increase of production, as demand increases, with due regard to maintenance of a remunerative price, is of course contemplated. 
The suggestion in your telegram would involve modification of United Kingdom policy indicated above, and could hardly be considered with reference to New Zealand alone. Norwe think could an examination of such a question take place on the basis of a suggestion put forward by particular trade interests. For this reason we feel hardly in a position to give any further indication of our attitude than that outlined above, though we are. of course, at all times ready to givefull and sympathetic consideration to any proposals of the New Zealand Government for the development of the mutual trade of the two countries. - Thomas. 
Those cables supply an answer to the suggestion that the Australian tariff is an obstacle to increased intra-Empire trade. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The honorable senator has possibly studied this subject more closely than I have, but the cablegrams which I have quoted indicate the view of the British Government at that time. It has been said that Australia's tariff policy is prejudicial to more favorable marketing conditions in the United Kingdom. For many years Australia's tariff policy has included preference to the United Kingdom over a wide range of commodities, and we have received in return preference on. only a few items, which do not include our major export products. Preference by the United Kingdom to Australia was not realized until 1932, whereas Australia, one of the pioneers of the principle of Empire preference, has been granting preference to the United Kingdom for a quarter of a century. The value of the preference granted by Australia to the United Kingdom is demonstrated by the balance of payments. While Australia was a borrowing country, the balance was strongly in favour of the United Kingdom; but, since the cessation of borrowing, the value of Australia's exports to the United Kingdom has been sufficient to pay for imports and meet payments due in London for debt interest and various invisible items. I regret the necessity to emphasize these points; but I do so only to expose the disservice done to their country by those Australians who falsely represent their fellow citizens as members of a greedy and grasping community who wish to extract the utmost advantages from the Mother Country without making an adequate return. I am glad to have had the opportunity to present the case on behalf of the Government, to answer certain allegations and to remove wrong impressions and misconceptions. I desire to make it clear to the members of all political parties in this chamber that the Government is endeavouring in every possible way to increase production and find a profitable outlet for the products of our export industries, by developing our marketing activities, particularly in the direction so eloquently referred to by  Senator Elliott. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON The British Government knows our attitude in this matter. We have to face the position as it is, and, if markets' are not available, we cannot secure them. The Government desires to exploit every possible market open to Australia's producers, and to increase the activity of governmental marketing agencies. The Government can only encourage, inspire and advise private enterprise. It is not the duty of the Government to do more than that. 
.- Statements have appeared in the press, and have been made on public platforms, concerning intra-Empire trade, which lead some to believe that Australia has to be wet-nursed by the Mother Country. I intend to place on record what Australia has done for Great Britain. During the war the British Government contracted to purchase the Australian wool clip for the four years 1916-17 to 1919-20, at ls. 3½d per lb.; this wool was eventually sold in London at 6s. per lb. The arrangement between Great Britain and Australia was that, in respect of any profits on wool sold for purposes other than military, one-half of the profits was to be paid to Australia. In addition to getting wool for naval and military requirements at one-quarter of its value, Great Britain made a profit of £35,000,000. According to the budget statement delivered on the 16th September, 1920, the payment made for Australia's wool under the Imperial contract amounted to £159,000,000. Had Australia received 6s. per lb., Australia's wool cheque would have been approximately £735,000,000, instead of £159,000,000, which represented a loss to Australia of over £500,000,000, or more than our total war debt. In 1919, the present member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  in referring to the sale of Australian wool, said - 
Millions have been lost to this country on wool alone...... 
Had I known before what I know now, 1 should never have sold wool other than for the period of the war. 
In  connexion with the sale of Australian wheat,  Mr. Lough,  a member of the  House of Commons, said - 
I asked my friend, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Shipping Comptroller, whether he had not bought a great deal of cheap wheat, and he said " Yes." 
When that gentleman asked where  the  wheat was situated,  he said that it was  in Australia.  Mr. Prothero,  president  of  the British Board  of  Agriculture, speaking in the House  of Commons, said - 
We have made, in times past, an appeal to Australia to sell us their wheat at a lower price than they could get it in the world market, because we are their kith and kin, and they have done so. 
In the House of Commons, on the 4th August, 1922,  Sir Newton  Moore asked certain questions regarding contracts for the purchase  of  Australian wheat, and  Sir. W.  M. Thompson, parliamentary secretary to the Board  of  Trade, replied that " the Government contract for the purchase of Australian wheat from 1916-17  to  1919-20 covered 5,000,000 tons. The contract was subject  to  a crude allowance  of  58,000 tons for loss and damage." The cost averaged 5s. 2d. a bushel f.o.b.  in  Australia, whereas the average price  of  wheat purchased elsewhere during the same period was 9s. 3d. f.o.b. in the country  of  origin. That meant  a  loss  to  Australian wheat-growers of £37,000,000, and that much gain  to  Great Britain. 
The position with respect  to  meat  is  also interesting. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of  the 27th March, 1919,  Mr.  Beale is reported  to have stated - 
Had Australia obtained for her meat of high quality the same price as America received for hers of low quality, namely 150 per cent, more, about 13d. instead of 5d., the position in Australia to-day would be vastly better. 
It will be seen that again Britain made millions  of  pounds out  of  our meat industry. For electrolytic copper, the United States  of  America received £163  a ton  from Great Britain as  against  £108 a ton paid  to  Australia for the same product.  Mr. G.  H. Roberts,  the  British food  controller, stated that the Imperial Govern-  ment was losing 10£d. per lb. on homeproduced cheese, but the loss would be met by the profits on imported cheese. The average price received by Australia for its butter was ls. 6d. per lb., although it was realizing as much as 7s. 6d. to 10s. per lb. in London. For all our primary products, we received much less than any other country in the world. "We lost millions of pounds, while Great Britain gained correspondingly. 
For over twenty years Australia has granted tariff preferences to the United Kingdom, the value of which is estimated at from £7,000,000 to £8,000,000 per annum. These preferences have been given to Great Britain, without bargaining, in order to build up intra-Empire trade, and as a result, Australia became Britain's second best market. According to the ex-Minister for Trade and Customs,  Sir Henry  Gullett, in 1929 the average margin of preferences granted by Australia upon goods of British origin was 15 per cent., and extended over almost the whole schedule.  Mr. Latham,  the AttorneyGeneral, when in London, referring to allegations concerning Australia's tariff, declared, " Our British preferences are real, not illusory." The following table shows Australia's trade balance with Great Britain prior to the Scullin Government assuming office: - 

<graphic href="144332193407054_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

Under the Ottawa agreement, an endeavour was made to establish trade within the Empire upon a sound reciprocal basis. Great Britain secured conditions which enabled British goods to enter Australia, and to compete on equal terms with local products. Australia was to receive certain benefits from Great Britain with respect to the importation into that country of our primary produce, but while the benefits to Great Britain have materialized, we have not received a corresponding advantage. British manufacturers are now active competitors on an equal basis with Australian manufacturers. Some time ago, the Prime Minister said - 
The Government has reduced the rates of the British preferential tariff on two-thirds of the items to the level of 1928'. There are 571 sets of duties which are lower than the comparable rates which operated Under the 1921-28 tariff. 
The Government has made concessions to Great Britain, to the detriment of our secondary industries. 

<graphic href="144332193407054_15_2.jpg"></graphic>

We have also to remember that during the war, Great .Britain lent between £1,500,000,000 and £1,800,000,000 to its allies. The Prime Minister of Great Britain, speaking at Retford, said that Great Britain had written off 60 per cent, of the debts due to it. The original rate of interest paid by Great Britain to America on its war debt, was 5 per cent. ; but Congress concluded that that rate was too high, and it was subsequently reduced to 4^ per cent. Britain lent money to France at a very much lower rate of interest than it required Australia to pay. The Mother Country also backed French credit during the war and had good cause to regret it. Britain lent France £65,000,000 when the franc stood at lOd. France repaid the loan when the franc was worth only 2d. Summarized, the position between Great Britain and Australia during and since the War is as follows: - 
Australia lost over £600,000,000 in connexion with the sale of primary products to the United Kingdom during the war. 
Great Britain asked Australia to sell wheat to the United Kingdom at less than world price. Australia did so. 
Great Britain wiped off over one half of the war debt owing by foreign nations but did not reduce Australia's war debt by one penny. 
Great Britain funded its war debt with America at 3.3 per cent. and made Australia pay 5 per cent. 
For over 20 years Australia has granted preferences to British goods to the value of £7,000,000 a year. 
Australia made further concessions to Great Britain under the Ottawa agreement which enabled British manufacturers to compete seriously with our secondary industries. 
It is but natural to think that, as Great Britain can produce only about 40 per cent. of its own food requirements, and as the Ottawa agreement was supposed to provide facilities for the development of intra-Empire trade, we should enjoy a greater share of the British market for primary products. The dominions are entitled to some portion of the 39 per cent. of imports of primary products from foreign countries into Great Britain. Australia has no apology to offer with regard to its preferential trade relations with Great Britain. All the facts show that for many years we have granted very important concessions to the Mother Country. We now feel that vre are justly entitled to a larger share of the British Market. 
The High Commissioner a month or two ago endeavoured to persuade us that the proposals which he outlined would be of very great advantage to this country. The people generally were under the impression that  Mr. Bruce  was speaking entirely in the interests of people in Great Britain. I may be doing the High Commissioner an injustice in this matter, but I feel sure that 90 per cent. of the people of Australia are in agreement with me.  Mr. Bruce  spoke of the possibility of a further restriction of Australia's export trade to the Mother Country. Apparently that view was not held in Great Britain itself, because not long ago the Minister for Agriculture  (Mr. 
Elliot) in reply to  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland, who visited Great Britain in connexion with the Queensland sugar industry, said that while it was true that Great Britain intended, if possible, to make itself economically self-contained, there was no thought of restricting Australian imports. It would appear, therefore, that the position was not quite as had been represented by the High Commissioner when he was in Australia. 
I congratulate  Senator Elliott  upon the wealth of detail with which he supplemented his remarks this afternoon. Altogether, his speech was a very fine effort. It was, no doubt, made with a view to his candidature for the Senate in September. The honorable gentleman, having control of a chain of newspapers in Victoria, obtains a wide circulation for his views, and his speech this afternoon was, I suppose, intended to tickle the ears of the farmers in his electorate. Let me again remind him that many farmers are in much the same position as many thousands of unemployed industrialists. They may have a job, but they want food. Above all they want some guarantee of security with reference to their production. Only recently representations were made to the Minister in charge of development  (Senator McLachlan),  that an inquiry be made as to the possibility of extracting petrol from wheat. Fancy growing wheat to drive motor cars! 
Prior to his visit to Great Britain, a year or two ago,  Senator Elliott  was a firm advocate of the Ottawa agreement, the effects of which on our industries is now so clearly seen. At the annual conference of the Victorian Press Association, in Melbourne, the honorable gentleman delivered an interesting speech, in the course of which he warned his hearers that foreign countries were making insidious efforts to undermine the benefits conferred by the Ottawa Conference. He advised Australian producers and manufacturers to go to England to fight for their markets. Why should they have to do that ? During the last election the wealthy sections of our primary and secondary producers placed money at the disposal of government  candidates, and also representatives of the Country party. Surely they were entitled to expect some  quid pro quo. 
Yes I do. It is the duty of this or any other Government to protect the primary producers and manufacturers of Australia. It should not be necessary for them to go overseas and fight for their markets.  Senator Elliott  went on to say at that conference - 
England is the greatest market in the world to-day for Australia's products. If we do not realize the chances, they will be taken from us, because foreign countries are watching and waiting to get in. If they do get in it will be very difficult to get them out. 
Apparently what  Senator Elliott  then predicted is now taking place, and this Government is being asked to give its attention to the development of other markets. Only a few days ago the Graziers Association of New South Wales, in conference, carried a motion urging the Government to take steps to make a trade agreement with Soviet Russia - an agreement between a country that adheres to the principle of communism and a country under a democratic form of government.  Senator Elliott  and his political friends are always ready to link my section of the Labour party with communism, and all that it stands for, yet they are willing to make a trade agreement with Russia for the sale of Australian wheat and wool. Great Britain is now committed to a policy of economic nationalism. So must Australia be. We have come to realize that the home market is the best market. It is only natural that, in common with other countries, we should seek the further development of this market, in the interests of our people. Under the regime of this " prosperity " Government, 400,000 men and women are unemployed to-day, or working only on dole relief. Here is a market right at our door. 
We are reminded that £500,000,000 of British capital is invested in Argentina. Does  Senator Elliott  imagine that those capitalists are concerned about Australia ? 
The only time Australia comes into the picture is when it is required to participate in the foreign wars of the Mother Country. To-day we find Britain entering into " black " pacts with six foreign countries, including Soviet Russia. According to the Melbourne  Herald,  Senator Elliott  said that the Australian delegates at Ottawa were defeated on the meat question by the cleverness, and careful and intensive propaganda of their opponents. The honorable senator thus suggested that the representatives of the Lyons Government at Ottawa were politically stupid. Our delegates, he said, went in the wrong spirit - that of taking all and giving nothing. . On the same occasion,  Senator Elliott  was also reported to have said that the meat quota which the Australian delegates obtained would " get Australia nowhere ", and that Argentina could more than make up its loss in the frozen meat trade by exporting more chilled meat. That was an admission from  Senator Elliott  himself that Australia has not much chance in the British meat market.  The  Australasian  Manufacturer,  of the 6th May, 1933, stated- "Once more unto the breach, dear friends" - the breach of the Ottawa agreement, committed by the British Government, first, in taking wheat from Russia when there waa ample wheat to be taken from the dominions; second, in taking meat from the Argentine, when all its requirements could have been taken from Australia; third, in giving an order for £7,000,000 worth of butter to Denmark, when this country could have supplied the lot. The Russian wheat was cheaper than Australian wheat - but what about " the spirit of the Ottawa agreement"? British financiers have millions invested in the  Argentine  - but what about "a self-contained Empire"? Denmark trades with England - but in proportion to Australia's trade with England, Denmark's total is paltry. 
In the face of this wanton smashing of the agreement, in spirit if not in letter, England demands more and more concessions from the dominions - and especially from Australia. She demands that her manufactures., under the Scrap of Paper, shall enter this country without effective tariff restrictions on goods that can be made here. 
It is this sort of behaviour that eventually caused England to lose America. The colonists there were a  long-suffering lot - as we are - but a point was reached at which further oppression was unbearable. The  fault  lay, of course,  not  with the English  people,  but with English statesmanship, which  is  forever the slave of financial interests that never hesitate  to  use British imperialism as  a  cloak for activities  that  are anti-Imperial. 
So far as English statesmanship is concerned, the agreement is already a scrap of paper. So far as English industry is concerned, every advantage has been taken to use the agreement as an instrument to injure Australian manufactures. . . . 
The Lyons Government, while it remains in power, will do nothing likely to annoy its overseas friends. . . . 
It would seem from this that the Ottawa agreement has been scrapped, and one reason is that the British financiers have millions invested in Argentina. Notwithstanding the fact that there has been a secret conference and agreement between the Country party and the Lyons Government, the tariff barriers of this country must be greatly lowered to enable the coalitionists to go to the country with promises that will please the electors. 
 When the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  was making his statement, I interjected that I should have something to say in rebuttal.  Senator Sampson  then interjected, and from his words I. inferred that he meant that any statement by me in rebuttal would not be prompted by proper motives, but would be made for the purpose of sheer obstruction. There can be no doubt in my mind as to what the High Commissioner said when he was in Australia. I did not have to read press reports to know it; I got it definitely from  Mr. Bruce  himself. Federal Labour members from Queensland were privileged to meet the High Commissioner in a friendly chat at the Bellevue Hotel, in Brisbane. Those present at that interview were the members in the House of Representatives for Kennedy  (Mr. Riordan),  Oxley  (Mr. Baker),  Brisbane  (Mr. George Lawson),  Herbert  (Mr. Martens), Senator Brown  and myself. In a most informative talk  Mr. Bruce  showed himself entirely familiar with the exports and imports of the different countries of Europe, and was able to tell us almost to a bushel the exportable surpluses of wheat held by those countries; but he definitely stated that Australia's way out was the restriction of its exports. At the conclusion of our interview  Mr. Bruce  also said, just as definitely, that the policy he was advocating would not be a trump-card political policy. He remarked that, as he was no longer in Parliament, he was not concerned with politics, but with a policy of safety for Australia. I then asked  Mr. Bruce  if the course he was advocating was not, at best, merely tinkering with the problem, and not touching its causes. I inquired whether it was not designed to prop up the capitalistic order of society, which everybody who takes an intelligent survey of world affairs knows to be tottering to its fall.  Mr. Bruce  replied, " I agree with what you have said ; but I do not think capitalism is coming to an end this year, next year, or the year after. I am only concerned about seeing that Australia discovers a policy which will help it to escape the immediate danger that threatens her." Yet this afternoon the Minister told us that such a policy as restriction of production was not advocated by  Mr. Bruce.  I do not know what he said at the conference attended by the Minister; hut I do know what he said at the interview to which I have referred. 
It seems strange to me, if what the Minister said is correct, that so much correspondence by telegram should have taken place between the Acting Premier of Queensland,  Mr. P.  Pease, and the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  with regard to this very matter. I propose to read, in reply to  Senator Elliott,  extracts from that correspondence which will show what actually occurred. During  Mr. Bruce's  presence in Australia the Prime Minister called a Premiers Conference for the purpose of conferring with the High Commissioner. The conference was held  in camera  at Canberra, and after  Mr. Bruce  had outlined the position, the Acting Premier asked him if the proposals he was placing before the conference had been sanctioned by the primary producers' organizations of Great Britain alone, or whether the British Government had been consulted. 

 Mr. Bruce replied that the British Government had given its imprimatur to the quotas he had set forth. The Acting 
Premier of Queensland reported the facts by cablegram to the Premier of that State,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, who was then in London, and received the following reply :  - 
Re your telegram outlining Bruce's statement at Premiers Conference; have seen  Major Elliott,  Minister for Agriculture. He emphatically denies that Bruce had any authority to put forward any quota suggestions or similar matters of policy on behalf of. or at suggestions of, British Government. Advise me urgently exact term's Bruce's statement on that point. 

 Mr. Pease immediately wired to the Prime Minister as follows :  - 
In cabling my Premier, Bruce's proposals, as set forth at Canberra, I stated those proposals were submitted with British Government's authority. You will remember 1 specially asked Bruce whether proposals as outlined by him submitted with British Government's approval, to which he replied " Yes ". 
I should like to do so because it would confirm what I have already said, and show that the Minister does not know what is going on, but, unfortunately, I have not the Prime Minister's reply with me. 
It may interest the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to know that  Mr. Bruce  spoke to me in the following strain : " Do you know, Collings, that at the World Conference I put Australia's position,', in relation to its primary products, and the need for an expansion of our export trade, very definitely, but of 66 nations represented at the conference, I could get only ten to support my proposals, and even their support was half-hearted, because they did not understand the position. What chance had I of making effective representations on behalf of Australia, in opposition to this policy." That is the policy which the Commonwealth Government denies that it ever advocated. A prominent newspaper put the position well when it asked whether  Mr. Bruce  was Australia's High Commissioner or Great Britain's trade commissioner. 
To the remark of  Senator Elliott  that a self-contained Australia would be a bankrupt Australia, I take the strongest exception. Does the honorable senator suggest that if Australia were cut off from supplies from other countries its 6,500,000 inhabitants would sit down and starve? There is nothing which is needed for the health, happiness, and prosperity of the Australian people which cannot be produced in Australia better than in any other one country. Australia with its six and a half millions of people has accomplished in little over a century a world's record, and a seeming miracle. No similar number of people in the world's history, in any country, has ever achieved such a wonderful record of splendid development and progress. It would appear that some honorable senators desire that this glorious country should become a vassal State of Great Britain. So long as I have breath in my body I shall fight any such proposal. 
What does this policy of restriction of our exportable surplus mean? In my opinion, Australians are foolish to produce so much that they have a large surplus available for export. A sane policy for Australia would be to meet its own normal requirements, at the same time making provision for adverse seasons, and to refuse to send out of th» country the best of our goods be sold abroad at half theprice charged for similar goods in Australia. If the proposal of  Mr. Bruce  is to be recognized at all, it means, as one writer has satirically suggested, that every wool-grower should be compelled to reduce the cut per sheep by 2 lb.; that no wheat-grower be allowed to produce more than 12 bushels on any acre; that the dairyman should shoot at dawn any cow that gives more than one billycan of milk; that the poultry-farmer should send to the meat market any hen that lays eggs on more than three days a week; that every orchardist should destroy any apple tree that bears more than two dozen apples each year; and that no live-stock be mated for the next three years. Honorable senators smile, but they know that in 
Tasmania and elsewhere fruit and livestock are destroyed, and production restricted, while thousands of persons live in a state of degradation, poverty and  starvation 
In supporting the motion, I appeal for greater consideration for our export industries.  Senator Collings  quoted  Senator Elliott  as having said that a self-contained Australia would be  a  bankrupt Australia. The world is troubled to-day because a policy of intense economic nationalism has been followed by many countries, including Australia. Indeed, Australia was one of the first nations of the world to preach the wild doctrine of economic nationalism and self-sufficiency. That policy has caused as great an interruption of commercial intercourse between nations as was caused by the Great War which preceded it. The experience of France, Germany, Italy, and other European countries during the war, led them to adopt a policy of more intense agricultural development in the interests of their own people. The result was that the wheat exporting countries found a restricted market for their produce. The average importation of wheat by France, Germany and Italy, for the years 1926 to 1930, was 206,000,000 bushels, whereas to-day not one bushel of wheat from Canada, Australia or Argentina enters those countries. Markets have been closed because European countries, like Australia, have adopted a policy of intense economic nationalism, and have endeavoured to become self-contained. The result of this policy in the countries mentioned is a greatly increased price for bread. In retaliation for Australia's high tariff, France has increased the duty on Australian wheat by 4s. 6d. a bushel above the rates which operate in regard to other foreign wheat. 
Even before the higher duties were imposed, our exports of wheat to France were not considerable. 
Not necessarily. The exclusion of Australian wheat from the French market has resulted in Australia having a carry-over of 100,000,000 bushels of wheat at the end of the cereal year. 
It is partly the result of our attempt to make Australia self contained. Australian over-production of wheat during the last five years is practically equivalent to the importation of wheat by France, Germany and Italy during the previous five years. That proves the fallacy of adopting a policy of economic nationalism. Other countries have followed Australia's example and have refused to purchase goods made outside their o.wnOWN boundaries. Economic nationalism caused the great financial depression from which the world has not yet recovered. Those who say that the depression would have come in any case do not wish to place the blame in the right quarter,  and so  they will not attribute it to the policy of high tariffs, embargoes and restriction of output, which is the real cause. Australia's unsound policy has had a boomerang effect. 
As I have said, Australia's attempt to be self-contained caused the depression. 
It pains every true Australian to learn that the Government regards as futile any attempt to increase our exports to Britain. Only a small proportion of Britain's requirements is supplied by Australia. 
Britain does care; but, unfortunately, Australians do not seem to realize the protection which Britain has afforded this country throughout its history. The great development which has taken place in Australia would not have been possible but for Britain's assistance. Nevertheless, I think that Britain should offer to Australia a larger share of its market. The average annual exports from Denmark to Great Britain are valued at £46,000,000, while those from Australia are valued at over £40,000,000, but Aus-' tralia's purchases from Great Britain amount to £7 5s. a head of our population, while the purchases made by Denmark are equal to only £2 15s. a head of its population. In other words, Australia's purchases from Great Britain average £23,000,000, as against purchases by Denmark amounting to £10,500. 1 was interested to hear the Assistant Minister say that the policy of Commonwealth Governments has always been in favour of preferential trade with Great Britain; but what does that really mean? "While foreign countries exporting goods to Australia have to surmount a high tariff wall, British products entering this country have also to pay heavy customs duties. I do not blame Great Britain for declining to concede all that we may wish; if we do not extend consideration to Britain, we cannot expect its assistance in matters of trade. If we arc to meet our financial commitments to Great Britain - our interest bill alone amounts to about £28,000,000 annually - Great ' Britain must import large quantities of our produce. At present, owing to our high tariff, we have only one-way traffic between Australia and Great Britain. Wc export large quantities of wool and wheat to the United Kingdom, but owing to the high customs duties we impose, a comparatively small quantity of British goods is imported into Australia. This results in higher freights being charged. It is essential that we should export more of our produce to Great Britain than at present, and that can be done if the Government will urge the British Government to take larger quantities of those primary products which we can economically produce.  Senator Collings  said that Australia with a population of a little over 6,500,000 persons, has performed wonders, but we could not have made such progress but for the production of large quantities of wool and wheat. Objection, was raised in certain quarters to the imposition of a sales tax on flour to assist the wheatgrowers, hut that tax was rendered necessary owing to the high cost of producing wheat, due mainly to the excessive cost of agricultural machinery. Production costs have been increased by heavy customs duties. On behalf of the primary producers of Australia, whose life-blood  i3  being sapped, I urge the Government to oppose any restriction of exports from Australia, which would only aggravate the present serious position. 
I regret that  Senator Badman  has seen fit to attack the protectionist policy of Australia. My only criticism of the help which the present Government has afforded to our secondary industries is that the present tariff is not sufficiently protective. If Australia is to be a self-contained nation we have to consider what we can produce, and what we should import.  Senator Badman  may be interested to hear some interesting facts that were contained in a report presented by a commission appointed .by the BrucePage Government, to which the honorable senator reverently referred. I may inform this champion of the primary producers that, under the tariff in operation when the Scullin Government came into power, sausage casings to the value of £561,000 were imported into Australia. This great representative of the primary producers may also be interested to learn that under that tariff, £116,000 worth of cheese also was imported. Apparently at that time it was considered easier to import cheese than to produce it. While a bounty was being paid on the production of dried fruits, the government of the day was so benevolent that in one year it allowed £182,000 worth to be imported. 
I am referring to dried fruits generally. Although we can readily produce sufficient vegetables to supply our requirements, preserved fruit and vegetables valued at £236,000 were imported. Hides valued at £795,000 also came into Australia. 
--We were exporting wool which was paid for with artificial silk. Perhaps honorable senators opposite will be surprised when'. 1 tei] them that during  the  same  period soap valued at £101,000 was imported. This document was not prepared by the Labour party ; it was the product of a commission set up by the Bruce-Page Government as a warning to this so-called Country party. It showed rural producers that the Labour party and the Nationalist party were trying to put the Country party on the right economic track. I urge  Senator Badman  and  Senator Elliott  to give serious consideration to the possible effect upon Australia of a lowering of the tariff. I. am not opposed to Empire trade. As a matter of fact, 1 believe we should do what we can to promote trade within the Empire. I am opposed to any alteration of our tariff to the detriment of Britain because I believe in the British Commonwealth of Nations; but any preferential arrangement should be reciprocal, and, as  Senator Elliott  pointed out in his excellent discourse this afternoon, there is no doubt that Great Britain is not playing the game by Australia. 
This discussion may give rise to serious thought as to the future development of British trade with Australia, and I hope also that it will receive the attention it deserves in other countries. We regard Australia as part of the British Empire, and we are anxious to improve our trade relations with our own kith and kin. But we want the Ottawa agreement to be interpreted, not so much in the letter as in the spirit of that document. In that respect we have fallen down,  because  hitherto we have been disposed to pay more regard to the letter than to the spirit of the  agreement  We have evidence of this in connexion with the motor body industry. I repeat that we should do what we can to observe the spirit of the Ottawa agreement, and as regards the motor body industry, I take this opportunity to say that I disagree entirely with the view of the representatives of the British motor body manufacturers who visited Australia recently and endeavoured to persuade us that, as British manufacturers could produce motor bodies more cheaply than Australian manufacturers, we should provide greater facilities for their importation and confine our attention to tha assembling of them in Australia. I wish British manufacturers to realize that, as one of the parties to the Ottawa agreement, we owe allegiance also to Canada, South Africa, and other dominions of the Empire. If the competition of any British industry displaced any considerable number of men employed in a like industry in Australia, the reduced purchasing power of our people, due to their unemployment, would, seriously affect the market enjoyed by other portions of the Empire. If we throw the Australian market open and allow it to be flooded with British goods, then because of unemployment the market for other customers will be reduced. An open market is valueless if it contains no purchasers. I would like  Senator Badman,  and those who think as he does, to endeavour to realize the futility of lowering the tariff merely to enable farmers to reduce the cost of ploughing by, say, 2d. or 3d. an acre. 
I am not ridiculing them. No one has exposed them to a greater amount of ridicule than their representatives in this  chamber  this afternoon. I have an intimate knowledge of the difficulties of the South. Australian farmers, and I can say definitely that they do not support  Senator Badman's  anti-tariff views. For this reason, I am sorry that the honorable gentleman will not be called upon to face the electors in September. If he went before them simply as a representative of the Country party and without the support of the pair of crutches provided by the Liberal and Country League, his second preferences would go to the Liberal party. I have no fear about the next election so far as the tariff issue is concerned, because I know where the people of Australia stand. I advise  Senator Badman  to take a keener interest in the welfare of the farmers. If he had sounder knowledge of their difficulties he would realize that their interests would not be served by the lowering of the tariff wall, and the wholesale admission into Australia of that class of goods in respect of which the Scullin Government was obliged to take action some years ago. This Government has authorized inquiries into many tariff items brought down by the preceding Administration, and we are informed that 60 reports by the Tariff Board have yet to be dealt with. I hope that the Ministry will not interfere with the protection given to Australian industries, which means so much to our industrial stability. 
The next government will be one led by  Mr. Scullin,  and we may rest assured that it will rectify some of the anomalies that have arisen out of the actions of this Government. I must say, however, that the task will be somewhat easier, because, be it said to the credit of this Administration, it has not done so much injury to Australian industry as was caused by the Ministry which held office immediately prior to the Scullin Government. I am not opposed to the motion, but I hope there will be full recognition by all parties in the Senate that the destiny of Australia rests, not so much upon markets overseas, as upon the preservation of the home market for Australian industries. The security of the home market will make possible the development of a true national life. By recognition of that fact the interests of Great Britain will be better served than they would he by the lowering of the tariff barrier to enable British manufacturers to flood the Australian market, only to discover that there was nobody in the market-place with the money to buy their goods. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [5.44]. - I presume that we should not find fault with Great Britain for not giving us greater facilities in the British market, because the Mother Country is merely attempting to do what we also desire, namely, to become economically selfsufficient. As, obviously, that is the intention of the British . Government, what are we going to do about it ? Our powers are limited, and however admirable may have been the sentiments expressed by other honorable senators, Great Britain is merely aiming to remedy evils of which we also complain.  Senator Daly  mentioned one point to which other speakers had not referred. The honor able gentleman reminded us that the greatest evil from which we are suffering is the curtailment of the local market, due to the lessened purchasing power of our people. A similar position has arisen in other countries, and, for reasons akin to those operating here, their governments are endeavouring to make them selfcontained. The world war accentuated a position that had previously begun to manifest itself. The enormous destruction of the world's wealth during those four years merely brought things to a head. The purchasing power of the people in every country having been mortgaged for generations ahead, a keener struggle for existing markets is inevitable. While that condition prevails, high tariffs or low tariffs will not of themselves suffice to get the world out of its troubles. It must surely occur at times to every Australian of average intelligence that it is absurd to send overseas the very best of our produce to be consumed by others while weare obliged to pay higher prices for the second quality goods which we keep for our own use. This is a form of economic lunacy, which, apparently, is inseparable from the capitalistic system. I am afraid that until that system is abandoned, we shall be called upon to suffer increasing evils of the like nature. On this subject of Empire trade, I quote the following from the  Canberra Times  of this date: - 
It cannot be said that the immediate outlook is one that supports the view that an early election is a good move in political strategy. The next few weeks may see an intensification of conditions of serious menace to Australia. The position in Germany and the outlook of Germany towards imports of raw materials, such as wool, together with the impending action by Britain against German balances in Britain and elsewhere, render the future one of serious concern for the wool industry and therefore strike fundamentally at Australian prosperity. 
That refers to the fact that all sorts of influences may, at any time, affect the trade balances between the various countries. As regards the latest development of British policy, can any one blame the farmers of the Mother Country for endeavouring to secure a greater measure of protection for their industry against foreign competition ? If we cannot blame the English farmer or stock-raiser for  seeking greater security, neither can he logically blame us for desiring to protect our home market for our secondary industries. The policy operates both ways. If one nation attempts to benefit itself by a tariff, that nation has no logical ground for finding fault with any other nation that adopts the same policy. Therefore, the fact that some nations resolve no longer to trade with others is not due to any inherent wickedness in the government of any particular country. Its action is simply dictated by the belief that, in trade matters, there should be some measure of reciprocity. It is true that by our tariff policy we have to some extent estranged the goodwill of other countries. But what we have to do is to consider whether, on the whole, it is better for us to approve of a high tariff and accept the consequences, or in deference to the wishes of other countries, adopt a low tariff and become "wood and water joeys " for the re3t of the world. The policy of Australia, however, is to build up its secondary industries. I scarcely agree with  Senator Collings,  who said that we could produce everything we required and exist in a state of perfect isolation. 
Of course, we could produce everything necessary for our sustenance, but I do not suggest that we could profitably produce everything we require. We could eat our own mutton, even if wc could not export any of it. We could find means of weaving our wool into clothing, and could consume Australiangrown sugar, even if we could not export the surplus. Twenty years ago, or more, I wrote an article in which I endeavoured to refute the common fallacy, which has survived to the present day, that unless we throw our ports open to the world, we are in danger of starvation and bankruptcy. If an enemy blockaded our ports, and prevented us from either importing or exporting goods, would we perish from the cold because of too much wool, or die of starvation because of too much foodstuffs? We all agree that it would be admirable if Britain would buy more of our primary products, but what steps can we take to bring about that result? If we must accept a flood of imports from Great Britain to enable us to export more of our primary products to the Old Country, we must either take the consequences of our tariff, or make wholesale reductions of duties. Whatever differences of opinion may prevail regarding the tariff, Australia's policy for many years has been the building up of its secondary industries.  Senator Badman,  I understand, said that Denmark sold £23,000,000 worth of produce to Great Britain in a year, while Australia exported £10,000,000 worth to the same market; but Britain has trade relations with many countries, and cannot afford to shut out their products to please Australia and Canada. We cannot expect to monopolize the British markets. An absurd amount of credit i3 given to Britain for having protected this country for over a century. That praise is founded upon a ridiculous assumption. Unless a country is prepared to be dominated by another, it cannot allow even a square foot of its territory to be annexed, by another power. 
I do not agree with  Senator Elliott  that restriction of production by government action is always detrimental. I remarked by way of interjection, during his speech, that government interference with the export of stud rams to foreign countries that compete with Australia in the markets of the world would be desirable. I am glad that  Senator Elliott  has submitted this motion, for it has furnished an opportunity for the discussion of a most important subject. I am not so gloomy as  Senator Rae,  who thinks that whatever is said in this chamber will have no effect. After all, the members of this Senate, in conjunction with the members of the House of Representatives reflect the opinion of the people of Australia. In listening to the address by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  this morning, one realized that Australia is known in other countries, and I consider that the discussions in the Commonwealth Parliament will have some effect, even in London. It seems only a short time since members of this Senate expressed their views concerning the Ottawa agreement, yet it is nOw being thrown to the winds. 
For his answer, I ask the honorable senator to consider the treaties that have been made, by Britain with foreign countries since the conclusion of that agreement. The honorable member for Henty  (Sir Henry Gullett),  in his speech on the agreement, said - 
The purpose of the  Imperial  Enonomic Conference at Ottawa was to review tho question of preferential trade within the British Empire, and to endeavour to establish it upon a sound reciprocal basis. . . . The case for a comprehensive scheme of preferential trade within the Empire rests upon the belief first that such a scheme is practicable and economically round, and, secondly, that it will prove  a  most powerful influence in strengthening all the other bonds which hold the British peoples together. 
That was a sound argument, because at that time the policy of Empire nationalism was preached. Ours was to be a self-contained Empire, and Britain was to think first of Australia. Britain is undoubtedly the hub of the Empire, but London is the financial centre of  international  financial interests which extend to practically every part of the world.  Senator Elliott,  in his references to reductions, restrictions and: quotas, merely proved the soundness of the arguments advanced in this chamber last year by senators on the Opposition side. To some extent,  Senator Badman  anticipated me in giving some of his views on this subject, hut he has a free-trade complex. When interviewed by a representative of a newspaper in one of the .southern capitals regarding the restriction of exports, he said - 
On an average, the Australian buys from Britain £7 5s. worth of goods each year. The Dane buys £2 15s. worth, and the American only 5s. worth. Yet we find that Great Britain has imported an average of £46,715,000 worth of produce from Denmark during the past three years', while Australia's share has averaged only £40,198,000. On the other hand, exports from Great Britain to Denmark have averaged £10,184,000 a year; but exports to Australia have averaged nearly £23j000,000 a year. 
Following the Ottawa Agreement, Britain concluded a treaty with Den mark, which shows that all the highsounding phrases of the honorable member for Henty were so much hot air. Denmark exports much butter and other dairy produce to Great Britain, and this has a detrimental effect on the Australian butter trade. The agreements which Great Britain enters into with foreign countries, and which are of disadvantage to Australia, give us great concern. Argentina exports much chilled beef to Britain, and it has occurred to me that recent developments in regard to the Northern Territory should be closely watched. The attempt made last year to obtain control of that territory by means of chartered companies was due to the desire of British capitalists with international interests .to control our beef export trade, because, with the likely success of the latest process of chilling beef, the advent of Australian chilled meat upon the world's markets, was greatly feared by Argentina. The attempt has failed because, as evidenced by the deputation of the Australian Natives Association to the Leader of the Senate, the Government has been shown that public opinion is against it. It is well known that British financiers have invested approximately £500,000,000 in Argentina, with the result that reciprocal trade within the Empire is seriously affected. Now that the proposal to develop the Northern Territory by 'means of chartered companies has failed, the problem of developing that vast area is being attacked from a different angle by those who were interested in seeking control of it. Instead of saying that the Northern Territory is a profitable field for the investment of British capital, the Gilruths and others now declare that it is of no value. What is the reason for this change of attitude? As one who would welcome a gradual progress towards a socialistic state, I would rather have this country developed with Australian capital than with money provided by outsiders. Probably the activities of international financiers, who desire to wreck the Australian meat industry so far as the export of chilled beef is concerned, have influenced  Dr. Gilruth  and others. 
Some honorable senators contend that Australia should always give way to Britain. The sacrifices which Australia made during the war, described by  Senator Barnes  as our free gift of £600,000,000 to Britain, are overlooked. I well recall  Sir George  Fairbairn diecussing in the Senate chamber in 1922 Australia's contribution to the British Empire during the war as represented by the sacrifices made in respect of the prices obtained for our primary products, and, though an imperialist, reluctantly admitting what  Senator Barnes  has said to-day. A careful review will reveal that Australia has treated the Motherland generously. That policy of restriction of output and of quotas is entirely foreign to the spirit of the Ottawa agreement, and to the sentiments expressed by  Sir Henry  Gullett on his return from Ottawa, when he said that he commended the agreement to the House in the interests of Australia, and of the Empire as a whole, and asked all to accept -it for the sake of the Australian primary producers. 
'Some questions asked recently in the House of' Commons may be of interest to honorable senators, in view of the imputation that Great Britain has not done a fair thing by Australia in the matter of trade agreements. On the 15th May of this year, Captain Spencer asked the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs the date on which he first made representations to the Australian Government on the prohibition of the importation into Australia of British sheet glass, and what reply, if any, he had received.  Mr. J.  H. Thomas replied that representations were first addressed to the Australian Government on this subject on the 25th January, 1933, and, although they had been repeated several times since then, no satisfactory reply had been received. Captain Spencer also asked that the British Government would continue .to urge upon the Commonwealth Government the necessity for action, and  Mr. Thomas  replied, "I hope that the reply which I have given to-day will provide the necessary incentive." Captain Spencer then asked whether the Minister would name the articles of British manufacture, the importation of which into Australia had .been prohibited, or subjected to an increased duty since August, 1932, and  Mr. Thomas  replied, " I am sending the honorable member a list of five cases in which the duties in the Commonwealth of Australia on goods manufactured in the United Kingdom have been increased since August, 1932. In one case, namely that of plain clear sheet glass, importation Ls at present prohibited." When I spoke on this subject last year, I pointed out that, although we had received concessions from the Old Country covering a wide range of articles, all we had given in return was a general undertaking. I added that, unless we did our part, we would experience difficulty in getting these concessions extended or renewed. What I prophesied then is now coming to pass. The Minister stated that these quotas had no connexion with tariffs, but it stands to reason that, unless we fulfil our part of the bargain, it will be increasingly difficult to get any extension of these concessions. 
Motion -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the rate of duty on British-made Alms imported into Australia? 
What is the rate of duty on Australianmade films imported into the United Kingdom ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Films the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom and imported direct from that country are admissible free of customs duty, but aro subject to 10 per cent, primage. Such educational films of United Kingdom origin as aro admissible under by-law are free of both customs duty and primage. 
The rates of duty payable on Australianmade films imported into the United Kingdom are (o) positives, i.e., films containing a picture for exhibition, whether developed or not, per lineal foot of standard width of If inches, *d; (6) negatives, i.e., films containing a photograph, whether developed or not, from which positives can be printed, per lineal foot of standard width of If inches,  3 1/3d 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What is the present number of unemployed males in the Federal Capital Territory? 
What is the number of their dependants? 
What was the nature and duration of the temporary employment provided in November oflast year? 
What employment, if any, has been provided during the already expired period of this current year, and what were the nature and duration of same? 
What provision, if any, has been made for the balance of this year? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers: - 1.716 are registered. 2.Recordsofalldependants are not available. Dependants of applicants for ration relief number619. 
For those registered who were dependent on unemployment relief works, full-time employment was provided from the 27th November to 22nd December, 1933. Prior to this, during November, the allotment was one week in two to married, and one in four to single, men. The nature of the work may be summarized as road improvements, afforestation, and scrub destruction. 
The allotment of work from 8th January, 1934, fluctuated between one week in three to one in two for married, and from one in five to one in four for single men. From the 14th May, 1934, until the 29th June, 1034, married men were employed full time, and single men for one week in three - generally on works of the same nature as in 1933. 
This is dependent upon the amount that may be provided by Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Under what conditions and to what extent was assistance given to fruit-growers in each State of the Commonwealth under the provisions of the Fruit Growers Relief Act 1933? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The answer to the honorable senator's questions is as follows :  - 
The Fruit Growers Relief Act appropriated the following sums, to be paid to the States, for the benefit and assistance of necessitous fruit-growers who could satisfy an authority . nominated by the State that they had suffered losses in the export from Australia of apples and pears grown by them during the 1932-33 season :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407054_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following sums have been advanced to the States: - 

<graphic href="144332193407054_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

The other States have not applied for any portion of the sums allocated to them. 
Questions have arisen in regard to the interpretation of the word " necessitous ". In order to assist the States in dealing with applications, the Prime Minister advised the States, in May last, that the best course to pursue was to obtain such particulars as would enable an opinion to be formed, firstly, whether the claimant had suffered losses in export during the 1932-33 season, and, secondly, whether, as a result of those losses, he had been placed in a position of financial difficulty. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What action, if any, has been taken to provide southern Tasmania with an aerodrome in the vicinity of Cambridge? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister prepared to make a statement with regard to the proposed submarine telephone cable between Tasmania and Victoria ? 
If so, when is it likely that Tasmania's isolation from the Commonwealth trunk line service will end? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers :  - 
Tenders are at present under consideration, and it is hoped a contract will be entered into at an early date. 
Probably about twelve months after the placing of the contract for the submarine cable. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What B class wireless stations have been licensed in Queensland? 
What are the official designationsof same ? 
By whom is each owned and controlled? 
On what date and for what period are such licences issued ? 
The information sought by the honorable senator is incorporated in the following statement: - 

<graphic href="144332193407054_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the position with regard to the broadcasting station at Kelso, Tasmania? 
Have tenders been called for and accepted? 
When will the work be commenced ? 
Whatis the approximate date of the opening of the station? 
The manufacture of the equipment is well advanced, and it is expected the erection of the building will soon be commenced. 
Yes. 
See answer to 1 . 
Near the end of the year. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What reasons are advanced by the PostmasterGeneral for the refusal of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to allow  Mr. Bcusley,  M.P., leader of the Labour party. State of New South Wales, and  Major Douglas,  leader of the Douglas credit movement, the right to speak in the same manner as granted to other public men in Australia? 
The matter is one for determination by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, ' and the Postmaster-General has no knowledge of any negotiations in regard to broadcasting by cither of the two gentlemen named. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Has he received the report prepared by the Commissioner of Pensions upon the matter of the salary of deputy pensions commissioners and their staffs throughout the Commonwealth, about which the Minister promised information on the 14th June, 1933? 
If so, will he make the report available to honorable senators, and will he inform the Senate what action, if any, has been taken in the matter? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
On the 10th November, 1933, in reply to a somewhat similar question, the honorable senator was informed that the report had been received and had been referred to the Public Service Board. 
The Public Service Board has raised the classification of all  deputy  commissioners of pensions. The report is purely a departmental one, and it is not the practice to make such reports available to honorable senators. 
asked the Minister administering the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
Has the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research at any time inquired as to the fodder value of prickly pear? 
If so, what were the results arrived at from such inquiry? 
If not, will the Minister instruct the council to make such inquiry) 
The answers to the honorable  senator's questions are as follows : - 
No, because full inquiries have been made by the Queensland Department of Agriculture, the results of which have already been published and are available. 
In view of the action taken by the Queensland Department of Agriculture, thu activities of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research have been restricted, in co-operation with representatives of the two States concerned, that is, New South Wales and Queensland, to an investigation of biological methods for eradication and control of the excessive growth of the pest. 
See replies to 1 and 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What steps, if any, have been taken to remedy the housing position at Molonglo and Causeway to which  Senator Collings  drew the attention of the Senate on 1st December of last year? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers: - 
The department is developing a scheme for the erection of 143 houses, which  includes  provision for about 50 workmen's dwellings, and the construction is now proceeding. 
It has not been possible so far to demolish any of thu Molonglo dwellings, as the demand for accommodation of any sort by workmen is even heavier than when this question was previously raised. 
asked the Minister administering the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon  notice  - 
Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing in Sydney newspapers to the effect that [lending inquiries from England and a report on the progress made there in the production of petrol from coal, the chief executive officer for the Commonwealth Council for Scientific and Industrial Research  (Dr. A. C. D. Rivett)  had intimated that the Hydrogenation Committee, appointed by the Prime Minister, was not likely to meet until the end of this month? 
If the statement is correct is this not a departure from the assurance that has been given both in the Senate, and by the Minister to deputations? 
Will the Minister make a clear statement as to the reasons of the Government not going on with the production of petrol from coal? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
Yes. 
The statement is correct, but it docs not represent any departure from assurances that have been given. 
Pursuant to a promise made by thu Prime Minister to a deputation which waited upon him at Cessnock on 23rd March, 1934, to the effect that he was prepared to ask the Federal Cabinet to give consideration to the question as to whether it would be advisable, in co-operation with the Government of New South Wales, to ask Imperial Chemical Industries Limited to undertake the construction of a plant in Australia concurrently with construction at Billingham-on-Tees, the matter was duly considered by Cabinet, when it was decided that an expert committee be appointed tor the purpose of reporting on the matter. The personnel of the committee comprises  Dr. A.  C. D. Rivett, as  chairman  ;  Mr. L.  J. Rogers, the Commonwealth fuel adviser, and a representative of the defence services, as representatives of the Commonwealth; and one representative of each of those States which desired to bc represented, together with one or more representatives of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, as the company desired. All States, with thu exception of Western Australia, which does not desire to be represented, have now nominated representatives to the committee, and Synthetic Coal Oil Products Proprietary Limited, has nominated  Mr. Norman  Taylor, of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited. 
The terms of reference to the committee are to report upon - 
The most suitable location in Australia for a hydrogenation plant capable of using about 1,000 tons of coal per day; 
Estimated costs of production; 
The estimated amount of protection and /or subsidy which would be required in connexion with such enterprise; 
The estimated number of men who would be directly employed in connexion with such work; this information to .be dissected showing the number of .miners and other work-people. Probable indirect employment to be shown if possible; 
The advantages likely to accrue to Australia as the result of the installation of the plant, computing as accurately as possible items which could be set-off against the additional cost of the product ; 
As to when the plant should be erected ; and 
Any other matters considered to bc relevant to the project. 
Some divergence of opinion exists among the States as to the proper location for a hydrogenation plant, and a good deal of additional information is required as to the merits of brown coal for production of petrol by the  hydrogenation process. It is expected that valuable information on certain points will reach Australia from England during the present month, and in these circumstances  Dr. Rivett  deemed it desirable to defer calling a meeting of the committee until the information arrived. In the meantime, however, members of the committee are devoting their attention to certain aspects of the matter which have been brought to their notice by  Dr. Rivett. 
I can give an assurance that no delay will occur, hut it is imperative that the Government should be in possession of the fullest information before giving consideration to the question of establishing an industry of  the  magnitude mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the Government prepared to bring about the rescission of the emergency wage cuts, the stabilization of cost-of-living adjustments, and the payment of the basic wage to male employees on reaching adult age in the Federal Public Service; if not, why not? 
It would be contrary to established practice to make a statement of policy in reply to a question. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
How far has the Government used its powers concerning safety at  Bea  in the direction of demanding that all coastal vessels of 50 tons and over trading on the Australian coast should install wireless? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Commonwealth control of shipping covers only such vessels as are engaged in interstate or overseas trade. About 90 per cent. of the small craft of 50 tons and over trade within the limits of a State, and are subject to State laws. The matter of legislative control of these latter is at present the subject of negotiation with the State Governments concerned. 
askedthe Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister take into account the sufferings of coal-miners and their families in 
New South Wales, which have been caused by the depression and lack of oversea coal orders by countries using oil fuel? 
Will he order an issue to them of military clothing, flannel (bulk), and boots? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
The Government has taken into account the privations suffered by many sections of the community as the result of the depression and the vagaries of trade, and every endeavour has been made to give relief in the issue of military clothing when available. 
All surplus stocks of military clothing, flannel, boots, &amp;c, were distributed to those in necessitous circumstances some time ago, and the only military clothing which now becomes available is that which is returned by the troops. This clothing is issued to the State Governments from time to time for relief purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
How many persons received passports during the last twelve months to enable them to travel on overseas steamers not registered in Australia and sailing to Port Moresby, Papua, Saraarai, Rabaul, New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer: - 
The question presumably refers to overseas steamers not registered in Australia which undertake short round trip cruises from Sydney to Papua, New Guinea, and Solomon Islands. Australian passengers making round trips of this kind, either by vessels which are registered or not registered in Australia, are not required to obtain passports. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the private trading banks of New South Wales increasing the wages of their employees by 8 per cent. of the total reductions of the 10 per cent, cut under the Premiers plan, will the Prime Minister approach the Commonwealth Bank Board with a view to the employees of the bank having restored to them the 10 per cent, which was taken from them in accordance with the Premiers plan; if not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister states that inquiries are being made, and  a  reply will bo furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is  it  a  fact  that the tenor of the note recently addressed and conveyed to the  President  of the United States of America at Washington, United States of America, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, M.P., was a justification of a British default and that the interest and wellbeing of the British people must take precedence over the claims of the American bondholders ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
How many trade agreements with foreign countries are at present in existence, if any? 
What are the names ofsuch countries? 
With what countries arc trade agreements at present being negotiated? 
SenatorMcLACHLAN.- The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
None. 
See answer to No. 1. 
Concrete proposals for trade agreements are being discussed with Belgium, Italy, and France. Preliminary discussions have taken place with regard to Japan, Germany, United States of America, Spain, Norway, Poland, the Netherlands, and Czechoslovakia, Greece, and China? 
 I again enter my protest against the adjournment of the Senate for another week when there is work to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to the following statements which appeared in the Sydney  Truth  newspaper: - 
When  Dr. Earle  Page, M.H.R., was Treasurer in the Bruce-Page Government,he was responsible for the following: - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

The mad extravagance of the tragic Treasurer 
ThePRESIDENT.- Order ! 
Is he the same  Dr. Earle  Page, M.H.R., who has been sitting in daily conference with  Mr. Lyons,  the Prime Minister, to bring about an election pactbetween the -United Australia party and the United Country party? 
In a question directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, of which notice has been asked,  Senator Dunn  has read somewhat lengthy quotations from a newspaper article containing expressions of opinion with regard to the attitude of the Argentine Republic to the international wheat agreement. As the honorable senator must know from experience, this practice cannot be. allowed in questions addressed to Ministers. To permit this would be to confer on persons outside this Parliament rights which are not enjoyed by honorable senators. Therefore, that part of the honorable senator's question is disallowed. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior make available to senators who wish to peruse them, before the debate, the special opinions recently obtained from King's Counsel, with reference to the proposed reduction of South Australian members of the House of Representatives? 
I have received from  Senator Hardy  an intimation that he desires to move the adjournment of the Senate this afternoon for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, " The reported decision of the Government to hold a general election on the 15th September, 1934." 

 Four honorable senators having risen in support of the motion, 

.- I move- 
That the Senate  at  its rising' adjourn  till  9 a.m. on Thursday, 12th instant. 
I have taken this course to enable honorable senators to discuss what I consider an unprecedented act of political expediency by the Lyons Government to hold the federal elections on the 15th September, approximately five months before the date on which they would ordinarily be held. There is neither rhyme nor reason in abandoning a national work of reconstruction and plunging the nation into a welter of uncertainty. There is no excuse for any government substituting political strategy for a policy of national progress. The decision to appeal to the people six months before the constitutional term of Parliament will expire is inexplicable not only to the general public, but also to members of this Parliament, and it is evidence of the control by certain political strategists which has characterized the whole of the Lyons administration. It cannot be denied that two and a half years ago the present Government was elected by an overwhelming majority. It was then felt by the people that the Government would undertake fearlessly the national work of reconstruction needed, showing favour to none, and governing for the benefit of the whole of the people, regardless of class or creed. The electors who have watched the progress of this Government, with varying feelings, are astounded to learn that after a recess of seven months Parliament is to be dissolved at the voluntary request of the Prime Minister. Is it any wonder that people are asking - and the question is likely to remain unanswered - why an appeal is being made to the people when the work for which the Government was elected remains incomplete? Is there any excuse for abandoning a programme of national legislation merely in order to gain a tactical advantage  over  other political parties? Is there any excuse why vital legislation should not be dealt with during the next six months instead of playing ducks and drakes with the political stability of this country? Surely it is the duty of any government, regardless of its political creed, to carry its responsibility through to the end of its term rather than to sidestep the difficult problems that lie ahead. When the Leader of the Senate was asked last week to state the reasons which actuated the Government in this matter, he said that the Prime Minister would announce the reasons in the House of Representatives. The date of the election was announced, but the Prime Minister has not yet explained to Parliament the reasons for such an irresponsible decision. The National Parliament has had to be content to read a statement issued by the Prime Minister through the press, and which, for all  practical purposes, is about as useful as a ship in dry dock. In that statement which, I presume, must represent the official views of the Government, the Prime Minister said - 
The Government obtained u mandate at the last election to balance the budget and restore confidence and credit. This mandate lias been fully carried out. The country now faces the problems of rural rehabilitation, markets for our produce, trade treaties, prevention of the restriction of exports of our primary products, adequate defence and Empire co-operation. 
It is true that at the last election the Government obtained a mandate to balance its budget and to restore confidence. That was one of the greatest assets of this " prosperity " which still persists in hiding its head around the corner. The Prime Minister, with the aid of a rise in export prices of about 40 per cent. - a fact which he does not mention - has balanced his budget, but whether confidence has been restored is debatable. The Tasmanian electors did not think so, as a Nationalist Government in that State has been thrown out of office. Perhaps the matter of confidence is worrying the Prime Minister, and that may be his real reason for the early appeal to the country. I admit that conditions are improving. Why, it is even reported that the farmers in the Riverina are taking their bills out of the envelopes. Still, the Prime Minister may find that his confidence is misplaced. It is cheerfully and thankfully admitted that the budget is balanced, but it is not my purpose on this occasion to say at what cost. I dismiss the first part of his statement, and allow the credit - if there is any - to go to the Government, but it is the next sentence in his statement to which I direct attention. It is - 
The country now faces the problem of rural rehabilitation. 
The intention is clear; the words allow no misinterpretation. It is a simple, bald statement by Australia's first citizen that the country now faces the problem of rural rehabilitation. This shows the difference, clearly and sharply, between the United Australia party and the United Country party. The members of the Country party have been under the impression, for the past three years, that unless the primary industries are given a policy of rehabilitation, all engaged in such industries must become bankrupt o* remain on their farms as tenants for vested interests. We have argued and pleaded for these measures both in season and out of season, and there have been instances in this chamber where our appeals for rural rehabilitation have fallen on deaf ears And now the Prime  Minister '(Mr. Lyons), as a reason for this election six months before it need take place, states that the country is crying out for a policy of rural rehabilitation. Rip Van Winkle! It is a pity this cry was not recognized three years ago. The Parliament has over six months of its constitutional term of office yet. to run, and the Government, if it is sincerely desirous of effectuating a rural policy, has still ample time to do it by postponing the election till the proper date, and getting down to solid constructive work for the next six months. It would then be able to refute the statement that it has been like a taxi driver, going through life just missing everything. It is admitted in the statement that, on all matters including visionary rural rehabilitation, the Government has a vital policy, but requires these questions to be submitted to the people. Why ? That is a logical question, and one the Government can attempt to answer. Surely, if a policy has been formulated during the life of the Government, one may logically ask, " Why has this policy, in view of the urgent need of .the men on the land, not been put into operation? Why let it hibernate, while a harassed nation mills around like a flock of sheep?" Is this the policy of the political strategists? If so, it is one that sacrifices the advancement of the nation on the altar of party tactics. In the work that remains undone by the present Government, the tariff and assistance to primary industry rank foremost. I shall not weary the Senate by a repetition of the Lyons Government's tariff record, but it is pertinent to inquire why over 60 reports by the Tariff Board, which have been received by the Government, have not been released for the consideration of this Parliament. The Government has' always claimed that it should be guided by the Tariff Board's recommendations. Surely the Government does not contemplate, in order to defeat the purpose of this pledge made in the policy speech of the Prime Minister, that those reports shall be allowed to lie undisturbed on the Cabinet table, and to become covered with dust. What do these reports contain? Are they all in favour of those who advocate low duties, irrespective of the effect on Australian industries, or do they advocate the retention of present duties? Obviously, a serious change must have been recommended ; otherwise the reports would not be withhold by the Government. Are they being suppressed in view of the coming election? The release of the reports would cause a re-action in the ranks of those government supporters who advocate a manufacturing Australia. Election or no election, the obvious fluty of the Government is to table the reports, and not allow the allegation to be made that the election will be fought under false tariff colours. Rumour is, of course, a lying jade, but sometimes rumour is correct, and rumour hath it ,that the political strategists are determined to keep the reports an unknown quantity until after the election. 
Again, I am not prepared at this stage to detail the many sins of the Lyons Government in connexion with the wheat industry. I shall not stress the fact that the previous budget contained no reference to wheat relief, but I do emphasize that the Government has no right to appeal to the country until it has solved this problem. Repeatedly, it has avoided the issue with  an  agility worthy of an acrobat. A commission has been appointed to investigate tho wheat industry. There is no doubt that the report will be wide in scope and effect. Its fulfilment will either usher in a new era of prosperity for the wheatgrower, or throw the whole industry into chaos. Why not defer the election until the report is tabled? The plain duty of the present Government is to stay in office and place the wheat industry on a sound footing, instead of rushing to the country with a pyramid of promises as to what it will do if returned. The Government can remain in office, if it so desires, for another six months. It should do so, and cope with the wheat problem. If the Government seeks election without placing this great industry on a sound basis, it will be adding the last straw that will break the camel's back. I am frequently in touch with the primary producers, and I know that they will not tolerate any government that offers only a mass of promises, and has no record of achievement. 
Will the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  state the intention of the Government regarding the Petrol Commission? Is this also to be a post-election policy, as well as' rural rehabilitation, the necessity for which  Mr. Lyons  appears to have just discovered? Are we to apply the famous "wait and see" policy to this important subject as well as to wheat and the tariff? In regard to subsidized foreign shipping, 1 am astonished that the Government has done nothing to deflect this attack on British vessels. Mention could he made of the various constitutional arn end ments proposed in the policy speech of  Mr.  Lyons,  but these matters only tend to widen the difference of opinion that exists between, those people who think that it is high time that the Lyons Government should get something done, and those who .think that the Lyons Government has done enough. Frankly, I have never believed that the Lyons Government has had any sympathy with the primary producers of this country. It is not a friend of the man on the land, and has never given adequate assistance to our great exporting industries. I protest vigorously against the decision of the Government to hold an election on the 15th September. Unless the Government were defeated in the meantime, the proper time for it to account to the electors for its administration would be after the 17th February, 1935. 
[3.31]. - One wonders why the honorable senator moved the adjournment of the Senate, because everything that he said to-day he has said on many other occasions since he was elected to this chamber. I emphasize that only since his election has he spoken in this strain. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.An astonishing feature of the motion is the quarter from which the mover received support. In addition to  Senator Johnston,  support was forthcoming from the two members of the Lang party and the members of the Scullin party. 
Both members of that party, as well as both members of the Lang party, gave the honorable senator their support. 1 congratulate bini, as a New South "Wales senator, on having obtained the support of the Lang party. Had  "Senator Hardy,  before submitting his motion, taken the trouble to make inquiries, he would have ascertained that the House of Representatives, as at present constituted, will expire by effluxion of time on the 16th February, 1935, and that the invariable practice lias been to hold an election before the actual date on which the Parliament would ordinarily expire. 
Lf the practice of the past were followed on this occasion, the election would need to be held in December or January next. Do honorable senators think that either is a suitable month in which to hold an election? I admit that elections have been held in December; but the campaigns have been fought in October and November.  Senator Hardy  poses as the champion of the primary producers. If he knows anything at all of primary production, he must know that December and January are the months when it is most difficult for wheat-growers to get away from their farms. The Australian wheat crop is reaped during December and January, and there is always the risk of storms and fire destroying the work of months; yet the honorable senator would take the primary producers off their farms at that season and subject them to those risks. I suggest that he shows a callous disregard of their interests. 
Another reason for an early election is that we are to be favoured with a visit from a member of the Royal family.  His  Royal Highness, the Duke of Gloucester, will arrive in Australia in October, and will romain in this country until December. Surely it is most undesirable that he should be here during the turmoil of a general election. Is it not better that he should come during the calm before the storm, or that which follows the storm? 
A consideration of these factors proves conclusively the wisdom of holding an election in September or October. 
The honorable senator introduced into the discussion the differences which exist between the United Australia party and the United Country party. There have always been some differences between the two parties; but I have never regarded them as serious. The honorable senator himself, when he was seeking to he placed on the joint ticket of the hyo parties at n previous election, did not regard them as vital. 
Of so little consequence did the honorable senator regard those differences then that he could speak to the electors from the same platform as did members of the United Australia party. Now that the honorable senator has been elected to the Senate, it may not matter to him that in New South Wales .the United Country party does not regard the differences between the parties as sufficiently great to prevent it from agreeing with the United Australia party for a joint ticket at the forthcoming election. If  Senator Hardy  is the real voice of the Country party, the other members of the organization must be out of step. The honorable senator oan see nothing good in the United Australia party or the Government which represents it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Government has done its job -too well for the honorable senator ; it has removed from office the Lang Government, which was the beginning, and end of the honorable senator's policy. The reasons for holding an election in September were given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  recently, when he said - 
In going to the country in September the Parliament ia only anticipating by two, or, at the most, three months thy time  when  the elections would have been held iu any case. Generally, .Federal elections have  been  held in November or December. 
The Government obtained a mandate at the last election to balance the budget and restore confidence and credit. This mandate has been fully carried out. The country now faces the problems of rural rehabilitation, markets for our produce, trade treaties, prevention of the restriction of our exports of primary .products, adequate defence, and continuance of sound finance and Empire cooperation. On all these vital questions the Government has a definite policy, but the proposals which the Government has formulated on these matters have not been submitted to the people. 
The Government desires once more to obtain a fresh mandate from the people to enable it to carry out its policy in respect to those mutters. All the subjects mentioned need urgent attention and action. An early election is, therefore. ' gi the interest of the people, in order that a Parliament duly authorized by the people to deal with these vital and important questions may be elected as soon as possible. It would obviously be undesirable to have an election during the Royal visit. To postpone the election until after the departure of the Royal guest would mean that the election would have to be held in January or February, when harvesting is proceeding in some States, a period which, from a climatic point of view, is the most unsuitable time of the year. 
The members of the Parliament who may not he re-elected suffer a pecuniary loss by.  an  early election, but the people will reap the  benefit  of  being  given a voice in determining how these Policies are to he shaped, and by whom thev are to be given effect to. 
If the Government had so poor an opinion of itself, it would not make a declaration such as that, or take the proposed action, which is the clearest possible indication of its confidence in the verdict of the people. It has no doubt at all that its record in the last two and a half years, together with the policy which it will place before the people, will ensure its return to office and guarantee stable government in the federal sphere for another three years. &lt; 
Certain aspects of the problems upon which the Government proposes to seek a fresh mandate had not arisen when this Parliament went to the country on the last occasion. Take, for instance, the marketing of our rural products. The 
Ottawa Conference had not then been held and since that gathering the acute nationalism, which has developed in some countries has created serious problems in connexion with the marketing of their products, and to those problems the Ottawa agreement does not supply a complete answer. The finding of new markets and the making of trade treaties have become acute problems, and the Government must have a policy regarding them. It is equally important for the Government to know that it has the authority of the people, to put such a policy into operation. 
The honorable senator declared that the Government is holding back reports by the Tariff Board. It is a fact that some 60 reports are available, but it is eminently desirable that they should not be tabled until the Government is able to say what action it proposes concerning them, and to implement that action with the consent of both branches of the legislature. In those reports certain rates of duty are recommended by the board. If the reports were tabled, and action were not taken on them immediately, clever importers, and, for that matter, manufacturers too, could gain an advantage by gambling on the possible  action  to be taken by the Government. As the election is to be held in September, it will be impossible for both Houses to have a full discussion on the board's reports on 60 items, and legislate on them, as well as deal with all the matters that will arise out of the budget proposals of the Government. It is clear that if the reports were laid on the table in the House of Representatives, all that Parliament could do would be to pass an act validating the new duties, but would that be satisfactory? Honorable senators know that on one occasion we had to validate a whole host of duties upon which this Senate had had no opportunity to express its opinion. Surely that is not a proper exercise of the legislative power of this chamber. Therefore, to those who would safeguard the interests of the Senate, I suggest that, as the elections will be held in September, it is far better that each House should have an opportunity to discuss freely and vote upon the proposals of the Tariff Board regarding all those items. I desire to correct  Senator Hardy.  I do not know whether he deliberately tried to misconstrue the Prime Minister's remarks, but 1 challenge him to produce any statement ever made by my leader, at any time and in any place, that he would always accept the recommendations of the Tariff Board. What he did say was that the policy of the Government was to refrain from altering duties without first obtaining a report by the board, but the Ministry has never pledged itself to accept every recommendation submitted by the board. It must make up its own mind regarding any duty in the light of the board's report and recommendation. But, obviously, it cannot commit itself to accept, every such recommendation. 
The honorable senator went on to say that the Government has no right to go to the country until it has announced its policy. Of course, it will announce its policy when it goes to the country. Surely no democrat can object to that procedure, which amounts to placing the people, in a sense, before the Parliament. The matters awaiting immediate attention were not under consideration by the people at the last election, and consequently, they have never expressed an opinion regarding them; so the Government, in taking its policy to the country, is showing that it believes in the rule of the people. 
The policy of the Government regarding the wheat industry was also questioned by the honorable senator. The Government has already announced  that  the royal commission that has been inquiring into the position of the wheat industry will submit an interim report before the end of the present session. The  chairman  of the commission has informed the Prime Minister that this will be done, so I suggest to  Senator Hardy  that after the receipt of the interim report will be the appropriate time for the Government to state what action it proposes to take upon the matter. The Government does not know any more than does the honorable senator what that interim report will contain. Obviously, it would be foolish on the Government's part to anticipate the report, and it is unreasonable on the part of the honorable senator to ask it to commit itself regarding a report which it has not yet seen. 
The honorable senator has the assurance that the report will be presented before the close of the session. I was surprised to hear him say that the Lyons Government had shown no sympathy with the rural producer. I cannot understand the motive for that statement. Does the honorable senator wish to see Labour in possession of the treasury benches in the Commonwealth Parliament, and a repetition throughout Australia of that state of affairs which existed in New South Wales and was responsible for his return to this chamber? Let him not think that his remarkable capacity as a  speaker  and an organiser was responsible for his appearance here.  His  election was due to the revulsion of feeling in New South Wales against the Lang Government. On that wave of public feeling, and with the Assistance of the organisation of the United Australia party, he came into this chamber. But his remarks to-day are not calculated to help this Government or the party that assisted him into this Parliament. They will rather serve the ends of the party that is the greatest danger to Australia - the Lang Labour party. 
Let us examine the accusation made against this Government. In its two years and a half of office, it has done its utmost, within the limits imposed by the financial condition of the country, to afford relief to wheat-farmers, whose desperate plight was due to the catastrophic decline of the overseas market, and, on each occasion, notwithstanding the taunts of  Senator Hardy  and some others, it acted in sufficient time for the harvest. It refused to be stampeded then, as it refuses to be stampeded now, in regard to its policy for the relief of rural producers. It also introduced and passed last year a measure providing for the payment of a bounty on the purchase of fertilizers required by primary producers other than wheat-growers. Its action in this respect has been appreciatively referred to by many primary producers, who declared that it was of the greatest assistance to them. The Government also, last year, brought in a bill for the assistance of growers of apples and pears in a number of States. I would further remind  Senator Hardy  that its proposals for relief from taxation - the remissions in respect of special customs and primage duties imposed by the Scullin Government, as well as the sales tax - were brought down in the interests of primary producers, the desire being to remove, as far as possible, the burden which had been placed upon rural industries by the previous Administration. Those measures benefited the primary industries of this country to the amount of millions of pounds. Yet this gentleman, who pretends to represent the rural interests, has the audacity to say that during its two and a half years' term of office this Government has done nothing for primary industries. It will- need more than the eloquence of  Senator Hardy,  more than the frothy mouthings of this platform orator from the western districts of New South Wales, to hide from the people the actual Achievements of the governments. Apparently, the honorable senator submitted his motion without regard to the actual facts, but with the sole desire to injure, not only the United Australia party, but also the United Country party at the forthcoming election. 
The right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  in his reply to  Senator Hardy,  made several references which call for some comment. I am not, at the moment, concerned with the domestic quarrel that has taken place between the Government and members of the United Country party. These differences of opinion are aired for the purpose of persuading the -people that those who indulge in them really mean what they say. We all know that, when the time comes, the two sections will become united for their individual and collective gain. But when the Leader of the Senate takes to the Government full credit for the improvement that has taken place in the financial and economic conditions of Australia during the last two and a half years, it is as well that the actual facts should be placed before the people. 
The right honorable gentleman said that it was the desire of the Government to present to the electors certain proposals for dealing with the major problems that confront Australia at the moment. He emphasized that it was taking this course now because it believed in the democratic principle of asking the people for a new mandate. But if the Government really believed that the people should be unfettered in their choice of representatives for this Parliament, why have the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  the Leader of the Senate, and other Ministers, been negotiating during the last few weeks with  Dr. Earle  Page, the Leader of the Country party, and  Mr. Paterson,  the  Deputy  Leader of that party? Is it not a fact that these conferences have been held for the purpose of restricting the choice of the people in certain electoral divisions for the House of Representatives, and also determining what candidates shall offer themselves for election to the Senate? Is it right that a small coterie, which may be described as a preselection committee, should decide these important issues? If the Government really believes in freedom of choice by the people, why does not it allow all the candidates to face the electors, irrespective of the parties to which they belong? Why is it necessary to conduct these negotiations, and why should the parties in conference order the retirement of certain candidates in order to ensure the return of others? It should be remembered that during the whole of these negotiations, which have received a great deal of publicity in the newspapers, we have not heard one word about public policy; there has been no reference to those vital problems with which this Parliament should have the opportunity to deal. Apparently the whole of the discussion has centred in the question whether, for the Senate election in certain States, three United Australia party candidates or two United Australia party candidates and one Country party candidate should constitute the 'antiLabour team. Some illuminating comments on this subject appeared recently in a leading article in the Melbourne  Age.  I take from it the following: - 
The negotiations in progress  between  the leaders nf the United Australia and the Federal Country party are likely to inspire self-respecting Australians with a sense of shame, which the participants seemingly do not share. 
That expresses the view of hundreds of thousands of Australian citizens who are dissatisfied with the subordination of the interests of the country to the interests of parties or individuals which have characterized the negotiations to which I have referred. The  Age  continues - 
Nothing affecting the high destiny of Australia has been at stake. All that has been taking place is that a handful of political intriguers have been plotting how best to ensure personal and party success at the next general election. 
Apparently the negotiations have not been quite so successful as some people hoped they would be, but a stage has been reached when something definite must be done in order to cement the contending political forces. Accordingly, the Government ha3 determined on a last desperate throw. It has resolved to appeal to the people, hoping, perhaps, that the fear of defeat- may force the refractory elements within the ranks of the respective parties to cease  their  hostility so that the two clements may become united and stave off the defeat which the Government's record merits. 
The Leader of the Senate quoted extensively the Prime Minister's statement of the reasons for an early appeal to the people. "We are told that the Government is seeking a mandate to do certain things, especially in relation to primary industries. Has the Government  any  effective policy for the rehabilitation of the rural industries of this country - any scheme to rescue our wheatfanners, butter producers, and meat exporters from their present desperate position? All sections of primary industry, with the exception, perhaps, of the woolgrowers, are in difficulties. The improved position of wool-growers is due entirely to a very opportune increase of wool values during the latter portion of the last selling season. The higher prices received were mainly responsible for the healthier condition of Australian trade, and for the improved financial position of this country to-day. The relief received by the wool-growers may not be maintained, because the disquieting reports received from overseas have already resulted in the postponement of wool sales here, with a consequent collapse of prices. It may not be long before the whole of Australia's primary industries are in the same unfortunate position as in the first two years of this Government's period of office. During that time honorable senators on this side of the chamber repeatedly pleaded with the Government to evolve a definite plan to afford immediate and effective relief to those engaged in primary production, but to such requests the Government turned a deaf ear. It was not until the last moment that it was stampeded into assisting the wheat-growers, and then only by paying them a bounty. If the Government has a practical policy to afford real relief to the primary producers, it does not require to go to the people for a mandate. It can receive a mandate from this Parliament. I am safe in asserting, on behalf of honorable senators on this side of the chamber, that any practical policy submitted by the Government for the relief of primary producers will receive our unanimous support. If the Government is assured of the  asssistance  of its own supporters and of ours, why is it necessary to hold a general election ? Why should it reduce the life of this Parliament? Why does it not shoulder its responsibilities instead of postponing what it proposes to do, and thus compelling those engaged in primary production to face further uncertainty? If the Govern ment requires any assistance in resisting proposals to restrict exports from Australia, it will have the support of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
Although  Senator Hardy  is a representative of a different school of political thought to that with which I am associated, I do not think that the cheap " Billingsgate  " of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  concerning the honorable senator was justified.  Senator Hardy  should be congratulated upon having exposed these political " Mutts and Jeffs" with respect to the proposed agreement between the United Australia party and the United Country party. Apparently, it is the intention of the Government to suggest that some assistance will be afforded to the farmers if only in the sweet by and by. The policy of this Government in that regard would put to shame a crowd  of American gangsters. Regardless of what may be said by some, it is true that a political treaty has been entered into between the representatives of the members of the United Australia party and the United Country party. A paragraph, which appeared in the Perth  Sunday Times  under tho heading " Senate Elections." will enable honorable senators to determine the attitude of this Government towards the Country party. I also direct the attention of honorable senators to other newspaper paragraphs containing statements by representatives of the United Australia party concerning the United Country party. In the Adelaide  Advertiser  of the 2nd March, 1934, the following paragraph appeared : - 

 Senator Hardy (Country party senator, N.S.W.), speaking at the Western Divisional Conference of the Country party at Orange, N.S.W., in vigorously attacking the Lyons Government, said it was " a government blinded by the dazzle of vested interests." It was a monument of the people's bad judgment. 
That statement was made by  Senator Hardy  some weeks before Parliament reassembled this year, and it is a complete reply to the cheap sneers of the Leader of the Government in this chamber. The honorable member for Maranoa  (Mr. Hunter),  who is a member of the Country party, is reported in the  Argus  of the 2nd January, 1932, as having said - 
The Country party will rightly be afraid to trust any Nationalist promises. The Country party had been sold  a  " pup " by a man who had been on the anti-socialist side less than  a  year after a life-time with socialists. 
Does that gentleman refer te the Prime Minister or to the Leader of the Government in this chamber? According to the 

 Age of 2nd August, 1924,  Mr. Walters,  a member of the Country party in Victoria, said - 
The nation has had only one thing at heart, and that was city interests. 

 Mr. W. J. Watson, speaking at a Country party conference held at Daylesford, Baic - 
The party had been discredited by its alliance with the United Australia party. 
In the  Age  of 15th March, 1934,  Mr. Allnutt,  a member of the Country party in Victoria, is reported as having said - 
A majority of  the  Parliamentary  (Country)  party is definitely under  the  control  and die.tatorship  of  the United  Australia  party. The 
Parliamentary (Country) party cannot be relied upon. My advice to conference ls not to trust the political leaders any longer. 
On resigning from a composite ministry in Victoria,  Mr. Crockett,  M.L.C., a member of the Country party, said - 

 Mr. Allan (leader of the Country party) has apparently made a promise to the Nationalists that, in return for the Premiership, he will not press the policy of the Country party. He has never opened his mouth in Cabinet to press the policy of his party. 
That paragraph appeared in the  Sun  on the 30th June, 1925. According to a report in the Melbourne  Herald  on the 21st April, 1925, the right honorable member for Cowper  (Dr. Earle Page)  was asked, "Are you a good protectionist?" He replied, " I certainly am." Notwithstanding that admission, the right honorable gentleman has been going about the country calling the Prime Minister all sorts of names because this Government believes in protection of our secondary industries - only a. limited protection, .in my opinion. In the  Argus  of the 17th March, 1934, the Prime Minister is reported as follows : - 
The Country party made a change of policy behind the back of the people a condition of ita co-operation with the Ministry. 
Notwithstanding that assertion, the members of the two parties are now to share the same political bed. On the 9th September, 1933,  Sir Stanley  Argyle, the Premier of Victoria, said - 
The Country party has done nothing for the general development of the State. It has merely bargained for whatever it can get for itself at the expense of the community. 
The present, Minister for Trade and 
Customs  (Mr. White)  is reported in 

 Hansard of the 23rd July, 1931, as follows : - 
The Country party being a sectional party, places the interests of the primary producers first, last, and always, without regard to the claims of others. So long as it can further the interests of the farmers, it is prepared to disregard the consumers. 
The Minister for Trade and Customs, who is responsible for that statement, will support the agreement reached at a conference between the two parties within the last 24 hours. -  Mr. Menzies,  the Attorney-General in the Victorian Government, who has been mentioned as the successor to the present Federal AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Latham),  also made some interesting comments. While representing the taxpayers of Victoria,  Mr. Menzies  has also been appearing before the Royal Commission on Petrol on behalf of large petrol and oil companies. On the 17th March, 1933, he said- 
I intend to hit where I see the head of an opponent or erstwhile colleague. 

 Sir Stanley Argyle, when Chief Secretary of a Victorian government, said - 
If the people want stable government, they must elect a party capable of carrying on independent of outside forces. Do not give us a mongrel government incapable of doing useful work. 
But apparently  Sir Stanley  Argyle is to support a mongrel coalition, which will endeavour to bulldose the taxpayers of New South Wales.  Senator Pearce,  who is to act as back-stop to the right honorable the Prime Minister during the forthcoming election campaign, has had a good deal to say concerning the members of the Lang party; but the right honorable gentleman should remember that he and his colleagues were glad to have our support of the tariff proposals of the Government. This is what the  Sunday Times  says of  Sir George  Pearce - 
Who is Pearce that lie should control our affairs! He himself is a useless member so far as this State is concerned. He was a member of several Labour party Governments, and followed Hughes when that astute individual jumped John Forrest's claim to the National Prime Ministership. When Hughes was played out and Bruce came into the picture Pearce followed the new Hyperion and remained six years under him until he was fired out by his electorate in 1929. When Lyons deserted Labour as Pearce had done, Pearce joined him and is still enjoying the emoluments of office. Altogether he has been about eighteen years in office out of 33 years in the Federal Parliament. No member lias such a record - it is unique and suggests a keen sense of opportunities.  His  first speech in the Federal Parliament was on the external principles of freetrade. He never repeated it, but clinched his arguments by supporting every increase in the federal tariff from its first modest scales to its present toppling attitude. In 1920 he got in by subscribing to an inter-party pledge to support a  low tariff, and honored his pledge by sticking to a Ministry that put 40 per cent, on mining machinery and farming implements ! 

 Senator Pearce is not prepared to face the people of Western Australia during the coming election. 
The  PRESIDENT  (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - In what way is this relevant to the subject? 
I am showing the character of the right honorable senator who employed choice " Billingsgate " against  Senator Hardy,  who he said was a supporter of the Lang party. If  Senator Hardy  were a supporter of the Lang party, that would show that he at least had political wisdom and courage. Such courage has prompted him to put up a fight this afternoon in the interests of the Australian farmers. The Government, which has been backing and filling, has at last decided to rush to the country several months before the due date. It has tried to get the ears of the press, but I can assure the Leader of the Senate that he will have his work cut out to convince the farmers of New South Wales that the promises of this so-called " prosperity Government " have been fulfilled. I shall be right on the heels of the right honorable senator throughout his electioneering rambles in New South Wales. 
I wish that  Senator Pearce  were one of the United Australia party candidates to face the electors a few weeks hence, either in New South Wales or Western Australia.  Senator Sampson  aspires to become the Government Whip in this chamber, but I warn him that, although the present holder of that office will probably be defeated, his ambition will not be realized, as the indications throughout Australia are that Labour will occupy the treasury bench after the appeal to the people of Australia on the 15th September. I advise  Senator Sampson  to go back to Tasmania and there challenge the newly elected Labour Government that is led by Albert Ogilvie. 
.- The object of  Senator Hardy's  motion was clearly to urge the Government to put on the statutebook, before the election, the useful legislation that has been promised to the primary producers. That object has my wholehearted support. Whenever anr  member of the Country party desires to move the adjournment of the Senate in order to discuss an urgent matter of public importance, he will have my support, regardless of what government is in power. The issue to-day is not so much the date of the election as the legislation to be enacted before the Parliament is prorogued. It is the duty of this Government, possessing an overwhelming majority in both chambers, to put on the statute-book as much as possible of the legislation required to give effect to its policy, and to help the primary industries, while it has the power to do so. If the Government does that, and retains control of both chambers, it will still have the power to decide the date of the election, but it has no right whatever to permit this Parliament to be prorogued until its promise to enact, before the next harvest, wheat-marketing legislation to provide for a home consumption price under the control of the growers, has been translated into legislation. I hope that the Country party will fight to the last ditch to prevent the prorogation of Parliament before such proposals have been carried into effect. In advocating this course,  Senator Hardy  was acting in accordance with the resolution passed unanimously yesterday by the Country party conference at which every State of the Commonwealth was represented. 
Of course Tasmania was represented. 
Certain gentlemen in Tasmania sent telegrams asking those two members of the Country party to represent the State as they themselves were unable to attend. All the great primary industries represented there demanded that the Government should honour its promise to introduce legislation for the protection of the wheat industry before the next harvest, and before the elections. 
I shall come to that. Before I left Perth a few weeks ago, the  president  of the 
Primary Producers Association of Western Australia, said to me, "Whatever you do, see that the wheat legislation promised by the Government is passed before the election ". In the course of a leading article  The Wheatgrower,  of the 24th May, 1934, the official organ of the wheat-growers of Western Australia, stated - 
It is not surprising that an Australian Government has dishonored yet another undertaking, although it had been hoped that the serious position of the wheat-growing industry would have urged the Federal Government to give effect to its promises to enact relief legislation during the final session of the present Parliament - relief measures which had  been  promised as soon as the Wheat Commission's report had been received. That report will be delivered in good time to allow the Government to give effect to its recommendationsbefore leaving office. But whatever that commission recommends - and in view of the position of the industry, it is certain that it will recommend comprehensive relief measures - the growers, as represented by the Australian! Wheatgrowers' Federation, were definitely promised marketing legislation at its conference in Canberra in November last. In response to&gt; the federation's requests, the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  then stated that, although time did not permit of such legislation being enacted to deal with the 1033 harvest marketing legislation which would enable all primary industries to so handle their production as to preclude annual pilgrimages to Canberra for securing assistance, would be enacted by the Government early in the next session. 
That passage gives the name of the important delegation which received the promise - the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation - and the name of the Minister by whom it was made - Honorable F. H. Stewart. The article continued - 
As far as the wheat-growing industry was concerned, this promise meant that the Government would set up a marketing organization - presumably a Commonwealth wheat pool - and empower that organization to fix a payable price for home consumed wheat. 
So much for the Government's promises. Now Prime Minister Lyons announces that the Government will go to the country in September next, making the final session of the present Parliament of only a few weeks' duration. During that session the budget will be dealt with, but on the question of assistance to the wheat industry the Government is maintaining a silence so discreet that it is sufficiently obvious that it intends to ignore the question. " Instead, farm relief may be expected to figure conspicuously on the Government's electioneering platform, its old promises to be superseded by a fresh batch, to be honored only if the Government is re-elected. 
The Government's promises are there recorded in black and white and should be honoured before the election. Legislation for the marketing of primary products, particularly wheat, which was promised by the Minister for Commerce in Canberra in November last, should be placed on the statute-book, and the assistance promised thereby to the wheat industry should be made permanent before this Parliament is prorogued. During the past fortnight I have taken advantage of every opportunity afforded by the Standing Orders to urge this matter upon the Leader of the Senate and the Government generally, but so far no indication has been given that this legislation will be enacted before the election. The assistance of the Leader of the Country party in this matter has been invoked by the  president  of the Wheat-growers Association of Western Australia,  Mr. I.  G. Boyle, who telegraphed to  Dr. Earle  Page on July 3 - 
The Wheat-growers Union of Western Australia, representing the vast majority of wheat-growers' opinions in this State, urges you to stand firm for legislation ensuring a minimum home price for wheat consumed in Australia to cover the costs of production and a reasonable profit; Federal Government advances to assist farmers into wool production; federal assistance to remove the crushing debt from farmers, estimated in this State at over £32,000,000; amendments to the Commonwealth Bank Act to enable the Rural Credits Department to function in the interests of fanners and not marketing alone. My organization wishes to thank you and your party for services rendered to farmers, and emphatically urges you to secure the necessary legislation during the present session of the Federal Parliament. 
The Government has a big majority in both Houses of this Parliament, and can do practically what it likes. If it chooses, it may remain in office for another seven months, and if it desires to do so, it can place on the statute-book legislation to assist the wheat-growers. I cannot understand why it does not do so. Doubtless, it will promise to assist that industry after the election, but why does it not go to the people with a record of something accomplished, something done, for the stabilization of the wheat-growing industry. In making his message public,  Mr. Boyle  said - 
It was necessary to let readers of federal political parties know what farmers were demanding. The Federal Country party appeared to gauge the position correctly, and  Dr. Earle  Page should be strengthened in his demands by the knowledge that the Wheatgrowers Union of this State was behind him. 
The Primary Producers Association of that State is also unanimous in urging this reasonable request.  Mr. Boyle  went 021 to say - 
The Lyons Government seemed to have so far failed to realize the tragic position of the industry, but even political death-bed repentance was welcome, and, with  Dr. Page  in political attendance, the patient might live long enough to do something legislatively for the men who had kept the wheat-growing industrial flag flying over the last four years. 
By doing what the wheat-growing industry of Australia expects of it, the Government will go a long way towards restoring prosperous conditions throughout the community. 
Yea; but it has not fulfilled its promise to introduce legislation for the fixing of a home consumption price for wheat. Last November, when urged to do something in that direction, it said that it could not do so then because the time before the adjournment of Parliament was so short. Unless legislation is passed before the election, it is unlikely that a further opportunity to pass it will occur before November; and if November, 1933, was too late to do anything for last year's harvests, November, 1934, will probably be too late for this year's harvest. " Now is the accepted time " ; the Government has a majority, and there is nothing to prevent it from placing on the statutebook legislation to stabilize the wheatgrowing industry.  Mr. Boyle  continued - 
The Wheatgrowers Union was non-party political, but with the Labour party out of office and its previous knowledge of the Lyons Government, it looked with confidence to the Federal Country party, which appeared now to hold the key position in federal politics. 
The Country party is not in that fortunate position because, with the assistance of the Independents, the Government has a majority in both Houses of this Parliament.  Mr. Boyle  is, however, a good prophet; after the election the Country party will hold the key position in federal politics. It will then act wisely in the interests of the man on the land, and if our tariff policy is accepted it may co-operate again with the United Australia party. 
SenatorBRENNAN (Victoria) [4.41]. - I dislike prolonging a discussion which will carry us nowhere, and which, indeed, is not intended to get us anywhere. However, I place on record my dissent from the view that there is some right in this Parliament to run the full term allowed by the Constitution.  Senator O'Halloran  said that, by holding an election in September, the Government proposed to shorten the life of Parliament, and  Senator Dunn  spoke of Parliament being dissolved seven months before its time. Nowhere in. the legislation of the Commonwealth is there any provision that the life of a Parliament shall be a full three years. 
That does not meet the point which I have raised. The only law on the subject is that contained in section 28 of the Constitution, which provides - 
Every House of Representatives shall continue for three years from the first meeting of the House, and no longer, but may be sooner dissolved by the Governor-General. 
On numerous occasions the House of Representatives has been dissolved before its full term has expired. In terms of the Constitution, the House of Representatives may not subsist beyond the 11th February next, and, consequently, an election must be held not later than February or March next. The Government, recognizing that, had to consider the most suitable time for holding an election. I understand, from the statement of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to-day, that one reason for an early election is the- promised visit of a member of the Royal family who will arrive in Australia in October, and remain here until December. All parties are agreed that it would be unseemly that we should be in the throes of a general election when the royal visitor is here. Similarly, every one is agreed that an election campaign should not be in progress during the Christmas holiday season. Moreover, an election campaign during the late spring or the early summer would not be in the best interests ofour rural industries. It seems to me, as one not in the counsels of the Government, that irrespective of the effect of the date on the several political parties, the Government could not have chosen a better time for the election than that which has been chosen. 
Surely  Senator Johnston  understands that the main principle of democracy is that it is the duty of a government to give effect to the wishes of the people, and to ascertain those wishes by placing before them a programme containing its policy and asking for their endorsement of it. It has been indicated that the mandate which the Government received at the last election has been exhausted. I challenged  Senator Johnston  to say when a home price for wheat was promised, and I am not at all satisfied with his answer. The Government has carried out its mandate. 
The Government has indicated that it proposes to hold an election with a view to obtaining a further mandate from the electors. Whether or not it has, in fact, exhausted . the mandate it received at the last election, is unimportant. The Government holds the view that it has substantially exhausted that mandate, and it now desires a mandate in respect of new and important matters of policy, affecting, chiefly, those electors for whose welfare  Senator Johnston  is so anxious. My only objection to the date chosen for the appeal to the people is that an election for the Senate will take place at the same time as that for the House of Representatives, and that, as there will no doubt be a clearing out of certain members of the Senate, those senators will retain their seats in the Senate, and take a part in shaping the policy of the country for nine months after their rejection.  Senator Dunn  has called special attention to the position of  Senator Foll.  I call attention to the position of  Senator Dunn  himself. It is one of the weaknesses of the Constitution that we may have an election at any time within twelve months of the expiry of the tenure of office of certain honorable senators, and that those senators who are rejected still retain their voting power, until the 30th June. 
I cannot compliment  Senator Brennan  on the strength of the case that he has made out to-day. If I were under a charge of murder, and had to depend for my acquittal on a case no stronger than that made out by the honorable senator, I should certainly fear for my life. The honorable senator quoted from the Constitution to show that the Parliament may not subsist for more than three years; and he has argued that it is within the power of the Government in office to determine whether that period should be shorter. I admit that, with the consent of the Governor-General, the Government can arrange for a dissolution of Parliament whenever it chooses; but that is not evidence of the desirability of such action. Obviously, when three years was fixed as the duration of the House of Representatives, it was believed that that period would best suit the convenience of the electors, and at the same time be a compromise between the old system of parliaments with a long life and the more expensive and disturbing system of parliaments of short duration. The point at issue now is whether the Government is justified in asking the people for a fresh mandate. Before that is sought, the Government should attempt to exhaust the mandate upon which it was returned to power. It would be colossal audacity on the part of Ministers or any of their supporters to claim that they have carried out their last mandate. The two most urgent matters on which the Government received instructions from the electors were the abolition, practically, of unemployment and the restoration of the financial stability of the country, which includes the rehabilitation of the wheat industry. The concessions made to the wheat-growers in recent years have been part of a hand-to-month, stop-gap policy; there has been no orderly plan of assistance. When harvest time drew near, two million pounds or more was handed out to tide the' farmers over their immediate troubles. 
Undoubtedly; but in recent times no rapid changes have occurred. The fact that the price of wheat may rise considerably within a limited period is no justification for the absence of a well-defined policy for assisting the industry. 
I am not concerned about that aspect, of the matter. The obvious duty of the Government is to have a planned policy, instead of giving the farmers assistance almost on the eve of the harvest when they are in despair as to how the industry is to be maintained. The  mere  fact that the difficulties of the farmers would largely disappear if the price of wheat rose quickly, is no justification for neglecting to establish a wellordered plan of relief. 
Reference was made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to the fact that the members of my party and other honorable senators on the Opposition side rose in support of the motion which is now under discussion. I would always be prepared to rise in support of an honorable senator desirous of discussing a matter of public importance, even if I utterly disapproved of his views regarding it, provided the motion was not submitted deliberately for the purpose of wasting time. Although the right honorable gentleman jibed at Labour senators for rising on this occasion, I expected that he would make a personal attack on  Senator Hardy  judging by the violence of his utterances, and his apparent excitement. I challenge anybody to prove that this Government has carried out its mandate in any way. Take its claim that unemployment has diminished by a fairly large percentage since the Government assumed office. Admitting that statistics show that the percentage of unemployment has decreased considerably since the peak period, the Government has adopted the mean policy of paying men engaged on relief work a mere fraction of fulltime wages. The unemployed in my State, who go on the roster for unemployment relief work, are immediately counted as " employed ", and if that practice is meant to deceive the public it is a wickedimposition. Yet that is why the unemployment figures have been reduced. 1 attended a recent deputation to the Minister for Labour in New South "Wales who stated that the unemployment relief tax collected in that State was paid into the Consolidated Revenue, and that all the relief works were financed from funds advanced by the Loan Council. Thus all the "prosperity" is due to the expenditure of loan money, and in  99  cases out of 100 the relief work is not of a reproductive nature. This is a handtomouth policy which can result only in a greater collapse ultimately than that already suffered, because we cannot continue to float loans on the strength of the confidence allegedly restored by the present Government. In one year about £3S,000,000 has been raised by loans, and these have piled up the national debt and increased the interest burden. It is claimed that great relief has come from the conversion of some of our overseas loans at lower rates of interest; but, while some saving in interest payments has thus been made, so much additional money has been borrowed that the aggregate interest bill has increased and is gradually absorbing the whole of the revenue. With such a Micawber-like policy, there could not be a. return to real prosperity. It  i3  a matter for concern that an attempt is made to solve one problem by creating another. This policy mint eventually plunge the country into a state of more dire poverty than has ever previously been experienced. 
The Leader of the Senate must admit that during the regime of the Scullin Government, when  Mr. Parker  Moloney was the Minister for Markets, considertion was given to the provision of a system of orderly marketing of primary products, and that the subject was discussed in Parliament by members of the present Government. So it cannot truthfully be said that this is a new problem. The suggestion that a fresh mandate from the people is required to enable the primary producers to be given markets for their produce is unadulterated humbug. As to the date of the general election, the Leader of the Senate remarked that we could not have it much later than September without interfering with the Royal visit, and it could not be held before Christmas because  His  Royal Highness would not like to see Australia in the throes of a political wrangle.  Senator Brennan,  stated that the election should not take place at Christmas time. It was further pointed out that in January, although most of the harvesting would then have been finished, the wheat had to be carted to the silos and railway sidings. After the bush-fire danger had passed, the farmers, of course, would be busy ploughing and sowing the next crop. When the ploughing has been done and the winter has set in, nobody wants an election, so no time of the year is convenient for it. An excuse can always be found for either holding or not holding an election. 
My reply will be brief, and, I hope, characterized by restraint, which was lacking in the vindictive and personal attack made on me by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  I have no desire to say anything that might be regarded as unparliamentary, but I tell the right honorable gentleman that, while I am in this chamber, I do not intend to dot the " i's " or cross the ' t's " for any member of it, because I am not a political lapdog. When I believe that I am right, I intend to say what is in my mind without fear of any party. I resent the suggestion of the Leader of the Senate that I have anything in common with  Mr. Lang,  or that I am in any way associated with a sinister conspiracy against this Government. I moved the adjournment of the Senate this afternoon to discuss a matter of urgent public importance. The Leader of the Senate said that no member of the Country party rose in support of my motion. I am afraid, that the right honorable gentleman's sight must be failing, because every member of the Country party in the chamber at the time rose to support me. I repeat that this 
Parliament has still seven months of its term to go, covering the whole of the export season, and the Government, if it so desired, could, with the co-operation of the Country party, deal with many of the problems that confront this country. If it wishes to tackle these complex matters, it  will have the support of country members. It is all very well for the Leader of the Senate to say that it is impossible to hold an election in Decem.ber, That objection was not raised in connexion with the election that led to the defeat of the Scullin Government. 
It has been urged that there is no precedent for this Government continuing in office till the end of its term. There is. The Bruce-Page Government went its full term, Parliament being dissolved the day before the expiration of its period. This Parliament could continue its work until the 16th February, 1935. So many serious problems demand the attention of this Parliament that it is the duty of the Government, which came into power with a great majority, to remain in office until it has completed its job. I ask leave to withdraw the motion. 
Leave granted. . 
Motion -  hy leave  - withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the following statement, which is reported to have been made by  Mr. A.  G. Ogilvie, the Premier of Tasmania: - "We are on the dole to-day. We won't stand for it. We want a Federal Government that will say,  What are your wrongs ? Assert your rights and we shall heed them.' I believe in the Australian nation. I want to help to save federation from cracking up, but there is no reason why this community should be bled white. Although I .should hate to have secession, I shall resort to it if it is necessary, and without the slightest hesitation"? 2 In view of the active interest the right honorable the Prime Minister has displayed in the secession movement in Western Australia, what action has he taken in regard to the secession tendencies displayed by the leader  of  the Government in his home State? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.the right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : - 
Yea. 
Successive Commonwealth governments have recognized the difficult position of Tasmania, and since 1912 special financial assistance has been provided. In 1929 the special grant was fixed at £250,000 a year for live years. Supplementary " depression " grants were made of £80,000 in 1932-33, and £130,000 in 1933-34. The grants paid since 1912 aggregate £3,720,000. In 1924 the Commonwealth gave up to Tasmania its taxation on lottery prizes, which then yielded £111,000 a year, and is now probably worth £50,000 per annum. Under the Federal Aid Roads Agreement Tasmania last year received £110,000, half of which was really contributed by petrol-users of other States. Other special assistance given last year to Tasmania included £04,000 for relief to fruit-growers, and special assistance of £45,000 while the flour tax was in operation. Substantial assistance lias also been provided for improved shipping services, telephone communication, and air services. Since 1921-22 the regular items of direct assistance, viz., financial agreement, special grants, and road grants, have more than doubled, viz., 1921-22 £300,000, 1933-34 £790,000, an increase of £430.000. Tasmania has also derived substantial benefits from the financial agreement and the Loan Council. Finance has been arranged hy the Loan Council for Tasmania during the period of depression, when the markets were no longer open, and savings in the conversion loans carried out by the Loan Council exceed £200,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the interim report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry been received? 
If so, when will it be available to honorable senators? 
No; but it is expected at an early date. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is he yet in a position to say when the new steamer, now under construction for the Launceston-Melbourne Bass Strait ferry service, will take up her running? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer : - a  definite date cannot yet be given; but it is anticipated that the new steamer will be placed in the Bass Strait service early in 1935. 
asked the Minister representing . the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated cost of the desired telephone line between Wiluna and Geraldton, Western Australia? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the followanswer : - 
The estimated cost was £20,000, but a special study is in progress with a view to determining whether the connexion could be established by some alternative technical means, which would substantially reduce that figure. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What response, if any, has been made by residents of the Commonwealth to the invitation of the Minister that they provide homes and training in domestic arts for the quadroon and octoroon girls at present in the school and home for half-caste children at Alice Springs ? 
If there has been no response, what course does the Minister propose to adopt for the future welfare of these children? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer: - 1 and 2. A number of offers has been received from institutions and individuals to undertake the care and upbringing of the children in question. These offers are now receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
. How many bushels of wheat have been left over from the harvest of 1933 in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Western Australia, and Tasmania respectively? 
How many acres have gone out of wheat cultivation in the above mentioned States for the year 1934? 
Information regarding the quantity of wheat of the 1933-34 harvest still unsold in each State is not available, because means are not readily available for determining in regard to current sales, those which relate to old and new wheat respectively. The 1933-34 harvest is estimated to be 174,000,000 bushels. Domestic consumption will absorb 50,000,000 bushels, leaving 124,000,000 bushels available for export. Exports of wheat and flour since 1st August, 1933, the commencement of the export year under the world agreement, totalled approximately, the equivalent of 78,000,000 bushels. 'This export comprised both old and new wheat. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Will  Mr. Beasley,  M.P., be given the same rights that will be given to other political party leaders to broadcast his policy speech over the A class stations of New South Wales? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer : - 
So far as is known, there is no intention on the part of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to depart from the practice which has hitherto been in force. 
In view of the favorable trade balance between Australia under the Government led by  Mr. Lyons,  and Soviet Russia led by  Mr. Stalin,  will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that the press favouring the United Australia party will not raise the question of Russian communism during the forthcoming federal elections. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answer : - 
Neither I nor the Government is in  a  position to give any such assurance, the matter being one for determination by the managements of individual newspapers. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  la it a fact that Doctor Louat, a member of the executive of the Constitutional League of New South Wales, in a broadcast address over K class station 2UW on Sunday evening, 1st July, urged the Federal Government to enter into a trade treaty pact, on the same lines as the proposal of the Graziers Association, between Australia and Soviet Russia? 
Inquiries have been made and it has been ascertained that  Dr. Louat  did not advocate the agreement suggested, but he has explained that, in dealing with the possibility of finding fresh markets for Australia, he mentioned the Russian market, amongst others, as one that had been proposed by the graziers federal council, and that he briefly examined the nature of Russian and Australian requirements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it not a fact that the position in Germany, and the outlook of Germany towards the importation of raw materials such as wool, wheat, and fruit from Australia, together with the impending action by Britain against German balances in Britain and elsewhere, render the future one of serious concern for the wool industry, wheat industry, and fruit industry of Australia? 
Is it not a fact that at the London wool sales just opened there is a sharp decline in prices in the sale of Australian wool? 
What action, if any, has the Minister taken to meet the situations referred to in questions I and 2? 
It is not possible at this stage to gauge the effect of the German control system in connexion with importations of wool, but it would appear that Australian wool in substantial quantities will be necessary to meet the demands of Germany's woollen industry, and enable it to compete with the manufactures of other countries. 
It has been the policy of the German Government for some years to encourage local cereal production by various means, with the result that importations have progressively declined. The quantity of Australian wheat imported into Germany has not been substantial, in recent years, compared with our total exports. 
Germany is a valuable market for Australian fresh fruit (apples and pears) and the trade over the last few years has been fairly well maintained. It is possible that the exchange difficulties and reduced purchasing power of the German public will reduce imports of fresh fruit, in common with other commodities. 
It is a fact that the London wool sales, which opened on the 3rd July, have shown a substantial decline in prices, the decline being most marked in respect of merino wool. The demand, according to information in possession of the Government, was very irregular and a large percentage of the earlier catalogues was withdrawn. 
The influences which tend to have a detrimental effect on Australian exports to Germany have been brought about by German domestic policy, together with the measures taken by the German Government to combat the unfavorable trend of Germany's export trade. In regard to the action which was contemplated by Great Britain to protect the interests of British bondholders, consequent on the suspension of transfers on Germany's foreign debts, the British Government has reached a satisfactory agreement with Germany. Thus, the danger of retaliatory action by Germany, which would probably have affected Australian trade with that country, has been avoided. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What are the nature and names of the decorations and titles bestowed on  Mr. Latham  and members of the delegation to Japan by the governments of the countries, including Japan, through which the delegation passed? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answer: - 
None was bestowed. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
In the interpretation of the letter and spirit of the Ottawa compact, will the Government  give consideration to the advisability of consulting the State sovereignties with regard to the rights, obligations and consequences thereunder? 
The Government of the Commonwealth is responsible for the interpretation of the agreement, and it is not practicable to 6tate in a general way, and in anticipation of problematical questions arising out of the agreement, what steps the Government might take for the purpose of arriving at its interpretation. These would have to be determined according to the nature of any question that might arise. 
[5.15]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate approves of the distribution of the State of South Australia into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs. G. P. Howie, J. H. McNamara, and G. E. Willson, Commissioners for the purpose of distributing the said State into divisions, in their report laid before Parliament on the 28th day of Juno, 1934, and that the names of the divisions suggested in the report bc adopted. 
This is the first of three redistribution proposals, the adoption of which I propose to move. The other two- relate to the States of New South Wales and Queensland. 
I desire, in the first place, to explain to the Senate why this proposed distribution is being dealt with first. As honorable senators are aware, the Representation Act 1905 provides for a quinquennial determination of the number of members to be chosen by each State of the Commonwealth. The determination takes place after each census, and also at a date approximately intermediate between the census dates. The determination made recently was based upon the figures disclosed by the census held on the 30th June, 1933. The application of the provisions of the Representation Act to those figures has the effect of reducing, from seven to six, the number of members to be chosen by the State of South Australia. This is the only proposed redistribution which provides for a variation of the number of members to be chosen by a State. Some of the proposed redistributions of other States might be adopted. If they were taken first, and subsequently the proposed redistribution of South Australia were rejected, an amendment of the law might in certain events become necessary. lt is, therefore, highly desirable that the proposed redistribution of South Australia should first be dealt with. 
This is the first occasion on record in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament, upon which it has been necessary for consideration to be given to redistribution proposals involving a loss of representation by one State without a corresponding gain by another State. For this reason the Government has given long and anxious consideration to the proposal, with a view to endeavouring to find another method of distribution which, consistently with the Constitution, would permit of the retention by South Australia of its seventh member. When the number of members is large, the loss or gain of one member does not appear to be of quite such moment as is the case when the number of members is already small, as in the case of South Australia. I regret that, although the Government has given careful consideration to the subject, it has not been able to discover any method by which, consistently with the provisions of the Constitution, the retention may be effected. 
I propose now to deal shortly with the operation of the provisions of the Constitution and of Commonwealth legislation relating to the determination of the number of members to be chosen in each State. As honorable senators are aware, section 24 of the Constitution contains two guiding principles in relation to the number of members to be chosen to represent a State. They are - 
That the number of members shall be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators; and 
That the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people. 
The section then goes on to provide a method of determining the number of members to be chosen by each State, this method to remain in force until Parliament otherwise provides. The Parliament has " otherwise provided " by the Representation Act 1905. The only alteration made by the Representation Act of the method of determining the number of members is the - substitution for the number of the people as set out in the statistics of the Commonwealth, of the number of people as set forth in a certificate to be issued by the Chief Electoral Officer. For the purpose of the preparation of such a certificate the Chief Electoral Officer must obtain the necessary statistical information from statistical officers of the Commonwealth. Broadly, the method of determining the number is as follows : - 
A quota is ascertained by dividing the number of the people of the Commonwealth by twice the number of senators, i.e., by 72, and 
The number of members to be chosen in each State is determined by dividing the number of people of each State by the quota so ascertained, and in the case of any State where the remainder is greater than one-half of the quota, by giving that State an additional member. 
This method of determining the number of members is expressed in the Representation Act as being subject to the Constitution - a provision which was, no doubt, intended primarily to safeguard those States which, under the Constitution, were entitled to the minimum representation of five members. Under section 26 of the Constitution the number of members to be chosen at the first election was as follows: - New South Wales, 26; Victoria, 23 ; Queensland, 9 ; South Australia, 7 ; Western Australia, 5 ; Tasmania, 5, making a total of 75 members. The operation of the foregoing provisions of the Constitution and of the Representation Act has .resulted in the following changes : - 
In 1907, New South Wales gained a member at the expense of Victoria.' In 1913, Queensland gained a member at the expense of Victoria. In 1923, New South Wales gained another member at the expense of Victoria. The representation of the States in the present Parliament is, therefore, as follows : - New South Wales, 2S; Victoria, 20; Queensland, 10; South Australia, 7; Western Australia, 5 ; Tasmania, 5. 
The total membership of the House, has, however, remained constant ever since the establishment of federation. As already stated, the operation of the Representation Act upon the population figures disclosed at the recent census has had the effect of reducing from seven to six the number of members allocated to South Australia. The figures upon which this reduction is based are as follows : - 
I now propose to refer to a suggestion that has been put forward that consideration of the approval of the distribution should be postponed pending an amendment of the Representation Act. That act now provides that, if on the division of the number of people of a State by the quota, there is a remainder greater than one-half of the quota, one more member shall be chosen in the State. It has been suggested that the law should be amended so as to provide that, if on such division, there is in the case of a State having less than ten members a remainder greater than .3 of the quota, and in the case of a State having tcn or more members, a remainder greater than one-half of the quota, one more member shall be chosen in the State. It is claimed that for the purposes of determining equal representation regard should be paid, not only to the actual population, but also to the electoral population. As applied to the actual population of the States, this would produce the. following result: - 
The existing method provides for the following variation on a population basis : - 
The application of these two methods to the electoral population produces the following results: - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_21_4.jpg"></graphic>

For the first time, Western Australia becomes entitled to five members on the basis of population. 

<graphic href="144332193407113_21_5.jpg"></graphic>

From the foregoing it will be seen that, so far as population is concerned, the existing method provides a range of variation per member in the States other than Tasmania, of 9,429; i.e., between South Australia and Western Australia, while the proposal referred to provides a range of 11,429, i.e., between Queensland and South Australia. On the other hand, taking the electoral population instead of the whole population, the existing method provides a range of 11,304, i.e, between South Australia and Western Australia, while the proposed new method provides a range of 7,672, i.e., between Victoria and Western Australia. Thus, on the basis of the whole population, the existing method provides a closer approximation . to equal representation than does the proposed new method. But on the basis of the electoral population, the new method provides a closer approximation to equal representation than does the existing method. 
The question arises as to which population should be chosen as a basis, the whole population or the electoral population. On the one hand, it is suggested that the electoral population  only  should bechosen, while, on the other hand, there is the suggestion that both should be taken into account. A study of section 24 of the Constitution will, however, establish that it is only the total population which should be considered. That section, as has been pointed out, contains two guiding principles - 
That the number of members of the House of Representatives shall be as nearly as practicable twice the number of the senators; and 
That the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people. 
Honorable senators will note, from the second of these principles that it is the numbers of the people which must be taken, and the number of members must be in proportion to the numbers of the people, not the numbers of the electors. 
Thus, while the proposed new method does actually give a closer approximation to equal representation of the electoral population, it does not conform to the second of these principles, inasmuch as it does not provide representation in proportion to the numbers of the people. It should be noted, also, that it does not conform as closely as the existing method to the first principle, in that it provides for a House of 75, while the existing method provides for a House of 74. In accordance with the first principle of section 24 of the Constitution, the number of members of the House of Representatives must be as nearly as practicable twice the number of senators, viz., 72. It is true that for the purpose of the distribution of a State into divisions it is the electoral population which is taken, and not the whole population. The Parliament, however, has a free hand in this matter, and is not limited by the terms of the Constitution to basing its distribution on the numbers of the people. Such a method would, in fact, 'bo impracticable, except after a census; for, while the Commonwealth Statistician can estimate the population of a State, it would be impossible for him to estimate with any degree of accuracy the population of any particular division. 
The question then arises as to whether there is any method by which the State of South Australia couldbe allowed to retain a seventh seat, seeing that no other State is entitled to an additional seat. One method which may be thought available to Parliament is the rejection of successive proposed, redistributions providing for six members, with a view to the continuance of the existing distribution of the State of South Australia into seven divisions. For this . purpose reliance is placed on section 12 of the Representation Act 1905, which reads: - 
When in pursuance of a certificate under this act an alteration takes place in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in any State the alteration shall not affect - 
any election held before the States have been redistributed into electoral divisions pursuant to the certificate; nor 
any election to fill a vacancy in a House of Representatives elected before such redistribution, but shall affect any general election after such redistribution. 
In the opinion of the Government, the adoption of this course would be fraught with serious consequences. It may be that the duty imposed upon the Parliament by the Constitution, the Representation Act, and the Commonwealth Electoral Act, is a duty of imperfect obligation, that is, a duty for the enforcement of which there is no legal provision. On the other hand, it may be that the effect of the continued disregard of the provisions of the Constitution, and of the acts in question, would lead tothe holding of an invalid election. Whether there are or are not legal means for the enforcement of the provisions of the Constitution and of the acts in question, the Government feels that a matter of principle is involved, and that no justification exists for the rejection of a proposed redistribution merely on the ground that it provides for six members only, whereas under existing conditions a State has seven members. As previously stated, very careful consideration has been given ' to the whole subject, with a view, if possible, to retaining the present membership for the State of South Australia, but the Government has not been able to discover any method consistent with the 
Constitution and the laws of the Commonwealth by which that result may be achieved. 
Apart from the foregoing constitutional objections to the proposal, there is another strong objection. The existing method of determining the representation of States in the House of Representatives has been embedded in Commonwealth legislation for nearly 30 years. It is in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, and it accords also with the very general practice, adoptod in making calculations, of treating a fraction in excess of one-half as a whole number. To make a change in the method of determining the number of members, not on general principles, but merely in order to suit the circumstances of some particular State, would be to create a very undesirable precedent, and on this ground also I ask the Senate not to give countenanceto the proposed alteration of the method. 
The matters which distribution commissioners are required to consider in determining their distribution are set out in section 19 of the Electoral Act, which reads -  19.In making any proposed distribution of a State into divisions., the distribution commissioners shall give due consideration to - 
Existing boundaries of divisions and subdivisions; and subject thereto the quota of electors shall be the basis for the distribution, and the distribution commissioners may adopt a margin of allowance, to be used whenever necessary, but in no case shall the quota bo departed from to a greater extent than one-fifth more or one-fifth less. 
The number of electors in the State of South Australia was ascertained to be 342,019, and the quota therefore is 57,003. The margin of allowance of onefifth more or one-fifth less, amounting to 11,400, accordingly made the minimum permissible number of electors in any division 45,603 and the maximum permissible number 68.403. The numbers of electors enrolled for each of the existing divisions at the time of the last distribution in 1922, and im mediately prior to the present redistribution were: - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

The numbers of electors in each of the proposed new divisions, together with the extent to which these numbers differ from the quota are as follow: - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_23_1.jpg"></graphic>

Under the proposals the average number of electors in each of the three metropolitan divisions will be 61,499, while the average in each of the three extra metropolitan divisions will be 52,507. I ask the Senate to approve of the proposed distribution. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Halloran)  adjourned. 
[5.44]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate approves of the distribution of the State of Queensland into electoral divisions, as proposed by Messrs. J. E. Stewart, J.  V.  Harvey and R. Anthony, the Commissioners  appointed for the purpose of distributing the said State into divisions, in their report laid before Parliament on the 28th day of June, 1934; and that the names of the divisions suggested in the report be adopted, with the excep tion that the name " Griffith " be substituted for the name " Oxley ". 
Immediately prior to the proposed redistribution the enrolment in each division was :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

The numbers of electors in each of the proposed divisions and the relation of the number, in each case, to the quota are; as follows :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Halloran)  adjourned. 
Proposals for Redistribution of New SouthWales. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [5.47]. -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate approves of the distribution of the State of New South Wales into electoral divisions as proposed by Messrs V. F. Turner, H. B. Mathews, and C. H. U. Todd, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of distributing the said  State  into divisions, in their report laid before Parliament on the 28th day of June, . 1934;and that the names of the divisions, including the substitution of the name " Watson " for the name " South Sydney ", suggested in the report, be adopted. 
The distribution commissioners having furnished their report, and the report, in pursuance of section 23 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1929, having been placed before Parliament, the present motion is now submitted, in pursuance of section 24, for the purpose of enabling the Senate to pass a resolution approving of the proposed divisions. 
The distribution does not involve an alteration in the number of members to be elected in the State. Section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides that a redistribution may be undertaken - 
wbenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for the State; 
whenever in . one-fourth  of the  divisions of the State the number of electors differs from the quota ascertained by dividing the whole number of electors in the State by the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for the State, to a greater extent than one-fifth more or one-fifth less; and (c)at such other times as the GovernorGeneral thinks  fit. 
The following shows the enrolment in each division in New South Wales immediately prior to the proposed redistribution, and the relation of the enrolment to the quota :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407113_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

In no less than eleven divisions the enrolment varies from the quota' to an extent of more than 8,000. It will be seen that the growth of population has created disparities, and that the proposed new distribution makes for a more even distribution. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Halloran)  adjourned. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill relates to two matters in respect of which it seems very desirable that the Designs Act 1906-1933 should be amended. Section 17 of the act provides for the registration of any new and original design within the meaning of the section. The corresponding section of the imperial act - section 49  -  uses the phrase " new or original " and the English courts in construing the section have expressed the view that, while all original designs are new, a design may be new without being original. It. is desirable, therefore, that the phrase used in section 17 should be amended to read " new or original ". This amendment is proposed in clause 2. 
The other amendment relates to section 29 of the act, which requires the owner of a registered design to cause each article to which the design is applied to be marked before delivery for sale with the prescribed mark to denote that the design is registered. 
The imperial act imposes a similar obligation, but empowers the Board of Trade to make rules dispensing with, or modifying, the requirements with respect to any class or description of articles to such extent and subject to such conditions as the board thinks fit. That dispensation is prescribed under the imperial act in respect of all textile goods which are cut after leaving the factory, and it appears to be desirable that provision should be made for granting similar exemptions in the Commonwealth. 
The bill is practically a machinery measure, and I confidently commend it to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Primage duties were first imposed as from the 10th July, 1930, with the object of producing additional revenue. The rate of primage duty, which at that time was 2½ per cent., was increased in November, 1930, to 4 per cent. In July, 1931, the principal rate was made 10 per cent., in accordance with the Premiers plan, while the rate in respect of certain raw materials, machines, and goods affecting the primary producer remained at 4 per cent. Since then many exemptions have been made, and the rate on various goods, mainly those used by our primary industries, has been reduced to 4 per cent. The primage duties proposals of the 4th October, 1933, reduced the primage duty on goods eligible for admission under the British preferential tariff, and subject to protective duties under the Customs Tariff, from 10 per cent. to 5 per cent. The two main reasons for this action were - (1) To give effect, as far as the finances would permit, to the Tariff Board's recommendation on the protective incidence of primage duties; and (2) to carry out, as far as could be done under the then financial conditions, Australia's obligations, under article 14 of the United Kingdom and Australia trade agreement, in respect of primage on British goods. Relief to the amount of approximately £585,000 has 'been given by the reductions in primage duties made in connexion with the budget for 1933-34. The revenue derived from primage duties forms a substantial item of the Commonwealth's receipts; in 1932-33 it amounted to over £4,500,000. Practically the whole of the imported goods directly affecting the primary industries have been either exempted from primage duty or made subject to the low rate of 4 per cent. 
It will be seen that the Government, since it assumed office, has gone as far as it can in providing relief from these duties, and that any future alterations must depend upon the state of the Treasury. The bill merely confirms what has already been done, and I ask the Senate to expedite its passage. 
Although I do not ask the Senate to reject this bill, I am not prepared to allow it to pass without registering a protest, on behalf of the Opposition, against the disturbance of the basis of sacrifice demanded of the people during the early days of the depression. All honorable senators are familiar with the desperate financial straits in which the Scullin Government found Australia when it assumed office in 1929, and with the circumstances which led to the position becoming steadily worse - circumstances entirely beyond the control of any government at that time. The conditions then prevailing forced that Government to examine every possible means of raising revenue in order to meet the commitments of the nation as they became due. Now that the worst of the depression is, apparently, behind us, some honorable senators supporting the Government appear to forget how serious was the position when the Scullin Government took office, and blame that Government for making these imposts at all. On the other hand, they give credit to the present Government for the removal, or partial removal, of the imposts. I remind honorable senators who may be disposed to think and talk along those lines that every impost placed on the people of Australia by the previous Government had the approval of the Senate, which could have prevented any such legislation from being placed on the statute-book had it so desired. Realizing, however, that, in the then existing circumstances, there was no other course open, the Senate did not reject the proposals of the Scullin Government. In addition to surveying the field with a view to finding additional sources of revenue, the previous Government set about curtailing expenditure, wherever possible. It reduced considerably the disbursements from the public purse to every section of the community which had either a statutory or a moral right to receive moneys from the nation. It sought throughout to make the sacrifice equitable; it demanded sacrifices on the part of the people, only in order to maintain the solvency of the Australian nation. 
At that time there was a general understanding among all political parties - an understanding voiced by their leaders and prominent members in both chambers - that, as soon as the financial position of the country permitted, the load of taxation would be lightened, and that, in making disbursements from the Treasury, the poorer section of the community would be considered first. I regret that the present Government has not carried out that undertaking. Members of the Opposition have repeatedly had occasion to criticize the action of the Government in reducing taxation imposed upon the comparatively wealthy sections of the community and failing to restore the former payments to pensioners and the lower-paid public servants. Some of the amendments contained in the schedule will, in some small degree, reduce the present burdens of the primary producers, but the relief will not be so substantial as has been alleged, because most of the farmers have had their buying power lowered almost to vanishing point. 
The Minister said the reductions ranged from 10 per cent. to 5 per cent., and 5 per cent. is only1s. in the £1. The complicated nature of the schedule makes it necessary to refer to the clauses of the bill to ascertain precisely what the proposals mean. It was agreed that, when circumstances permitted, the claims of the poorer sections of the community for the restoration of the payments previously enjoyed by them, would be made a first charge on the revenue, but the bill departs from that principle. 
It is interesting to hear that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator O'Halloran)  opposes this bill. 
I have no desire to misrepresent the honorable senator, but I thought his final remarks were condemnatory of the Ministry for its action in this matter. Therefore, as a member of the Countryparty, I rose to congratulate the Government upon the introduction of the measure. I shall compliment it upon any action it may take to reduce the tariff, for I regard every primage duty as a particularly objectionable form of tariff increase. Australia now has the highest and most oppressive tariff ever ratified by both Houses of Parliament since the inception of federation, and the sooner primage duties are abolished the better it will be for the whole community, and particularly for those engaged in the primary industries. I have received serious complaints about the unjust and inequitable incidence of primage upon many of our industries, and upon many citizens. The higher the customs duty is, the greater is the amount of the primage. These Shylock-like imposts are most undesirable. 
Of course they have; since last October. I am glad that a start has been made in the direction of removing primage duties, and I would advise the Government to bring down  a  measure before the coming election to eliminate them. I should like this bill to be amended, if possible, in such a manner as to achieve that object. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without requests or debate; report adopted. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

.  - I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
Trawlers and othervessels which are registered and fitted out in Australia engage in the gathering of fish and other sea products, and for this purpose sometimes proceed outside the territorial waters of the Commonwealth. These vessels make their base at a Commonwealth port, from which they set out and to which they bring the products gathered. 
Some of the products, e.g., pearl-shell, is free of customs duty, not being specified in the tariff, whilst in the case of fish, an item has been embodied in the customs tariff providing for admission free of duty. Apart, however, from ordinary customs duty the goods, if regarded as goods imported, require to be entered in accordance with section 68, and, on entry for home consumption, some are at present liable to primage duty. The question was recently raised as to whether goods brought to Australia in the circumstances are imported goods "within the meaning of the act. The SolicitorGeneral advised that the goods are imported goods, and are therefore required to be entered in accordance with section 68 The gathering of these goods really constitutes an Australian industry, and although at times the goods are gathered outside the territorial waters of the Commonwealth, it is considered that they should be relieved from compliance with the customs formalities which apply to goods brought to the Commonwealth from overseas in the ordinary way of import trade. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment No. 2 agreed to - 
Omit clause 11 and insert the following new clause: - 
Section one hundred and forty of the principal act is amended by omitting subsection (2.) and inserting in its stead the following sub-section: - (2.) When the duty on the complete goods is specific only or either specific or ad valorem, according to whichever returns the higher duty, or both specific and ad valorem, the Minister may fix the proportion of the specific rate that shall be applied in . determining the amount of duty payable on any part of such goods. 
Amendment No. 3, verbally amending clause 16, agreed to. 
Amendment No. 4 agreed to - 
After clause 21 insert the following new clause: - 21a. After section two hundred and fiftyeight of the principal act the following section is inserted: - 258a. - (1.) Where any convicted person has, whether before or after the commencement of this section, been released in pursuance of section two hundred and fifty-eight of this act upon his giving security for the payment of the pecuniary penalty adjudged to be paid by him, and the penalty has not been paid, or part only thereof has been paid, the prosecutor or plaintiff may apply to the court for an order committing the offender to gaol until the penalty, or the balance thereof, as the case may be, has been paid, and the court shall, if it is satisfied that enforcement of the security is impracticable or would occasion hardship to the surety, make an order accordingly. (2.) The provisions of section two hundred and sixty of this act shall apply to the imprisonment of an offender for whose committal to gaol an order has been made in pursuance of this section: 
Provided that, in the calculation of the period at the expiration of which the defendant is to be discharged, there shall be taken into account any period of imprisonment served by the defendant prior to his release upon his giving security for the payment of the penalty: 
Provided further, that where the penalty has been paid in part, the amount of penalty, for the purposes of the table contained in section two hundred and sixty of this act, shall be the unpaid balance of the penalty. (3.) Notice of an application under this' section shall bo served upon the convicted person. 
Amendment No. 5 - 
Omit clause 22 and insert the following new clause :  - 
After section two hundred and seventyseven of the principal act the following section is inserted: - 278. Where, prior to the commencement of this section, the importation or exportation of any goods has been prohibited by proclamation, and the proclamation is in force immediately prior to such commencement, any such proclamation may be re-enacted, cancelled or varied by regulation, and until cancellation shall remain in force according to the terms in which it was issued, and, if varied, shall have effect according to its terms as so varied. Any such prohibition not reenacted by regulation, within six months after the commencement of this section shall cease to have effect. 
I move - 
That the amendment be amended by leaving out the word " prohibition ", proposed new section 278, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " proclamation ". 
The object of the amendment is to bring the wording of the concluding sentence of proposed new section 278 into harmony with the wording of the rest  of  that section. Elsewhere in the section the reference is to the word " proclamation " and, although what is done by the proclamation is in the nature of a " prohibition it is thought to be preferable, from a drafting point of view, to refer to the instrument by which the prohibition is imposed rather than to the prohibition itself. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
I should like some information from the Minister in charge of the bill as to the policy, if any, that has been decided upon by the Government with reference to the products of the Territories of New Guinea and Papua. I notice that the schedule contains a list of items which are to be admitted free of duty. Other products not mentioned in the schedule, will, I presume, be admitted under the present tariff, or some of them may be prohibited. Among the items in the schedule are cocoa beans and coffee, raw and kiln dried. Why is sugar excluded? Neither coffee  nor cocoa is indigenous to these islands, but sugar is, and I understand that it can be grown very successfully  there. 
I believe it is. I am not expressing any opinion as to the items in the schedule, but I should like to know the reason for the discrimination. As many returned soldiers have been settled on the land in those areas, particularly in New Guinea, it is only reasonable to expect that there will be no unfair discrimination against their products. Are we to assume that if restrictions are imposed against the importation of certain products of Papua and New Guinea they will apply also to similar products of the Northern Territory? I have at my disposal a good deal of information concerning this matter, but, unfortunately, I missed the opportunity to speak on the motion for the second reading. I hope, therefore, that I am in order in discussing briefly the general policy of the Government with regard to the Pacific possessions of the Commonwealth. 
The honorable gentleman will be in order in seeking information, but not in discussing generally the policy of the Government with respect to Papua and New Guinea. 
 Senator Johnston  should  know  that sugar is not being produced  in 
Papua or New Guinea. I do not know whether coffee is produced in Queensland. 
If it were, I should oppose this clause. I should also like to know whether green ginger, spices and other commodities mentioned in the schedule are produced in commercial quantities anywhere in Australia, and if they are they should not be admitted from Papua or New Guinea free of duty. 
A certain amount of misapprehension appears to exist with respect to the items contained in the schedule of the bill. A similar measure to that now before the committee has been in operation since 1926, and included in the schedule of that act are such items as coffee, raw and kiln dried, dried fruits enumerated in item 52b and c, fresh fruits, green and ground ginger, nuts, coco-nuts whole and prepared, seeds and kapok. The free admission of the commodities enumerated from these territories was agreed to under the Ottawa agreement in March last, and in November, a new schedule was submitted in respect of Papua and New Guinea so that no injustice would be done to Papua and New Guinea which are under the control of the Commonwealth. Sugar is not produced in commercial quantities in Papua or New Guinea, although a certain quantity of sugar-cane is being grown on experimental plots. I can assure honorable senators that the majority of the items contained in the schedule have been there since 1926, and honorable senators are. now asked to agree to the addition of certain items, in order to place these territories in the same position as are certain colonial possessions under the Ottawa agreement. 
SenatorCOLLINGS (Queensland) [8.23]. -  Senator Johnston  was anxious to take advantage of what, he thought, was an excellent opportunity to say something hostile to the staple industry of Queensland. I found at all the meetings I addressed during a recent visit to Western Australia, that if an interjector in that State wanted to say anything unpleasant about Queensland, he ejaculated " sugar'", about which he knew nothing. After all there is something in  Senator Johnston's  request that the Minister should state the settled policy of the Government regarding the importations of these commodities from Papua and New Guinea, which are under the control of the Commonwealth. It is proposed that a number of commodities produced by colored labour shall be admitted into Australia free of duty, which means that the production of these commodities in Australia will be retarded. Coffee is not being produced in Queensland in commercial quantities, but before I left Queensland a few weeks ago, I saw 38 coffee trees, grown in a backyard in Brisbane, and tended by an aged man under the most primitive conditions, producing coffee beans which could not be surpassed in any country of the world. I saw the raw and the roasted beans, and also consumed coffee made from them. I believe that with adequate assistance from the Government we could produce all the coffee required in Australia. About ten days ago I asked for information regarding the . values of certain commodities, including some of the items mentioned in the schedule, imported into Australia. Other items in the schedule, including kapok and green ginger, could be economically produced in Australia, if the Government encouraged production. One question I asked related to castor oil, and the answer I received was that no figures have been tabulated. 
We seem to be getting into a muddle. At one time we are restricted by the Ottawa agreement; on the next occasion it is the Colonial ' Empire ; and now we have to make a concession to the Mandated Territories, which are ours at the moment, although I do not know for how long. Thus it is difficult for an honorable senator who seeks assistance or desires to give it to know where he stands. 
I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested  to  amend the clause  by  adding the following words :  - " until such time as any  of  the items in the schedule are grown in commercial quantities in Australia ". 
I am of the opinion, after listening to  Senator Collings,  that some of these items can be grown in Queensland, and in parts of Western Australia. As a Labour senator I always keep in mind the possibility that a commodity not now produced in Australia may be produced here in the future, and come within the scope of the White Australia policy. I do not wish to have my name associated with a decision in this Parliament which may re-act against me and my party in this chamber and, perhaps, be the subject of a bitter fight between a hostile Government and a Labour Opposition. 
In my second-reading speech, I pointed out that if we did not pass this measure, and support the attitude of the House of Representatives, it would place Papua and New Guinea in a more difficult position in regard to trade with Australia than the rest of the Colonial Empire. We have given the benefits of exemption in respect of the commodities mentioned to the Colonial Empire; so why not give them to what may be termed our own Colonial Empire also ? Why should there be any limitation or qualification in this particular matter ? 
The amendment would put us in a difficult and invidious position. I ask honorable senators not to pass the amendment. 
We know what commercial prices are, but what is a commercial quantity? Production might be small or great in quantity and yet be on a commercial basis. If  Senator Dunn  were to suggest that these products might be grown on a commercial basis or sold at a commercial price, his amendment would be worthy of notice. Even then I should be opposed to it, because I remember that some years ago there was a rule in the customs tariff administration relating to articles that were " commercially manufactured in Australia ". Those words were stretched by the Customs Department to mean " commercially manuf acturable ". If the exemptions proposed in the bill were quali fied; as suggested by  Senator Dunn,  by the use of the term " grown in commercial quantities ", I think those words would probably be used as a means of excluding everything, whether or not it could  be  commercially produced in Australia. 
Unfortunately, I  did  not hear the Minister's speech on  the  second reading  of  thisbill, and I, therefore, now ask for some information  regarding  the duties  on Oregon  logs.  A  duty was first imposed  on Oregon  logs  by  a government which I  had the pleasure of supporting a few years ago, and it was  maintained despite protests by honorable senators then in opposition, but now supporting the present Government. Eventually the matter was referred to the Tariff Board, and pending the receipt of the board's report, no alteration of the duties was made. So far as I know, the Tariff Board has not yet presented a report on this subject. Timber merchants, timber workers, . 'building contractors and others in South Australia have repeatedly asked that  Oregon  should be permitted to enter this country in logs, for milling here into suitable sizes for building purposes. I should like the Minister, when replying, to say whether this matter was considered by the Government when framing this bill, and also whether the Tariff Board has yet reported on this subject, and, if not, when it is likely to do so. If a report has been received by the Government, has any decision in regard to it been arrived at, and when is the report likely to be released to the public? 
 This bill merely gives effect to an agreement which wasentered into by the Scullin administration and embodied in Act No. 30 of 1931. In the act the intermediate tariff rate applied to certain items, including timber; but as, under legislation passed last year, the intermediate tariff column of the previous schedule was discontinued, this bill is necessary to give expression to what is contained in the schedule to the agreement of 1931. This is merely a machinery measure. 
No. The agreement with Canada cannot be altered without the consent of that Dominion. 
We are not concerned with that matter at the moment. This is merely a machinery measure to give effect to a decision already arrived at. 
Question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 7 agreed to. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duty, sub-item (c), ad val. 10 per cent. 
In Sydney there are factories for the manufacture of plywood and veneers from Australian timbers. To-day, in the Parliamentary Library, I saw a number of samples of Australian plywood and veneers, which, in my opinion, are equal to any imported from Canada or elsewhere. They are certainly better than some of the oregon veneers used by speculative builders. It may be, as the Minister said, that these duties were imposed by the Scullin administration; but that is not a reason why those who supported the Scullin tariff three or four years ago should not seek an alteration of the duties now. 
Were these duties arranged by  Mr. Parker  Moloney when he was Minister for Commerce? 
The existence of an agreement has not prevented Canada from refusing to allow further shipments of Australian flour into that dominion. Although Canada and Australia are both British dominions, Canada is prepared to exclude Australian flour. I may foe accused of being parochial in these matters, but one is forced to be so when thousands of Australians are walking the streetsin search of employment. In view of the policy of economic nationalism, which has extended even to Great Britain itself, we are entitled to ask for an increase of the duty on timber, despite the agreement entered into with the Canadian authorities at the instance of the Scullin Government. 
 I regret that, on this matter, I cannot see eye to eye with my friend,  Senator Dunn. His  object, no  doubt, is to increase the tariff protection given to the Australian timber industry. As the Minister has remarked, the duties embodied in the schedule accord with the trade agreement which was negotiated and signed by  Mr. Parker  Moloney, who was Minister for Markets in the Scullin Administration. So far as I am aware, that is the only agreement entered into by Australia with an overseas country that has produced tangible results. We have extended our markets in Canada for our dried and canned fruits, wine and other commodities, and if we interfere with this schedule, which deals with the preference extended to that dominion as a  quid pro quo  for the preference which Australian products receive on entering Canada, the whole agreement will go by the board. Although the suggested increase of duty might give employment to a few men in cutting logs, it might lead to hundreds of other Australians, now engaged in &gt;the canned and dried fruits and viticultural industries, being thrown out of work. The duty to which the honorable senator has taken exception applies only to  unsawn  logs, so I assume that all the milling and other work connected with the production of veneers from this timber would be done in Australian mills or factories. I have no doubt that some of the logs from Canada are essential to the production of the veneers made in Australia, to the excellence of which the  honorable  senator has already referred. 
I realize that the agreement entered into with Canada implies reciprocal trade; but the Minister should have informed us how long the present agreement will last. I have witnessed the manufacture of plywoods on a large scale in the Dorrigo district of New South Wales. 
This debate seems like a recrudescence of that which took place on the tariff, when Queensland senators objected to the attitude then adopted by South Australia. The latter State has factories for the treatment of timber, and ap parently does not care a great deal whether it comes from Canada or Queensland.  Senator  O'Halloran  maintained that it was better for South Australia that Oregon should .be imported in the log, because more work would thus he provided for Australian operatives. 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the item under discussion. 
The committee is not dealing with the schedule as a whole, but merely with a particular item. 
Two difficulties at least I see about this request. The first is that apparently it will upset the whole of the commercial treaty with Canada made by the previous Government. That appears to be a radical step to take merely for the purpose of putting an extra 5 per cent, duty on oregon logs, not sawn, if  the committee agreed to the request. What would be the effect on clause 6? I do not quite understand why we should ratify, in 1934, proposals which were introduced into the House of Representatives on the 13th October, 1932. 
My question is still unanswered. Clause 6 states that all duties of customs demanded or collected on goods the produce or manufacture of the Dominion of Canada pursuant to the Canadian preference proposals of the 13th October, 1932, shall be deemed to have been lawfully imposed and lawfully demanded and collected. Does that mean that if  Senator Dunn's  request is agreed to, the duty of 10 per cent, will be retrospective to the 13th October, 1932, or does it mean that the goods affected will be regarded as having been exempted up to this date, and that, henceforth, the duty will be 10 per cent. instead of 5 per cent.? 
.- I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the duty, per pair, 2s. 3d. 
Several Australian factories are manufacturing rubber goods of a high quality, namely, the North Australian Rubber Manufacturing Company, known as "N.A.R.M.", in Queensland; the Perdriau and the Hardy shoe companies in Sydney; and the Barnet Glass and Dunlop rubber companies in Melbourne. Members of the Australian Davis Cup team consider the Australian-made articles good enough for them. Therefore, honorable senators should not hesitate to make the duty sufficient to ensure the continued employment of the large number of men and women employed in our rubber factories. 
I should not have delayed the Senate at this late hour, but far the fact that this 13 the first opportunity I have ha,d to refute some extraordinary assertions made on the  5  th July, in the House of Representatives, by the honorable member for West Sydney  (Mr. Beasley).  Apparently this gentleman has suddenly developed into a prominent sheep and wool expert, and is to become the custodian of the greatest industry we have in Australia. It is pleasing to know that he is watching the interests of the Australian wool-growers, and in that connexion I shall co-operate with him to the best of my ability. It does not matter what he said concerning the Australian wool industry, because, in effect, he modestly admitted that he knew nothing about it. Such an explanation was entirely unnecessary. But I take strong exception to certain grossly inaccurate references concerning me personally, which reflect upon my honour. As we are all aware, some years ago a Labour government placed an embargo upon the export of stud merino sheep from Australia, and on that occasion I supported its action. I have always done so, because, in the interest of the greatest industry that we have, it is wise that some restriction should be placed upon the export of our incomparable merino sheep to other countries, where they may be used to build up a woolgrowing industry to the detriment of Australia's wool trade. Even when a Labour government was in power, it was always possible to obtain permits to export other than merino sheep, because it was realized that all British breeds and Corriedales can be obtained in other countries, and that possibly sheep of better quality could be obtained in unlimited quantities in New Zealand. I was pleased to notice that the honorable member for West Sydney is taking a very keen interest in the welfare of the Australian woolgrowers, and the wool industry generally, He rightly said - 
Apart from the mcn who obtain a living by the production, sale, shipping and  manufacturing  of wool, this industry is important to all citizens. 
Had he left it at that, arid refrained from making insinuations against the honesty of the Government and certain qf its supporters, all would have 'been well; but he went on to say that there had been a "stacking of the cards"  by  certain sheep men, in which  Senator Guthrie  and the honorable member for Riverina  (Mr. Nock)  were prominent. He said - 
It i3 common knowledge in Sydney that two prominent members of this Parliament have been associated with the negotiations with the Government for the lifting of the embargo on the export of stud sheep-1-! refer to  Senator Guthrie  and the honorable member for Riverina  (Mr. Nock). 
He then, I understand, went on to say that " the dogs were barking " about certain alleged actions. I suggest that the dogs were barking up the wrong tree. Perhaps he meant the bleating of the goats. Ever since I have been associated with the wool industry, I have supported an embargo on the export of stud merino rams from Australia, and year after year, at the New .South Wales Sheep-breeders' Association, of the council of which I have the honour to be a member. I have opposed resolutions asking the Government to remove the embargo. In doing so, I have made myself extremely unpopular with certain ram breeders, and have lost a lot of friends, and, incidentally, some business. I followed the course I did, because I have realized that because of its prepon-derating importance to Australia, the  wo.q1  industry is of greater moment than the personal interest of a - few ram-breeders. There are  90,000  families growing wool in Australia, and their success has been due largely to the efforts of that great pioneer Macarthur, who laid the foundation of the Australian wool industry. Largely as a result of his efforts, we have been able to breed the finest sheep produced in any part of the world. The importance of the wool industry to Australia will be found in the fact that with only 16 per cent, of the world's sheep, we have been producing 32 per cent, of the total value of the world's wool, showing that per sheep Australia can annually produce wool of twice the value of that produced in any other part of the world. Merino sheep are the backbone of the great Australian wool industry. Owing to the preponderance of merinos, Australia is now growing nearly 60 per cent, of the merino wool produced in the world. When I first entered the wool-growing industry, South Africa was producing only 20,000 bales of inferior wool; but after the South African woolproducers had been given a free ha-nd in the purchase of our best sheep, the production in that country increased to nearly 1,000,000 bales of good merino wool per annum. A few years ago, Russia, which breeds only a. poor type, claimed to have 130,000,000 sheep. Large shipments of merinos were about to bc sent to Russia, and the Russian people could have produced wool of better quality if big shipments of Australian stud merinos had been permitted. For that and for other reasons, I have always supported a majority of the graziers who opposed the lifting of the embargo. The honorable member for West Sydney objected to Australian sheep being exported to New Zealand ; but as New Zealand is not a country suitable for merinos, few of that breed have been sent from Australia to the dominion. He also charged the Government with allowing Romney Marsh sheep to be sent to New Zealand, but those and other British breeds are always available from other sources. He attacked the export of Corriedales to New Zealand and to other countries, but New Zealand is the home of the Corriedale. Buyers in all parts of the world can purchase Romney Marsh, other British breeds of sheep, and Corriedales, in that dominion. 
I have had the good luck to sell a few Corriedale sheep to New Zealand, but I had to buy many more sheep from the dominion than I have sent there, and that is the general trend of trade. Australia buys much more extensively from New Zealand than New Zealand buys from  it.  We have always been able to get permission, even under Labour governments, to export stud sheep from Australia to New Zealand, South Africa, Canada, India_ and other countries, although I think" it would be very difficult to get a permit to ship sheep to Russia. Nothing underhand has been done by either the Government or its supporters, and the insinuation that there is something to hide - that I have shipped Corriedale sheep to other parts of the world and must have used undue influence to get the necessary permission - is ridiculous. I am proud of the fact that some buyers think that my rams are worth purchasing. This year I had the honour to sell a Corriedale ram to a noted breeder in Fyfeshire, Scotland. Does  Mr. Beasley,  or any one else, suggest that there should be an embargo on that animal? Was the sale of it bad for Australia? I have also sold sheep to the United States of America, Canada, and New Zealand, but I. have imported probably more sheep than I have sold. 
The Japanese Government is encouraging growers of mulberry trees, which provide food for the silkworm, to buy a sheep or two which can feed on the refuse leaves not eaten by the worms, and at the same time enrich the soil for the benefit of the trees. But the maximum number of sheep allowed to any farmer is five, and the total number in the country is only 30,000. So, I do not think that it can be seriously contended that by the shipment of a few Corriedale sheep to eat mulberry leaves in Japan, the Australian wool-growing industry is being jeopardized. Apart from that, honorable senators should remember that Japan is our second biggest customer for wool, its purchases amounting to between £10,000,000 to £12,000,000 per annum. Even when  the  export of  my few Corriedales  is set against the fact that Japan buys from us 500,000 or 600,000 bales of wool per annum, and hopes to buy a million per annum, the balance of trade is still very much in our favour. I have not exported any sheep to Manchuria or Manchukuo, nor has any member of the association of which I am president. 
That may be so, but as far as I have been able to ascertain from Britishers who have been there, and from Japanese connected with the wool industry, those countries are not suitable for sheep. Certainly they have a few million very rough sheep, but at seasons of the year the ground is frozen to a depth of three to four feet; the soil is saline, and the herbage is such that the pastoral industry there can never be developed to be a serious competitor with that in Australia. If I thought that I would he doing any harm by selling to Japan a few sheep that might ultimately reach Manchuria or Manchukuo, I would be quite agreeable to refuse such business. I speak not as a big squatter, such as  Mr. Beasley  described me, but as a man engaged -in a relatively small way. New Zealand has good Corriedales and a great number of them, and if the Government of the dominion, following the example of Australia's embargo on the exportation of merinos, saw fit to prohibit the exportation of Corriedales, we might possibly with advantage do "the same. But the Commonwealth Government is alive to anything that might be detrimental to our wool industry, and it is very difficult for anyone to get a permit for the export of stud sheep. It is negotiating with the New Zealand Government at the present time, and if New Zealand were to put an embargo on the exportation of Cor.riedales, I would personally favour a similar embargo in Australia, simply to prove that I am sincere in my desire to place the wool industry before personal gain, though I do not think that such a step would be efficacious, as there are some millions of these sheep in South America, although the breed in that country is not so good as in New Zealand and the Commonwealth. 
The Japanese Government has bought no stud Corriedale sheep this year, but only a few flock sheep that we were fortunate to dispose of. The honorable member for Capricornia  (Mr. Forde)  seems to be better acquainted with the pastoral industry than is  Mr. Beasley,  because he says that every Australian enjoys some benefit from the prosperity of the industry, and that everything that can be done to protect it should be done. With those sentiments I agree. It is gratifying to know that such authorities as  Mr. Beasley  and  Mr. Forde  are joining with others to see that Australia's great industry is protected. I thought that West Sydney was famous for producing goats rather than sheep. Although I recognize that the people of that constituency are political lambs, I did not expect their representative to take such an active part in protecting the wool industry, as he did when he made a speech for which he would have been applauded had he not made scurrilous insinuations against the Government,  Mr. Nock,  M.H.R., and myself. 
I desire to bring under the Minister's notice the following telegram which I have just received from the Wheat-growers Union of Western Australia : - 
Widespread indignation farmers this State action  Agricultural  Bank refusing grant from federal bounty to car owners irrespective their financial position, age of car, distance from siding, and purpose for which car 'used. This action too arbitrary. Each case should be judged on merits. Please protest proper quarter. 
[9.57]. - I shall bring the matter under the notice of the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart).  No section of the Wheat Belief Act deals with the ownership of motor cars. The distribution of the bounty is left to the State authorities, and presumably the condition mentioned by  Senator Johnston  is one imposed by the State and is not a limitation suggested by the federal authority. 
.- On the 28th June, I asked a question of the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  concerning the grievance of Captain Conway, and requested that it be referred to the royal commission which is inquiring into the retirement from the navy of LieutenantCommander Casey. This is a matter of long standing, and perhaps the Minister is fully cognizant of the circumstances. I have taken clown a statement from Captain Conway, and it seems to me that he has a genuine grievance for which, however, he can get no redress. Captain Conway's claim may be summarized in this way: For many years he rendered efficient and meritorious service, for which, on his retirement, he received the thanks of the 
Minister of the day. After his retirement, however, he was maligned by published statements, and, ultimately, succeeded in forcing an investigation, which was conducted by the Chief of the General Staff, General J. H. Bruche, who courageously exposed the misrepresentation. The following facts were disclosed by the investigation: - (a) That Conway efficiently, diligently and meritoriously performed his duty. (6) That the department had deprived him of the credit of his service. (c) That he had been publicly represented as having failed in the performance of his duty. These serious facts were established by General Bruche, and in due course Captain Conway submitted his claim for compensation for injurious misrepresentation. The department now adopts the attitude that the findings of General Bruche were not in accordance with the facts ; that the matter circulated concerning Captain Conway was true; and that General Bruche arrived at his decision by arrangement with Captain Conway and others. The Government cannot allow the matter to remain in this most unsatisfactory state. The integrity and ability of General Bruche have been impugned, and it is imperative that the whole of the matters mentioned should be investigated promptly and thoroughly by an independent . tribunal. Either Captain Conway was seriously misrepresented and injured, or General Bruche played the part of a political puppet. The issue is simple and plain; justice must be done, even though the department has to pay for its persecution of a capable and trustworthy officer, who rendered meritorious service to King and Country in every position in which he served. I should like the Minister to lay on the table of the Senate the report by General Bruche. Any man who renders faithful service to his employer is entitled to a reference. It is not right that an employer, having given a man a satisfactory reference, should afterwards say that what he said in the reference was not true, and that the employee is not what he represented him to to be. If Captain Conway did not deserve the thanks of the department, he should not have been thanked. This matter is sufficiently serious to justify a thorough investigation by an independent tribunal. I do not know what baa been done. When Captain Conway presented his case to me I felt that an injustice had been done to him, and consequently I have brought the matter before the Senate. 
.- On the 5th July I asked the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  the following question, without notice: - 
Will the Minister for Defence lay on the table of the Senate the written applications for positions in the Australian Navy forwarded to him during the last two and a half years by  Senator Dunn?  Will he also state how many, if any, of such applications have been successful ? 
I have since received the following answer from the Minister: -  1 am now in a position to inform the honorable senator that he has sent to me six applications for entry and re-entry into the Royal Australian Navy, and two applications for positions at the naval establishment at Garden Island. The files in regard to the applications above referred to for entry and re-entry into the Royal Australian Navy can bc inspected at my office in the Senate. 
It may be that the Minister is endowed with a sense of humour, and consequently has given me the reply mentioned ; but,  a3  a representative of the people, I am not satisfied with it. I claim that I am entitled to a proper answer to my question, lu the heat of debate the Minister said that I had the distinction of writing more letters to him, as Minister for Defence, than any other honorable senator. One would imagine that I had sent to the Minister thousands of letters asking for jobs in the Australian Navy ; yet, on his own admission, he received from me in two and a half years only six applications for entry or re-entry into the Navy, and two applications for positions at Garden Island. When I asked how many such applications were successful, I got the usual "wipe-off." I could forgive the Minister for a loss of self-control during a heated debate ; but I think that, on reflection, he will admit that honorable senators are only doing their duty when they send letters to Ministers on behalf of their constituents. I hope, therefore, that, even yet, the Minister will reply satisfactorily to my question. If members of this Parliament are to ,be impeached because they write letters to Ministers, I can only say that' such condemnation savours of political bodyline bowling. The  Mansard  record will show the manner in which the representatives of the people are sometimes treated by Ministers when relations are strained in this chamber. 

 Senator Guthrie has seen fit to criticize the leader of the political group to which I belong - the honorable member for West Sydney  (Mr. Beasley).  Would the honorable senator deny to  Mr. Beasley  the right to criticize any happening calculated to injure Australia?  Senator Guthrie  knows that the honorable member for West Sydney is a son of the late Tom Beasley, a well-known farmer of Werribee, and that in his early life he was engaged in that form of primary production for which the Bacchus Marsh and Werribee district is famed. A few days ago the honorable member for West Sydney moved the adjournment of the House of Representatives to draw attention to the danger to Australia of the export of Corriedale sheep to Japan. 
Every one must admit that  Mr. Beasley  is fair iu debate. With him it is not a case of wigs on the green; he fights for principles. At the end of his speech  Senator Guthrie  indulged in offensive innuendoes against the honorable member for West Sydney. Did the honorable senator mean that that electorate was represented in the House of Representatives by goats? At any rate,  Mr. Beasley  has severely butted the honorable senator, hence the squeal from him to-night.  Senator Guthrie  admits that he has exported sheep to Japan, notwithstanding the fact that Manchuria was won by Japan from China by force of arms. He also said that there were only five sheep, on the average, to every farmer in Japan. 
It is surprising that the honorable, senator did not ask the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham),  who recently returned from Japan, how many sheep Japanese farmers have. Japan is under the rule to-day of the imperial junkers of that country, and the farmers and manufacturers have no voice. In support of his argument that successful sheep breeding is not practicable in Manchuria,  Senator Guthrie  remarked that for long periods the countryside was under snow and ice. But similar conditions are found in the Falkland Islands, Patagonia, and the country adjacent to the Magellan Straits, one of the waterways to the west coast of South America. In Patagonia millions of sheep arc depastured, despite the fact that for long periods of the year the countryside is under snow. The honorable member for "West Sydney remarked - 
It is common knowledge in Sydney that two prominent members of this Parliament have been associated with the negotiations with the Government for the lifting pf the embargo on the export of stud sheep. I refer to  Senator Guthrie,  a very prominent grazier of Victoria, and to the honorable member for Riverina  (Mr. Nock). 
It seems strange that members of the Lyons Ministry rushed in to defend " comrade " Nock from the Riverina, but said not a word about  Senator Guthrie,  who admits having exported Corriedale sheep to Japan. 
I care not what Ministry was in power. When  Senator Guthrie  was sitting on the opposition side in this chamber, the Minister for Markets in the Scullin Administration placed an embargo on the export of stud sheep. The honorable member for West Sydney went on to say - 

 Senator Guthrie, as is well known in business circles, is closely associated with Dalgety and Company Limited, which handled  n  considerable number of those shipments as agents. It is further alleged that some of the sheep exported were actually obtained from properties owned by  Senator Guthrie. 
The honorable member for Cook  (Mr. Riley)  remarked - 
I was interested to hear the remarks of the honorable member for West Sydney  (Mr Beasley)  regarding the part played  by  Senator Guthrie  in the export of stud, sheep. I have in my hand a statement issued by  Senator Guthrie,  in the course of which he says- " Australia's most valuable asset, is her possession of the best merino sheep, producing the moat and best wool in the world. The maintenance of these studs is. not only essential to the national interest, but they are absolutely essential as the source of supply to the smaller growers, who must get their supply of rams from these high-class, old-established big studs ". 
Evidently  Senator Guthrie  fully realizes the importance of our merino Hocks to Australia, and yet he is a party to the export of hundreds of stud sheep to Japan. He and others, associated with him are rendering a disservice to Australia. 
Although  Senator Guthrie  states that he has exported stud sheep, he claims that no damage  ha3  thereby been done to Australia. Years ago it was argued that wattle seeds could be exported to South Africa without injury to Australia, although our bush-workers were obtaining a livelihood by harvesting wattle bark. Yet much of the wattle bark recently used in this country has been imported from South Africa, which is also a formidable rival of Australia in the fight for the wool markets of Europe. The Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  made this interesting statement - 
The exports of Corriedale sheep were as follows: - to New Zealand, two rams, valued at fi 30; to South Africa, two rams, valued at £21, and eight ewes, valued at £84; to India, three ranis, valued at £90; to Japan, 14li rams, valued at £1,459, and 3,958 ewes, valued at £11,753; to the United States of America, two rams, valued at £57, and ten ewes, valued at £50. The total export of Corriedales during the period mentioned was therefore 155 rams and 3,970 ewes. 
It will be noticed that Japan purchased 146 rams and 3,958 ewes. I suggest that these animals were purchased, not to he converted into curry or sausages, but to enable breeders in Japan to build up their flocks. Reference to various works in the Parliamentary Library shows that close scientific research is being undertaken by Japan for the purpose of building up its primary and secondary industries. Yet we are asked to believe that the exportation of stud sheep to that country will not prove injurious to Australia. I think that  Mr. Beasley  made out a good case. If  Senator Guthrie  will read the debate in the House of . Representatives, he will sense the fear, entertained by those who took part in it, that great damage was being done to the wool industry of Australia" by the exportation of stud rams and ewes. 
 Senator Guthrie  will, I think, agree that whatever criticism may have been offered by  Mr. Beasley  about those who were concerned in the export of stud sheep from Australia, he made no suggestion whatever that anything dishonest was done.  Mr. Beasley  is not that kind of man. Ho always presents his case on the facts before him, and with due regard to the record of his statements appearing in  Hansard  aud the press. He deals with every case on its merits. There was, therefore, no occasion for  Senator Guthrie  to get hot under the collar merely because  Mr. Beasley  represents an industrial constituency. The people living in West Sydney do not grow sheep, it is true, but they eat a great deal of mutton. In common with other electors, they pay their full share of customs, excise, and other taxes, and, therefore, are interested, though perhaps somewhat remotely, in the maintenance of the New South Wales stud farms at Wagga and on the Hawkesbury. How then can  Senator Guthrie  argue that  Mr. Beasley  is not within his rights in criticizing what  Senator Guthrie  or anybody else may have done in connexion with the export of stud sheep from  thi3  country? 
What  Mr. Beasley  said was fair criticism.  Mr. Main,  the Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales, speaking in the Legislative Assembly a few days ago, admitted that a certain number of Dorset rams had been exported from the stud farm at Wagga, and I believe he said that they had been sent to Japan. No one will deny that Japan is making a determined effort to build up its flocks, and there is no doubt that it is drawing largely on Australian studs. When I was a boy, it was generally believed that Japan, which was then giving its attention to the development of secondary industries, would never become a great industrial nation. As we now know, that country has made such astonishing progress industrially that its competition in world markets is giving a headache to the leading statesmen in all countries. It has become Britain's most formidable competitor in dominion markets, and particularly in India, which is one of the lowest wage countries in the world. If Japan is so formidable, industrially, is it not likely that as a woolproducing country it will cause considerable trouble to Australia ? The stud rams and ewes which it has purchased from Australia for a few pounds may prove to be the nucleus of numerous flocks, the product of which may one day be in competition with Australian-grown wool in the markets of the world. 
 At this late hour, I would not think of detaining the Senate but for the fact that if I did not now make the statement which I desire to make, it will probably be too late. I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  if he will see that the inquiry into the affairs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which was promised by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Parkhill)  last week deals not only with dismissals of the staff in Queensland, but also with administration and other matters in Queensland and New South Wales. Honorable senators will recall that I mentioned this matter last week. It was raised in the House of Representatives on the same day by the honorable member for Brisbane  (Mr. George Lawson).  I shall be grateful if the right honorable the Leader of the Senate will convey my request to the Postmaster-General, because I believe that good will come out of the inquiry if it is conducted on the lines that I have suggested. 
 I was rather surprised at the attack made by  Senator Guthrie  on  Mr. Beasley,  the member for West Sydney, in the House of Representatives, in connexion with the motion for the adjournment of the House, moved by the latter one day last week to discuss the export of stud sheep from Australia. If  Mr. Beasley  inadvertently did  Senator Guthrie  an injustice, he would, I am sure, be the first to apologize. I think  Senator Guthrie  has, by his own words, gone far to cancel any claim that he might have had upon  Mr. Beasley  to rectify any harm which his remarks may have done to the honorable senator. It was certainly in the worst of taste for the honorable gentleman referring to  Mr. 
Beasley, to offer some weak witticism about "goats" in West Sydney. The avowed intention of Japan is to build up its flocks of high-class, wool-bearing sheep in the territory of Manchukuo, which is now under its control. It may be true, as  Senator Guthrie  has said, that Manchukuo is noteminently adapted for the production of high-class wool. The same may be said of many parts of Australia. It is, however, possible that, following scientific research, the quality of wool produced in Manchukuo may be improved to such an extent that, in time, it will be a strong competitor of Australian wools in the world's markets.It is generally known that ifa particular class of country is not suitable for the production of highclass wool, it is necessary, from time to time, to import rams from the country where the best kind of wool is produced, in order to prevent the flocks from deteriorating. It is, therefore, clear that if we permit trading by Australian stud masters with Manchukuo through Japan, for the purpose of building up the flocks in that country, those concerned will make every effort to continue the business. The same remarks apply to the efforts made by Russia to improve its flocks. I cannot imagine that any very large area of the Soviet Republic, with, the exception of the extreme southern portion, is suitable for the production of fine merino wool; hut if suitable strains can he obtained from any other country, the Russian growers may be able to improve the quality of their flocks. If we permit inroads to be made into our wool industry, vested interests in other countries will see that there is a continuance of exports from Australia. I read in a Sydney newspaper a few days ago that a branch of the wool-growing industry passed a resolution requesting the Government to enforce the embargo on the export of Corriedales.  Senator Guthrie  said that New Zealand was a country in which merino sheep were not prominent. During recent years, large tracts of country formerly used for grazing merino sheep have been subdivided, and are now devoted to the depasturing of Lincoln, Leicester and Romney Marsh sheep. Although large numbers of long woolled sheep are now being bred in New Zealand, the merino is so adaptable that it can be successfully carried on millions of acres in New Zealand, even on country 5,000 feet above the sea level. I know of what I am speaking, because I have worked and shorn sheep in that type of country.  Senator Guthrie  may consider that he knows a great deal about sheep-breeding, but he is wrong in saying that merino sheep will not thrive in New Zealand. They do well on the plains, and also on country 5,000 feet above sea levety even during the severest winter. 1 have known of merino sheep to put their heads together during a snow storm, and, by the warmth of their breath, to melt the snow sufficiently to enable them to live until the danger had passed. 
That is so. But a class of wool much finer than that country is naturally adapted for can be produced by introducing fresh strains from the countries where the finest wools are produced. We should be very chary of allowing stud rams to he exported to other countries, because if the practice is permitted, an endeavour will be made to stimulate exports. 
[10.50]. - The points raised by  Senator Collings  with respect to the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Archdale Parkhill). 
The case of Captain Conway, mentioned by  Senator Dooley,  is well known to me, and also to every Minister for Defence during the last ten years. I do not propose to go into that case to-night ; hut if  Senator Dooloy  wishes to study the file, I shall have it placed on the table of the Library, so that he and other honorable senators interested may peruse it. If they stagger through it, they will see that it is not quite the subject for an inquiry such as he suggests. 
I do not propose to make any contribution to the long and learned discussion on merinos, Corriedales and various other breeds of sheep. It served to remind me of a letter I read in a Melbourne  newspaper concerning the Centenary medallion. On one side of the accepted design is the skull of a sheep intersected by a head of wheat. The writer of the letter said that he was a sheep-breeder, and that he bad looked at the head, but was quite sure that it was not the merino upon which our great sheep industry had been founded. He said that it might be a Dorset, but whatever its breed, it was better dead. Probably some honorable senators who have been listening to the discussion on Corriedales, merinos and other breeds, have been thinking that the subject would bc better dead. 

 Senator Dunn objected to ray reply to a question he had asked concerning letters which he had written to me forwarding applications for employment in the Royal Australian  Navy.  Earlier in the session ho had asked other questions relating to alleged dissatisfaction and disaffection in the Navy. It seemed rather peculiar that the honorable senator, holding the views he apparently does concerning the Navy, should write a number of letters endeavouring to get for some of his constituents employment in that service. In one or two instances he asked that the applicants bo readmitted to the Navy. If  Senator Dunn  wishes to ascertain whether any of the mcn he mentioned have been provided with employment, the files are available in my office, and can be inspected by him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.1]. -  by leave  - In order to enable the Government to prepare the budget, which was not possible before the close of the financial year, it is proposed by the Government to ask both Houses of the Par- liament  to adjourn from the completion of the business this week until Tuesday, the 24th July, at 3 p.m., when, it is anticipated, the budget will be introduced in the House of Representatives, and the usual procedure will be adopted in the Senate of laying the budget papers on the table, and moving that they be printed. 
I ask you,  Mr. President,  as the presiding officer responsible for reports which appear in  Ilansard - 
What is the cost of reproducing in  Ilansard,  No. 3, issued on Saturday, the  7th  July, 1934, the diagrams shown therein between pages 226 and 227, alleged by  Senator Elliott  to have been prepared by him? 
Is the  President  aware that these diagrams, except for colour, are a facsimile of a chart published by the Buckingham press, London, and marked " Copyright strictly reserved ", .of which honorable senators received copies last year, with the compliments of P. Malcolm Stewart, 38a Park-lane, London, W.I.? 
Was it necessary to incorporate these diagrams in  Hansard? 
If so, was the expense justified ? 
Is  Senator Elliott's  action an infringement of copyright ? 
Although, strictly speaking, the occupant of this Chair is not obliged to answer such a question, I  recognize  that the  President  has the oversight of reports which appear in  Hansard,  as well as tables and quotations that may be included for the purpose of making clear a speaker's argument. But the honorable senator's questions involve matters which cannot be answered offhand, and, therefore, I shall take an opportunity on another occasion ito reply to the honorable gentleman. 
In view of the fact that you,  Mr. President,  allowed  Senator J.  B. Hayes this afternoon, when asking a question of which the responsible Minister asked that notice be given, to read a somewhat lengthy press report containing an expression of opinion, will you now allow me the facilities which YoU denied to me yesterday? 
The'  PRESIDENT.-  I have a clear recollection that the question which the honorable senator asked yesterday contained a definite expression of opinion by persons outside this Parliament. As he knows, a third party is not entitled to have his opinion recorded or quoted in this chamber in connexion with a question asked of a Minister. The newspaper passage quoted this afternoon by  Senator J.  B. Hayes did not contain any expression of opinion. Questions couched in such terms have always been allowed. 
Since that is now your opinion,  Mr. President,  will you allow me to read the question which I attempted to ask yesterday, namely - 
Has the attention of the Loader of the Senate been directed to the following press report appearing in the  Labor Daily. - 
"ARGENTINA IS CUTTING THE PRICES. 
The disquieting news that the Argentine has again embarked on a wheat-slashing compaign in the United Kingdom and Eastern markets waa cabled from London on Saturday." 
What is now the position of "the Lyons Government in view of the fact that  Mr.  Bruce  High  Commisisoner  for Australia in  England.  signed the International Wheat Agreement on behalf of Australia? 
Is it not, in view of the actions of Argentina, a complete let-down for the wheat-farmers of Australia by signing this International Wheat Agreement? 
It must be clear to honorable senators, and it ought to be clear, also, to  Senator Dunn,  that his question  is a complete contravention of the practice laid down in this chamber for the asking of questions. It expresses the view that the action of Argentina with reference to the international wheat agreement will have a depressing effect upon wheat prices in Australia. That is clearly an expression of opinion. For that reason, I ruled his question out of order. I repeat that I cannot allow expressions of opinion by persons outside this chamber, or newspapers, to be quoted when questions are being asked of Ministers. The purpose of a question is to obtain, not to give, information. 
Can the Leader of the Senate say when the Senate will again have an opportunity to discuss private members' business on Thursdays after 8 p.m. ? For the last six months, the business-paper has contained notices of motion by  Senator Bae  and myself. I should like to know whether, in this matter, we are under the jurisdiction of the Leader of the Senate or are governed by the Standing and Sessional Orders ? 
-Will there be any opportunity to deal with private members' business during this session ? 
Some person or persons unknown have entered the Senate chamber, and, without authority, deposited on honorable senators' desks a number of phamplets entitled,  Has Democracy failed in Australia,  issued by the Proportional Representation Society, Victoria, of 105 Collins-street, Melbourne, and signed by James W. Barrett, president, and Royden Powell, honorary secretary, Melbourne. I take this opportunity to warn enthusiastic supporters of the society mentioned and others that they are not at liberty to enter this chamber without first obtaining permission to do so. The vigilance of the officers of the Senate is not questioned; these officers perform ther duties satisfactorily, but they cannot always prevent unwarrantable intrusions. 
Can you,  Mr. President,  give the Senate an assurance that no members of the Parliamentary House staff will be put off during the period which will elapse between the termination of the present sittings and the re-assembling of the Senate after the elections ? 
As I indicated in reply to an earlier question this afternoon, the Chair is not obliged to answer a question of this nature. The question of  Senator Dunn  is the first suggestion I have heard that some members of the House staff may be put off. 1 am not aware of any intention to interfere with the staff in 'the manner mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
When does the Government expect the Tariff Board's report in reference to steel plates used for motor bodies? 
Is it the intention of the Government to follow the advice given by the Tariff Board on the above item? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
lt isassumed the honorable senator refers to steel panels for motor bodies. A report on this question has not yet been received from the Tariff Board. The inquiry was only recently completed, and it is not possible to indicate when the report will be received. 
Until the Government has had an opportunity of reviewing the report, when received, no indication of the ultimate action can  bt  given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Tariff Board, during the last three months, has submitted reports on 60 items to the Minister for Trade and Customs, and that no effort has been made to table these reports? 
Is it a fact that among the reports concerned are those relating to the following items :  - Iron and steel plate and sheet iron, and steel wire and tubes; propeller shafts; piston rings; timber; veneers, undressed; roofing slates; waddings and cotton wool; cotton yarns, and piece goods; high-tension ignition coils; electric heating and cooking appliances; dry batteries; sheet glass; cordage, rope and twine; reaper and binder twine; leather of various kinds? 
Is it not a fact that the Country party pressed for the above items to be submitted  and passed, and that the Lyons Government instructed the Minister for Trade and Customs to withdraw the above-named items until after the federal elections? 
No. The number of tariff reports received during the past three months is 22. 
Of the items listed by the honorable senator, the only one in respect of which the Tariff Board has submitteda report within the last three months is " Leather ". 
No. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact that the authority distributing the grant made to the Government of South Australia to enable a bounty to be paid to necessitous wheat-growers is not, in certain eases, paying the full amount of bounty to which the growers are entitled? 
If so, is not this action contrary to the provisions of the legislationpassed by this Parliament last session? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
The Commonwealth Government is not aware of the circumstances to which the honorable senator refers, and is, therefore, not in a position to say whether any action taken by the State is contrary to the provisions of the Wheat-growers Relief Act. If the honorable senator makes specific representations on the subject the Minister for Commerce will consider them. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the approximate annual saving in interest made by the Commonwealth and each of the States by the conversion of funded debts and short-term debts in Australia in 1931 ? 
What were the approximate annual savings in interest and exchange made by the Commonwealth and each of the States by conversions of overseas debts in London, since October, 1932? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has furnished the following replies to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The approximate annual savins in interest including both funded and short-term debt by the Commonwealth and each of the States by the national debt conversion operation in 1931 was as follows :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407124_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The approximate annual saving in interest and exchange made by the Commonwealth and each ofthe States by conversion of overseas debt in London since October, 1932, was as follows: - 

<graphic href="144332193407124_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What officials have been or are being employed in assisting, or preparing information for the committee appointed by the Government to reply to the " Case for Secession " of Western Australia? 
For what periods have they been employed, and for how long will they be employed on this work? 
What payments are being made for these duties? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following replies to the questions of the honorable senator: - 
No officers of the Commonwealth other than typists were detailed, and no persona were employed, especially to assist the committee. ' Arrangements were made for such assistance to be renderedas was sought by the committee, which when presenting its reply  expressed its thanks for the help received from  Mr. S.  G. McFarlane and  Dr. R.  Wilson, of the Department of the Treasury, and from officers of the Trade and Customs and other departments. 
No record has been kept of the time during which any of the officers was engaged in affording assistance to the committee. 
No payments other than normal salaries have been or are to be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Why is the committee appointed to oppose the " Case for Secession " of Western Australia holding its meetings in Canberra instead of in Perth? 
Is it the intention of the committee to visit Western Australia or to take evidence there before framing its report? 
If not, why not? 
Canberra was considered to be the most convenient and suitable place for the meetings of the committee. 
No. The committee has presented to the Government the reply which it was asked to prepare. 
See answer to 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a telegram from Innisfail published in the  Sunday Sun  of the 1st July, to the effect that of 350 cane-cutters signed on for the Mourilyan area only six were British, a British gang having been specially asked for by a farmer, and that the majority of the other cutters were Italians engaged by their countrymen ? 
What number of cane-cutters are employed in Queensland to-day, and what number of same are (a) British, and (b) foreigners? 
The Minis ter for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorabla senator's questions :  - 
No. 2 Exact information as to the number of cane-cutters employed in the sugar industry at the present time is not available, but it is known that the number and the distribution as to nationality is now much the same as in 1031, when the Commonwealth Sugar Inquiry Committee investigated the industry. That committee found that in the whole of the Queensland sugar districts, there were 8,142 cane-cutters, of which 80.4 per cent. were British and 19.6 cent. foreign. 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a telegram from Innisfail published in the Sunday  Sun  of the 1st July, to the effect that farmers of foreign extraction have commenced to penetrate the ownership of sugar farms in El Arish area which was the most successful soldier settlement in the Commonwealth, and that another soldier is completing arrangements to dispose of his farm at a price approximating ?4,000. It was also stated that there was some public controversy at the time of the last sale, as it was contended that the Commonwealth did not establish the settlement with the prospect of foreigners buying farms, but no official action was taken? 
Will the Government have inquiries made into the position disclosed by this report? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1 and 2. The Government will inquire into the position disclosed in the newspaper report in question. It might be stated at once, however, that the Commonwealth did not establish the settlement at El Arish. The Queensland Government did so. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
With reference to reply made on the 4th instant to question by  Senator E.  B. Johnston  re  the Royal Commission on Taxation - On what basis per day were allowances and fees paid to the members of the commission? 

 Sir David Ferguson. Travelling allowance ?3 3s. per day when away from Sydney. No fees are being paid;  Mr. E.  V. Nixon. - Travelling allowance, ?1 10s. per day when absent from Melbourne. Pees. - When in Melbourne ?5 5s. per day; when absent from Melbourne ?5 5s. per day, but fees for days in excess of five in any week only to be payable when the commission is actually engaged on business for more than five days . in that week. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Are the press reports correct in stating that  Senator the  Right Honorable  Sir George  Pearce does not intend taking part in the ensuing federal election in his own State, but will tour the other States in the interests of United Australia party candidates! 
If so, is the abandonment of his own State due to any action of the Dominion League of Western Australia censuring the right honorable gentleman and other representatives of that State for their opposition to the secession movement? 
Will the travelling expenses of the right honorable senator incurred in the proposed tour of the various States be wholly or partly a charge upon the ministerial grant for expenses of Ministers engaged on public business ? 
Is it a fact that the right honorable sena tor contemplates resigning his seat, and resubmitting himself as an anti-secession candidate at the ensuing elections? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The following are the answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the present great need for more gold, its high price, the well-known richness of the auriferous areas of Western Australia, and the opportunity afforded for placing a large number of unemployed in profitable occupations, will the Government consider earmarking a substantial portion of any future grant to Western Australia for the purpose of - 
Re-conditioning existing crushing plants, and 
Erecting crushing plants in new areas ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer: - 
It is considered that the question of the utilization by the Government of Western Australia, for the purposes mentioned by the honorable senator, of portion of any grant by the Commonwealth is one which should be left to the State Government for decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the present policy of the Government in regard to the excise duty on Australiangrown tobacco ? 
Is it a fact that, at the recent conference between the United Australia party and the United Country party, it was decided that effective differential rates as between import and excise duties, in favour of the Australian industry, should be imposed? 3.Is it not a fact that  Senator Rae  moved in that direction last session, when the tariff was under consideration, and was opposed by members of both the United Australia party and the United Country party. 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
It is not the usual practice for the Government to announce its policy in answer to a question. 
See answer to No. 1. 

 Senator Rae moved in that direction last session, but the Senate did not accept his motion for differential excise duties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister administering War Service Homes,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Returned Soldiers' Conference recently held in Hobart passed the following resolution :  - " Congress protests against the eviction of soldiers' widows from war service homes and urges that the present Federal Government bring in a scheme of reduced payments for soldiers' widows " ? 
Inquiries will be made, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
If not, why not? 
The matter will receive consideration, and the honorable senator will be informed as soon as possible. 
 This motion is of vital importance to South Australia. It proposes a change in the basis of representation of that State in the House of Representatives, and it also implements the provisions of the electoral law, and of the act under which this Parliament is constituted, which require that South Australia, in the present circumstances, shall lose one of its representatives in the other branch of the legislature at and after the next election. South Australia has been represented by seven members in the House of Representatives since the commencement of this Parliament. This is the first time its representation numerically in that chamber has been changed, although the representation of other States has undergone certain fluctuations during that period. This very constancy of the representation of South Australia for 34 years brings out probably  in  greater relief the calamity which now faces that State in the threatened loss of one of its members.  C  he position, of course, has been canvassed very considerably since the publication of the census figures first disclosed the possibility thai South Australia would lose one of its seven members in the House of Representatives, and there has been a great deal of kite-flying as well as  inspired  propaganda in the Adelaide press. I do not know whether the Government or its friends attached to the press were responsible for the publication of the many suggestions that ways and means would be devised, as the result of almost Herculean efforts by the Government, to avoid the loss of this seat by South Australia. We were told that the position was being explored from every angle and that the Government, not content with the opinion of its own legal advisers, had consulted the greatest legal and constitutional authorities of our time, in order to ascertain whether it would  be  possible by any constitutional means  to  allow South Australia to continue  to  return seven members to the House of Representatives. This motion has already been passed by the House  of  Representatives, and if it is accepted  by  this chamber it will, of course, become effective and South Australia will suffer the loss of one seat. This chamber  is  supposed to be the custodian of the rights of the States - a duty that it has fulfilled in many respects - and because of that it is incumbent upon us to examine seriously the position which will be brought about by the motion, keeping in mind particularly that it affects one of the most important principles of the federation, viz., the basis of the representation of the States in this Parliament. We have heard it contended from time to time that the States with the smaller populations suffer disabilities as a result of the preponderating representation in this Parliament of the more populous States of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. And in some respects this contention is justified.  But  there are disabilities which accrue from the desire of Parliament, acting  on  behalf of the whole of the people of Australia, to do its best for the majority of the people, and they are not necessarily a reflection upon the representatives of the more populous States. It is obvious that legislation which may benefit the more populous States may not be advantageous to the others. However, the fact that some legislation may be somewhat to the disadvantage of the less populous States is not sufficient reason for not passing such legislation if it is forthe good of the greatest number of people in the Commonwealth. 
I understand from the speech of the Leader of the Senate yesterday, that the Government has devoted much time to examining the constitutional and legislative position in order to ascertain whether it is "possible to maintain South Australia's present strength of representation in the House of Representatives, but ] regret that the right honorable senator, when he was submitting this motion, did not give us the benefit of the opinions which, I understand, have been secured from eminent constitutional authorities. 
SenatorO'HALLORAN. - I understand that that was so, and I am not casting any reflection upon the right honorable senator. But I would have preferred that he had quoted those opinions and given us the opportunity to find out for ourselves whether they were as conclusive as the Government apparently believes them to be. The representation of South Australia in the Federal Parliament, which is affected by this motion, is governed, firstly, by principles which are laid down in the Australian Constitution, and, secondly, by machinery provisions in the Representation Act and the electoral law. While I do not desire to pose for one moment as a constitutional authority, it does seem to me that the constitutional provisions very definitely require that whenever it is shown by the census and the certificate of the Chief Electoral Officer that the populations  of  the States have substantially altered, the formula provided in the Constitution shall be applied to determine the representation  of  the respective States in the other chamber  of  this 
Parliament. It is unfortunate that  the  certificate of the Chief Electoral Officer, based on the recent census, has made  it  mandatory to reduce the representation of South Australia in the House of Representatives by one member. The constitutional provision is definite as to what must ultimately be done; but, as a layman, 1 find it difficult to reconcile my interpretation of the law with the opinion of others that action must be taken within a specified period. I have readthe opinions quoted by the right honorable the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham),  of  Sir Robert  Garran, and  Mr. Mitchell,  K.C, both of whom appeared tobe diffident of expressing a definite opinion that Parliament is bound to give effect within a given period to the constitutional provision regarding the alteration of representation. They made a somewhat guarded reference to the matter, and appeared to suggest that so long as Parliament was honestly acting in accordance with the constitutional provision, it would, for the moment, be safe. If Parliament wishes to conform with the Constitution and the statutes relating to the representation of the different States, it must carefully examine every aspect of the position. I can see the possibility of certain circumstances arising, which might have the effect of postponing a reduction of the number of members for a particular State for a lengthy period, although, of course, it would be impossible to postpone such a reduction indefinitely. When a redistribution is necessary, commissioners are appointed in the respective States to reallocate the boundaries of electoral divisions, and they are required to have regard for certain principles set out in section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That section reads - 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into divisions the distribution commissioners shall give due consideration to - 
Community or diversity of interest; 
Means of communication; 
Physical features; 
Existing boundaries of divisions and subdivisions ; 
State electoral boundaries; and subject thereto the quota of electors shall be the basis for the distribution, and the distribution commissioners may adopt a margin of allowance, to be used whenever necessary, but in no case shall the quota be departed from to a greater extent than one-fifth more or one-fifth less. 
T« protect the public from any wrongful  nsa  of power, provision  is  made for  the  publication of  the  boundaries as defined by the commission, and for  the  public  to  have  the  opportunity  to  protest against the proposed basis of redistribution. If  no  protest is lodged within a certain period, or if a protest  is  not uphold by the commissioners, the matter is forwarded  to  Parliament, when either branch of the legislature may disallow the recommendation. It therefore seems that the Senate must not only satisfy itself that the Constitution requires that the representation of South Australia in the House of Representatives shall be reduced by one mem ber, but also that the redistribution commissioners had due regard to the principles embodied in, the Electoral Act. If the Senate should find that these principles have not been fully observed, it would be justified in rejecting the motion. I intend to oppose the motion, because I do not think that the redistribution commissioners in South Australia paid sufficient regard to the principles contained in the Electoral Act. In dividing South Australia into six divisions, instead of seven as at present, the commissioners necessarily had to make material alterations to the boundaries of the existing electorates, but,  in  doing so, had to bear in mind the guiding principles in section 19 of the Electoral Act. A study of the proceedings of the conventions held prior to the inception of federation, show that there was a complete insistence that all citizens should have equal electoral rights. The desirability of a property qualification for electors was fully discussed, and there was an overwhelming body of opinion  in  the Conventions that,  in  the new charter for the Australian people, all citizens should be electorally equal; that no advantage should be given to those posessing property or living in certain districts. This principle was firmly laid down by the framers of the Constitution and, within prescribed limits, it is also set out in the Electoral Act. The provision in the latter act is a fairly generous one, and was, no doubt, included to obviate the necessity for too frequent redistribution of the various electorates. In order to maintain a degree of permanency in this respect, it has always been understood that the redistribution of the electorates should not be required to meet small fluctuations of population, the allowable margin being one-fifth over or ono-fifth under the quota for the State. As I have explained, this provision was intended to overcome fluctuations of population, rather than as a guiding principle to be observed by the commissioners when making a redistribution of electorates based on the census figures. The commission should have had regard to the basic principle affirmed by the framers of the Constitution that all citizens of the Commonwealth should be electorally equal. They have divided the State, roughly, into three metropolitan and three country districts, which are described as metropolitan and extra-metropolitan divisions. For the three metropolitan divisions of Adelaide, Boothby and Hindmarsh, the average number of electors is 61,498, while for the three extra-metropolitan divisions of Barker, Grey and Wakefield, it is 52,521. The quota of electors for each division in South Australia is 57,003. From this, it will be seen that in respect of the three metropolitan divisions the commissioners have exceeded, substantially, the quota, while for the three extra-metropolitan divisions the numbers are substantially below the quota. Thus we shall have inequality of effective representation. 
It does, but the provision in that act was intended to meet fluctuations of population, which must necessarily occur in every State, its purpose being to prevent the too frequent redistribution of electorates. The result of this redistribution is that each of the three metropolitan divisions with an average of 61,498 electors, has, on the average, 8,977 electors more than are contained in the three extra-metropolitan divisions, the average number of electors in the latter being 52,521. This means that 26,000 metropolitan electors will be virtually disfranchised, because it will take that number of additional voters to elect three representatives for metropolitan divisions as against the extrametropolitan divisions. That is flagrantly  unfair. Electorally it is a punishment of people who are compelled to live in metropolitan divisions, although, in many cases, their place of domicile may be due to certain conditions over which they have no control. Under the Constitution South Australia is being electorally punished by the loss of one member, and the metropolitan electorates in that State are now being punished by the distribution commissioners. 
An examination of the former basis of distribution in South Australia will disclose that in 1922 there were  three  metropolitan divisions and four extrametropolitan divisions, the average number of electors for the former divisions being 40,621, and for the latter, 33,080, the difference being 2,541. Between .1922 and 1934, there had been, of course, considerable fluctuation in the population of urban and rural areas, the number of people in some electorates having increased substantially, whilst in others they had decreased. But the disparity in the number of voters for the metropolitan and extra-metropolitan divisions, respectively, on the former basis of distribution was almost trifling in comparison with the disparity under the scheme now before the Senate. In 1934, the average number of electors in the extra-metropolitan divisions was 47,436, and the number in the three metropolitan divisions was 50,759, a difference of 3,323. 
The Distribution Commission should have had regard to these facts, and, instead of making the difference in the number of voters for the metropolitan and extra-metropolitan divisions 8,977, they could have reduced it to about 3,323, or the nearest practical number to the quote determined for the State under the provisions of the Constitution. This is one reason why I think the Senate is amply justified in rejecting the motion submitted by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  But there is another reason based upon the principle set out in section 19 of the Electoral Act. Under that provision, the commissioners are required to consider community of interest. So far as South Australia is concerned I submit that the commissioners have not done that. For example, the Commonwealth railway employees, of whom there is a considerable number in South Aus tralia, were formerly included within th« division of Grey, the departmental headquarters being at Port Augusta.  Now  as a result of this redistribution, some are in the division of Grey and some in Wakefield. There is also a considerable area of salt bush pastoral country in South Australia, of which about 90 per cent, was in the division of Grey. Under this redistribution, about one-half of this class of country is in the division of Wakefield and the other half in Grey. Furthermore, large numbers of returned soldier fruit-growers are settled on irrigation areas along the river Murray. Under a proper redistribution scheme, they should have been placed in one division. They are now included in two. One metropolitan division extends seven or eight miles into the country in order to take in a small number of country voters. In my opinion, that was done to counteract the effect of the transfer of voters from an industrial suburb in another subdivision in order to make up the quota. The commissioners were also to take into account the physical features of the country, but this requirement they have disregarded. It would have been possible to make the river Murray the boundary between the divisions of Wakefield and Angas, but that was not attempted. Moreover, the commissioners were required to take into account the existing boundaries of subdivisions as well as of State electoral districts. In this connexion they have made a radical departure from the principle contained in the Constitution, for they have divided, not only federal subdivisions, but also a number of State electoral districts. Their neglect of the requirements of the Constitution in this direction is the more deplorable when we reflect that, without interfering with the State electoral boundaries or disturbing the existing federal subdivisions, they could have obtained a more equitable distribution of the electors and maintained greater community of interest. The possibilities of doing 60 were represented to the commissioners by the honorable member for Hindmarsh in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Makin), Senator Hoare  and myself. When their first report was published in the  Gazette,  we forwarded a respectfullyworded protest, in which we pointed  out that the State could have been divided in such a  way  that the average number  of  electors for the three metropolitan divisions would have been 57,600, and for the three extra-metropolitan divisions, 56,300, thereby giving a more balanced representation, and agreeing more nearly with the quota  of  57,003 electors which resulted from the application of the formula set out in the Constitution to the population of South Australia. In addition, protests against the proposed redistribution were made by municipal corporations, district councils, and citizens. I do not know what consideration the commissioners gave to those representations, but  in  reply to the representations of  Senator Hoare, Mr. Makin  and myself all  wo  received was a formal acknowledgment  of  our communication, which, they said, would receive consideration. I submit that the commissioners should, at least, have replied to us, pointing out in what respect they considered that our proposals were not so satisfactory as their own. The basis of redistribution suggested by my colleagues and myself would have preserved community of interest, and have had regard to means  of  communication, physical features, and existing boundaries of divisions and subdivisions,  as  well as of State electorates. Our proposals would also have complied better with  a  principle of the Constitution,  that  in electoral matters  all  citizens of the Commonwealth shall be equal. I submit that the case which I have made out is sufficiently strong to justify the Senate  in  rejecting the redistribution proposals of the commissioners. Should the Government desire an appeal  to  be made to the people before a fresh distribution could be made by  the  commissioners, the election could take place on the old boundaries; otherwise, it could be postponed until after  a  fresh distribution had been made. If the present proposals were rejected, and an election were held  on the  old boundaries, South Australia would send seven members to the House  of  Representatives,  and  after the  new  Parliament assembled,  an  amended distribution  of  the State could be  made, and  the next succeeding election held  on *that  basis. I hope that the Senate  will  reject the motion. 
I  have  no  general criticism  to  make of  the  proposed alteration of the boundaries, of electoral divisions in South Australia if any alteration is to be made, though probably no two men would divide the State in precisely the same way.  Senator O'Halloran  was somewhat critical of the commissioners who undertook  the  task of preparing a redistribution of South Australia, but, in my opinion, they have done their work well. Complete community of interest is, perhaps, not attainable; but the commissioners have succeeded in obtaining  a  substantial measure of it. They have provided for three seats which are substantially city seats, and three country seats.  With the  exception of country towns, the country seats represent country interests. I do not care for the terms " metropolitan " and " extra-metropolitan " used by the commissioners; I should prefer "urban " and " rural ". Of the three city seats, one represents an area of which Port Adelaide is the centre; another, an area with Adelaide as its centre; and the third an area, comprising the eastern  and  southern suburbs of Adelaide. 
I am most pleased with  the  redistribution as it affects country electorates. In ray opinion, the Commissioners have done an excellent job, in that, for the first time, an attempt has been,  made to subdivide  the tremendous district of Grey which, although not nearly  so  large as the Kalgoorlie electorate of nearly 900,000 square miles, covers 340,000 square miles. It may bo contended that senators represent a whole State, and that, therefore, each senator represents an area greater than that of any electoral division in that State; but the average elector regards  as  his working representative, his member in the House of Representatives, rather than any senator who represents the whole State. Under  the new  proposal, the district of Grey, instead of comprising the northern portion of South Australia from its western  to  its eastern boundary, is divided roughly  by  a north-and-south line, the portion on the left being  in  the district  of  Grey,  and  that  on  the right  in the  district  of  Wakefied.  In my  opinion,  that is a  most desirable alteration. When  I  represented  the district of Boothby, I could reach any portion of my electorate in about half an hour by motor car. Conditions are very different in a large district like the electorate of Grey. Any proposal which enables the working representative of the electors more effectively to discharge his function is to be commended, and 1 congratulate the commissioners on their work in this connexion. 
I come now to the more important question of the necessity or otherwise for an alteration of the boundaries of the electoral divisions of South Australia. There ought to be no doubt at all in the minds of the electors that the loss of a seat by South Australia is unavoidable under the Constitution. But there is now considerable doubt on that point. Parliament has set out in the Representation Act the method by which the number of members for a State shall be calculated. That act can be amended by Parliament at any time, so long as the alteration does not conflict with the Constitution. Under the Representation Act, an excess of .5 above the quota entitles a State to an additional member. It has been suggested that, instead of .5, the remainder should be .3, and that the divisor should be 72, as at present. On that basis, the House of Representatives would consist of 76 members, South Australia's representation being seven, as now, and that of New South Wales, one more than at present. Another suggestion is that the divisor should be 73, which is an arbitrary number, and the remainder 25. That would give the House of Representatives 77 members. It will be seen that either of those proposals would increase, instead of decrease, the number of members of the House of Representatives. Through the courtesy of the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator McLachlan)  I have had the chance of perusing the opinions of the learned counsel, whom the Government consulted on this subject. No one who has studied legal opinions expects counsel to be unanimous on all points; but in view of the divergence of the opinions of counsel in this case, there can be no certainty as to how the High Court will interpret any action which Parliament may take. It is most difficult to interpret the Constitution in advance. Some years ago, we did not succeed in deporting certain persons from this country. Although it was believed that we had taken ail the constitutional steps necessary to do so, the High Court held otherwise. The loss of a seat by South Australia at the present time would be lamentable. That State has been experiencing quite as difficult times as any other State. It has suffered a loss of population to the eastern States, owing to the better conditions prevailing there, which are, to a large extent, due to tariff and other benefits given by this Parliament to industrial populations. The effect of the proposed change would be to allot to South Australia an average population of nearly 97,000 for each seat in the House of Representatives. That would be the highest, by almost 4.000, of any State. It would be nearly 6,000 more than the number in Victoria, and considerably more than double that in Tasmania. I do not cavil at Tasmania's representation: the Constitution provided that that State should have a minimum representation of five members, and it has always required fully that number to keep its claims before this Parliament. But it seems lamentable that at the present time, when South Australia is in a particularly bad condition, and people are leaving the State in order to obtain better conditions elsewhere, a step should be taken which will give the State less representation in proportion to its population than any other State. 
They are a great deal better than they were two or three years ago, but there is still ample room for improvement. They are not so good as those prevailing in the eastern States, which I think have received more consideration, possibly because their voting power in this Parliament is greater. 
I approach this motion from the point of view that it is my duty as a senator for South Australia to object to any reduction of the number of representatives allotted to my State, unless it is absolutely clear that a reduction has to be made. It is not within my province,  nor, indeed, within that of the Parliament or the Government, to decide the law. If there is some doubt as to the effect of the law, it is not for me as a senator to throw away a South Australian seat. The High Court, naturally, will not pronounce on hypothetical cases and, therefore, the only thing that can be done is to find out exactly what the constitutional position is after the event. I should not object so much if the Parliament had always strictly observed the letter of the Constitution, but I submit that it has not done so. For instance, the Constitution provides for the establishment of an interstate commission. Such a commission was appointed, but it was allowed to lapse, although four sections of the Constitution, provide that there shall be such a body.  Mr. Justice  O'Connor and  Mr. Justice  Higgins held that that provision of the Constitution was mandatory, but there is no interstate commission, arid to that extent the Constitution is being definitely infringed. Honorable senators must know of a number of instances in which the Constitution, if it has not been ignored, has at least been twisted and stretched. Take, for instance, the provision in paragraph xxxv. of section 61, in regard to arbitration. Who imagined that under the conciliation and arbitration provisions, wo should have experienced  the  conditions which have arisen in regard to arbitration ? Who believed, when paragraph ii of section 51 was inserted in the Constitution, conferring taxation powers on this Parliament, that the Commonwealth would enter practically every field of direct taxation occupied by the States? I am sure that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  will agree with me that there was no intention, when the Commonwealth was established, that this Parliament should exercise the power of direct taxation except in an emergency. I think that it did not do so until the land tax was introduced about 1909. Then came the income tax, the estate duties, and, eventually, the entertainments tax, which has now been relinquished. These are instances in which, I submit, the intentions and implications, and, in the case of the Interstate Commission, the plain words of the Constitution have been ignored. Now doubt is raised also as to whether section 12 of the present Representation Act conflicts with section 24 of the Constitution. The former section states - 
When in pursuance of a certificate under this act an alteration takes place in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in any State, the alteration shall not affect - (a.) any election held before the State  has  been redistributed into electoral divisions pursuant to the certificate. 
It has been suggested that possibly the whole of that section, which has been ia operation for years, is itself  ultra vires  section 24 of the Constitution, in which case there would be no legal provision at all for the election of representatives of the States. Possibly, all the parliaments which had been elected for some years might be held to have been invalid, but the invalidity would certainly apply to future parliaments. I am not clear as to what extent it would be affected by the alterations in the number of members allotted to the several States in the past. No penalty or sanction is provided in the Constitution for non-compliance, except that imposed by the Parliament itself. The opinions of learned counsel who have been consulted by the Government seem to suggest definitely that in this matter the Parliament will not have its actions inquired into by the High Court. The court will assume that for anything Parliament does, it has good reason. 
The courts will presume that Parliament will have good reason for its action, and into that they will not themselves inquire. One of the opinions read in the House of Representatives stated that the GovernorGeneral - presumably that is the Government - could continue dissolving successive parliaments until the proposed alteration was effectuated. 
On that point my view is that merely because of possible invalidity, it is not my duty to deprive my State of a seat, and unless I can be convinced that the election would be invalid if the proposal of the Government were not adopted, I shall not support the motion. 
The High Court will presume, according to the opinion expressed, that Parliament had a good reason for its action, and is not the shortness of .the period that will elapse prior to the election which, it has been announced, will be held on the 15 th September, a good reason in itself for postponing the making of this alteration? I am not satisfied that the alteration is unavoidable under the Constitution. It is suggested, in the opinions that have been expressed, that if the Parliament repeatedly took action to maintain the number of members in any State when they might be reduced, that might constitute invalidity. But if there is to be a reduction of the number of members of the House of Representatives to 74, as proposed in this case, why not apply section 24 of the Constitution more fully ? That section, at the very outset, states - 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the senators. 
That provides for a House of 72 members. Of course, provision was made in section 26 for 75 members in the House of Representatives at the outset, but there is no provision that there should be subsequently more than 72 members, other than the words, " as nearly as practicable ". Surely those words must be construed in their ordinary sense. I' see no insurmountable reason why there should be more than 72 members. It is provided in the Constitution that each original State must have at least five members. If, therefore, the number of members of the House of Representatives were limited to 72, it would follow that one or two of the other States, other than Tasmania and Western Australia, would have to suffer a reduction of representation. Victoria has twenty members, although it has only 19.824 quotas, while South Australia, with a 6.327 quotient, is now to have only six members. There is a difference between them of over half a member. Victoria will keep its twenty members, yet my State, which has an excess of approximately one-third of its quotient, will lose one. If the total number of members were reduced to 72, the effect, so far as I oan see from these figures, would be that one member each would be lost by South Australia, Victoria, and, possibly, Queensland, and if the Constitution were strictly adhered to, that is what should and would be done. It is practicable for the membership of the House of Representatives to be just twice the number of senators, and, therefore, the total number of members in the House of Representatives should be 72 instead of 75 or 74. If a member is taken away from South Australia, why not also take a member from one or two of the bigger States, which have more representation? Yet this possibility does not seem to have been contemplated at any time. 
In regard to the various alternatives that have been suggested, I do not care much for the proposal moved by the Country party in the other House, to provide for the less populous States a smaller margin than that applying to the bigger States. Doubtless there is something to be said for the proposal to allow States an additional member when the excess is .3 instead of 5; it is believed that such a provision would be constitutional. 
Quite so; South Australia would retain its seventh member and New South Wales would get an additional member, which would mean re-opening the distribution in the latter State. That I do not favour at the moment, but it appears to me that, owing to the briefness of the period remaining before the election, and the difficulty which people will experience in finding out even in what electorates they live, the present is an inopportune time for a redistribution. As to that, this Parliament is the arbiter, and is not likely be to interfered with by the High Court. It has been already decided by the majority of members of the House of Representatives that the proposed redistributions in Victoria and "Western Australia are unsatisfactory, though I admit that those proposals did not involve the same constitutional considerations as arise in the motion now before the Senate. I intend to vote against the motion to reduce the representation of my State in the House of Representatives from seven members to six. 
 I have two main objections to this motion, either of which would be sufficient to persuade me to vote against it. The first is that it will weaken the parliamentary strength of one of the three weaker States of the Commonwealth, which is also one of the three States depending almost entirely upon §rim a ry production, and one of the three States which, in my opinion, get all the kicks and few of the halfpence under federation. My second objection to the motion is that it will rob the country districts of a seat. There are now too few country seats in proportion to those allotted to metropolitan areas, and I am sorry this Government has not taken advantage of its strength in both chambers to have a redistribution of seats in each State with a view to giving larger quotas to the populous metropolitan districts and smaller quotas to the rural districts. This Parliament has the power to do this. While the Constitution provides that representatives shall be allotted to the States on the basis of their populations, it does not require that the electoral population in all divisions shall be the same. In Western Australia successive governments, both Nationalist and Labour, have apportioned to the far-flung parts of that State electorates with very much smaller populations than are to be found in the metropolitan and urban areas. I regret that this Government, within the last three years, when it has enjoyed an overwhelming majority over Labour in both chambers, has not taken advantage of the opportunity presented to it to alter the Electoral Act of the Commonwealth in order to give increased representation to rural districts throughout the Commonwealth. 
Like those in other States, they are fairly equal in respect of electoral population and we have the anomaly of the Kalgoorlie seat, comprising ll-12ths of Western Australia, which is one-third of the Commonwealth, returning one member. Under the redistribution proposal that was recently rejected by the House of Representatives, it was intended to increase largely the population of that division., although, even with its present boundaries, it cannot be travelled in less than three or four months. Only because of the remarkable energy of the honorable member representing that seat is he able to cover that huge area, and keep in touch with its diverse interests and scattered population. I regret the ever-increasing tendency to favour the stronger and larger States in electoral representation, and I contend that this tendency is one of the greatest menaces to rural industries and primary production in the Commonwealth. This is not in the best interests of the people of the whole of the Commonwealth, because, if the country people are robbed of representation as is proposed in this motion, the rural industries will be detrimentally affected, and the whole of the people of the Commonwealth will suffer. I shall not be a party to taking a seat from South Australia, and, least of all, a country seat. 
The fact that two persons can find such divergent reasons for voting against the motion is proof of how objectionable it is. If the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  approves of taking a seat from a country district, and robbing South Australia of one of its too few representatives, I cannot support him in that regard. I do not mind voting with any member of any party for any course I consider right. It ill becomes the right honorable the Leader of the Senate to taunt us when we happen to vote with members of the Scullin party in a matter vitally affecting rural interests, or, as he did yesterday, when two Lang party senators stood to support  Senator Hardy's  motion for the adjournment of the Senate, having regard to the fact that for two sessions his Government passed the main items of the tariff with the help of the Lang Labour party and the Scullin Labour party. 
In the House of Representatives last week I heard the speech on this motion of the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  for whose legal and constitutional opinions I have a very high regard. He read the opinions of  Sir Robert  Garran and  Mr. Mitchell,  K.C., on the constitutional aspects of redistribution, and what impressed me most was the indecision of the learned gentleman. I have heard  Sir Robert  Garran described as " the Government niblick " because of his usefulness in extricating the Government from difficulties. He appeared to be trying, without success, to find a constitutional justification for this motion. At any rate,  Mr. Latham  made it clear that he was not prepared to give a definite opinion - he used the words " an absolute opinion " - as to the validity of the new Parliament if this motion were rejected. 
After listening to  Mr. Latham  I was in no way convinced that the validity of legislation passed by a new Parliament could be challenged. 
That is so, but having listened to those three opinions, and remembering how flagrantly all federal governments have ignored the Constitution, at times - how they ignored the provision that there should be an interstate commission, the provision that we should have a session of parliament every year with a proper programme announced at the beginning of each, how federal governments with the backing of the stronger States, have ignored the constitutional requirements, to the detriment of the weaker and smaller States - I, am prepared to risk ignoring for once constitutional considerations, if, by doing so, my action will assist one of the smaller 
States of the Commonwealth, and prevent the rural representation from being reduced. For those reasons, but mainly because I object to a reduction of the representation of those engaged in rural industries, I shall oppose the motion. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [4.51]. - The possible invalidity of this Parliament or its legislation if South Australia is allowed to retain its seven members in the House of Representatives does not particularly concern me, because technical difficulties should not stand in the way of any important proposal. I am not given to Constitution worship which is only a form of superstition, and, like all other superstitions, should not be allowed to have much influence on our lives. I intend to oppose the motion, because a clear case has not been made out for a reduction of the representation which South Australia now has in the House of Representatives. I do not profess to understand the merits of the proposed subdivision of that State, but  Senator O'Halloran,  who has made out a good case, has questioned the findings of the Distribution Commission. For that reason, and because I have a good deal of sympathy with the less populous States, I think that the Senate should run the risk of encountering any legal difficulties. For the present, at any rate, we ought to conserve to South Australia its present representation, but honorable senators are not to infer that I entirely agree with the views expressed by  Senator Johnston.  There are exceptional circumstances surrounding the vast areas of Western Australia which might justify a departure from the principle of one vote one value with respect to seats in the State Parliament, but in respect of federal representation we should, as far as practicable, elect representatives on that basis. That factor, however, does not enter into this discussion. I intend to support those who are in favour of the present representation of South Australia being maintained. 
Broadly speaking, there appear to be two schools of thought in regard to the attitude that ought to be adopted towards the motion now before the Senate. Some think that we ought not to run the risk, when the matter is doubtful, of allowing the validity of an election to be called into question. Others apparently take the view that we ought to run the risk, unless those advising us are able to say that it would undoubtedly be a violation of the Constitution not to do as the Government has now proposed. 
It could he challenged only by proceedings being taken in the High Court by some person who considered that he was  suffeering  an injustice by South Australia having greater representation than the Constitution allows to it. It seems to me that the point in dispute in this instance is a narrow one. I dissent entirely from the contention of  Senator Johnston  that we have the right to consider what the representation of the different parts of South Australia should be under the proposed redistribution. As the case is presented to us we have only one thing to do, and that is to try to settle the matter in accordance with what the Constitution provides. The Constitutional provision is  short and simple - 
The House of Representatives shall he composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth, and the number of such members shall be as nearly as practicable, twice the number of the Senators. 
The number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people, and shall until tho Parliament otherwise provides, be determined, whenever necessary, in the following manner: - 
Too much stress has been laid upon the words " until Parliament otherwise provides ". It should be noted that the number of members chosen in the several States shall be in proportion to the respective numbers of their people. Parliament cannot alter that. It is only the method of determining what is the number of the people that Parliament has been allowed to provide. It has so provided in the Representation Act. I do not propose to challenge the certificate of the Chief Electoral Officer, based on the census statistics, or the finding of the commissioners who re-distributed the electorates. I accept their recommendations. I take it that they have recommended a distribution in proportion to the respective numbers of the people of the States. We do not need to complicate matters by going further into the Representation Act or Section 24 of the Constitution. We have obtained expert guidance to ensure that the number of members allotted to the State of South Australia is in proportion to the numbers of its people. I do not think that we need to go one iota beyond that. If someone can show that there is something wrong in the calculations made by the Commonwealth Statistician action could be taken only under the Representation Act. The census enumerator and the Chief Electoral Officer have shown that South Australia is entitled to only six members. We all may sympathize with South Australia in that respect, but we have no right to wrest the Constitution from its plain words merely because wc think it is unfortunate that at this time one of the le3S populous States is to be deprived of one of its members. The other question raised by  Senator Johnston  ib  totally different ; it deals with the redistribution of boundaries by the commissioners. I support the motion, not because of any lack of sympathy with South Australia, but because the plain words of the Constitution require that what is proposed shall be done. 
I oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate with respect to the proposed redistribution of South Australia. It would appear that the legal authorities consulted are not prepared to say definitely that South Australia cannot constitutionally retain its present representation, in the House of Representatives. That being so, South Australia should be permitted to retain its present representation, and the matter could later be settled by the High Court. 
In what way? 
That difficulty could be overcome by holding another election on the boundaries proposed by the distribution commissioners. Although South Australia is at a disadvantage under the proposed redistribution, some other State may be similarly affected when the next redistribution is made. South Australia has few secondary industries, is very heavily taxed, and, generally speaking, suffers greater disabilities than the more populous States of the Commonwealth, and for that reason should he given the benefit of any doubt which may exist.  Senator Brennan  proposes to vote for the motion because he thinks that a Parliament elected on the existing boundaries would be unconstitutional. If an election is held on the proposed boundaries South Australia will suffer a great injustice. If the objection is merely technical, we should endeavour to make the position legally right. South Australia has suffered many disadvantages under federation. This redistribution scheme is another disability that has been placed upon the people of that State.  Senator Brennan  quoted a number of legal opinions bearing on the constitutional difficulties that might arise following the rejection of the motion, but his authorities were not sure how the High Court would decide the point. Neither are we. If we reject the motion, South Australia will retain its seven members in the House of Representatives for the time being. If objection is raised later, the matter can be settled by the High Court. Whatever the decision,, I am sure the people of Australia will see that the right thing is done in the future. 
[5,5]. - The opposition to the motion appears to be divided into two classes. There are those, who, like  Senator O'Halloran,  would reject the redistribution proposals because they are desirous of retaining seven members in the House of Representatives for South Australia. The Government, and those who support it, desire that too, if it can be shown that it; will not be an infringement of the Constitution. Strangely enough, those honorable senators who are opposed to the motion would reject it for totally different reasons.  Senator O'Halloran  and one other,  Senator Rae,  I believe, object to this redistribution for South Australia, because it gives a preponderance of voting power to rural constituencies.  Senator O'Halloran  quoted figures to show that the electoral population of the extra-metropolitan divisions will be many thousands below that of the metropolitan, divisions. That margin, I remind the honorable gentleman, is provided for in the Representation Act, which gives the commissioners authority to vary, within certain limits, the quotas for the various divisions. In this case they have done so. That appears to be a ground for objection by Labour senators, who intend to vote against the motion in company with  Senator Johnston,  who opposes it because it means the extinction of a rural constituency in South Australia. Thus we have the two extremes joined in their opposition to the motion. I cannot see how they can reconcile their differing points of view, but apparently they will when the division is taken.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  deplores the loss of a member by South Australia. He recognizes that there is some risk in rejecting the redistribution proposals, although he does not, like his colleague,  Senator Hoare,  jauntily advise the Senate to let the High Court put the matter right. When he came to that part of his argument, the honorable gentleman trod very warily; but like  Senator Hoare,  he is prepared to risk an invalid election.  Senator Johnston  said that the AttorneyGeneral, in stating the constitutional objections to the rejection of the proposals, was not very definite. The AttorneyGeneral was not giving- judgment, but I  think he was fairly definite. This is what he said - 
On the existing figures, it ds not  possible  to save the seventh member for South Australia, and still observe this provision of the Constitution. 
He was indefinite only when he was discussing the possibility of the enforcement of a .penalty, but he stated clearly tha* rejection of the proposals would be in contravention of the Constitution, saying - 
Honorable members  may  ask what would happen if Parliament elected not- to observe this provision. On that point, I am not prepared to give the House an absolute opinion. It is sufficient to say that it is at least open to serious question whether the Parliament would be validly elected if this provision were ignored. 

 Sir Robert Garran also was definite enough. He expressed the view that the rejection of the proposals would be a non-observance of the Constitution, and there would be doubt as to the validity of the election.  Mr. E.  M. Mitchell, K.C., expressed a similar view, and his indication of the remedy which might be applied by the Governor-General is enough to give all members of Parliament the cold shivers. The GovernorGeneral, he said, could - 
Dissolve Parliament and keep on dissolving Parliament until a Parliament was elected which was willing to obey the Constitution. 
That, I remind honorable senators, is the risk  Senator Hoare  so blithely invites us to take by rejecting these proposals. I, however, suggest that all honorable senators will vote on this motion with tome sense of their responsibilities. Disagreeable as the duty may be - because the carrying of the motion will deprive South Australia of a member in the House of Representatives - they will support the Government's proposal to comply with the demands of the Constitution. 
[5.18]. - I ask honorable senators to negative this clause, and insert in its place a new clause which has been circulated. The clause as at present drafted uses the term " prescribed wireless call ". It has been pointed out by the Board of Trade that the correct description under article 22 of the General Radio-Communication Regulations of Madrid, is " safety signal ". The clause has been recast accordingly, and the term " prescribed safety signal " is employed, instead of the phrase " prescribed wireless call ". 
Clause negatived. 
Amendment (by  Senator Sir  Habxy Lawson)  agreed to - 
That the following now clause be inserted: - "42. Section two hundred andsixty-nine a of the principal act is amended - (a)by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) the words "the wireless danger call specified in Schedule IV. to this Act, followed, as provided in that Schedule," and inserting in their stead the words " the prescribed safetv signal, followed"; 
by omitting from sub-section (2.) the words " wireless danger call " and inserting in their stead the words "prescribed safety signal"; 
by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words " the wireless distress call specified in Schedule IV. to this Act." and inserting in their stead the words "any signal of distress by wireless telegraphy.";and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: -  (6.) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for the carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this section and of Articles 34 and 44 (so far as the last-mentioned refers to safety messages) of the Safety Convention and of RegulationXLVI. of the Regulations annexed thereto, relating to the report of dangers to navigation.' ". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 43 to 45 agreed to. 
Clause 46 - 
After schedule V. of the principal act the following schedules are added: - 
SCHEDULE VI. 
Annex. II. 
International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea. 
[5.22]. - I move - 
That all the words after "sea", first occurring, be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following foot-note: - 
Note. - This annex to the convention for the safety of life at sea contains the international regulations for preventing collisions at sea, together with the amendments which the contracting parties to the convention agree are desirable (see Article 40  supra).  As the amendments have not been made at the date of tha enactment of this schedule, the regulations appearing in Annex II. of the convention are not reproduced. 
This amendment provides for the omission of the whole of Annex. II. in Schedule VI. This annex, contains a draft of the international regulations preventing collisions at sea in the amended form suggested by the conference on safety of life at sea. Article 40 of this convention sets out that the contracting governments agree that the alterations of the regulations shown in Annex II. " are desirable and ought to be made ". It was left to the British Government to negotiate with the other governments which had accepted the international regulations for preventing collisions at sea in regard to the adoption of those suggestions. Their adoption is, however, not mandatory under the convention. It may happen that the amendments to the collision regulations will not be adopted by the nations in the form suggested, and as set out in Annex II. It is therefore undesirable that the draft of the regulations, as amended, should be included ia the act, owing to the possibility that shipmasters and officers will acceptthe text of the regulations, as printed in the act, as authentic. Also, if, as is very probable, there are substantial differences between this draft and the regulations as finally adopted by the maritime powers, such misapprehension might very well affect the proper navigation of shipping, constituting a danger not only to the ship concerned, but also to other vessels moving in the vicinity. It is accordingly proposed that Annex II. be omitted, and that the footnote be inserted. The Imperial Parliament has not included this annex, and it is not desirable that  we  should insert it in the bill at this stage. Provision can be made for its inclusion later when an agreement has been arrived at. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported, with amendments; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Commonwealth Parliament has now been legislating for nearly 34 years; during that period it has passed 1,304 bills. While a great deal of that legislation is of a permanent and lasting character, obviously much of it is necessarily of a temporary nature. Each year, certain supply acts and appropriation acts, the operation of which is restricted to that particular year, are passed ; and from time to time other legislation which is designed to meet a temporary set of circumstances as, for example, certain of our war-time measures, or is restricted in its operation to a specified period, as are some of our bounty acts, is enacted.For over twelve months, the officers of the Attorney-General's Department have been engaged on the task of preparing a consolidated reprint of Commonwealth acts, and have noted a large amount of obsolete matter. The issue of a reprint which omitted that obsolete matter, not all of which is readily apparent, would not be a faithful reprint of all the laws in force, whereas to include it would be to militate against the value of the publication. I feel sure that honorable senators will agree that the removal of obsolete matter from the statute-book must necessarily tend to clarify our laws, and make them more readily comprehensible. 
In England for many years, it has been customary for the Parliament to pass, from time to time, a statute law revision act to repeal, not only acts which have become obsolete, but also the obsolete portions of acts which are very much alive. The latest of these revising measures passed by the Imperial Parliament is the Statute Law Revision Act 1927, and the general scheme of the bill now before the Senate is largely modelled on that act. 
This measure is designed to repeal all acts which have become obsolete; to amend other acts by repealing obsolete provisions contained therein; to make certain consequential amendments which are rendered necessary or desirable either by that repeal or because of the march of events since their enactment; and finally, in a few isolated instances, to correct errors which have inadvertently crept into our legislation. In considering the effect of this bill, honorable senators should keep in mind throughout the provisions of section 8 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1932, which deals with the effect of the repeal of any act. In brief, that section provides that the repeal of any act shall not (a) revive anything not in force at the time at which the repeal takes effect;  (b)  affect anything done or suffered to be done under the repealed act; (c) affect any right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred under that act;  (d)  affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence against that act; (e) or affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, or liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. 
A comprehensive measure such as this is essentially one for discussion in committee. It would be futile to attempt a review of its contents on a secondreading motion. Nevertheless, in view of the somewhat unusual structure of the bill, and the fact that this is the first statute law revision bill ever introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament, I feel that I should briefly explain its arrangement. It is usual when amending an act to provide for the manner in which that act, as amended, may be cited. This bill follows that practice, but as it amends so many acts, the object is sought to be achieved or  arranging  the acts to be amended in the first coinmn of the npt schedule, anc (specifying thi-  new  citation  in  the second column .Subclause (2.) of clause 1  sup plies"  the necessary ? enacting words. Clause   i  in conjunction with the second, third, and fourth schedules comprises iiic greater portion of the bill. All the acta enumerated in the first schedule are to be -open led. These acts are grouped into seven parts solely for the purpose of facilitating their examination and consideration. In part 1 are all the supply au'.s passed by the Parliament up to and including those of last vear. As honorable senators are aware, every supply act contains a section limiting its operation to the period in respect of which the  Supply is  granted. It would be stressing thu obvious for me to assert, that these  arts are obsolete. Part 2  of  the first schedule consists of appropriation acts,  those  in division 1 being the annual appropriations which, by virtue  of  section 3i3 of the Audit. Act 1B01-.1926, lapse al the end  of  the financial year in respect of which the appropriation is made. The acts contained in division 2 arc also appropriations though this is not in every instance' apparent from the short title. Such is. however, the case. Section 38 of the Audit Act does  not  apply to these acts so as  to  make the appropriations lapse; but  that point  is immaterial, for in every instance the appropriation made has been applied in the manner directed by the  act.  In part 3 are acts,, conveniently headed " validating acts " which respectively, validate something done prior to  their  enactment.' Honorable senators  will note  the proviso to sub-clause (1) of clause 2 designed to guard against any possible suggestion that the repeal of the validating acts may affect any act made valid thereby. 
The acts making grants to States specified in part 4,  are  similar to those appropriation acts in division 2 of part 2; moneys were appropriated  for  the purpose of making grants to specified States and in each instance have been paid to those States. Nothing more remains to be done, and the acts, having served their purpose, may he repealed. Part 5 deals with  acts  which authorized the raising of loans by  the  Commonwealth,  and  appropriated the proceeds for expenditure on certain objects. Tha loons have been raised, and either the money hai been spent or the appropriation has lapsed under subsequent legislation. Nothing authorized by the acts, therefore, remains to be done. AH tha acts in part 6 provided for the payment of a bounty during a limited period which has  now  expired. Part 7 contains a heterogeneous collection of obsolete acts which cannot be grouped under any of the foregoing heading?. 
The portions of the acts specified  in  the  third  schedule not already repealed are  by  sub-clause 2 of clause 2 to be repealed.  Prima facie  it would appear that all th.-&gt;.se acts have already been repealed, but in fact certain formal parts of them have not. I take the first group as an example. Thu Australian Notes Act 1910-1914 comprised the Australian Notes Act 1910 as amended by the acts of 1911 and 1914. When, however, the Commonwealth Bank Act repealed the Australian Notes Act 1910-1914, it repealed the Australian Notes Act 1914 as amended by the two amending acts. But it  did  not repeal those portions of the two amending acts which  did  not amend the principal act; for example, the enacting words and the short title and citation sections. Hence the inclusion of the two amending acts  in  the third schedule.' So far I have dealt only with acts, the whole of which are to he repealed. The fourth schedule deals with acts which are not to be repealed, but which it is proposed to  Amend by  repealing obsolete provisions and, in some instances, by substituting other provisions which are necessary  or desirable. Opportunity has bean takes also to rectify a few isolated errors. A closer examination of the provisions of this schedule must necessarily remain for the committee stages of the bill. It is believed, however, that " the fourth schedule proposes to effect no substantive amendment in the law. 
The fifth schedule, in conjunction with clause 3 of the bill, proposes to repeal all the annual Income Tax Acts which regularly impose the rate of tax. A suitable proviso is added to clause 3 to obviate any suggestion that the commissioner cannot, by reason of the repeal of the rates acts, now issue an assessment in cases where, but for such repeal, an assessment would have been issued. Clauses 5 to 8 are also designed to repeal obsolete acts, but have been included in the body of the bill rather than in the schedule in order to permit of the insertion of suitable provisos to guard against any effect which may result from the repeal owing to the possibility that section 8 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1932 may not be wholly sufficient. Care is taken by clause 9 to ensure that these provisos shall not be construed as limiting the application of that section. The only other clause calling for special mention is clause 4, the effect of which is readily apparent. It adds to the Committee of Public Accounts Act 1913-1920 a schedule which has always been considered to belong to that act, but which, in fact, owing wholly to inadvertence, was left as a schedule to the amending act of 1920, instead of as a schedule to the principal act. 
I have no hesitation in commending this bill to honorable senators. I assure them that it contains nothing that can in any way be. regarded as contentious. Indeed, I think I may say that it makes no amendment of the law which may be regarded as of a substantive character. Undoubtedly, it will be necessary to examine the provisions of the measure more closely in committee, and I shall then be happy to supply any information which honorable senators may desire regarding it.I hope that the bill will be given a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Brennan)  adjourned. 
Will the Minister for Defence state when the award of the long service and good conduct medal to members of the permanent military forces will be resumed ? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister - 
Has the Government accepted the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission " that Western Australia should lose £200,000 per annum from its Commonwealth grant on account of this State's own mistakes," a similar sum being provided " on account of the Commonwealth's moral responsibility " ? 
Has this fine of £200,000 been im- posed on the State of Western Australia in pursuance of  Mr. Lyons's  threat made in Adelaide on the 3rd April, 1933, and reading as follows: - 
It should be clearly understood that while the Commonwealth Government is prepared to treat with Western Australia us part of the Commonwealth, and to discuss such  matters  as a convention as a means of fixing State grants, an entirely different position would arise if they were to vote in favour of secession and any government or parliament of Western Australia should take any steps to put such a decision into effect. If. unfortunately, such a position should arise, all questions affecting Western Australia would have to be considered from a new point of view,and it would not be possible to treat the State on the same footing as those which continued to recognize their duties to one another and the Commonwealth. -(West  Australian,  4.4.33.) 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General - 
What arrangement, if any, has been made by the Federal Government with Tasmanian Steamers Proprietary Limited to ensure that the turbine steamer  Nairana  will resume her running in the first week in August between Melbourne and Launceston? 
Is the Minister aware that anxiety exists in the minds of Tasmanians on this matter, owing to no official pronouncement having yet been made ? 
Has the annual overhaul of the  Nairana  been completed, and if so, will the Minister endeavour to get her into the service at the earliest possible date? 
Arrangements have been made by the Government for the TS  Nairana  to resume the running in the Melbourne-Launceston mail service commencing with the trip from Melbourne on Wednesday, the 1st August. 
On the 12th July,  Senator Dunn  asked the Minister representing the Minister administering War Service Homes, the following questions :  - 
Is the Government prepared, before the dissolution, to introduce a bill to amend the War Service Homes Act by inserting the following new clause: - "In the event of the death of a returned soldier who is the purchaser of a war service home and who leaves his widow in necessitous circumstances, the widow shall retain the home free of rent until such time as it canhe proved that she is in a position to pay rent or until she re-marries." ? 
If not, why not? 
I am now able to furnish the following replies :  - 
The War Service Homes Act does not contemplate that homes shall be made available free of rent to any person whether the widow of a returned soldier or otherwise. As the widow would not be the purchaser, the commission could not make it available free of rent until such time as the widow was in a position to pay or be re-married. Either contingency might not arise. 
See answer to No. 1. 
On the 12th July,  Senator Dunn  asked the Minister representing the Minister administering War Service Homes, the following question :  - 
Is it a fact that the Returned Soldiers Conference recently held in Hobart passed the following resolution:- Congress protests against the eviction of soldiers' widows from war service homes, and urges that the present Federal Government bring in a scheme of reduced payments for soldiers' widows."? 
I am now able to furnish the following reply:- 
I have no knowledge of a resolution in the terms quoted by the honorable senator having been passed recently by a conference of returned soldiers in Hobart. The War Service Homes Act provides that the widow of a returned soldier may be granted up to 50 years in which to repay a loan. Subject to the "life" of the dwelling, this term is granted and the instalment reduced accordingly. It is not possible to arrange a longer term. 
Did not the VicePresident of the Executive Council, in common with other honorable senators, receive within the last seven days a copy of the resolution mentioned? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister  if tlie Prime Minister is aware of the uncertainty which exists in the minds of South Australians, as evidenced by the questions asked in the South Australian Parliament, with respect to the assistance to be given by the Commonwealth Government to the primary producers? Can the Government intimate if such relief will be for the protection of farmers, and not for the purpose of stabilizing their creditors' securities? If lie is not in a position to make such an intimation, when wi 11 he be able to do so? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister lias already announced that after the receipt of the interim report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, he will make a statement of the intentions of the Government. 
Has the attention of the Vice-President of the Executive Council been drawn to a paragraph which appeared in a Sydney newspaper within the last 24 hours referring to his probable resignation from the Senate? Will the honorable senator deny or confirm the report that should he receive the selection hu proposes to contest the Barker  electorate in the interests of the United Australia party? 
My attention has not been drawn to the valuable contribution in the Sydney press referred to by the honorable senator. I neither confirm nor deny the report. 
I ask the Minister for Defence if, in view of the fact that there are over 3,000 persons unemployed in Broken Hill, New South Wales, he will issue from his department blankets for the relief of such persons and their dependants ? 
I ask the Minister administering the Development Branch whether there have been any developments since last year in connexion with the proposed establishment of chartered companies in Northern Australia; and, if so, whether he will now make a statement on this matter ? 
Some negotiations are taking place, but the Government is not yet in a position to make a statement in regard thereto. I can assure_ honorable senators, however, that these negotiations are taking place with persons who are, themselves, already interested in the north of Australia. 
On the 12th July,  Senator Sampson  asked the following questions: - 
What is the cost of reproducing in  Hansard,  No. 3, issued on Saturday, the 7th July, 1934, the diagrams shown therein between pages 220 and 227, alleged by  Senator Elliott  to have been prepared by him? 
Is the  President  aware that these diagrams, except for colour, are a facsimile of a chart published by the Buckingham press, London, and marked " Copyright strictly reserved ", of which honorable senators received copies last year, with the compliments of P. Malcolm Stewart, 38a Park-lane, London, W.U 
Was it necessary to incorporate these diagrams in  Hansard ? 
If so, was the expense justified? 
Is  Senator Elliott's  action an infringement of copyright? 
I arn now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows: - - 
The cost of setting up three pages of a speech in ordinary type is between £0 and £7. Three pages of tabulated matter would cost a little more. In this instance the blocks for the diagrams were supplied by  Senator Elliott  and their substitution for ordinary type involved no additional expense. 
I have compared the diagrams appearing in  Hansard  with diagrams on a chart published by the Buckingham Press, London, and, in my opinion, the reproductions in  Hansard,  if not exact copies of the others, bear a close resemblance to them. 
The purpose of  Hansard  is best served by conveying to readers, in the clearest possible manner, the m'eaning of the member whose speech is recorded. For many years, it has been the practice to permit the inclusion of tabulated matter, if, by so doing, the intention of the  speaker  is made clearer. It is only a slight step forward to substitute diagrams for tabulated statements. 
In my opinion, the expense was justified in this instance, but the inclusion of diagrams in  Hansard  is an innovation which must lie closely watched in order to avoid its abuse in the future. 
As this question involves a point of law I do not feel disposed to express an opinion upon it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, upon,  notice - 
Has the Minister read the cable in the Melbourne  Herald,  of 4th July, 1934, from London headed " Apple Export. Pressure on British Markets ", which stated,  inter alia,  that a Liverpool merchant, emphasizing the evils of irregular deliveries on the market, points out that Liverpool, after being left without apples for a. m'onth, is now flooded with five ship loads, and that other markets are simultaneously over supplied? 
Will the Minister in any future dealings with ship-owners, emphasize the necessity of arranging that the shipments should be landed at regular intervals, thereby eliminating, as far as possible, unnecessary gluts ? 
Yes. 
While the fixation of sailing schedules is a matter for arrangement between the industry and the ship-owners, the Commonwealth Government has, on several occasions, urged the ship-owners' representatives to do their utmost to ensure the regular arrival of shipments, which are of great importance to satisfactory marketing. The ship-owners' repre; sentatives state that a satisfactory programme waa arranged this yea r, and that no general complaints had been made. The Government will continue to use its efforts towards securing greater regularity than has been achieved in tlie past. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In the interests of Australia does the Government intend to enter any protest against the so-called death's head design for the plaque which has been recommended for adoption for the centenary of Victoria? 
If this design is to be used to endeavour to impress upon the people of the world that Australia is a land of drought and desolation, and that the garden State of Victoria is dead, will the Postmaster-General take steps to prevent the plaque or prints of same being carried by the Postal Department? 
If the design is persisted in, will the Minister for Trade and Customs take steps to prevent such an article or any print of same being sent or exhibited outside the Commonwealth ? 
It is understood that another design is about to be submitted by the sculptor to the State authorities concerned. 2 and 3. In the circumstances, there does not appear to be any need to consider these questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the present postal voting sections of the Commonwealth Electoral Act do not permit electors resident in the far northern portions of Western Australia to apply for and receive postal ballot-papers from the Divisional Returning Officer at Kalgoorlie in time for the election ? 
If so, is it the intention of the Government to rectify this position before the coming election ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answers  to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The Commonwealth Electoral Act provides that an application for a postal ballotpaper may be made after the issue of the writ to any Divisional Returning Officer if the applicant has reason to believe that the application may not, in the ordinary course of post, reach the Divisional Returning Officer for the division for which he is enrolled so us to enable him to receive a postal ballotpaper from that officer in sufficient time to permit the applicant voting at the election. Moreover, the act as amended in 1928 contains the provision that where a postal ballotpaper would not reach the Divisional Returning Officer for the division in respect of which the elector claims to vote, before the close of the poll, the envelope in which the ballotpaper is enclosed may be addressed to, and posted or delivered to any Divisional Returning Officer or to an Assistant Returning Officer, or may be delivered on polling day to any presiding officer. It is, therefore, considered that reasonable facilities are available to unable the electors concerned to record their votes. 
Soc answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that from the payments made to the States under the Wheat Growers Relief Act 19113, necessitous farmers are being paid 4s. Cd. per acre in New South Wales, 4s. per acre in Victoria and South Australia, and "is. fid., per acre or less in Western Australia? 
Has the Minister received a protest from the Wheat-growers Union of Western Australia asking why wheat-growers in Western Australia ure receiving from 8d. to ls. 2d. per acre less than wheat-growers in the eastern States V 
Is it a fact that wheat-growers in Western Australia are worse off than in other States, and that they are receiving less relief per acre than in other States? 
Will the Government adjust the grants under the act so as to provide assistance to necessitous wheat-growers in each State on the same basis per acre; if not, why not? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following replies to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Under the Wheat Growers Relief Act 1933 the total amount to be made available by the Commonwealth to each State is laid down, the basis of allocation being the acreage sown to wheat in each State during the season 1932-33. The basis of distribution to individuals is a matter for determination by the States, provided that distribution must not be on the basis of production. It is understood that the States are making distribution to individuals on the basis of .acreage sown to wheat, but the Commonwealth Government has not yet been advised as to the rates per acre at which the final distribution will be made in each State. 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth Government has no precise information on the point. The rate per acre payable in each State will depend upon the total acreage represented in the claims of growers eligible to receive the grant. 
It would not be possible to do this without amending the act. Obviously, that course is impracticable, as distribution to individuals in the several States is actually in progress. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the committee appointed to oppose the " Case for Secession " of Western Australia yet lodged its report? 
If so, when will same be available to Senators ? 
Yes. 
The reply is now being printed and copies will be available at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a decision was made recently by the Commonwealth Statistician to release statistical information to press representatives at Canberra, instead of posting it to all newspapers in Australia, as previously? 
If so, is it a fact that much valuable information will now bc withheld from the general public because newspapers will curtail relevant press messages from Canberra owing to the heavier telegraphic charges involved? 
If the system of distribution has been altered what was the reason? 
Will instructions be issued for a reversion to the former system? 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information: - 
Decision was made by the Commonwealth Statistician to release statistical information to press representatives at Canberra. In addition the same information is posted, as formerly, to all newspapers who have asked for it. 
No. The information is posted also as in the past. 
The reason for the change was the frequent complaints that one newspaper or another had published information before the release date. The change prevents inadvertent premature publication. 
The change was made after discussion with press men. All press representatives in Canberra were invited to discuss the matter with the Commonwealth Statistician. All metropolitan newspapers were representedat the discussion, and also many of the largest provincial papers. The change was agreed upon unanimously. 
Under the old system the release date for all newspapers was deferred until the information could reach, by post, the more distant States - Tasmania, Queensland and South Australia. By the new method no paper receives the information later by post than it did formerly, whereas the great bulk of the public has the information earlier than it did under the old system. 
asked the Minister administering the Development Branch,  upon notice - 
Has his attention been drawn to the press reports that the Stevens Government of New South Wales has turned clown the idea of assisting to open the shale mines at Newnes ? 
If so, what does the Commonwealth Government intend to do in the matter if it is a fact that it has made no effort within the last eighteen months to get Newnes going? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are - 
I have not seen the press reports referred to. 
In an endeavour to bring about the development of the Newnes shale oil undertaking, the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales jointly appointed a technical committee to inquire into various factors associated with the project, including the general economics of the proposition. The record of failures at Newnes had created a feeling of suspicion in the minds of investors which had militated against development, and the appointment of the committee mentioned was part of a policy designed to restore confidence. The committee has now submitted its report, and after a very close examination both governments have decided that joint negotiations should be entered into with persons considered to be possessed of the necessary technical and engineering qualifications with a view to bringing about the development of Newnes on the lines recommended by the committee. The Commonwealth Government is prepared, in co-operation with the Government of New South Wales, to provide financial and other assistance which may be necessary to induce development on the lines proposed. Pending the result of negotiations, it is not possible to disclose the extent of the assistance which will be necessary. 
In the opinion of the governments, it is essential that the development of Newnes should bo undertaken by persons possessing the necessary technical, engineering and other qualifications, which are pre-requisites of success and stability. It is regarded of outstanding importance that another failure at Newnes should be averted, therefore it is imperative that caution should be exercised in the selection of a company to undertake development. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Prime Minister's attention boon drawn to a circular from the Federated State School Teachers Association of Australia, requesting Commonwealth assistance for the following objects: - 
Assistance by the Commonwealth Government in providing and distributing educational films for use in schools, colleges and universities? 
The establishment of a Commonwealth bureau of educational statistics and information. 
The development of a national university at Canberra devoted to post graduate teaching and educational research. 
Financial assistance by the Commonwealth to State endowed and controlled institutions, e.g., universities, technical colleges, teachers' colleges, agricultural colleges, schools of mines, art schools (music and art being of national value). 
Consideration by the Commonwealth Government of such matters affecting Australian education as may from time to time arise. 
The right of access by teachers to the Federal Arbitration Court. 
If so, what action, if any, docs the Government intend to take to help in the foregoing objectives, if it is a fact that during the last two and a half years requests have been made to the Commonwealth Government without success? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Yes. 
As education is controlled by the State Governments it is considered that the question of the provision and distribution of educational films is one for consideration by the State Governments. 
The question of providing right of access of State schoolteachersto the Federal Arbitration Court is involved in the general question of an amendment of the Constitution to extend the powers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth in respect of conciliation and arbitration. 
The representations in the other questions have been noted and arc receiving consideration. In some cases, however, policy is involved, and it would be contrary to established practice to make a statement of policy in answer to a question. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government is continuing to pay special grants to the Government of Western Australia pending the results of the inquiry by the Commonwealth Grants Commission? 
Is it a fact that the Western Australian Government is spending large sums of money in printing documents and holding special sessions of Parliament to pass legislation for the purpose of sending an expensive delegation to London to secure secession from the Commonwealth of Australia? 
Is it a fact that, under the provisions of the Constitution, the methods of the Western Australian Government will be abortive? 
If so, is it fair to the rest of the people of the Commonwealth that financial assistance should be given to Western Australia, whilst that State utilizes its finances in this manner? 
Is ho prepared to deduct from future grants to Western Australia an amount of money equivalent to that used in this direction; if not, why not? 
to 5. So far no payments have been made to Western Australia on account of the year 1934-35. The report of the Commonwealth Grunts Commission in respect of applications by the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance has just been received, and the honorable senator will have an opportunity to make any representations when the Senate is asked to approve of the grant to Western Australia for 1934-35. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon  notice - 
Can he inform the Senate as to the facts concerning the enforced bankruptcy of  Mr. P.  A. Robinson, of Morton-avenue, Dulwich Hill, New South Wales? 
Is it a fact that frequent demands by  Mr. Robinson  for information as to the section or sections of the Bankruptcy Act under which he had been made bankrupt have  not been  complied with? 
Will the Minister inform the Senate  the  reasons for the course adopted, and also  the  reasons for the arrest and imprisonment  of  Mr. Robinson? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions is as follows :  -  1, 2 and 3. On the 12th January, 1931,  Mr. Robinson's  estate was sequestrated on the petition of a judgment creditor. The outline of his case, as set out by Mr.Robinson, comprises nine pages of closely-typed matter, which I do not propose to read. It contains allegations of murder, forgery, corruption  of  courts and court officials, &amp;c. In my letter  to  the honorable senator, dated the 5th June,  1934,  I stated that I was quite prepared to make  all  the departmental papers available for his inspection, and this offer still holds good. These papers will show that full information has, during the past three years, been furnished to Mr.Robinson, and to the various members of Parliament who have made representations on his behalf. Certain letters Written by  Mr. Robinson  himself have not been replied  to,  because it is not the practice to answer letters couched in insulting terms or accusing the courts or its officers of corruption. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What were the costs of the cables between the Right Honorable J. G. Latham, M.P.,  and  Australia during his recent tour? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following information in answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
Cost of cablegrams -From Australia,  £44  13s. 4d.: to Australia. £64 14s.6d.; total, £109 7s.10d. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- - 
Is it a fact, as reported in the  Canberra Times  of5th July, 1934, that the Premiers plan is to operate longer than three years? 
What are the reasons advanced by the Prime Minister why the Premiers plan must keep on operating throughout the Commonwealth? 
Reduction of expenditure; 
Conversion of internal debt with reduction of interest; 
Additional taxation; 
Reduction of bank interest on deposits and advances: and 
Relief in respect of private mortgages. 
The plan aimed at national rehabilitation and progressive reduction of deficits, and it was not specified that its measures should operate for three years. It was generally considered that there would be a marked increase in prices of Australian products, which would assist recovery. As indicated on more than one occasion, the Government has stated that relief from some of the emergency measures should be made as and when practicable. In accordance with this policy restorations have already been made in respect of salaries, wages, old-age pensions, war pensions, superannuation, &amp;c. Remissions have also boon made of some of the heavy emergency taxation. On the other hand, interest reductions secured under the plan are stilloperatingfully, and have, in fact, been considerably extended since 1931. 
The first thing that strikes one with regard to this comprehensive bill is the fact that it must have involved a great deal of minute work on the part of the draftsmen, because it contains 24 pages of matter so detailed that months of study would be required to understand the amendments which it makes to the various acts. Inotice, for instance, on page 14, this amendment of section 40 of theCommonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act: " (b) Omit award), make' insert 'award, make'." In other words, the purpose of this amendment is to omit a bracket. It is obvious that the law officers who prepared this measure spent laborious days and nights over the business. The fourth schedule runs into nine pages of alterations to 54 groups of acts. In this matter I am sure we can rely on the assurance of the law officers that the alterations, which are set out in this measure have in fact taken place already, and that this amending bill simply places those amendments on record. Nevertheless, I should have liked a little more definite assurance from the Minister on this point, because the Senate must, to a great extent, be guided by his assurances in respect of a bill so complicated as this. The honorable gentleman said: "It is believed", and "I think I may say, that the fourth schedule, which I regard as a most important part of the bill, and the bill itself, respectively make no substantive amendment in the law ". I should like the Minister to say definitely that it does not make any substantive amendment of any law except as set out and itemized in the fourth schedule.  His  statement as it stands is, I suggest, a trifle noncommittal. I presume the Minister will discuss the various groups of acts affected by this bill when we are considering it in committee. The point that strikes me, and really the only point to which I desire to direct the attention of the Senate at this stage, is that as the amendments made by this bill affect no less than 54 groups of acts, it is probable that some legal practitioners will be unaware of a number of amendments made- in this way to the respective laws. It would have been better if all the alterations in the fourth schedule had been made by different acts, that is to say, if each group had been taken separately. For example, alterations to the Commonwealth Public Service Act which has been amended repeatedly between 1922 and 1933, should have been submitted in an amending bill of the same name. To me it seems to be unnecessary, as well as confusing, to make alterations to that act in a measure to revise aud consolidate the statute law. The same remark may be applied to the other groups of acts which are amended by the fourth schedule to this bill. Why, for example, should we, in this bill, make amendments to the Defence Act or the Excise Procedure Act, which have always been altered by amending nets of the same name? It is perfectly obvious that if a legal practitioner wished to study amendments of a particular law, he would look through the alphabetical list of the Commonwealth acts passed between 1901 and 1933, and expect to find therein all references to it. Unfortunately, they will not bo found there. My concern is that the alterations which are being made to these 54 groups of acts shall be readily available to legal practitioners, and others who may wish to consult the law. 
As the Minister pointed out in his second-reading speech, this is the first statute law revision that has been attempted in Australia. Since there has been a number of similar revisions in Great Britain, I daresay lawyers in the Mother Country are accustomed to referring to the statute law revision measures when they wish to inform themselves of alterations made in various laws. As this is an innovation in the Commonwealth, we should do everything we can to facilitate the work of those whose business it is to study or consult the law. I think  Senator Daly  will agree with me that, in its present form, this bill will increase the difficulties of lawyers, and that there will be some risk of amendments of the various acts being overlooked. The difficulty could, I think, be overcome by including in the alphabetical table of acts, a memorandum in italics, indicating, in addition to the amendments made to a particular law by acts of the same name, the amendments made by the Statute Law Revision Act. Attention would thus be drawn to the amendments actually made. I realize that a great deal of the time of Parliament would be taken up if 54 groups of bills were passed through Parliament in the ordinary way. From another viewpoint, this bill -is comprehensive in that it amends no fewer than 54 groups of acts as shown in the schedule. 
We ought not to do that. 
If the honorable senator wishes to study the measure in detail, he should commence by taking a law course. 
I think we can rely upon the assurance of the Crown law officers that the first three schedules simply place on record amendments which have already been made, and that the fourth schedule is the only one containing new amendments. I hope that we can obtain from the Minister a definite assurance that the amendments mentioned in the first, second and third schedules have already been made, and that wo are now merely placing them on record for the purpose of convenience. I agree with  Senator Collings  that to go through the fourth schedule in detail would necessitate weeks of work. If the Minister will give the Senate the definite assurance for which I have asked, I shall be satisfied; but I suggest that he should prevent these amendments, which are so full, and which cover such a wide field, from being overlooked by those anxious to know what the law is. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Daly)  adjourned. 
[4.9].  -  I lay on the table - 
Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure, and Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, &amp;c., for the year ending the 30th June, 1935. 
The Budget 1934-35 - Papers presented by the Right Honorable J. A. Lyons, P.C., M.P., on the occasion of the Budget of 1934-35.  and move - 
That the papers be printed. 
In the House of Representatives this afternoon the Treasurer  (Mr. Lyons)  is presenting the budget.  His  speech surveys the internal and external economic situation since the Government assumed office. It sets out many evidences of improved internal conditions and contrasts the internal improvement with the almost stationary position of the outside world. 
In 1933-34 revenue receipts amounted to £73,942,000, and expenditure to £72,640,000. The excess of receipts over expenditure was thus £1,302,000 as. compared with the anticipated deficit of £.1,176,000. Revenue exceeded the estimate by £5,362,000. The principal increases were - 

<graphic href="144332193407242_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

The flour tax, which was imposed after the budget was introduced, yielded £1,254,000. This tax was abolished on the 31st May, in view of the buoyancy of other revenue. 
Expenditure exceeded the estimate by a net amount of £2,884,000, the chief factor in this increase being the amount paid for relief to wheat-growers, namely £3,045,000. 
The revenue of the PostmasterGeneral's Department exceeded the estimate by £406,000, while the expenditure was £454,000 below the estimate, so that  a  total improvement of £860,000 was shown. 
Since October, 1932, loans amounting to £109,849,000 have been converted in London, reducing the average interest rate on that amount from £511s. per cent. to £3 17s. 8d. per cent. The Government confidently anticipates the com pletion of further successful conversions during the next eighteen months. Loans raised in Australia during the last two years amounted to £39,000,000, of which £12,650,000 was devoted to the funding of treasury-bills. All loan services are now being met from long-term loans and the yearly funding is slightly in excess of the bills provided for revenue deficits. Since June, 1932, the Commonwealth public debt has decreased by £5,800,000, while that of the States has increased by £40,600,000. State deficits show an improvement over the last few years as follows :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407242_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

Coming to the year 1934-35, the improvement in the Commonwealth finances enables the presentation of a balanced budget. Certain considerations have influenced the Government to refrain from drawing against past accumulations for the purpose of financing the budget of the new year. The budgetary positions of State governments continue to be difficult and the Commonwealth proposes a non-recurring unconditional grant of £2,000,000 to the States from the accumulated balances of the last three years. From these balances also an allocation of £4,160,000 will be made for the development of national defence. 
The expenditure and taxation concessions provided last year to an annual value of £9,000,000 are being maintained and supplemented by the liberalization of old-age and war pensions, adjustments of salaries, and further relief in respect of sales tax and primage. No. variations of rates of taxation are proposed in respect of income tax, land tax or estate duty. An income tax bill is being introduced to simplify taxpayers' returns and administration. Sales tax relief, which includes exemptions of certain articles under the heads of building materials, requirements of primary industries - including mining and pearling - foodstuffs, and miscellaneous headings, amounts to £220,000. 
Reductions of primage duty to the value of £400,000 are proposed. Of this amount £250,000 is in respect of cotton piece goods of United Kingdom origin. This concession will give direct benefit to  consumers in Australia and increase the preferential advantage to British goods. 
Summarized, the revenue adjustments for 1934-35 are- 

<graphic href="144332193407242_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="144332193407242_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

New national stations are being installed for wireless broadcasting and fees will he reduced from 24s. per annum to 21s. per annum. 
The total estimated revenue for 1934-35 is £72,193,000. Apart from the remissions and reductions already set out, there are practically no important changes from last year, except that no flour tax will be collected. 
Despite the allowance of 10 per cent, for increase in taxable incomes, income tax will probably show a moderate reduction due to the diminution of arrears and the " averaging " provisions of the law. 
The total expenditure is estimated at £72,179,000 as compared with the actual expenditure of £72,640,000 in 1933-34. 
In addition to the distribution of £2,000,000 already referred to, the special grants to smaller States will be increased by £270,000, of which £250,000is for South Australia and £20,000 for Tasmania. The total payments to States this year will then be as follows: - 

<graphic href="144332193407242_12_1.jpg"></graphic>

Other expenditure concessions are being made as follows :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407242_12_2.jpg"></graphic>

During the past three years direct assistance provided for primary producers totalled £9,000,000, including relief to wheat-growers, £5,130,000, and sales tax concessions, £1,640,000. 
Compared with the expenditure in 1933- 34 the defence programme for 1934- 35 entails a gross increase of about £1,900,000. This will be provided partly from the £4,160,000 to be set aside for defence purposes from the accumulated excess revenue of previous years. The Commonwealth will take over from the British Admiralty a new cruiser of the  Leander  type and will construct a naval sloop in Australia. 
The sum of £1,000,000 will be provided from the Loan Fund for reproductive postal, telephone and wireless works. 
The total expenditure on new works will be increased from £1,668,000 in 1933- 34 to £2,845,000 in 1934-35. In addition, £1,160,000 will be expended on new works from the Defence Equipment Trust Account as against £360,000 expended from the trust account last year. The total amount available for new works for 1934-35 will thusbe £4,005,000. 
The increased expenditure provided in the budget, which will assist in relieving unemployment, amounts to £3,767,000; 
Summarized the budget results for 1934- 35 are- 

<graphic href="144332193407242_12_3.jpg"></graphic>

These figures give honorable senators a bird's-eye view of the budget. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
All the departments concerned had concurred in the repeal of the War Gratuity Acts of 1920, but later, notwithstanding that the privileges provided under those acts have been preserved, the Treasury officials represented that, as occasionally belated requests are received for war gratuities, the act should not be repealed. In these circumstances the Crown Law officers have suggested that this clause should he negatived. 
Clause negatived. 
Clauses 7 to 9 agreed to. 
First schedule. 
I intend to ask the committee to leave out of the schedule the references to the Electoral Act, Public Service Act, Cotton Industries Bounty Act, and the Wine Export Bounty Act. Legislation amending these statutes is before the Parliament and the alterations proposed in the schedules will be effected in the new bills. 
On motions by  Senator McLachlan,  scheduleamended by leaving out reference to the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1921-29, the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-33, the Cotton Industries Bounty Act 1930-32, and the Wine Export Bounty Act 1930-32, and by inserting after " Customs Act 1901-30", the words " (as amendedby the Customs Act 1934)", and after "Designs Act 1906-33 ", the words " (as amended by the Designs Act 1934) ". 
Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Second schedule. 
On motions by  Senator McLachlan,  schedule amended by leaving out reference to the Defence Equipment Act 1924, Defence Equipment Act 1928, and by inserting after " Commissioner Validating Act" the figures "1921", and after "Sugar Purchase Act (No. 2) 1920", the words " Sugar Rebate Abolition Act 1903". 
Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
Third schedule agreed to. 
Fourth schedule. 
Will the Minister explain what is intended by the proposed omissions from the Audit Act? 
.- Section 21 of the Audit Act provides for the manner of keeping the Commonwealth public account, excepting moneys held by the Treasurer in gold coin, for the purpose of the reserve provided for in section 9 of the Australian Notes Act. The Australian Notes Act has long been repealed, and the reserve is no longer held by the Treasurer. The exception is, therefore, now unnecessary. 
Section 71 contains the regulationmaking power, sub-sections 2 and 3 providing for the notification of regulations in the  Gazette  and their tabling before both Houses of the Parliament. As these provisions are already covered by section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1904-1930, it is unnecessary to retain them in the Audit Act. 
It would appear that some fairly substantial amendments to the Dairy Produce Export Control Act are proposed. The proviso to section 2 which is to be omitted relates to the taking of a poll of producers before certain proclamations are issued under the authority of that act. It is also proposed that section 5 which deals with the election of members of the board, and section18 which has reference to certain contracts, shall be repealed, while section 19 is to be amended by omitting sub-section 4. I take it that the necessity for these provisions no longer exists, but I should like to hear the Minister's explanation. 
The proviso to section 2 of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act has reference to the holding of a poll before the commencement of the act, and section 5 permits the election of the board to be made in conjunction with the taking of that poll. A favorable poll having been taken, and the board having been elected, these provisions have exhausted themselves and are no longer necessary. Sections 18 and 19 refer to contracts in existence at the time when the Dairy Export Control Board was constituted. The legislation proposed to be omitted or repealed is no longer necessary. 
.-I should like an explanation of the intention to repeal section 3 of the Dried Fruits Act 1933. 
.- Section 3 of the Dried Fruits Act 1933, provided that certain amendments of the Dried Fruits Act 1928 should not commence until a favorable poll of the growers had been held. That favorable poll has been held. 
What is the explanation of the repeal of only portion of the States Grants Act 1927. 
.- The States Grants Act 1927 provides for certain specified grants to be made to the States, and by section 5, for the distribution of surplus Commonwealth revenue. Apart from section 5, the whole act might have been repealed in the same way as other acts making grants to States have been, but it is the preservation of section 5 that necessitates the bill being put in this schedule, instead of being repealed in one of the earlier schedules. 
On motions by  Senator McLachlan,  schedule amended by leaving outreference to the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1929, the Cotton Industries Bounty Act 1930-1932, and the Wine Export Bounty Act 1930-1932, and by inserting " Customs Act 1934, section 1, omit subsection 3 ", " Designs Act 1934, section 1, omit sub-section 3 ". 
Schedule further verbally amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Schedules 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.10 to 8 p.m.. 

While I appreciate the anxiety of the Government to consolidate, as far as possible, the legislation of this Parliament, I consider that the bill is of sufficient magnitude to be referred to a select committee. Alternatively, I ask the Minister not to proceed with the bill  but to leave it to be dealt with by tlie next Parliament. The bill is not so simple as the Minister in his secondreading speech represented it to be, and I can quite understand that honorable senators have difficulty in comprehending the alterations which the measure will effect in the existing law. The fourth schedule is more than a mere consolidation; it proposes alterations of the law. For instance, the Gold Bounty Act is being amended by the omission of sections 2 and 3, and alterations are being made in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If we are to debate these matters item by item in order to ensure that while driving in one nail we are not loosening a dozen others, we shall not have time to consider this measure fully before the election. There is no urgent need for the bill.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has correctly pointed out that the fourth schedule involves a material alteration of the existing law. 
It alters the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and redrafts the industrial provisions of the Gold Bounty Act. Also, I am reminded by  Senator Collings,  the amendment proposed to the Cotton Bounty Act, will alter the law. In any case what harm could be done by referring this measure to a select committee? I make no complaint against the Crown Law officers. I do not question their competency, but. over and over again even the Crown Law Department has had to submit to Parliament alterations to acts in order to meet circumstances that were not envisaged when the original measures wore drafted. Here we are asked- to alter the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and to strike out of the Defence Act a provision relating to the retirement of officers without considering either the effect such alterations will have on the law appertaining to them, or the incidence of a principle which we may be forced to carry right through other legislation. 
When moving the second reading of the bill I did not hesitate to commend the bill to the Senate, and to assure honorable senators that there was nothing in it that could be regarded as contentious. I repeat that assurance on the basis of information given to me by the Crown Law officers who have been engaged on this work, not only under the present Government, but under the preceding Government. It has been a colossal work and it would be disheartening to them if the enactment of this revision web further delayed. The bill has been on the tapis for some time, but it has been delayed in order to extend consideration to some members of the profession who, not knowing that this work was in progress, had also compiled a consolidation of the statutes. 
No, and I Jo not think it is necessary to do so. This work has been held up too long already, and I give to honorable senators the assurance that if, when dealing with this measure in committee any substantial alteration of the law is pointed out, I shall defer its further consideration. I am prepared to explain every item in the schedules, and I am assured by the Solicitor-General that the measure proposes no material alteration of the law. In the United Kingdom similar measures have never been examined by a select committee, nor have detailed explanations been sought by members before the committee stage. To illustrate the difficulties of the Crown Law administration I point out that nineteen amendments of this bill have been drafted since it was introduced into the Senate, and that fifteen of these have been necessitated by amending legislation introduced in the" House of Representatives. When the fourth schedule is reached I shall be prepared to give a complete explanation of what is proposed. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes said that this measure will cause a great deal of difficulty to the legal profession. I assure the honorable senator that the Crown Law officers propose that, immediately legislative effect has been given to this bill, the statutes shall be reprinted as revised to date. In the present congested state of the statute-book, the various  amendments, references and cross references make the law complicated, not only to members of the legal profession, but also, undoubtedly, to the layman. It will be possible to obviate difficulty on the part of the practitioner who does not choose to purchase the revised and consolidated statutes by an italicized reference in the alphabetical list of acts that prefaces every volume of statutes, as  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has suggested. But already a complete reference to all amendments made to any act may be. found in the chronological table of acts which is included each year in the annual volume of acts. Therein are set out the act, the amendments and a reference to the acts making the amendments. It might be advisable, also, to embody some reference to this in a short prefatory note to future volumes of statutes. I shall see that something of the kind is done, because it is important that members of the profession and the public generally should know how the various acts have been affected by this revision. I repeat that if we discover in this measure any substantial alteration in the law, I shall consent to postpone its further consideration. The first and second schedules are non-con tentious. They merely clean up the statutes by removing the dead wood from the trees. 
This work has been going on for two or three years, and has cost about £2,000. A tremendous amount of re-printing has to be done. I think it would be a vary poor compliment to our Crown Law officers, after their strenuous work, if this legislation were further delayed. 
Is there any better place than the floor of the Senate to deal with this matter? The Crown Law officers have worked most arduously on this measure, and at my request and their solicitation, I had it placed at the head of the notice-paper. 
I have pressed for it for a number of years, as have many other members of the legal profession. That pressure was relaxed somewhat when two private gentlemen prepared a consolidation of the statutes; but they were not in a position to clean up the statute-book. If this bill is passed, it will be possible to issue a consolidation of the acts of this Parliament under the authority of this statute. I repeat my assurance that no alteration of the law is involved. The officers of the Crown Law Department know their duties too well, and are too honorable to arrogate to themselves the prerogative of the legislature. 
So confident am I that no alteration of the law is involved in this bill, that if, perchance, an alteration is found, I shall not proceed further with the measure. In view of the assurances which I have given, I ask the Senate to pass the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
.- I move - 
That the bill be referred to a select committee for consideration and report. 
My motion is in no sense a reflection on the Crown Law officers, nor should it be regarded as evidence of any hesitation on my part to accept the assurance of the Minister that he himself is certain that no alteration of the law is involved in this measure. I 'take this action because, as a member of the Senate, I am paid to do certain work, and I object to taking that payment under false pretences. I am asked to vote for a bill, not one line of which I understand: Indeed, I have not had an opportunity to form an opinion about it, the bill having been placed before me  only  this afternoon. 
It may be  simple,  but it renal res some study.  For  instance, in the  fourth schedule.  T -find - 
Cotton Industries Bounty Act 1030-1032, section 12 - 
omit "that (o) lint produced from seed cotton on which bounty has been paid; or (6) cotton yarn on which bounty has been  paid."  insert " that lint produced from see:l cotton on which bounty has been paid " ; ami (6) omit " and cotton yarn." - 
I know something about cotton, but I do not know what is intended in regard to section 12 of the Cotton Industries Bounty Act. I did not speak to the second reading, because I did not feel competent to discuss the measure at such short notice, and because I do not wish to be incapable of explaining my vote on this omnibus measure to those who sent me hero I am proposing to refer it to a select committee. It is an insult to our intelligence and to that of the electors, as well as derogatory to Parliament, that in the dying days of a session we should he asked to pass so comprehensive a measure, even though the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator McLachlan)  has given us certain assurances. If we pass this bill we shall have no time in this Parliament to correct any harm that might have been done. The Senate is probably too large to grapple with the details of this measure, and for that reason I have moved for the appointment of a select committee to consider thom. 
I understand that certain private individuals have already prepared a comprehensive consolidation of the statutes, and it has been represented to me that the haste in regard to this measure is due to a desire to forestall them. 
I object to such unseemly haste, particularly as Parliament has been sitting only a few weeks and intends to adjourn again not many clays hence. The balance of the legislation to be brought forward before the prorogation will,  probably,  be dealt with in the absence of half the members of this chamber. I strongly protest against the procedure which is being adopted. 
I second the motion. I have already entered my protest against the bill being rushed through in this way. The Minister said that the Crown Law officers have no desire to arrogate to themselves the prerogative of Parliament, and I concur in his remarks. The position confronting us is rather illogical. The Minister says that the Crown Law officers say that this bill is right; that he thinks they are right, and that, therefore, we should accept his opinion that they alE right. That is not the way to deal with, legislation. I have no doubt that the motion will be defeated, because the Government has the numbers. The Opposition, having made its protest, must rest content with the recording of that protest in  Hansard.  Before this legislation was introduced, the law societies of the several States, the trade union movement, which is vitally concerned with any amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as well as every other person whose interests are affected by the fourth schedule, should have been consulted. With all due respect to the Crown Law authorities, I venture the opinion that, before long, Parliament will be asked to correct some mistake in this ' measure which has resulted from the haste associated with its introduction. 
 Senator Collings  suggested that undue haste was being shown in connexion with this measure because of a desire to injure two young men who had prepared a consolidation of the statutes. I assure the honorable senator that, so far from that being the case, the introduction of this bill has been delayed in order to give those men an opportunity to dispose of their production. This bill is brought forward, not to injure any one, but to do something which will be of value, not' only to tho legal profession, but also to the general public.  Senator Daly  said that the Government has the numbers to carry the .bill: I want it to be carried, not by weight of numbers, hut by weight of reason. Honorable senators may accept my assurance that the first, second, and third schedules are merely formal. With regard to the fourth schedule, I have already promised an explanation of each item, if it is sought. The Cotton Industries Bounty Act, to which reference has been made, will be dealt with in an amendment which I shall move in committee. 
This bill is not a subject for a select committee. In the first place, no principle requiring examination by a select committee is involved, for the measure merely seeks to  clean the statute-book of obsolete legislation. As 1 have promised an explanation of every item in the fourth schedule, I cannot conceive of a select committee accomplishing more than this Senate can accomplish. 
The South Australian Parliament has never dealt with a similar measure. Something similar was attempted in Victoria, when  Sir Leo  Cussen was consulted, and assurances, supported by certificates, were given by the Crown Solicitor of Victoria. The practice of the English Parliament was followed. I cannot conceive of any better way of dealing with this bill than by the Minister explaining the various items and seeking to convince honorable senators that no alteration of the law is involved. 
The reason is that since the bill was drafted - and this shows the necessity for making a start somewhere - measures, which have rendered certain clauses altogether unnecessary, have been introduced in another place. 
The honorable senator will be given all that information as we proceed with the bill. I ask honorable senators not to carry the motion, because it would mean goingover and checking the whole matter again. If we adopted that course, we should find that we had no starting point. Honorable senators, if they study the amendments which I shall move, will see the difficulty we have already had in getting the schedules into line even with the amending legislation that is now before this Parliament. 
.- I  do not wish to give a silent vote on the motion, because the honorable senatorwho has moved it has endeavoured to make out that the bill is of sufficient importance to warrant the creation of a select committee for the investigation of its principles. I have not had much time to look through it, and have done so only since I arrived  this  morning, but I am quite satisfied with the explanation given by the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 
That is by no means correct. It is patent to me that this bill is what the Minister says it is - a revision bill to repeal enactments which have ceased to have any force, or which have been rendered unnecessary. That is its main feature and purpose. If the honorable senator who has moved for its reference to a select committee turns to schedule  4,  he must be impressed with the fact that the main part of it relates to legislative enactments which no longer exist except on paper, and which have no force whatever. Naturally, they should be eliminated from the statute-book. The Minister has made a fair statement and a fair offer. There are one or two items in the fourth schedule of which I should like an explanation, but I feel sure that all such explanations can be given by the Minister in committee, just as in the case of an ordinary bill. I cannot understand why an attempt should be madeto delay this measure, which should have been passed long ago, because it is evident to everyone who cares to wade through the statutes that they have contained for a long time hundreds of laws which are now inoperative, since they have either expired or been rendered unnecessary by subsequent events. The object of the bill is simply to wipe those obsolete acts out of existence, and at the same time to make certain necessary amendments, many of which are consequential on a large number of sections having been rendered unnecessary by the lapse of time. 
 I should hesitate to express an opinion on a matter which is apparently one purely for the legal mind to understand, although two other honorable senators who are not lawyers have ventured into the arena. I rise, not for the pur pose of pretending that I have any legal knowledge, but rather to make some inquiries into the reasons for this legislation, and to ascertain, if I can do so, what possible good can be expected from it. I should not hesitate to support any proposed modernizing of our laws, or revision of those which have become obsolete. I am glad to assist in every possible way to make the law more simple or more easily understood, but I cannot understand why this enormous number of measures is listed here for repeal. Take, for example, supply acts, or acts making monetary grants to various States, all of which measures, in the nature of things, exist only for one specific purpose, and fall dead when that purpose is effected. 
SenatorRAE. - We cannot remove them from the statute-books that have already been printed, so that they will still remain on record. If any good purpose can bo effected by clearing the statute-books of dead wood, well and good, but it seems to me to be a contradiction in terms to speak of repealing a thing which is already stone dead, and which no longer exists in fact. Why not pass a bill providing that whenever in the nature of things an act has no further application, it shall be considered dead? If, for instance Parliament passes a Supply Act, the money is granted by it and expended under it, and the measure then has no more existence than the shadow that passes across the surface of a lake. I do not know whether there is any legal term for an act which ceases to exist when its one definite purpose is served, but, if there is, why not use it? There is surely no necessity for reprinting a Supply Act, or an act making a grant of money to a State. It ceases to operate by the very fact that its object has been achieved. I should like the Minister to state what results are expected from this measure. It seems to me that it is only legislation to fill in time, seeing that federation has continued now for 34 years without anything of the kind having been found necessary ere this. 
I think I remember the Minister in charge of the bill giving the Senate a solemn assurance that there was nothing to be afraid of in the measure, and that it would reduce printing costs. I do not know whether that is a complete or sufficient summary of the Minister's remarks, but in view of it I was ready to allow the bill to pass. If I am mistaken in my recollection of what the Minister said, 1 am prepared to support the motion to refer the bill to a select committee. We have been informed by the Minister that all the acts listed in the schedule are so much dead wood, and that he simply requires our assistance to relieve the treasury of further printing costs, because the existing law requires that acts which are still on the statutebook shall be reprinted. What I heard the Minister say to-day confirms that. He has assured us that there is nothing in the bill to interfere with the laws that have been passed by both Houses. I am, however, naturally suspicious of anything that comes from the front bench on the other side. We are warned always to suspect a Highlander - or so the AngloSaxon version runs - and one must always be prepared for a certain amount of Gaelic subtlety in all that the Minister does, but in this case I am quite ready to be a victim to any concealment that may be practised, especially as the Minister's assurance is reinforced by the Crown Law Department, which, after all, is the common property of all parties in the chamber. 
 I have a fairly good idea. Some of the officers of that department I have met personally. I respect them, and I do not think they would be a party to anything which, to use a billiard term, is " under the cushion." This bill is recommended by that department as a means of economy, and if the Minister will confirm my impression of what he said previously, I shall vote against the motion to refer it to a select committee. 
That is enough for me. 
 In general terms I agree with  Senator Collings  in disliking  any attempt to force bills through without consideration, although I suppose that if there was any gentleman in the recent history of Australia who did force legislation through without proper consideration, it was the former Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Lang).  I seem to remember some bills of his which were brought in and passed through all stages in a few hours, without any real consideration or discussion.  Senator Collings  says that we should have time for consideration, but this bill was introduced twelve days ago, and. in view of the interest which the honorable senator appears to take in it, he should have spent the whole of the intervening period in urgently and keenly scrutinizing and criticizing it, but this, I gather from his speech, he has not done. I cannot seethat any useful purpose would be served by the appointment of a select committee to consider the bill. I initiated the discussion of this matter, and do not in the least regret having done so, because this is a work of sufficient importance to deserve at least some attention, but I am satisfied with the assurances that the Minister has given. He rather suggested that he had already given those assurances in his second-reading speech, but he was more emphatic and definite to-day, and I am perfectly satisfied Avith what he has said. As regards the chronological table, it certainly appears in the statute-books, but in my experience, and I think in the experience of others, it is very seldom referred to. The ordinary alphabetical list of acts is all that most practitioners use. 
I am not desirous of creating any difficulty. I wa'nt to assist the lawyer and the layman to find the law, and I am quite prepared to leave it to the Crown  Law  officers to decide the most convenient place in which to draw attention to the changes. If Ave appoint  a  select committee, or take any other unjustified action to hold up this work, there will be a possibility of it being absolutely wasted, j. suggest to  Senator Collings,  who is, I am sure, desirous of doing what is fair, that as the Crown Law officers have worked for several years to produce a very intricate and detailed document, representing an enormous amount of labour, it is not right to hold the bill up and risk the loss of all this valuable work unless very good reason for doing so can be shown. I am prepared to listen to the Minister's explanation. He has told us that he intends to submit nineteen amendments. Unless they are of a minor character, we should have until to-morrow to consider them. 
I understand that the purpose of one amendment is to cancel 'the alterations proposed to one group of acts. That can hardly be regarded as a minor alteration of the law. But if the Minister assures me that, the amendments are not important in character, I shall not detain the Senate further. I do suggest, as a general rule, that before Ave are asked to vote upon amendments, we should be furnished with copies and given an opportunity to consider them. 

 Senator DUNN (New South Wales) [5.8j. - The Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  has told us that he intends to submit nineteen amendments to the bill. Surely this indicates that there is something wrong in the drafting of the Government's proposals.  Senator DuncanHughes  made a veiled attack on  Senator Collings,  because he had moved that the bill be referred to a select committee. In the course of his remarks the honorable gentleman also  attacked  Mr. Lang,  the ex-Premier of New South Wales. He Avas at great pains to show that  Mr. Lang  had introduced and passed certain legislation expeditiously, and he blamed the Labour party of New South Wales for its support of those proposals. 
The honorable senator had nothing to say about legislation that Avas rushed through this chamber by his own leader,  Senator Pearce,  in a way that wouk almost shame a bootlegger. Now he wouk like Labour senators to support the Government's proposals to amend or repeal certain statute laws of the Commonwealth. The explanation given is that some of them have become obsolete. Notwithstanding the drastic amendments to a large number of acts made by this bill, the leader of the Senate has intimated, by way of interjection, that he proposes to submit nineteen additional amendments. This bill reminds me of a " cash and carry" outfit. On the assurance of the Minister we are expected, without further delay, to accept all that it contains. I am not prepared to do that, because I would not trust Ministers in this Government as far as I could throw them. It is only right that honorable senators should, tl rough inquiry by a select committee, ascertain precisely what is in the mind of the Government in seeking to amend so drastically certain laws and repeal others.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  suggested that  Senator Collings  should have devoted the twelve clays during which the Senate has been in recess to the study of this bill.  Senator Collings,  like other Labour senators, has other important work to do for the people he represents in this chamber. In any case, why was not the Senate kept in session to deal with the Government's measures? Had that been done,  Senator Collings  and other members on this side would  have been able to give the bill the detailed criticism which its importance demands. Amendments are being made to a long list of acts, including laws relating to the Pacific Islands. This being so, the bill should not be passed without detailed examination. I am sure that  Senator Daly  would be glad to give the Senate tha benefit of his legal knowledge by accepting appointment to the proposed select committee. What is  Senator Duncan-Hughes  afraid of? I object to giving too much power to this Government to alter the statutes. It is true that the Minister has promised to give honorable senators an opportunity to consider the proposed further amendments; that is not enough. We should be furnished with a copy of the proposed alterations, so that we may know what they mean. The select committee could, if appointed, consider the bill ,this week. 
When the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  was in opposition, he and his supporters secured the appointment of a select committee to consider the Scullin Government's central banking proposal. That measure, like the one now before us, was drafted by the Crown Law officers. We have every right to be given the opportunity to examine the Government's proposals. I hope that the amendment will be carried. 
I am not responsible for any suggestions that have been made by other speakers regarding the motives that prompted me to move that the bill be referred to a select committee. I have already said that I do not question the ability or honour of the Crown Law officers. Nor do I challenge the assurance given by the Minister. I merely submit that better results could be expected by referring the details of this bill to a select committee. Will the Minister give honorable senators all the information they require when the measure is in committee? 
In that case we may be here for a month. A select committee such as I have suggested would be able to see the effect of the proposed amendments and deletions by comparing them with the appropriate sections of the acts. That we shall 'be unable to do when the 'bill is in committee. The eliciting of information by detailed inquiry of the Minister is a cumbersome and impracticable method. 
The position is, of course, clear to the Minister who has had an opportunity to study the proposed amendments. I do not profess to be able to follow all legal phraseology, and therefore am unwilling to accept the bald statement of the lawyer that everything is all right.  Are we to shut our eyes and accept whatever the gods choose to offer? I am sent here to do a job, but, in the circumstances, I am prevented from doing it to the best of my ability. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill inserts a new section in the Excise Act 1901-1923 to remedy the unsatisfactory position which exists in connexion with persons who have been convicted by a court for offences against any excise act and released upon finding security for payment of the pecuniary penalty imposed. 
Section 147 of the Excise Act 1901- 1923 provides that where any pecuniary penalty is adjudged to be paid by any convicted person the court may - 
Commit the offender to gaol until the penalty is paid; or 
Release the offender upon his giv- ing security for the payment of the penalty ; or 
Exercise for the enforcement and recovery of the penalty any power of distress or execution possessed by the court for the enforcement and recovery of penalties in any other case. 
In instances where a person who has been convicted of an offence against the act is released upon finding security for the payment of the penalties, the giving of the security operates as a complete discharge of any order for imprisonment in default of payment of the fine, and no further action can be taken against the offender. This has created a very difficult position for the department, particularly in connexion with cases, which are very rife, of illicit distillation of spirits. In most of these cases the offenders are released upon finding security for payment of the penalty. In some instances, the sureties accepted by the court have been persons of small, or relatively small, means, and when the release of the offenders has been secured, strong representations have been made that no action bo taken to enforce the security given in view -of the hardship which would be entailed on the surety. 
It is considered that in cases of this kind, where the enforcement of the security is impracticable or would occasion real hardship to the surety, there should be some provision to enable the actual offender to be dealt with. The object of this bill therefore is to provide authority so that in cases of this kind the court may be approached for an order to commit the offender to gaol until the full penalty has been paid. 
I may mention that the law in most of the States is that offenders are not relieved of their liability to imprisonment if their sureties make default in payment of the fine, but these provisions are not applicable to offences under the Excise Act. It is also proposed that the provisions of section 149 of the Excise Act shall apply to the imprisonment of an offender for whose committal to gaol an order of this kind has been made. That section  provides  for the discharge of the defendant at the expiration of a certain period if the penalty remains unpaid, and in calculating such period any terms of imprisonment served by the defendant prior to' his release upon security and also any portion of the fine which may have been paid will be taken into account. 
Honorable senators will realize that it is of the utmost importance to the Administration that the powers sought in this bill should be granted. Without such powers, proved offenders may escape the penalties laid down in the act. In the administration of this department I have found it extremely difficult, when mothers or females had come to the rescue of perhaps undeserving sons or relatives, to enforce the penalty. 
The honorable senator knows, from his own administration of the department a few years ago, that there is another method of dealing with  such cases. In one case which caine under my notice a mother had gone surety for her son, her security was vouched for by officers of the court, and the young man was released. Subsequent investigations disclosed that the means of the unfortunate mother were so limited that enforcement of the security would have involved the sacrifice of her household furniture. It is felt that effective steps should he taken to prevent the law from being flouted. A similar provision was inserted in the Customs Act recently. I hope, therefore, that honorable senators will pass the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned^ 
.- I understand that the intention of the bill is to enable certain evidence prepared by the Commonwealth Statistician to beplaced before the court, thus facilitating its deliberations. This is highly desirable. I have known of persons who desired to appear in support of certain claims, but in the state of the law, their evidence could not be accepted. The amendment, proposed will remove a very great disability from which a considerable number of people are suffering. 
I should like to have an assurance from the Minister that provision will be inserted for the acceptance of statistical evidence compiled by authorities connected with the trade union movement, such as, for example, the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. This could be done by adding to clause 2 the words " and also the Statistician of the 
Australasian Council of Trades Unions, or any other organization or prescribed authority ". 
The purpose of the bill is to enable the court to take cognizance of official records of the Commonwealth Statistician. It is open to any one to submit evidence, but he will have to produce the authority who was responsible for the figures. As this bill goes no further than amending the Evidence Act I cannot accept the suggestion of the honorable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
After section ten of tlie principal act the following section is inserted: - 10a. - (1.) Evidence of any statistics or abstracts thereof compiled and tabulated pursuant to section 20 of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1930, may be given in all courts by tlie production of a document containing those statistics or abstracts and purporting to have been published by thu Statistician. (2.) In this section "the Statistician" means the Commonwealth Statistician . . . and includes any person to whom the Statistician lias under section five of that act, delegated tlie power to compile, tabulate and publish the statistics collected pursuant to that act. 
.- I move- 
That the words " and also the statistician of the Australasian Council of Trades Unions or any other organization or prescribed authority" be added to proposed subsection (2). 
Under the clause as it stands only evidence tabulated by the Commonwealth Statistician will be accepted by the Federal Arbitration Court. As the figures upon which the Commonwealth Statistician bases his calculation in regard to industrial matters are obtained from officials of the trade union movement, the statistical experts attached to representative industrial organizations should also be authorized to submit evidence in tabulated form. The addition of the words suggested would improve the bill and strengthen the hands of the Commonwealth Statistician. It is unfair to the members of trade organizations that the figures supplied by them are not accepted by the Arbitration Court, while those supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician are admissible. I trust that the Minister will accept my amendment. 
The honorable senator will see that the proposed section relates to the production of a document containing statistics or abstracts purporting to have been published by the Commonwealth Statistician. I submit that it would be unwise to extend the scope of the section which at present is confined to official and independent figures and facts. Sub-section 2 also provides the power of delegation. No one other than the Commonwealth Statistician, or persons nominated by him, has any power or authority to collect statistics, and while he may rely to some extent upon the figures supplied by organizations such as those mentioned by  Senator Dunn  there must not be any possibility of conflict between the figures he supplies and those compiled by any other authority. The Commonwealth Statistician may delegate certain of his powers to some other persons, but the information collected is always open to challenge. This amending measure is merely to facilitate proof of the results at which the Commonwealth Statistician has arrived. 
Having had 20 years intimate experience of the Commonwealth industrial arbitration system and the Commonwealth Statistician's figures as supplied to the Arbitration Court I realize the difficulties with which the Government is confronted. There was a prosecution in Adelaide some weeks ago for a breach of an award in which provision was made for a basic wage to increase or decrease according to the index figures contained in the bulletin issued by the Commonwealth Statistician. The court held that as the bulletin issued by the Commonwealth Statistician was not a  Government Gazette  it was not admissible under the Evidence Act, and that it had to be strictly proven. If this provision related only to the strict proving of the document I would have no objection to it, but while the amendment moved by  Senator Dunn  will not overcome the difficulty the Minister will see that there is something to be said in favour of the points raised by the honorable senator being considered. If this provision is passed in its present form not only the document but also that which it contains will be admitted as evidence. The production of a notice in the  Commonwealth Government Gazette is  evidence that such notice was published by the Commonwealth. This clause is open to the interpretation - I do not say that that is the only interpretation - that the admission of such a document is proof not only of the document but also of its contents. At times I have had occasion to challenge the results arrived at by the Commonwealth Statistician. If such documents are to be conclusive proof of the facts contained in them, the trades union movement will not have the opportunity to check, challenge or possibly qualify the figures submitted by the Commonwealth Statistician. I can understand the motive behind those who have asked  Senator Dunn  to move this amendment. The Australasian Council of Trade Unions and other organizations, including the organization of which my honoured leader is the  president,  have for years been collecting statistics, and in several cases have brought them before the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. Although there was a possibility of qualifying the information supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician that right has been denied to the organizations.  Senator Dunn  wishes to make it as easy for the trade union movement to prove such figures as it is for the Commonwealth Statistician to do so. I suggest that the Minister report progress and consult with the Crown Law officers in order to see whether the measure can be so amended so that the document itself and not its contents shall be admitted. If the bill makes the production of a document proof of its contents, then the right to challenge should be given. We are laying down the new principle that the Commonwealth Statistician's figures shall be accepted by the Arbitration Court as proof of a particular fact. I do not suggest that the Commonwealth Statistician's Department is in any way inefficient, but other recognized authorities should have the right to submit similar information. I am anxious that the proving of the Commonwealth Statistician's bulletins shall be facilitated, but the Evidence Act should not be extended further unless organizations such as those suggested by  Senator Dunn  are placed on the same footing as is the Commonwealth Statistician. 
This measure does not go so far as  Senator Daly  suggests. The Evidence Act of  1905  contains a series of sections, dealing with tho proof of proclamations, orders, regulations, published books, documents and the votes and proceedings of Parliament. 
It is proposed that such bulletins may be used without calling the Commonwealth Statistician to prove their contents. If honorable senators opposite do not like the bill we shall not proceed further with it, but I remind them that it has been introduced entirely in the interests of the trade union organizations which have had great difficulty in proving matters of this kind. The amendment of the law has been proposed to enable the figures contained in such bulletins to be accepted without the Commonwealth Statistician being compelled to travel to distant cities to prove them. The contents of every document mentioned in the Evidence Act is open to argument. The figures of the Commonwealth Statistician are used in framing awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court and the bill permits such figures to be accepted by the court. In a case before  Mr. Kelly,  sitting as a special magistrate under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it was necessary to prove the index numbers tabulated by the Commonwealth Statistician. The  Quarterly Summaries of Australian Statistics  containing the index numbers were tendered as proof of the index numbers, counsel contending that mere production was sufficient proof under section  9  of the Commonwealth Evidence Act. He relied, also, upon sections  5  and  0  of that act. The magistrate held that the documents were not admissible, and the figures were held not to have been proved. This meant that, either the Commonwealth Statistician must be brought from Canberra to verify  bi3  compilation of the figures, or that the case must be abandoned. The case was of importance to the trade unions. This proposed new section carries the proof of Commonwealth statistics no further than the proof of any other official document under the Evidence Act. 

 Senator DALY  (South Australia) [S.32.  -  I assure honorable senators that the Minister is wrong. 
 "Would the honorable senator like progress to be reported and the bill not brought on again ? 
 This amendment has been proposed at the request of many trade unions. 
 If my statement that the production of the figures will lie only prima facie proof is not correct, I. shall have an amendment proposed in the House of Representatives. 

 Senator DUNN  (New South Wales) accept the crumbs which fall from the table of the rich man, ably represented in this chamber by the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator McLachlan).  I resent the threat of the honorable senator. This has been provoked, apparently, by the plea made by members of the Opposition that consideration be extended to the trade union movement in connexion with the compilation of statistics.  Neither  Senator Daly  nor I has suggested that there is any disagreement with the Commonwealth Statistician's figures. We are pleading on behalf of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, which represents well over 1,000,000 trade unionists in this country, that any statistics which might be produced by a prescribed authority, shall be admissible as evidence. We accept the assurance of the Minister that, if necessary, he will give equal opportunity to the representatives of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to present their figures alongside those of the Commonwealth Statistician in hearings before industrial tribunals. 
I do not propose to allow the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat to put words into my mouth. My assurance was that, if this clause  goes  further than providing that the tendering of index figures compiled by the Statistician shall be prima facie proof of them, I shall support the modification suggested by  Senator Daly.  My undertaking does not extend beyond that. . 
 It seems to mc that this clause clearly conveys that the mere production of the Statistician's figures is to be regarded as proof of their accuracy. If that is so, we are conferring infallibility on the Commonwealth Statistician. No matter where he may have to go for the raw material from which to compile his statistics, we are to accept his published figures as absolutely correct and beyond question. In the proposed new section " Statistician " means the Commonwealth Statistician, or any one to whom he has delegated power to collect and compile statistics. The documents produced in court are to  be taken as absolutely correct, although they may not. have been compiled by the Statistician himself. 
I realize he must have a staff, of course. Even if the Statistician himself is above suspicion of making mistakes, are we to suppose that every one to whom he delegates his power also is infallible? I cannot see how any legal quibble can surmount the provision in this proposed section that the Statistician's figures must be taken as absolutely correct. 
If the honorable senator himself compiled statistics under power delegated to him by the Statistician, those figures would purport to have been compiled by the Statistician himself, and would be accepted as correct. 
During the war, I was accused of making false statements. In ray defence I produced a small volume of statistics relating to the matters under consideration, and the lawyer in charge of the prosecution tried to make out that those statistics were not reliable, although they bore the endorsement of the then Commonwealth Statistician,  Sir George  Knibbs. Are we to assume that any figures purporting to have been compiled by the Statistician will be accepted as evidence of their correctness? 
Amendment -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill to amend section 59 ofthe Distillation Act 1901-1931, which provides,  inter alia,  that no Australian wine shall be fortified under the act so as to contain more than 40 per centum of proof spirit. Certain countries, such as the United Kingdom, allow the importation of wine fortified in excess of 40 per cent. proof spirit. There is a demand in the United Kingdom for Australian wines fortified up to a strength not exceeding 42 per cent, but owing to the provisions of section 59 of the Distillation Act it can be met only to the extent of supplying wines fortified up to 40 per cent. As a result, trade in wines of higher strength is lost to the Commonwealth: it is being captured by other countries, such as South Africa, where similar restrictions are not in force. There seems to be no valid reason for limiting to 40 percent. the strength of Australian wines for export. The Federal Viticultural Council, which has been consulted, strongly supports the proposal to raise the limit to 42 per cent. in respect of wine for export in view of the loss of trade to the Commonwealth as a result of the existing limitation of strength. In  the event of this measure being agreed to. wine fortified up to 42 per cent. proof spirit will not be made available for home consumption, but will be kept under customs control until exported. The object of the bill is the encouragement of our overseas trade in wine. I commend it to the Senate. 
Our wines stand high in public estimation overseas; but I understand that there is a difficulty in carrying wines which are noi sufficiently fortified. The Viticultural Council suggests that our wines he fortified to 42 per cent., but I do not think that Parliament should raise the percentage further without first consulting those engaged in the wine trade. There may be a danger in making the percentage too high. 
Question resolved in the affirmative 
Bill read a second time, and reported from  committee  without amendment, or debate; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill hu now read a  second  time. 
This bill is designed for the purpose of continuing the assistance which is given by way of bounty to certain wines exported from the Commonwealth. The existing Wine Export Bounty Act will expire on the 2Sth February, 1935, and unless Parliament makes provision for the continuance of the system no bounty can be paid on wine exported from Australia after "that date. It will, I think, assist in the consideration of this measure, if I outline the history of Commonwealth wine bounty legislation. Under their respective repatriation schemes, the governments of New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia placed large numbers of returned soldiers on the land to grow grapes for wine-making. The scheme, although excellent, was overdone,and, as a result, there has been serious, overproduction. The only means of providing an outlet for the surplus grapes was by export, and in order to develop overseas markets for Australian wines a bounty of 4s. a gallon on fortified wine exported was agreed to in 1924. That amount included ls. 3d., which represented the drawback of the excise duty on the fortifying spirit contained in the wine exported. In 1927, the bounty was reduced to ls. 9d. a gallon, exclusive of ls. 3d. a gallon drawback. It was, therefore, equivalent to 3s. a gallon on the wine exported. Although the reduction was assented to in April, 1927, it did not operate until the 1st 
September in that year. During the interval abnormally large quantities of wine were exported to Great Britain on consignment, in order that the benefit of the higher rate of bounty might be obtained, but that action on the part of wine-makers built up such large stocks of Australian wines in London that the orderly marketing of our wines in Great Britain was prejudiced and untold harm was done to the industry. In March, 1928, the bounty was further reduced by 9d. a gallon. In June, 1930, the position of Australian wine-makers and grape-growers became critical, and, in consequence, the present act was passed by Parliament. The bounty was restored to ls. 9d. a gallon, as was the case in 1927. Until 1930 the bounty was paid out of Consolidated Revenue, but in that year a departure was made when part of the burden of financing the bounty was placed on the domestic trade. That was done by increasing the excise duty on fortifying spirit by 5s. a gallon and placing the extra collections into a trust account out of which the bounty was paid. It was also provided that if the amount in the trust account was at any time insufficient to pay the bounty, any deficiency was to be made up from Consolidated Revenue. The Financial Emergency Act of 1931 further reduced the bounty by 20 per cent., making the rate ls. 4.8d. a gallon. In 1932, on account of the prevailing financial stringency, the Wine Bounty Act was further amended to restrict the payments from Consolidated Revenue in respect of the bounty on wine to £96,000, plus the amount received from the extra excise duty of 5s. a gallon imposed on fortifying spirit in 1930. It was further provided that the money available for payment of the bounty should be distributed pro rata amongst exporters, and, to this end, provision was made for the distribution of the bounty by progress payments. Since the commencement of the Financial Emergency Act a first payment of ls. a gallon has been made, further payments being dependent on the amount of money available in the trust fund at the end of each year. In 1932-33 the bounty paid was at the rate of ls. 4.2033d. a gallon; in 1933-34 the maximum rate of ls. 4.8d. a gallon was paid. In June, 1934, there- was approximately 14,000,000 gallons of fortified wine in bond in Australia, a quantity far in excess of local requirements. Moreover, there is little prospect of increasing the local consumption of wines to any appreciable extent in the immediate future. It is therefore incumbent on Australia to find overseas markets if the surplus production is to be absorbed and the wine industry saved from disaster. The continuance of assistance by means of a bounty is essential. If the bounty were discontinued our export trade in wines would suffer, the making of wine would be severely restricted for at least three years, and grape-growers would be faced with ruin. It should also bc remembered that the Governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, particularly Ibo last-mentioned, have invested large sums of money in irrigation settlements on which the growing of wine grapes i3 a very important feature. The withdrawal of the wine bounty would undoubtedly result in those governments suffering heavy financial losses. 
Although the Government is convinced that the continuance of the wine bounty is essential, it is of the opinion, that the present rate is too high. Competent authorities in the trade consider that Australian wines could be sold in London, without loss of trade, at a higher price than is now being realized. South African wines, which are certainly of no better quality than Australian, bring higher prices in London. The present fixed minimum price of the Wine Overseas Marketing Board is 3s. 7d. a. gallon, less prescribed quantity discounts, whereas South African wine realizes approximately from 4s. to 4s. 3d. a gallon on the London market. Moreover, there are good grounds for the belief that some Australian makers arc selling at a figure below the board's minimum price. The present rate of bounty encourages that undesirable practice. The Government, in the legitimate interests of the industry has decided to correct the position by reducing the existing bounty. Such action will at least make price cut-, ting more difficult, and will probably result in the Wine Overseas Marketing Board, without loss of trade, being able to increase its minimum price for wine to a figure more in keeping with its real value. The resultant stabilization of price would enhance the prestige of Australian wines on the United Kingdom market. Moreover, a reduction in the rate of bounty will allow for considerable expansion of the export trade without  any  additional burden being placed on the finances of the Commonwealth or the industry. The proposed act is to operate for five years, and there is every prospect of development of the export trade during that period, particularly as the United States of America market is now open to Australian wines. 
The Federal Viticultural Council has expressed the view that the rate of bounty should be stabilized at not less than  ls.  a gallon. The present rate is ls. 4.8d. a gallon. The Government, however, realizes that a heavy reduction effected suddenly would considerably disturb trade, and would probably result in loss of business, while sellers and buyers were adjusting contracts and prices. It is, therefore, proposed to make the reductions by gradual stages, so as to cause a minimum of disturbance to the trade. Briefly, it is proposed further to vary the rate of bounty from ls. 4.8d. a gallon to ls. 3d. a gallon for the first two years, and thereafter, by the operation of a sliding scale, a reduction in the rate of Id. a gallon per annum is to be made until the rate of bounty has been reduced to ls. a gallon. Reduction of the bounty in this manner will also tend to discourage exporters to rush large shipments overseas before February, 1935, in order to take advantage of the higher rate of bounty under the existing act. 
The original Bounty Act of 1924 had two main objects, namely, the protection of the interests of growers by the fixation of minimum prices for grapes, and fortifying spirit, and the encouragement of the exportation of wine. Since 1927 the Minister for Trade and Customs has fixed the prices to be paid for grapes and fortifying spirit each year. Up to 1933 winemakers who operated in both the local and export markets, and who claimed bounty on wine exported were called upon to pay such prices for all grapes and fortifying spirit purchased for the domestic and export markets. This action was considered necessary in order to satisfy the 
Minister that reasonable prices had been paid for the grapes used in the production of the wine on which bounty was claimed. In April, 1933, a prominent wine-maker advised the department that during the 1933 vintage 'he proposed to purchase grapes up to a certain date for use in the manufacture of wine for export under bounty conditions, and pay approved prices for such grapes, and after that date to purchase grapes for wine for the domestic market at prices mutually agreed upon between himself and the growers. This maker kept the two classes of wine separate, which rendered it impossible for the department to hold that fixed prices had not been paid in respect of grapes used in making wine exported under bounty. Other makers quickly followed suit. As the Commonwealth Government has no authority to control the prices of grapes used in the manufacture of wine for the domestic market, the new procedure adopted by wine-makers forced the department to recede from the position which it had previously taken up. It was obliged to acknowledge claims for bounty where approved prices were paid in respect of the wine exported, irrespective of the prices paid by the maker for grapes used in the manufacture of wine for the Australian market. The lack of power to enforce the protection hitherto afforded grape-growers with respect to prices for grapes used in making wine for the domestic market has seriously impaired the efficacy of price fixation. It lias been suggested, however that, as the State governments have power to fix prices  within  their respective States, action should be taken by the wineproducing States to ensure that wine-makers shall pay prices considered fair and reasonable by the Minister for Trade and Customs for all  grapes  purchased, and that the States should make the manufacture of wine illegal except under licence - a condition of which should be that -prices considered fair and reasonable under the Wine Export Act be paid for all grapes purchased. If the price of grapes for the domestic market is left uncontrolled, and the present Commonwealth policy with respect -to grapes for the export market is maintained, there will be a tendency on the part of some makers to average the prices paid for their grapes each year by reducing the price of their domestic requirements to a low level. This prospect is most unsatisfactory. It circumvents one of the principal objects of the Wine Export Bounty Act, by forcing growers to accept an uneconomic price for grapes, and gives to the wine-maker who buys' grapes for the domestic market at low prices an unfair advantage over competitors who either pay the prices fixed by the Minister for all grapes or who do not operate on the domestic market. Wine-makers, generally speaking, dc not desire to purchase grapes from growers at uneconomic prices, but the unfair and favored position enjoyed by a few makers who have taken advantage of the strict legal position will gradually force all makers who are interested in the local market to pay low prices in order to retain their domestic trade. Numerous conferences with a view to co-ordinating State and Commonwealth powers, so far as price fixing in the wine industry is concerned, have been held between the Commonwealth and State governments, but the desired result has not yet been achieved. South Australia has approved a draft bill. New South Wales has not yet expressed its concurrence, and the attitude of Victoria is uncertain ; but it is believed that it will come into line with South Australia. 
Price fixation is a very contentious question, but it. is hoped that, at an early date, all the States concerned will fall into line and give the grower the necessary protection to ensure that he receives a reasonable price for all the grapes he produces. To ensure that growers received a reasonable price for grapes, all claimants for bounty have, since 192'7, been required to give an undertaking that they would pay fixed prices before bounty was paid to them. The time within which payment was to be made, however, was not fixed, and although most makers have honoured the undertakings given within a reasonable time, there are some companies which have not paid growers in full for several years. Provision is made in this bill for payment for grapes used in the production of the wine upon which bounty is paid by a system of quarterly instalments. As regards payments for fortifying spirit purchased by claimants  for bounty, the bill provides that payment shall be made within six months from the date of delivery. It is considered that makers should pay growers within a reasonable time, and the terms of the bill in this respect should not embarrass wine-makers to any appreciable extent. 
As this bill provides for a system of deferred payments for grapes and fortifying spirit, there is a danger that some makers may be tempted, through a shortage of finance, to dispose of large quantities of wine at low prices, and consequently, at a later date, be unable to meet their obligations to grape-growers. A provision has, therefore, been made in the bill which will enable bounty to be withheld unless the Minister is satisfied that the price at which the wine was sold was sufficiently high to enable the winemaker to meet his commitments to both grape-growers and suppliers of fortifying spirit. I may add that the bill makes specific provision for - (a) the fixation of prices of grapes used in making wine exported under bounty; (t) vesting in the Minister power to withhold bounty in cases where a claimant fails to observe the prescribed conditions in respect of past, transactions on which bounty had already been paid; and (c) empowering the Minister to insist on vignerons paying reasonable wages and observing reasonable conditions of employment. Similar provision is contained in the existing act, but. it has been found by experience that the system needs tightening up in respect of wages and conditions of employment. For instance, some vignerons in South Australia are able to evade the requirements and are thus competing unfairly with other vignerons. 
In addition to the bounty, the Government has rendered valuable assistance to the wine industry in other directions. For example, the excise duty on fortifying spirit has been reduced from 10s. and lis. a gallon to a flat rate of 6s. 6d. a gallon. Another valuable concession granted to wine-makers is the provision for the manufacture of wine in bond. Prior to 1927 winemakers were required to pay excise duty on fortifying spirit when it was added to the wine. If the wine was subsequently exported, a drawback of the duty was paid. In 1927. owing to a large expansion of the export trade in fortified wine, and to the general financial stringency, wine-makers ware permitted to manufacture wine in bond for export and home consumption. Under this provision wine-makers are not required to pay duty on fortifying spirit used until the wine is actually delivered for home consumption, and if the wine is exported no duty is payable. Makers are thus saved a great deal of worry and expense in interest payment in finding large sums for the payment of excise duty in respect of wine which may be stored for long periods pending delivery for home consumption or export. This concession has created many administrative difficulties, but recently the conditions governing the procedure have been improved, and provision has been made to allow wine-makers to make a deduction of 2£ per cent, from the excise on fortifying spirit added to wine in bond to cover losses due to evaporation and cellar operations. I have dealt with the essential principles underlying the measure. Details may require to be explained in committee, but I feel sure that enough has been said to enable honorable senators to appreciate the importance and usefulness of the bill. I, therefore, commend it to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Halloran)  adjourned. 
I desire to bring under the notice of the Leader of the Senate the following item which appeared in the  Sunday Sun and Guardian  of the 22nd July, 1934:- 
I have no official information on that point. The  Mail  states that the recent election in Tasmania cannot be ignored on the mainland.  Senator Sampson  and  Senator Herbert  Hays will fully appreciate what this means. It is obvious that the people who control all these newspapers have their ears to the ground listening to the political rumblings, and are scared by the result of the election in Tasmania, which State is now under a Labour government with  Mr. Ogilvie  as Premier. 
 Senator Lawson  ha3 shown good judgment in deciding to leave the sinking ship. Under the joint control of  Mr. Lyons  and  Senator Pearce,  this Government is heading straight for the rocks, and is threatened with destruction. Other prominent members of the Government are looking after their own welfare. The Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  is about to leave the crew.  Senator MassyGreene  got away some months ago, and if we may place any reliance on newspaper " write-ups " our friend, the VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Senator McLachlan),  is also on the move. All these wise men are getting off the ship before it sinks. 
A visitor to our shores, reading the principal newspapers, would come to the conclusion that there was continual discord and wrangling among members of the Labour party. That, of course, is not  true. It is, however, a fact that all these Simon Pures, who criticize us, are taking part in a  Donnybook  Pair of their own. The Prime Minister and  Senator Pearce  are continually hurrying to secret caucus meetings and  Dr. Earle  Page is rushing round the country like a ringtailed 'possum- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. lynch).  - Order! The honorable senator must moderate his language. 
If the honorable senator were . a candidate at the forthcoming election, he would not need to ask that question. I have not yet seen any press announcement that  Senator Pearce  intends to go to "Western Australia to open the campaign on behalf of the United Australia party. Perhaps that is because  Mr. Watson,  the  chairman  of the secession movement in Perth, is on the warpath and is waiting for him with a political shillelah.  Nearly all the newspapers in the Parliamentary Library - including the Sydney  Sunday Sun  and  Guardian,  the Perth  Sunday Times,  the Adelaide  Advertiser,  and the Melbourne  Age, Argus  and  Herald  - are continually referring to this Donnybrook Fair, in which the' political intelligentsia of vested interests is taking part. The following appeared in the Sydney  Telegraph  of to-day: - 
NEW SOUTH WALES COTERIE. 
Melbourne, Monday. " Tlie Australian Country party now appears to be directed by a small coterie of vested interests in New South Wales," said Ure Treasurer of the Victorian Country party,  Mr. Stuhl,  to-night. "All the other States are out of the picture except Queensland, whose sugar-growers pay for a voice. " We have at least taken a stand to break the dominance of these people in Australian politics. Victoria will bc ready to help the re-constitution of the Australian Country party on sound lines and with an up-to-date platform. "lc will bc interesting to note the attitude of the public to Victorian federal members who may be endorsed in a left-handed manner by a skeleton organization. This would result in a reaction which may relieve the Australian public of a monopolistic incubus such as no other nation in the world has been called upon to support. " 
I was always under the impression that our friends opposite believed that " Jack " Lang was the worst man in Australian politics. This afternoon a question was addressed to the Leader of the Senate with reference to the Premiers plan, and the right honorable gentleman could not answer it without referring to " Jack " Lang. This of course is part of the game. These Simon Pures arc always talking about dissension in the Labour movement. It is true that we have strong differences of opinion, but we are big enough to fight our disputes to a finish. We get our mandate from the rank and file in the movement. Our opponents are running round the country endeavouring to dope the electors with the belief that the antiLabour candidates are the only people who have an intelligent grip of Australian problems, and will, if returned, bring this country out of its present trouble. 
Within the last few days,  Mr. Stable,  has charged  Dr. Earle  Page and the Graziers Association with foisting candidates upon the Country party organization in Victoria. Vested interests, as represented by the Graziers Association and big business, dominate the policy of the United Australia party throughout the Commonwealth. The Prime Minister is merely a puppet in the hands of the people who are staging these fights. 
The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
.- I do not doubt the ability of  Senator Dunn,  and his fellow members in .the  Labour movement to wash their own dirty linen.  Senator Dunn  has ' referred to ships heading for the rocks and members of the crew hurrying to desert the doomed vessels. It is obvious, however, that the speech he has just delivered is the first of the political " swan songs " that we shall hear from him and his colleagues during the next few weeks. I do not propose to reply to the honorable senator's statements concerning newspapers, which are quite capable of looking after themselves, or to refer to the disturbances within certain political parties. The reasons for the honorable senator's observations are obvious; but the subject he has discussed has nothing to do with the business of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Defence if it is correct, as was recently reported in some sections of the press in South Australia, that the Government intends to station a squadron of  bombing  aeroplanes at the Parafield aerodrome, in South Australia? 
I have received from  Senator Dunn  an intimation that he desires to move the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent, public importance, namely, " The Government's inaction in the development of the Newnes shale fields as a Commonwealth Government concern." 

 Four honorable senators having risen in support of the motion, 

I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising; adjourn until 10 a.m. on the 26th instant. 
The failure of the Government to take steps to develop the Newnes oil shale deposits as a Commonwealth undertaking is a national catastrophe. Recent reports iii newspapers which support the policy of this Government, and the Country party, stated that the Government  had entered into negotiations with Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, an English concern, for the exploitation of this valuable Commonwealth asset. The Government has set aside a sum of not less than £4,000,000 for defence purposes, and contemplates purchasing a new cruiser in England to be the flagship of the Australian Navy. Provision is also being made for additional military aeroplanes and essential arms for the defence of this country; but absolutely nothing has been done, so far, for  the  development, as a national undertaking, of our oil resources, which arc essential to the effective operation of these defence units. We have at Newnes and Baerami, in New South Wales, as well as at Latrobe, in Tasmania, some of the richest shale deposits in the world. The decision of the Commonwealth Government, iu co-operation with the Government of Now South Wales, to allow Imperial Chemical Industries to exploit the Newnes deposits, instead of fulfilling its pledge to develop that asset as a national undertaking, cannot be allowed to pass unchallenged. On the 14th July., the  Sydney Morning Herald  stated - 
It was announced to-day by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  that, after a close examination of the report of the Newnes Investigation Committee, the Governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales had decided that negotiations should bc entered into by representatives of the two governments with persons considered to possess the necessary technical and engineering qualifications to bring about the development of Newnes on the lines recommended by the committee. The name of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited had been mentioned as a very desirable company to undertake the work. 
On the 16th July, the Melbourne  Argus  announced - 
The Commonwealth Government is willim; to offer important concessions to persons willing to develop Newnes. The most important concession likely to be granted is freedom from excise for the spirit produced. 
It is strange to find the Government willing to relinquish one of its best sources of revenue - excise duties. The great brown coal deposits of Yallourn, in Victoria, are being developed by the State, but Messrs. Lyons and Stevens arc not willing to develop the Newnes deposits as a national undertaking. In a report issued under the authority of  Senator McLachlan,  Minister in Charge of Development, and  Mr. Vincent,  Minister for Mines in the Stevens Government of New South Wales, the following appears : - 
In. examining the project from a national point of view' rather than that of the proponed company, it is necessary to weigh the advantages and disadvantages, some of which cannot be assessed monetarily. The position maybe summarized as follows: - 

 Advantages. - (a) The direct employment of about 350 persons in the mine and works, and the indirect employment of probably as many more. A large proportion of these men and their families arc undoubtedly at present a charge upon the unemployment relief funds of the State. 
The receipt by the Commonwealth Government of excise payments after the fourth year of production estimated on the basis of the committee's calculations to amount to £50,000 per annum. 
In the face of those figures, freedom from excise duty on the spirit produced is proposed ! The  Australian Manufacturer,  a journal which is published in Sydney, contains the following paragraph: - 
According to the  Sydney Morning Herald,  if thenegotiations provesuccessful. Imperial Chemical Industries Limited will be granted exemption from excise duties and substantial financial assistance is likely to be given to the company by the Government. 
Honorable senators may not know that Imperial Chemical Industries Limited is one of the largest combines in the world with a capital of £95,000,000. We are told by the  Sydney Morning Herald,  an influential newspaper which supports the Lyons and Stevens Governments, that that wealthy and powerful company is not only to be granted relief from the payment of excise duties, but is also to be given financial assistance. Deposits of shale which should be developed as a national undertaking, in order to provide supplies of fuel for our naval and defence forces as well as for Australian factories and the Australian mercantile marine, are to be handed over to private enterprise. It is well that we should examine the activities of this company, both in Australia and in other countries. Founded by Lord Melchett it has a capital of £95,000,000. It constitutes one of the major units of the British armaments industry. Among its subsidiaries are Nobel Explosives Limited, I.C.I. Explosives Limited, and African Explosives and Industries Limited. In Australia, it operates through Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia Limited. At the annual meeting of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited on the 19th April, the present  chairman, Sir Harry  McGowan, said that he had visited China and Japan during the year to supervize selling organizations. Another director,  Mr. Mitchell,  had gone to Argentina where the company's interests had been merged with those of the great American chemical and munitions firm, Messrs. du Pont. Yet another director,  Mr. L.  J. Rogers, had paid a visit to Australia. Dealing with an agreement with the International Hydrogenation Patents Company, in which the Standard Oil Company and the Royal Dutch Shell were associated,  Sir Harry  McGowan said - 
We shall not be concerned with the distribution of petrol. Once it is made it will be handed over in bulk to nominated oil distributing companies. 
If this huge combine obtains control of the Newnes shale deposits, it might give a temporary fillip to an Australian industry, but, ultimately, Australia will be the loser, for, instead of this country being independent of outside sources of petrol supplies, it will be in the hands of interests which will have much to gain by exploiting the nation. The Labour party stands solidly against handing over national resources to private trusts and combines. It believes that, in the interests of the nation, all deposits of coal and shale should be controlled by the nation. This view is expressed in the  Australian Manufacturer  thus - 
Is it not also possible that strictly local enterprise could just as well handle the proposition, particularly if the Government would bind itself to giving the same assistance as it is so freely offering to the overseas concern? 
The Government was not prepared to grant financial assistance to Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers to float an Australian company in order to explore the possibilities of the Newnes field, but it is prepared to assist this huge combine, which is one of the subsidiary companies of the Standard Oil Trust. Another remarkable feature of the campaign against a national oil industry is a leading article in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  of the 16th July, containing arguments based on premises that were more misleading than false. The  Sydney Morning Herald  put forward a plea on behalf of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited in the following paragraph: - 
It is a matter for congratulation that, at their own risk, capitalists are prepared to commence treatment of our shales on a large  scale. 
The article then endeavoured to give the subject political significance by implying that the Labour party, in opposing the activities of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, was actuated by unpatriotic and unworthy motives. It is worthy of note that the  Sydney Morning Herald  ignored the fact that the capitalists would possess assets of our people on which at least £1,500,000 had already been spent, and would be assisted by a government prepared to subsidize them further to the amount of another £300,000 of the people's money. Imperial Chemical Industries Limited not only holds a monopoly of the production of chemicals in Britain,but also controls a number of concerns engaged in the manufacture of means for the destruction of human life in modern warfare. It has agreements or arrangements with the armament groups of Germany and the United States of America. It is a natural assumption that the ultimate dividends of the organization would be devoted more to modern warfare than to modern industry. It is this phase with which Labour is concerned. The budget provides for the expenditure of nearly £4,000,000 on defence. But no arrangements are made to ensure to the various arms of the service, a free and full supply of locally-produced fuel. It would have been better to devote the £4,000,000 to the rapid development of the oil industry upon a national basis, controlled by the people of Australia, and then to enter on the development of whatever measures were considered requisite for the defence of the nation. 
The possibilities of Australian shale and coal as a source of fuel oil must be exploited with as little delay as possible. But that exploitation must be in the hands of our people. That is the policy that the Labour party advocates with respect to Newnes. It is the only policy that gives security. That view is supported by the Newnes Investigation Committee, which, in its report to the Minister for Development  (Senator McLachlan),  recommended that the company should be Australian, and under Australian control. Why has that committee's recommendation been ignored? Once again the Government has placed vested interests before the welfare of the country. 
Labour will develop Newnes as speedily as the people give it the opportunity to do so, and Labour will do it for the people and the welfare of the people, and not for overseas interests. I am sure that the people will have something to say on that matter on the 15th September. I have been reading the report of the investigation committee on the Newnes-Capertee shale oil project, a report which was submitted to  Senator McLachlan,  Minister in Control of Development for the Commonwealth, and to the Honorable R. S. Vincent, M.L.A., Minister of Mines for New South Wales, and I find on page 56 the following among the advantages expected from the project: - 
The receipt by the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments jointly of income taxes, estimated as follows :  - 
First year of production, £11,000; second, third, and fourth years, £23,500 per annum; subsequently, £13,500 per annum. 
The receipt by the State Government of royalty on shale, about £3,000 per annum. 
The receipt by the New South Wales Railway Commissioners of rail freight to the extent of about £36,000 per annum, of which the greater part, if not all, would be new business. 
The receiptat least temporarily by the New South Wales Government of unemployment relief taxation on the pay roll. 
The local expenditure of a large proportion of the capital of £600,000 required for the project. 
The production locally of6,000,000 gallons of petrol and the supply of Australian fuel oil for the peacetime requirements of the Australian Navy. 
The committee, on page 57, says - 
) Actual reserves of shale of workable thickness proved in the Capertee area amount to 2,000,000 tons, with a probablereserve of a further 3.000,000 to 4,000,000 tons. The possible total quantity of shale in the NewnesCapertee area in all thicknesses down to6 inches is 20,000,000 tons. The average oil content of the proved shale is 106 gallons per ton. 
Similar testimony can be adduced in respect of Latrobe, in Tasmania. The Tasmanian people have a right to demand the development of the shale deposits in their State. So too with Baerami and its shale deposits on the border of New SouthWales and Queensland. The report also states - 
The existing bench of retorts at Newnes should be reconditioned and extended, so as to produce continuously 35,000 gallons of crude oil per day. 
Yet nothing is being done. The report says further - 
The estimated annual quantities of finished products are - 

<graphic href="144332193407253_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have already referred to the recommendation of the committee that the company should be Australian and under Australian control. If it is the wish of the Government of the day to hand the field over to private enterprise, it should remember that there are in Australia companies prepared to jump into the breach if given the same concessions as the Government proposes to give to Imperial Chemical Industries Limited. In relation to the samples of shale, the committee, in its report, says - 
Samples of crude and refined petrol prepared from Newnes shale oil in a pilot cracking plant have been received from Universal Oil Products Company. The finished spirit has been refined by acid and soda treatment, approximately to the specifications submitted by the committee. The colour and odour of the product are excellent, and the tests carried out by Universal Oil Products Company indicate satisfactory keeping qualities. 
This is a report which honorable senators on this side of the chamber have carefully perused. We appeal to the Government to get on with the job, and to make the industry a national concern. I particularly appeal to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in his capacity as Minister for Defence. A great responsibility rests upon him in the general administration of that huge department, and he should see that, if we are ever faced with another war - which God forbid - we are not cut off from essential petrol and oil supplies. We have enormous potential wealth in the shale deposits at Newnes, Capertee, Wolgan Valley, and Baerami, and also in Victoria and Tasmania. The  Australian Manufacturer  concluded an article on this subject in the following words :  - 
When a representative of this journal visited Newnes, to attend a ceremony which was supposed to inaugurate the earnest development of Newnes, the journalists present were told that the best machinery procurable was already installed, and that only the support of the Government was needed to make the venture entirely successful, from the point of view both of private enterprise and the nation. Members of both Houses of the Federal Parliament stressed the need to keep the enterprise purely Australian. What has happened in the meantime to make necessary a transfer of control to an overseas company? 
That is criticism by a newspaper representing the Australian manufacturers, and not a Labour paper by any stretch of the imagination. I read the leading articles of that journal every week and can assure honorable senators that the editor is much more ready to attack the Labour party than to print eulogies of its policy in relation to the production of the nation's mineral wealth. I feel confident that honorable senators on this side of the chamber, and, I trust, some honorable senators opposite, will support my proposal, which has been submitted in the interests of the Australian people. To-day tens of thousands of men and youths are walking the highways and byways of our cities and towns vainly seeking work. In New South Wales coal districts alone over 6,000 miners are on the cavil system. I have worked in mines in Queensland and elsewhere with many of these men, and when there is so much distress I cannot justify the attitude of the Government in this matter. Their womenfolk are also battling along against great odds, and earnestly hoping that the Government will soon make some provision for working the Newnes shale deposits, so that employment may be provided. Owing to the development of electrical machinery, steam-driven plants are not now used extensively, and thousands of coal-miners find it difficult to earn a living. This subject has been debated in this chamber on numerous occasions, and the Minister in charge of development has supplied answers to a number of questions asked by me, but nothing definite has been done. A few months ago we were informed that if we would only be patient, the shale deposits in Queens land, Tasmania, and New South Wales would soon be producing on a commercial basis. We were asked to await the report of  Mr. Rogers,  who inspected the hydrogenation plant erected at BillingtononTees by Imperial Chemical Industries 
Limited, and were informed that action would be taken immediately that gentleman returned to Australia.  Mr. Rogers  has been in Australia for some time, but nothing has been done. It is deplorable that the power plant and other equipment at Newnes is idle, while so many men are out of work. 
We have had no definite assurance from the Government that the company will get on with the job. 1 submit that, instead of the Government placing the control of operations at Newnes in the hands of a private company, it should proceed with the work. If the Commonwealth Government can control successfully the Postal department and other commercial undertakings, surely it has the capacity to conduct an industry of such importance to Australia as the production of oil fuel. If the Government will assume control of the development the Labour party will cooperate with it in an endeavour to make the Newnes shale industry the important national undertaking it should be. 
 Senator Dunn  has complained because the Government does not propose to operate the Newnes shale deposits as a national undertaking, and because it is negotiating with Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, with a view to that company undertaking the development of those deposits. I remind the honorable senator that the future of the production of shale oil in Australia depends upon the success achieved at Newnes. That is the focal point. The deposits have already been examined and worked, and the quantity of oil available in the shale has been definitely ascertained. The honorable senator said that it would be a national catastrophe if the Government did not act immediately, but I suggest to him that if work were to proceed on the lines he advocates, it would be a national catastrophe, not only to the industry, but also to the taxpayers who have to provide the money. This Government has done more than any other Government to develop the deposits on a commercial basis. 
When the Scullin Government decided to relieve unemployed miners in New South Wales, it opened up negotiations with the New South Wales Government. That government asked the New South Wales Government on various occasions through the Shale Oil Development Committee, which was administering the funds for the repatriation of surplus coal-miners, either to nationalize the industry or to supplement the funds provided by the Commonwealth for the development of the deposits. These pleadings fell on unsympathetic ears. In June, 1931, the committee arranged with the then Minister for Mines in New South Wales  (Mr. Baddeley),  to make the leases of the Newnes-Capertee shale areas available for the purpose of trial operations, and, in agreeing to that course,  Mr. Baddeley  replied that the request was granted on the distinct understanding that it did not involve the New South Wales Government in any expenditure: So much for the sympathy of the Lang Government with Newnes, and the desire of that government to give some practical effect to its oft-stated policy of nationalization. 
The Scullin Government in a letter dated the 22nd October, 1931, placed a limit of £30,000 on expenditure by the committee at Newnes. The letter went on to say,  inter alia - 
I am directed to inform you that, in pursuance of the proposals which emanated from the conferences between the Miners Federation and the Governments - Commonwealth and State - certain of the amount sot aside for the repatriation of surplus mine workers was allocated for the development of the shale oil industry. 
When Cabinet dealt with the report of the committee appointed for the purpose and the suggestion regarding the development of the shale' oil industry was accepted, it was understood that the moneys appropriated by Parliament could not do more than assist private enterprise to exploit the possibilities of the industry. With this object in view, it was laid down that the fund should bc used for advances to approved companies on a £1 for £1 basis. 
As you have advised, Newnes presented the most promising locality in which the possibilities of the industry might be explored; further, as you indicated that no legitimate section of private enterprise would undertake stitch exploratory work, it was recommenced to Cabinet that your committee's proposal to spend £30,000 at Newnes should be agreed to. Cabinet concurred in this recommendation, and 1 am instructed to confirm the advice already conveyed to you that the conditions associated with the appropriation of this sum by Parliament render it imperative that private enterprise must be interested in the project, or otherwise your committee must retire from this field of activity when the maximum amount allocated for the work has been expended. 
I am to ask you to make it perfectly clear to your committee that no responsibility should be accepted for continuity of employment or otherwise of the men employed in connexion with Newnes beyond the limits of funds available. The Commonwealth representatives on your committee have been informed accordingly. 
The Commonwealth Government feels that, in sanctioning the expenditure of £30,000 by your committee at Newnes, there is an clement of risk, but this risk has been accepted in view nf the assurance given jointly by your committee and those interested in the parliamentary provision that justification exists for the assumption of such a risk. 
You will appreciate that, in the circumstances, the earliest opportunity should be taken to place the Newnes proposition upon the basis originally agreed upon by Cabinet, namely, that the employment of mine workers would be subsidized to the extent of the amount appropriated on a £1 for £1 basis with private enterprise. 
The information on Newnes in the possession of the then government was not as extensive as what we have to-day. The subsidizing of private enterprise is the policy which the present Government is supporting. 
The honorable senator sees something sinister in everything this Government does. If he devoted his time to trying to assist in the development of an undertaking which, I agree, is of national importance, instead of spitting enmity at those who desire to do so, the country would be better served. I deprecate an industry of national importance being made the plaything of political attacks and used as a means of scoring off one government or another. I repeat that there is no distinction between the policy upon which we have embarked and that which was applied by the Scullin Government in this matter. 
There is this difference - this Government has thoroughly investigated the matter through trained technicians in the oil industry. We went so far as to secure the services of an expert who had been sent overseas for training, and he has rendered valuable assistance to this industry. Without his aid I doubt verymuch whether the committee would have been able, in the report which  Senator Dunn  has quoted, to express such definite conclusions as it has expressed in regard to certain matters. Upwards of £3,000,000 has been expended by private enterprise at Newnes. On the site there is machinery capable of coping with a great amount of work, including a nest of about 30 retorts, that have only to be reconditioned to become effective in the production of oil. Having these facilities on the spot, the Government arranged for the proposal to re-start the works to be thoroughly investigated by a committee of experts, who could pronounce on every phase of the undertaking - financial, economic, mining, the production of crude oil, and the production of petrol from oil. This step was preceded by an unsuccessful effort by Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers to float a company to exploit this area; the reason for the failure of that flotation was that investors were not satisfied, in the light of past happenings, that Newnes was a profitable venture. We have always the contention that shale oil cannot compete with flow oil. In countries where flow oil is produced that may be so; but, in Australia, other matters have to be considered, particularly economic factors, and the committee was able to make certain recommendations after Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers' failure.  Mr.  Treganowan's  bond of £5,000 still stands, and he is prepared when a proper basis has been arrived at, to invest this money in any company which might be formed for the purpose of developing Newnes. The committee made a complete survey of Newnes, and it is clear to the Government that the resources required to develop this area must be greater than were previously con- ( templated by this or the previous government. After the arrangement was made under which this Government secured options over the' machinery and plant,  an examination pointed to certain weaknesses in the shale, in the cracking process, and in various other directions. All of those points have been cleared up by the committee, which also, after careful examination, boring and checking, guarantees the existence of tremendous bodies of shale in the Newnes-Capertee area. When that was done,  Mr. Rogers  was sent overseas to investigate the cracking process, because the one great difficulty with which they were confronted was that the cracking of oil shale is an entirely different proposition from the cracking of flow oil. Various obstacles were encountered by Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers in connexion with the development of the deposits, one of the principal being that they could secure no guarantee from the overseas companies which carried out the cracking tests that laboratory results would be borne out when production took place on a commercial scale. It was to settle this doubt that  Mr. Rogers  was sent overseas to make the "necessary inquiries. Upon his return, the results of his investigations were disclosed, and his services were placed at the disposal of the committee, which subsequently forwarded its recommendation to the Government. 
Under the present proposal for the development of the Newnes deposits, the Government will, in the first year, lose approximately £340,000 in customs duty and primage, and £180,000 a year if the project proves successful. I may also remind honorable senators that the company which will carry out this great work is under an obligation to examine, free of charge to the Government, the possibility of the development of shale deposits at Baerami, in New South Wales, at Latrobe in Tasmania, and at one other centre, the name of which has, for the moment, escaped my memory. It may interest honorable senators to know that shales vary so greatly in character that scientific tests, which may be applicable to shale deposits having certain characteristics, cannot be applied to shale deposits in another centre, and presenting somewhat different features, although, apparently, both deposits have the same constituent parts. 
Broadly, the recommendation of the committee is that the Government should find 50 per cent, of the capital of £600,000 required to develop the  Newnes  deposits. That is to say that the Government should take  £300,000  in ordinary shares of a company with a capital of £600,000, and that preference shares to the amount of £300,000 should be issued to the public, such preference to apply to both capital and dividend. That would mean that the Government would foe expected to wait until the preference shareholders  had  been paid off before it received any return on its investment. 
That is so. The proposal was, in effect, that the Government should enter into a partnership with a private company, and subscribe £300,000 under certain conditions. It was felt, however, by both the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments, that it would not be advisable to have public money invested  in  that way. We preferred to proceed along the lines adopted by the Scullin Government, namely, that the Commonwealth should subscribe a specified amount, to be treated as a loan, the payment of which should be postponed until the preference shareholders had been repaid. 
We take the view that, because of its attendant risks, it is inadvisable for any government to engage in a mining enterprise of this nature.  Senator Dunn  has urged that we should nationalize the shale industry, because, as he put it, of its importance to the nation, and the probable effect of its development on the unemployment situation. I put it to honorable senators, however, that no mining project should he nationalized, and that those industries which have been nationalized are not only a continual source of anxiety to the governments concerned, but also mean a heavy financial loss to the community as a whole. That has been our experience. 
When the honorable senator's party was in power, the Government with which he was associated took very much the same view of this matter.  This  Government is absolutely against nationalization of the shale  industry. We are, however, prepared to assist in its development, and we have given ample evidence of our good faith in the matter, because, as I have shown, we are prepared to surrender a considerable amount of revenue, and accept substantial financial responsibility - the amount suggested is £150,000 each for the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments - in any company that might be formed. We are prepared to do all this in the interests of the community. 
I have no doubt that were I to-morrow to submit to the investing public of Sydney a proposal on the lines indicated, I could float a company without great difficulty, because of the fact that the Government of the Commonwealth and New South Wales would be behind the venture to the amount of £300,000. But what would happen to the unfortunate investor in a private company which did not have available to it that technical advice and assistance which will be given to this projected company? I frankly admit that Imperial Chemical Industries may not he the concern  best  equipped to undertake the great task of exploiting the shale deposits at Newnes. In England, the activities of this company have been directed mainly to oil extraction by the hydrogenation process, with the assistance of the British Government. 
No; its investigations have been directed to the extraction of oil from coal. It is, however, investigating the possibilities of the shale oil industry in this country. 
I saw  Mr. Rogers,  one of the directors of Imperial Chemical Industries, when he was in Australia, and I was assured that he would render every assistance possible to any concern that undertook the development of our shale deposits.  Mr. Rogers  told me that if, among his chemists, there was any man who could help Australia in this matter, his services would be placed at our disposal at no cost to the Government. I may add that on other occasions, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has had assistance from  Mr. Rogers  without fee or reward of any kind. The reason for this is, of course, understandable. The successful development of the 
Newnes deposit will mean success for Imperial Chemical Industries. The suggestion that this concern is in some way controlled by one of the oil companies, is, I suggest to  Senator Dunn,  so much moonshine. These things may not seem out of place when said for political purposes on election platforms or from soap boxes at street corners, but when we are dealing with such an important matter as this, and have in mind definite responsibilities 
I have heard of no such affiliation, and I doubt that it is in any way connected with oil interests. The honorable senator suggested that Imperial Chemical Industries was subsidiary to the oil trust, and I can assure him that it would not regard that as a compliment. It does not consider itself to be. subsidiary to any other concern in the world. For the information of honorable senators, I may say that it is represented in this country by the Synthetic Coal Oil Products Limited, which is an Australian company. 
Well, it cannot be regarded as a mongrel, because 60 per cent, of the capital is held by Australian interests. It is just as well that honorable senators should know this. 
I believe that the necessary capital for the development of the Newnes deposits can be secured, provided that three factors are settled. 
If the honorable gentleman will read . the report of the committee which made the investigation he will admit that, at this stage, there are three obstacles to the launching of a project to develop the Newnes deposits. I think they will be removed. One uncertain factor I har©  already mentioned, namely, the application of the results of laboratory tests to production on a commercial scale. Very soon  Mr. Rogers  will be leaving for America and will be bringing back petrol extracted from Newnes shale for road tests. If these are successful the Commonwealth Oil Refineries, with which the Commonwealth is associated, will deal with the problem of distribution. 
The fact that a serious attempt is being made to surmount the many difficulties encountered in the development of Newnes shale appears to be a subject of hilarity with the honorable senator, but for his benefit, I may say that the committee recommended that a complete check of every aspect of the proposal should be made before the Commonwealth became committed to the scheme. If the road test is satisfactory, and I am assured that it will bo, the Commonwealth Oil Refineries is prepared to enter into an arrangement which should overcome the second difficulty, namely, the marketing of the surplus product after governmental requirements have been met. The third factor, and a very important one, is continuity of production. I have had assurances from the officials of the trade unions interested that they will do all in their power to implement any award or agreement that might be made to ensure continuity of operation. They have promised that there will be no interruption by strikes and other disturbances in the event of a company being formed to develop the Newnes shale, and that the project will be allowed to function in the manner visualized in the report. 
If continuity of production can be guaranteed, the proposal, I venture to say, is a really good investment under the conditions laid down, because, in addition to Commonwealth financial assistance, there is provision for the am- mortization of the capital in twenty years and the return of  6  per cent. to the preference shareholders. 
I invite honorable senators to examine the work which this Government and the Government of New South Wales have done for the development of the Newnes deposits. The utmost care has been taken to ensure success. Nothing has been left to chance. We realize that if success does not attend our efforts on this occasion the production of oil from shale or from any other product will be delayed for perhaps the next decade. As I have stated, an immense sum of money has been expended in previous attempts to develop this great asset. Those honorable senators who are interested should visit the Newnes field and see what has been done there. I assure them, in all sincerity, that the Government is anxious to see the deposits worked on safe and satisfactory lines. But it has no intention to nationalize the industry. That is contrary to its policy. It was contrary also to the policy of the previous Administration. This Government has, however, taken what steps it considered necessary to ensure that when the work is started it will be on right lines and be a source of satisfaction to the people of Australia. The Government is not confined to Imperial Chemical Industries Limited. That company may not have the necessary technical knowledge. Other companies associated with the production of oil from shale may be induced to come to Australia to develop the Newnes deposits. 
The Government has endeavoured to make contact with them. Possibly along the line suggestedby the honorable senator lies the solution ofthis problem. In all these matters I have to consult with the Minister for Mines in the New South Wales Government. The Government is willing that Australian money shall be invested in the development of Newnes; but it does not want to be left without the advice of the best authorities regarding one of the most attractive, as well as one of the largest, propositions which have come under its notice. 
I listenedwith a great deal of interest to the Minister's explanation of the Government's action in relation to Newnes. I would be the last to condemn, and the first to applaud, any government which seeks to increase the capacity of Australia to carry a larger population. When I was a member of the Scullin 
Government, I visualized the possibilities of shale-mining in Australia; indeed, the whole Cabinet was keenly interested in the prospect. The present Minister in charge of Development  (Senator McLachlan)  may seek to make political capital by saying that the Lyons Government, not the Scullin Government, first; realized the possibilities of Newnes; but documents in his own department will show that his statement is contrary to the facts. The Newnes field lay idle for years - from the time when a big oil combine closed it down after having purchased it from the man who owned it - until the Scull-in Government realized its possibilities and took action -bo develop it. To  Mr. Beasley,  the leader of the faction which  Senator Dunn  represents in this chamber, credit is due for the action taken to develop this great industry. When the Scullin Government, having failed to rehabilitate the coal-mining  industry, attempted to repatriate the coal-miners, it turned to the country's shale deposits. It was that Government which secured the first option over Newnes. Yet the Minister said that the Scullin Government did nothing to develop the field, and that it was left to the present Government to do everything that has been done. I remind him that the man who recommended Newnes, and watched over its development from the moment that the Scullin Government took it over until that Government went out of office, was  Sir Herbert  Gepp, the consultant of the present Government. He was appointed bv the Bruce-Page Government at a salary of £5,000 a year. 
As usual, the Minister is talking without knowledge of the facts.  Sir Herbert  Gepp was the man who secured the first option over Newnes. He was the man who first advised me, as Minister, of the possibilities of the field, alter I had taken twelve months to convince him that it had any possibilities. During the time that I was Minister in charge of Development,  Sir Herbert  Gepp was my consultant in regard ;to Newnes. Nor did the Scullin Government appoint  Mr. John  Gunn as Director of Development; the Bruce-Page Government made that appointment. I ask the Minister whether  Mr. Gunn  has had anything to do with Newnes. 
 Mr. Gunn  is the Director of Development in regard to all industries; he has been placed in charge &lt;of wheat, wine, wool, and everything else. The Bruce-Page Government handed him over to the Scullin Government as an all-round man, in receipt of a salary of £2,500 a year.  Mr. Gunn  was placed in charge of a Newnes inquiry, and he is still in charge of it. It will be seen, therefore, that the men who advised the Scullin Government in these matters are now the advisers of the present Government. The Scullin Government pioneered this industry.  Senator McLachlan  was Minister in charge of Development before I took charge; but, only after the Scullin Government had taken steps to develop Newnes, did he see any possibilities in the field. To his credit be it said that no Minister has devoted more attention, or greater care, to this industry than he has. But it was the Scullin Government which awakened, his interest. For him to say now that another government fiddled with Newnes, and that, had that government remained in office, the industry would have remained in chaos, is moonshine. To put  it colloquially, the Scullin Government placed shale oil " on the map." The members of that Government will be the first to applaud this, or any other government, which successfully develops that wonderful proposition. I do not like the Minister's suggestion that the Scullin Government did not do anything to develop Newnes. 
The Minister was also wrong when he said that the Scullin Government, despite its policy of nationalization of industry, decided that the shale-mining industry was one which should bc an exception, believing tha&gt;t it could best be developed by private enterprise. At this stage I do not want to debate the relative merits of nationalization, socialization, or private enterprise in regard to industry; but I remind the Minister that the Scullin Government had control of a -trust fund of only £.100,000 approved by this Parliament, for the purpose of repatriating coalminers. Does he think 'that any government could have made a success of the Newnes field by expending  only  £100,000 on its development, and at the same time discharge its trust to the coal-miners? The Minister has admitted to-day that a company with a capital of at least £600,000 is necessary. The coal-miners, through  Mr. Beasley,  said that they were prepared to assist the Scullin Government in exploiting .the possibilities of Newnes and Baerami. That government co-operated with the coal-miners  on a pound for pound basis. When a certain stage of development had been reached, the Government discovered, that under the terms of the .trust fund, it had no right to buy a mine, or even to acquire a controlling interest in a mine; the money voted by Parliament had to be expended on the repatriation of coalmiiners. Just before  Senator McLachlan  took over the control of this wonderful industry the Scullin Government was confronted with the possibility of a breach of the law if it undertook further developmental work at Newnes. That government recognized that it would be dishonest if it used the money in the trust fund for any other purpose than that agreed to by Parliament. The nationalization of the industry was not considered, for the reason that I have given, apart altogether from the fact that that government had not sufficient money available for the purpose. It appointed a committee, and went on with the investigation in the hope that private enterprise would take over the industry, and provide employment for the large number of idle miners in the Newcastle district. Unfortunately for themselves, the people of Australia put the Scullin Government out of office. The Lyons Government has been in office for two and a half years. I do -not know whether it favours the Kelleway  style of batting, but it certainly has indulged in  stone-walling.  I want to see something done with the Newnes deposits. 
I suggest that the present Government be put off the trea sury bench, and another government, which will honestly attempt to exploit the possibilities of Newnes, put there. 
-I know of no more sensible suggestion than that which I have made, if the Newnes deposits are to be developed. I ask the Minister to see in this motion something more than an endeavour to make political capital out of it. I commend him for all that he has done to develop these deposits; but I think that both he and the Government, of which he is a member, could have done more. I sincerely hope that he will not hand over the field to Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, or any other company, before the election, so that there will be nothing to prevent a Labour government from developing this wonderful field in a manner which will be in the best interests of Australia. 
I regret, not only that I displeased the Minister in charge of this bill with, my remarks, but also that in reply to my interjection, he was unable to be original, and could only repeat the timeworn platitude about spitting enmity and talking in this chamber in a way which, although perhaps all right on the soap box, is. of no use here. Is the Minister unaware that, tb-day, Europe is on the verge of another world war, that the cause of the ferment is the struggle for the possession of oil, and that the next war will be fought on that issue? Does he not think that the Commonwealth would be well advised to devise at least this one protective measure in the way of national defence, by refusing to allow any of the oil possibilities of the continent to he handed over to private profit-making concerns ? I am tired of hearing the apologists for the present Government continually saying that no salvation is possible except to the extent that we can assist private enterprise. On the contrary, I say that for the extent to which Australia is suffering to-day, private enterprise is entirely to blame. It has failed ignominiously everywhere throughout the ages. It has filled the world with tragedy and disaster, of both of which Australia is getting its full issue, in spite of the fact that it is a self-contained country, geographically isolated) and that there is no necessity for us to be suffering the disadvantages that other parts of the world have to face. 
I can assure the honorable senator that Statecontrolled enterprise, to the extent to which it was given its opportunity in Queensland, was an unqualified success. I do not expect him to believe that, but I am prepared to meet him at any time oh the public platform, and allow him to select his audience, and I will tell that selected audience the true story of Statecontrolled enterprise in Queensland, and convince my hearers that it was an unqualified success. The Minister assures us this afternoon that it is by no means certain that Imperial Chemical Industries Limited will get this job. During the whole of the two and a half years that I have ! beer in this chamber, Newnes has been in the picture, but nothing except certain preliminary operations has been done. We suspect those preliminary operations; we say- they are tainted at the source, and that the chances are a hundred to one that they will finish in exactly the way they are designed to finish. The Government will conclude an arrangement or contract with some company or other behind the back of Parliament, and we shall know nothing whatever about it in this chamber except what we can gather from the Governmentinspired press. Then a contract Or agreement will be thrown down before us and we shall be told that we can throw it out but not amend it, because the Government lias concluded an arrangement that awaits only ratification by Parliament. We shall be given the opportunity to do nothing except talk. The job will be done, the wrong will be committed, and unless a new government comes in with the courage to take no notice of contracts and to wipe that arrangement off the statutebook, the evil will be perpetuated. I wish to ask the Minister, in all seriousness, two questions. If he believes that this project will not be a success, if he believes .that we shall not be able to get oil in commercial quantities from the Newnes deposits, why is he endeavouring to bring private enterprise into something that is not going to (be profitable? Why does he further suggest that the Australian public shall be allowed to acquire preference shares to the amount of £300,000, and why is the Government prepared to subscribe also? In my opinion the Minister believes that it is going to he a success; if it is to be a success that is the very best reason why it should be owned and controlled by the nation, and not by private enterprise. That is the whole point. We on this side feel strongly on the matter. I think I can speak for every member of the Labour Opposition in this chamber when I say that we are tired of governments carrying undertakings on until they are proved to be paying propositions, then handing them over for the benefit of private enterprise. We object to governments taking all the initial risk and then allowing private enterprise to get away with the loot. I believe this industry can be made a success. We are on the verge of more extensive scientific knowledge regarding the possibilities of extracting oil from coal and shale. It is because I believe that the undertaking will be a success, and a wonderful help in time of national emergency, that I am urging the Government to take control. There must be millions of gallons of oil to be won. I am not concerned about any possible loss of revenue from the oil at present imported. What I desire is to see Australia take another step towards being a selfcontained nation, and towards its own effective defence in time of national emergency. There will be a great opportunity, if the project is gone on with, to relieve the serious amount of unemployment existing among the miners, particularly the coal-miners of Newcastle.  Senator Daly  said something about the objective of this development proposal. One part of the objective was the repatriation of coal-miners. There are tens of thousands of them in Australia to-day who know nothing of any other calling. They will never again get work at that calling in Australia unless some new development takes place. That new development could be supplied by this enterprise in the hands of the Government. It would repatriate thousands of miners, who could be employed in the developmental work, and in all the work that would naturally follow. There is another reason why we should not hand the industry over to private enterprise. It should be kept within the control of the nation, because there is no authority so well able to do the job as the nation itself, operating through those who understand the work, if the nation makes up its mind to do it. I know it will be said that when the State or the Commonwealth controls an employing industry, labour does not do its job. That is not due to any inherent evil in the individual or in the collective capacity of a number of individuals; but is usually due to the fact that we put in charge of these undertakings men who are opposed to the policy of national ownership and control. If that is not the whole explanation of inefficiency in that regard, there is the further explanation that when men who are not capable of giving efficient service get into trouble on that account, members of Parliament are immediately on the doorstep of the manager or the Minister, pleading for them to be put back again, without regard to the fact that they have already shown their inefficiency. It is the workers, including men like the miners of Newcastle, who are doing all the real work of the world good, bad, and indifferent. It is not Ministers of State or senators occupying seats in this chamber who do the work or make any useful contribution to it. This matter is not being put forward byus with the object of obtaining political kudos, because we are not likely to get anything out of it, nor is it a matter, as the Minister ungraciously said, of " spitting enmity ". The debate arises out of a crucial difference of opinion between the Labour party and its opponents, as to how this country should be run in order to provide the greatest amount of happiness for all the people in it. So long as I have the opportunity to do so in this chamber, I shall oppose the handing over of any important undertaking to private enterprise, because in that direction lies disaster to the Australian people, both as a nation andas individuals.When war broke out in 1914, and it was essen tial to protect the people from the rapacity, the profit-making instincts, and the unscrupulous tactics of private enterprise, the Government of every country involved in the struggle had to take control at once of all national necessities. That proved the truth of our charges against private enterprise. All we are asking to-day is that in a time of comparative peace the nation shall not be lulled into a false sense of security, or allow its essential resources to be seized by private enterprise, which has no regard for the interest or the safety of the nation as a whole. 
 Senator Collings  said that he would never be a party to handing over to private enterprise what he regards as a national industry. In my opinion it is sentiments such as those expressed by the honorable senator that will delay the development of this industry almost for ever. Nobody should be able to speak with more authority and knowledge about the disasters that have overtaken most State enterprises than should the honorable senator himself. He has only to turn his attention to his own State of Queensland, where experiments of that kind have cost the country millions of pounds. Proof positive that these State undertakings were failures is furnished by the fact that, although a Labour government is in office in Queensland to-day, it has made no attempt to repossess those enterprises which were disposed of by a previous non-Labour administration. 
Some were not, but the State is strewn with the wreckage of the failures. 
I am not speaking of those ; I am referring to pastoral stations, fish shops and brickyards. Past governments and the present Government are to be commended for what has been done to develop the oil shale resources of the Commonwealth, but whether they have done all that should be done in that direction is open to question. It is at least a quarter of a century since tlie first attempt was made to develop the shale resources of Australia. I am nw. quite sure when the first effort was made to exploit the Newnes deposits, but it is a quarter of a century, if not more, since the first attempt was made in Tasmania. I think the Minister said that £3,000,000 of private capital had been expended at Newnes, and I believe £1,000,000 or more has been spent in Tasmania. We should take stock of the position, to see whether something cannot be done to develop Australia's great natural resources for the supply of oil and its by-products. For years the Commonwealth Government provided on the Estimates sums of money to assist in the discovery of flow oil. It was believed, and the Government was encouraged in that belief by the reports of experts, that there were good prospects of the discovery of flow oil in Australia. I remember speaking on that matter when the Senate was meeting in Melbourne. I said then that whilst I would support the vote  apearing  on the Estimates to encourage boring for flow oil, I thought that an equal sum should at the same time be provided to encourage " the development of our oil shale deposits. As the results so far achieved in Australia in obtaining flow oil in commercial quantities have been anything but encouraging, the Government should concentrate upon securing supplies from shale. For many years attempts have been made to develop these deposits, and up to the present approximately £1,000,000 of private capital has been invested in the works at Latrobe which are now practically idle. I pay tribute to those enterprising men who have invested their capital in that undertaking, in the hope, of course, of receiving some return on their outlay, but incidentally assisting a great national work. The Commonwealth Government has been generous in the assistance it has given to the industry, but more must be done before shale oil can be produced on a commercial basis. Success cannot be achieved by placing these deposits under government control as was suggested by  Senator 'Dunn  and  Senator Collings.  The advantage of a local supply of fuel oil for defence purposes has been stressed from time to time. 
From a national view-point, the Government should consider seriously the development of our great oil resources. The Commonwealth and State governments  which  are large users of fuel oil and motor spirit, could enter into contracts with private enterprise for the supply of their requirements at a reasonable price, and in that way stimulate production. During the past four or five years, the company now operating at Latrobe has spent over £100,000 in developing that deposit, the Tasmanian Government has made its technical officers available, and the Hydro-electric Department has supplied power at a low rate, but even with that assistance, the works are on the point of closing down because the product cannot be sold at a profitable price. I commend the Government for declining to conduct the industry as a State enterprise, but I trust that it will not concentrate too much  upon.  Newnes. It should devote more attention to the Latrobe deposits, which are only 8 to 10 miles from the seaboard, and can be readily worked. 
This subject has aspects other than those which have been discussed by some honorable senators. The present prospects of discovering flow oil in Australia as mentioned by  Senator Herbert  Hays are unfavorable, and that is one reason why attention should be devoted to the exploitation of our shale deposits, which are rich in oil. The honorable senator also complained because the same attention has not been given to- the Tasmanian deposits, as has been given to those at Newnes, hut I agree with the Minister that it is preferable to concentrate upon the most important deposit in the Commonwealth before attempting to develop others, so that any mistakes mede will not be repeated. 
That may be so, but the Government should concentrate on one deposit. 
That is another advantage. At this juncture it is useless to debate the relative merits of governmental control and private enterprise. Those opposed to socialistic ideals are in power, and any arguments that we may adduce must be of an academic character, and cannot affect the result. All public authorities and politicians admit that some activities can be more efficiently and profitably conducted by governments than by private individuals. Would any honorable senator favour the Post and Telegraph Department being controlled by private enterprise? 
The production of oil is of greater importance than the transport of mail matter. 
Has the Minister ever visited Newnes? 
Then the Minister must be acquainted, as I am, with the fact that the operations at Newnes provide a most glaring example of the failure of private enterprise. Millions of pounds have been spent by private interests at Newnes in endeavouring to develop the shale deposits. I remember taking a trip down the company's famous railway at Newnes, and on the return journey I found that by walking quickly, and taking a short cut, I could get ahead of the train. Then I stepped aboard while the train was going at full speed. That train was owned and operated by an oil corporation, and this incident, I suggest, was a glaring example of the marvellous efficiency of private enterprise. The company was not a tinpot organization that failed through early financial exhaustion; it had a very large paid-up capital, it had actually treated shale and produced oil and by-products; yet, with all its experience and money, it was unable to continue operations. That is one instance of the failure of private enterprise. We are continually being told of the failure of State enterprises, but, in fairness, we must remember that the critics of such undertakings are legion. It is to the advantage of politicians to expose the failures of those who preceded them in office, and to say little of the successes; consequently, every unsuccessful State enterprise is widely advertised. I hold the opinion that some State undertakings have been deliberately sabotaged by private enterprise, in order that the latter might get them into their own hands. For instance, the State timber yards in New South Wales were ruined by sheer neglect and incompetence on the part of those entrusted with their administration. In this case, there was, undoubtedly, bribery, although not provable in court, on the part of some of those interested in timber mills, to have the State mills so badly managed as to cause their ultimate failure. 
-The Minister has pointed out that nationalization of the shale oil industry is against the policy of the Government, and he alluded to the failure of State enterprises. But practically every government in the civilized world realizes that some functions can be better controlled and operated by the State than by any other authority. That is notably true of afforestation. Who is likely to invest money in such an enterprise knowing that only his grand children or great grand children will reap any financial benefit from it? 
The afforestation field has been open to private enterprise for generations, and the fact that private investors have not turned their attentions to it to any considerable extent is evidence that it is not profitable. There are some things that can best he controlled by the State, and even those who do not favour socialism as a policy or system are prepared to admit that, I affirm, without fear of successful contradiction, that the development of shale oil is such an undertaking, in view of the circumstances existing in Australia, and I contend that these deposits should be exploited by the Government for the simple reason that, as a French statesman recently said, " Ownership of oil means empire ". Without oil, no nation can successfully hold its own against other powers.I do not intend to deal further with the defence aspects of the matter. The Minister rightly insists that, as far as possible, the preliminary problems relating to the 
Newnes shale deposits shall be solved before the enterprise is undertaken on a commercial basis, but technical knowledge, without which this enterprise could not be successfully operated, can be obtained as readily by the Government as by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited or any other private body. The very fact that the Government has been able to obtain technical assistance in solving the problems it has already dealt with shows that such assistance would be available to the Government in further developmental operations. Technicians will be just as willing to take positions under the Government, as they would be to accept employment with any private concern. It is a lamentable argument to say that lack of technical knowledge puts the Government out of court. As the Minister has said, even the technicians employed by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited may not know much about shale oil, but we know that in Scotland shale deposits, not comparable in richness with those at Newnes, have been worked for many years. Surely all the data concerning the working of the Scottish deposits can be obtained by the Government. 
That is so, and the honorable senator will admit that the Scottish shale is of low grade when compared with that at Newnes. We also know that we can liquefy coal, and therefore are not compelled to confine our attention to shale oil. There are more ways than one of obtaining the fuel needed in warfare and for transport. 
The fact that hydrogenation is being utilised in some coun tries shows that we can turn our attention to coal when our shale deposits are exhausted. 
If such a plant could be profitably worked, no doubt we could obtain that capital. I am not arguing that we should do it now, but I am acquainted with a man who, for six years after the war, was engaged in Germany in the successful operation of the hydrogenation process, which, undoubtedly has advanced beyond the experimental stage. I support the motion moved by my colleague, because I think it is vitally necessary to Australia that this matter should be dealt with in a way that will serve the interests of the Australian people. 
I thank honorable senators who have assisted in this debate. The Minister told us that the expert,  Mr. Rogers,  has again gone abroad.  Mr. Rogers  was previously absent for nine months, and during that period, when honorable senators on this side of the chamber were urging the Government to take definite steps to develop the shale oil industry, we were told to withhold our criticism, until  Mr. Rogers  returned with full knowledge of the facts as a result of his investigations in England, Germany and the United States of America. Now we learn that  Mr. Rogers  has gone abroad on another jaunt. 
I suggest that the Minister is now disclosing the fact that  Mr. Rogers  has not learned enough, and as a result, must make a second trip abroad. This, I submit, reveals that the Minister and those in control of this matter have slipped badly. I have been making some research into the history of this matter during the last 24 years. When moving the second reading of the Shale Oils Bounty Bill on the8th November, 1910,  Senator Pearce,  then Minister for Defence in the Fisher Labour Government, and now holding the same portfolio in a United , Australia party Government, said - 
Fuel oil is found in a raw and natural state in  very  few places in the world, and the effect is to lead to its concentration in the hands of a very few owners. I suppose that the Standard Oil monopoly is the greatest in the world. It  13,  therefore, important that we in Australia, having, as we are assured, great deposits of  shale.  should take early action to have these deposits developed, so that we may be independent of outside supplies oil for fuel. One aspect of the matter, in which we are particularly concerned, is that many of the vessels wu aru ordering -for our fleet will require oil or fuel. We have been assured that the oil wu require oan bo successfully produced from the shale of which we have enormous quantities in Australia, lt would be a calamity if, in time of war, or  even  in time of peace, we wore dependent on outside supplies for thu oil required for our ships, I might mention further that, in connection with the dairying industry, and many other industries, oil engines are coming into more frequent use: and this is another reason why we should do all that is possible to develop our shale deposits. 
He also said - . 
Further, the industry would not derive such mi immediate benefit from the imposition of a. duty, us it will from the payment of a bounty. By offering it a. bounty, we shall be able to give the  industry  a certain amount of encouragement direct without penalising the persons who use it. 
He went on to  say  - 
The oil manufacturers have to face the competition of one of the great monopolies of the world in the Standard Oil Company of the United States of America. When we remember the fierceness of the competition, the strength of the competitors, the capital invested, the number of men employed, and the wages conditions, we cannot reasonably expect the company to succeed in Australia unless we do render them some assistance at this stage. 
That statement was made nearly twentyfour years ago, and is on record in  Hansard.  Senator .Pearce  on that occasion also said - 
When the works of the Commonwealth Oil Corporation are  in  full swing, 2,500 employees will be required. 
I n his budget yesterday, the Prime Minister said that everything was being done io meet the unemployment situation, not only in New South "Wales, but nil over the Commonwealth. I intend .to test the sincerity of the Minister for Defence in connexion with this matter by dividing the Senate on my motion. We shall then see if his views of to-day are in line with his expression of opinion in 1910, when he held a similar portfolio in the Fisher Labour Government. He then declared his belief in tariff protection for Australian private enterprise against the overseas oil interests. We shall see if he is now willing to take the same stand, and thus help the tens of thousands of unemployed miners to obtain employment in the development of our shale deposits and subsidiary industries. Twenty-four years ago,  Senator Pearce  was quite out-spoken as a Labour Minister. Since then he has become respectable, and hostile to proposals which formerly he championed. As for the Minister in charge of Development  (Senator McLachlan)  he has been backing and filling over the development of the Newnes shale deposits for the last two and a half years. On one occasion he went to Newnes with a great flourish of trumpets to' get first-hand information about the work being done by Messrs. Treganowan and Chambers; but when they asked for some assistance in the matter of excise, and a bounty, we soon discovered that this Government was not prepared to assist an Australian' company. Now we have a proposal arising out of negotiations with an overseas concern, a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Trust, having £93,000,000 of reserve funds to carry out this work, and it appears that  Senator Pearce,  as one of the Leaders of the United Australia Country party, is willing to help international capitalism, to do the job. The whole scene has changed. 
The honorable senator has declared that the Leader of the Senate has now become respectable. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
How many Commonwealth loans have been floated since 1924, including that year? 
What was the amount of each loan? 
What was the percentage cost of floating each loan? 
Is the difference between the face value of a bond and the price at which it is put upon the market considered as part of the cost of flotation ? 
Information is being obtained, and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
No. The amount of this difference is taken into account when fixing the rate of interest at which the loan is floated. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
How many branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank are there in each State? 
How many brunches of the general Commonwealth Bank are there in each State? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What action, if any, has been taken by the Government to implement the report and recommendation, dated the 26th October. 1932. of the Commonwealth Wool Inquiry Committee? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, upon  notice - 
Have any representations been received from the Government tff Western Australia in regard to improving the lighting, for navigation purposes, of the north-west coast? 
No representations have been received from the Government of Western Australia. Preliminary investigations are at present being made in&gt; regard to the establishment of a light at Cape Ronsard. 
asked the Ministor representing the Minister for Commerce, upon  notice - 
Whether it is correct, as stated in the Melbourne  Age  of Monday, the 23rd July, that the Minister for Commerce (Honorable F. H. Stewart) read to the Meat Conference, held at Canberra on Thursday last, the secret and confidential cablegrams  which  have passed between the Commonwealth Government and the British Government relative to the restriction of meat exports, although such cables have not yet been made available to members of this Parliament? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
Certain cables between the Commonwealth Government and the High Commissioner in london, and from the British Government to the Commonwealth Government, relative to the proposed regulation of meat imports into the United Kingdam, were read by the Minister for Commerce to the members of the Meat Advisory Committee, for their confidential information, in order to assist in the consideration of future policy in the interests of Australian meat producers. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon  notice - 
What action has the Government taken in regard to the deportation of Captain J. A. Macarthur Onslow, a returned soldier, from Norfolk Island, without trial, and after being submitted to a language test in German? 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a cable from a public meeting of the residents of Norfolk Island asking for the recall of the Administrator, Captain Pinney, owing to his action in deporting Captain J. A. Macarthur Onslow from the island? 
What action has been taken in regard to this request? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
Yes. 
A full report on the subject has been obtained from the Administrator. In the light of all the information which is in its possession, the Government see3 no sufficient reason to proceed further in the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Government's statement that the members of the committee which has been appointed to oppose the " Case for Secession " are being paid fees ranging from 100 to 150 guineas each, plus travelling expenses and an allowance of 25s. per day each - 
Is it a fact that the members of the committee in Western Australia, which prepared "The Case of the People of Western Australia in support cif their desire to withdraw from the Federal Commonwealth and to restore Western Australia to its former status as a separate self-governing colony in the British Empire with dominion status", acted in an entirely honorary capacity for a period of four months? 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government was unable to find any persons willing to act in a similar honorary capacity in replying to the " Case for Secession " ? 
" What payments in (o) fees, (6) allowances, and (o) travelling expenses, have been made on account of each member of the Commonwealth's committee ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions:- - 
I have no information in regard to this. 
No inquiry of this nature was made. The Commonwealth Government considered it reasonable to make payment for the services which it arranged to be rendered. 3. (a) No fees have yet been paid. The honorable senator has already been informed of the amount due to be paid in fees. 

<graphic href="144332193407253_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

No claims in respect of actual transport have yet been received. 
asked the 
Mi nister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to a statement in Saturday's Melbourne  Herald  to the effect that  Mr. W.  S.Robinson, the Anglo-British financier, emphasized the importance of the development of gold-mining to Australian recovery, and that he considered that Australian gold-mining requires from Overseas a minimum of £10,000,000 for exploration and a mini mum of £20,000,000 for development equipment. Given a reasonable chance from governments, he said, the capital will be forthcoming? 
Is the Government in a position to make a statement as to its intentions in regard to the introduction of this capital to Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
The question of investment of capital in the gold-mining industry is a matter for private interests. In the view of the Government, the present price of gold should prove an adequate incentive to investment. The industry is free from federal income taxation, and it has also been exempted from similar taxation by most of the States. The Commonwealth Government is providing up to f 75,000 which will be matched by the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia between them for an aerial geological and geophysical survey of selected areas of North Australia in that portion of Australia north of approximately the 22nd parallel of south latitude; in addition arrangements have been made for the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in co-operation with representatives of the gold-mining industry to undertake work on mineragraphic problems and for the initiation or extension of certain work on ore dressing problems. It is the aim of the council to ascertain the form of occurrences of gold deposits: to advise on methods of extraction of the ore; and to devise improved methods whereby recoveries may be increased. The council will be in a position to proffer advice on new discoveries from the points of view of quantities and methods of treatment. It will also investigate methods of treating slimes, which have been practically ignored in Australia. From the foregoing it will be seen that the desire of the Commonwealth Government to encourage the development of the industry is being exemplified in tangible forms. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the increasing interest being shown both in Australia and abroad in the gold-mining industry, will the Government instruct the Tariff Board to inquire fully into the best methods of permitting the expansion of this industry by relieving it from the burden of the protective incidence of the tariff, and particularly by a reduction in the duties on mining machinery and requisites? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
The general question of the tariff duties on mining machinery has been referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What has been the cost of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to date? 
What fees and allowances have been paid to each of its members to date? 
On what scale are its members remunerated? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
£4,072 5s.1d. 
The information is being obtained. 

 Chairman, Mr. F. W. Eggleston, £300 per annum less reduction under the Financial Emergency Act. Member, Professor L. F. Giblin, £200 per annum less reduction under the Financial Emergency Act. Member,  Mr. j.  W. Sandford, £200 per annum less reduction under the Financial Emergency  Act.  Fees of £5 5s. each less 17½ per cent. for each day upon which each attends a meeting of the commission. Travelling allowances £2 5s. a day less 20 per cent. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
How longhas the royal commission on the wheat industry been sitting? 
What are the rates of fees and travelling expenses paid to each member of the commission and the total amount paid to each? 
What is  Sir Herbert  Gepp's salary as consultant to the Government, and what fees does he receive from the Government in addition? 
What is Miss Gepp's position, and what salary and travelling expenses does she receive? 
When is it expected that the complete report of the commission will be placed before Parliament? 
The first sitting was held on the 18th January, 1934. The commission has been engaged continuously since that date. 

 Chairman, Sir Herbert Gepp, £8 8s. per day. Member, Professor Wadham, £2 2s. per day plus university salary of £1,080 per annum. Member,  Mr. E.  P. M. Sheedy, £56s. per day. Member,  Mr. T.  S. Cheadle, £66s. per day. Member,  Mr. C.  W. Harper, £66s. per day. Travelling allowances £1 10s. per day for  chairman  and members.In formation in regard to the total amount paid to each member of the commission is being obtained. 3.Retaining fee of £250 per annum. Fees are authorized by the Minister in respectof professional services rendered from time to time. 
Miss Gepp has not been employed in connexion with the activities of the commission. 
It is not practicable at present to furnish any indication as to when the final report of this commission will be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister intimate when the interim report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry, referred to in the reply to a previous question by  Senator O'Halloran,  will be available? 
It is expected that the interim report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry will be available within the next week. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the contract for the buildings in connexion with the broadcasting station at Kelso, Tasmania, been finalized? 
If so, what is the name or names of the contractor ? 
Is difficulty being experienced in finding suitable and solid ground for the foundations? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Have any concessions of any kind, other than those provided for under the Ottawa agreement as agreed to by Parliament, been made, or are any such contemplated, upon bananas imported into Australia from Fiji? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
No concessions other than those provided for under the Ottawa agreement, as approved by Parliament, have been made to Fiji upon bananas imported into Australia, and none is contemplated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What quantity of castor oil was imported into Australia during the years 1930-31, 1931-32, 1932-33, 1933-34, what was the value of same expressed in terms of Australian currency, and what was the country of origin? 
What quantity of peanuts was imported into Australia by the Queensland Peanut Board during the years, 1930-31, 1931-32, 1932-33, and 1 933-34? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Does the Sanitarium Health Food Company, of Sydney, New South Wales, pay income tax. and/or sales tax; if not, why not? 
asked the Leader of tlie Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Are the census figures relating to unemployment yet  available? 
If not, will the Minister see that the figures are made available before Parliament is dissolved? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
The work in connexion with the compilation of census statistics, including those relating to unemployment, is not yet completed. 
The work is being expedited, and the desired information will be mode available as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice. - 
Has any agreement yet been made between the Commonwealth Government, the State Government of New South Wales, and Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, with regard to the Newnes shale oil project? 
If so, does the Government consider  it  a safe national policy to allow outside interests to secure control of fuel supplies, when such would bc invaluable to Australia in times of national emergency ? 
If no such agreement has yet been made, will the Government undertake that none shall be made unless and until Parliament has been first consulted? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
An agreement has not yet been reached with Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, or any other company, to operate the Newnes shale oil undertaking, but negotiations are proceeding. 2 and 3. Full powers will be taken by the Commonwealth in connexion with any agreement that may be entered into with a company to operate Newnes, effectively to provide for any national emergency, and to protect the interests of the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
When was  Mr. Buring  instructed to inquire into the wine industry? 
What were the terms of reference? 
When was his report presented? 
What was the cost of such inquiry? 
If the report presented by  Mr. Buring  is to remain confidential does the Government propose to take any action based upon such report or upon the recommendations (if any) made therein? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The 24th March, 1033. 
Air. Buring was requested to inquire into the industry generally, and make suggestions as to steps which he considered could be taken to improve the position then existing in the industry. 
The 15th April, 1933. 
£01 39s. 9d. 
The Government has already taken action based upon consideration of the recommendations made in the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Does the Commissioner of Patents issue a patent upon an application accompanied by a provisional specification only? 
What rights are conferred upon an applicant or an inventor upon the acceptance of an application and provisional specification? 
What protection, if any, is conferred upon . an inventor by the acceptance of his appIN cation and provisional specification? 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
No. 
None. 
After lodging his application and provisional specification, an inventor is protected against thu consequences of any use or publication of his invention subsequent to the date of the lodgment of his application, and pending the lodgment of his complete specification. There is no investigation as to novelty of an invention until the complete specification is lodged. 
 In order to place on record my views regarding the filling of a vacancy caused by the death of a candidate between nomination day and polling day, I move - 
That proposed new sub-section (2.) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following new sub-section: - " (1a.) Any three candidates who shall nominate for a Senate election as a group shall have the right of nominating at the same time a reserve or substitute candidate, who shall not otherwise be contesting the election, and upon the death after nominations have been declared and before polling day of any one of such group, the reserve or substitute candidate shall forthwith automatically be substituted for the candidateso dying and his name shall be substituted in the ballot-paper, and ho shall be liable to pay the required deposit forthwith: 
Provided that if such death shall take place too late for a change to be made in the ballot-paper, the votes cast for the original candidate so dying shall be counted and attributed as if they had been cast for the reserve or substitute candidate.". 
Honorable senators may ask why I have Limited the concession to a group of three candidates, and why a group of two candidates should not have the same right. As the normal number in a group is three candidates, I see no reason to exend the concession to a group containing fewer candidates.When  Senator Hoare  inquired about the deposit to be paid. I suggested that it should he paid over by the substituted candidate to the estate of the candidate who died; but as the deposit of the deceased candidate would probably revert automatically to his estate, I now think that the best plan would be for the deposit to be paid to the Government by the substituted candidate. I have moved this amendment, not in any hostile spirit, but in order to place on record the way in which I think an admitted disability should be dealt with. 
[9.45]. - I have already given  Senator Duncan-Hughes  the assurance that his proposal will be closely scrutinized, and that it seems to me to be a practical proposal to overcome an obvious difficulty, but I am sure he does not expect the committee to accept it without further examination. I fear that, if it were adopted now, a large number of consequential amendments would be rendered necessary, not only in this bill, but in the Electoral Act itself.For instance, certain qualifications are requisite for the original candidate, and it would be necessary to proride that those qualifications should apply to the substitute candidate. A candidate must, for example, be an elector, and he must be nominated in. proper form. I understand that the honorable senator's object is to have on record a form of amendment, so that it can be looked at in substance and considered from every aspect. I give the honorable senator the undertaking that the Government will look into the proposal to see if it can be accepted as the basis for an amendment of the law. I trust, however, that he does not intend to ask the committee to put it into the bill to-night. Such a course might mean redrafting the whole bill, and I am sure that amendments of the act itself would be rendered imperative. This is the first time the proposal has been put forward, and I feel that all honorable senators desire an opportunity to think it over before they are asked to accept it. I therefore urge the honorable senator not to press the amendment to a division to-night. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; re-  port  adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[5.42] .  - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Some of the amendments being made in the electoral law by this bill are immaterial. For instance, there is one to strike out sub-section 2 of section 29 of the existing act. Sub-section 2 was entirely a drafting provision, and has now no significance whatever. Its words are really surplusage, and have long ceased to have any effect. They had a meaning when they were first put into the act, but they have none now. This measure embraces a number of proposed alterations to the Commonwealth Electoral Act, designed to improve that statute in several respects, mainly in the direction of ensuring more accurate and efficient rolls and obtaining a definite and complete reflection of the wishes of the electors in the election of senators. The bill includes three separate clauses intended to advance the purity of the rolls. Firstly, clause 4 amends the principal act, making it clear beyond any doubt that an elector is entitled to enrol only in respect of the actual address at which he is living. The proposed amendment docs not involve any departure from the existing principles of the Electoral Act, but merely defines those principles with greater clearness. The amendments that are made in that respect have been included in this bill as the result of the experience of the last election and the hearing, before the court, of cases arising out of it. The defects that were then found by the court in the electoral law are being remedied by this amending legislation. Section 41 of the principal act states: "No person is entitled to have his name placed upon any roll other than the roll for the subdivision in which he lives." The addition of the words set out in clause 4 of the bill will not alter this provision in any way, hut by expressing unequivocally that the elector must enrol in respect of the address in the subdivision at which he actually resides, the intent of the law will be made quite clear and any possibility of misunderstanding removed. The next of the three clauses relating to enrolment is clause 5. This, likewise, is not so much a new provision as an extension of the provisions already contained in the Electoral Act. Under the existing law, provision is made to remedy any incorrect enrolment as between subdivisions in the same division, and all we now propose to do is to extend such remedial action tocover incorrect enrolments as between subdivisions in separate divisions. Honorable senators will see that that involves no alteration of principle. It simply means that what can now be done within a subdivision, will be able to be done as between one division and another. Honorable senators may be assured that nothing in the provisions set out in clause 5 can possibly adversely affect the basic rights of electors. It is purely a machinery clause, providing a ready means whereby the electoral officers will he able at any time immediately to transferto the proper roll the names of any electors who, it is discovered, havebv mischance or otherwise become enrolled on the roll for a subdivision in which they did not at the date of their claim actually reside. That is one of the reasons why it is necessary to pass this bill at an early date; details of the new arrangement will have to go out, so that people may be put into their proper subdivisions before the rolls are closed. It may be pointed out that cases have occurred where electors resident in close proximity to a boundary between two divisions have been erroneously enrolled for the division adjoining that in which they are actually living. Under the present law the electoral officers are unable to remedy such incorrect enrolments between the issue of the writs and polling day, but with the amending provisions of this bill embodied in the law, such very desirable action will bc permissible. A case actually arose in which a considerable number of electors who were near the border had been put into the wrong subdivision, but they were on the roll, and when the election came they had to be permitted to vote, although they really belonged to another division. 
Under this machinery provision, it would be possible for them to vote in their correct division, because, if electors arc discovered to be on the wrong roll, they can bc transferred after the issue of the writ. The third clause in the bill designed to purify the rolls is one empowering the electoral officials to effect the removal from the roll of any enrolment secured by a person not entitled to such enrolment, where that enrolment has been obtained by making a false statement iri the claim. It is considered that no honorable senator can have any objection to this provision, or to those previously referred to. It is again emphasized that these proposals are designed with the sole object of advancing the purity and correctness of the rolls so as to ensure, so far as is humanly possible, that the senators and members elected to this Parliament shall be truly representative of the majority of their constituents. 
Two important provisions are included in the bill regarding the election of senators. The first provides that the elector must, vote for all of the candidates, indicating the order of his preference for them, and the other is designed effectively to provide for any case in which a Senate candidate dies between c-im date of nomination and polling day. With regard to the first matter, at present the elector must, at a Senate election, vote for all the candidates where the number thereof does not exceed twice the number to be elected plus one; but, where there are more candidates than twice the number to be elected plus one, he may please himself whether or not he continues to indicate his preferences beyond tlie prescribed number. 
In the case of an election for the  House  of Representatives the act requires that, where there are more than two candidates, the elector must indicate his preferences for the whole of the candidates, and it is considered that the law should be consistent and apply the same requirement to elections for the Senate That is also necessary to prevent informal voting. If .there is one law for elections for the House of Representatives and another for elections for the Senate, the likelihood of informal votes being cast is increased. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The electors of Australia are intelligent and know the candidates for whom they wish to vote. The electors arc able to exercise  their preferences. 
The amendment proposed would remove the existing lack of uniformity a3 between elections for the Senate and elections foi' the House of Representatives, and as it would enable the directions to voters to be issued in more concise 'and simple terms than at present, there is reason to believe it would tend to red un the number of informal votes recorded. The existing peculiarity in connexion with the Senate elections has always been difficult for party representatives to explain, and has resulted in informal votes being cast. 
Hitherto the directions relating to the manner in which a Senate ballot-paper must be marked have necessarily, where there were more candidates than twice the number to be elected plus one, been rather involved and somewhat at variance with those relating to the ballotpapers for elections for the House of Representatives. This, it is contended, lias led to confusion and misunderstanding and the casting of an abnormal number of informal votes. Another reason for this amending provision is that the principle of preferential voting demands for its full and complete application a preference indication in respect of 'every candidate; "otherwise there is always the possibility of a result not in accord with the* real wishes of the elec'tors. It is not considered that any appreciable hardship would be imposed upon electors by requiring them to indicate a preference for all the candidates at Senate elections. I. understand that at elections for the Senate in Tasmania there is always a long list of candidates, but the electors in that State are so well trained that the new requirement will not present an obstacle to them. Every ballot-paper issued, whether postal, absent or ordinary, has the names of the candidates in the order of their groups written or printed thereon, and as the great majority of voters mark their votes as directed on the "How to vote" cards issued by the different  political  organizations, all that is required in most cases is for the voter to copy the numbers appearing on such cards. 
In regard to the provisions relating to the death of a Senate candidate between the date of nomination and polling day, honorable senators will recollect that in connexion with the 192S Senate election in Victoria, one of the candidates,  Mr. J.  K. Forsyth, died on the 12th November - four days before the poll was taken. Ballot-papers containing the name of the deceased candidate had already  been distributed throughout the State, and although it was possible to substitute at most polling booths fresh ballot-papers with the name of the deceased candidate omitted, it was impracticable to do that at some of the more remote polling places. At such places tha original ballot-papers had to be used, and although the name " Forsyth " was ruled out by the presiding officers, on many ballot-papers preferences were indicated opposite the name ruled out, or a break occurred in the numerical sequence of the preferences, in either of which events the vote was rendered informal. Owing to the brief period at their disposal political organizations were unable to withdraw from circulation all the "How to vote" cards including Forsyth's name. Electors possessing those cards apparently were in a quandary when, on attending the polling booth, they found that the " How to vote " card contained the name of one more candidates that appeared on the ballot-paper, and, as a consequence, many failed to mark their preferences in strict numerical sequence. It would be impossible, in the event of a Senate candidate dying immediately prior to polling day to issue fresh ballot-papers to all polling places, and in order to avoid the great difficulty that would arise in such a case  under  the present law, the adoption of theamending provision included in the bill is highly desirable in the interests of all concerned. In effect, the amendment proposed will validate the use of Senateballotpapers containing the name of a candidate whose death occurred between nomination day and polling day, and its adoption would not only relieve theelectoral administration and the political organizations of grave difficulty and anxiety in such unfortunate circumstances; but would also save from invalidation ballot-papers which, under thepresent act, must be rejected as informal. 
Another proposal in the bill relatesto disorderly behaviour at election meetings. Under the existing provisions of the law it is impracticable to deal effectively with persons who in a hall persist in disorderly and objectionable interruption. Honorable senators will, I am sure, welcome the amendment to enable the  chairman  of a " meeting to direct a police officer to remove any person preventing the transaction of tha business for which the meeting is held. 
The bill also contains a proposed amendment of the law in relation to postal voting, making it an offence punishable by a substantial penalty for an authorized witness to influence or attempt to influence the vote of any elector voting by post before him. Cases have come under the notice of the electoral officers where an authorized witness has endeavoured to influence an elector voting before him. Such a practice, I suggest, should be regarded as a serious offence, and justifies the inclusion in the act of the provision proposed. 
The only other matter covered by the bill, apart from merely formal and consequential clauses, is a provision bringing up to date the existing section in the Electoral Act relating to the transmission of telegrams. 
I understand that it is, to bring the electoral law into line with an amendment of the Post and Telegraph Rates Act. I commend the bill to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
.- As I understand it is the desire of the Government to pass this measure as rapidly as possible so that the electors may become conversant with its provisions, I do not propose to detain the Senate by discussing it at any length. The only objectionable feature of the bill appears to be in clause 11, which gives autocratic powers to the  chairman  of an election meeting. I believe that all political meetings should be conducted in an orderly manner, and that every candidate should have the right to express his views clearly to the electors. An elector may attend a meeting with the intention of conducting himself properly, but a candidate may be so deliberately provocative and inaccurate in his statements that some one feels impelled to correct him. At one political meeting at which I was not present, I was grossly misrepresented by a gentleman who is at present a member of the Senate, and a friend of mine who was in the audience was able to produce a copy of  Hansard  and refute the charge of the  speaker  who was compelled to apologize. As some unscrupulous candidate may be responsible for disturbances which occur at such meetings the authority given to the  chairman  under clause 11 is too great. That clause reads - (3.) The  chairman  of any meeting to which this section applies may direct any member of the police force of a State or territory, or of the Commonwealth, to remove from the room or building in which the meeting is being held any person who, in the opinion of the  chairman,  is preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting is held, and thereupon the member may take such steps as are neccessary for the removal of the person from the room or building. (4.) Any person - 
who has been removed from a room or building in accordance with a direction given under the last preceding sub-section ; or 
whose removal from a room or building has been directed under the last preceding sub-section and who has left that room or building, and who, without the authority of the  chairman  (proof whereof shall lie upon that person) returns to that room or building while the meeting is in progress, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Ten pounds or imprisonment for one month. 
A person after having been ordered to leave a political meeting may realize that he was wrong and be anxious to return, but unless he has the. authority of the  chairman  to do so he may be immediately seizedbya policeman and be fined £10 or imprisoned for one month. At a meeting which I addressed during the conscription campaign I acted on the assumption that at election meetings candidates have the power to instruct a policeman to remove from the meeting a person causing a disturbance. Some person should have the power to preserve order. 
Clause 11 is the only objectionable feature of the bill, and when it is in committee, I shall move to amend it. 
.- In supporting the bill, I should like to reply to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  who is opposed to clause 11, which gives the  chairman  of an election meeting the power to order the removal of a disorderly person. I have closely studied the clause, which I consider lenient. Although a person may attend a political meeting with the deliberate intention of causing a disturbance, the only penalty to which he has to submit is that of being removed from the hall or room in which the meeting is being held. In some States the law provides not only for the removal of an interjector, but also for his prosecution. In this bill the only penalty is for returning to the hall after removal. 
A similar law is in operation in the States and in Tasmania it has been fairly effective. I know of no instance of a  chairman  unduly interfering with a person who has made a reasonable interjection, but I have known of people coming to a meeting for the one purpose of preventing the  speaker  from receiving a hearing. At a meeting I addressed in Tasmania a person sat in front of the hall, and persistently interjected ; he was supported by some hundreds of interrupters at the rear of the hall. The interruptions were so frequent that it became impossible for me to be heard, and the  chairman  called on the police to remove the principal disturber. As he went out, however, he cried, " One out all out," and he was accompanied by his band of supporters. But all of then! came back. This time the ringleader sat with his supporters at the rear of the hall where they resumed their interruptions, until eventually some of them were removed. Any reasonable candidate welcomes interjections if they arc intelligent and made in an orderly way; and I think this provision will be enforced only where deliberate interruptions an* made to prevent a  speaker  from being heard. 
I have had some most annoying experiences in this respect. On one occasion when the interrupters found that they could not prevent my being hoard, they brought into the hall a woman who was under the influence of drink, and practically threw her at me. I am very glad to he able to say that on the west coast of Tasmania, where this incident occurred, electors arc better behaved to-day. 
I think that the provision making it compulsory for electors to record their preference in respect of all candidates foithe Senate is justified. I am confident that in the past a great deal of confusion was caused among people who, though not illiterate, do not follow politics very carefully, and I believe that under this provision much informal voting will be avoided. In Tasmania for some time we have never had less than twelve candidates standing for the three vacancies in tho Senate. The Senate is highly esteemed by Tasmanians, and the ambition of any reasonable man who takes an interest in the future welfare of his country is to nominate for this chamber, because he knows that the fate of his country has often depended on the Senate, which always has stood up to its obligations. I do not know whether the electoral department or the Minister has given any consideration to the need for providing a ballot-paper different in form from that in use to-day. The present form leads to an enormous vote being recorded foi a candidate whose name is first on the ballot-paper and who may not be known to many of the electors who vote for him. I am sorry to say that such electors comply with the law by marking 1 agains^ the first name on the ballot-paper, 2 against the second name, and so on to the end of the list. These electors may be called politically illiterate. I have good reason to believe that this practice results in some States in thousands of votes being given haphazard to a candidate. This difficulty has caused electoral officers much thought. After the last elections, I suggested to the Chief Electoral Officer of the Commonwealth that steps should be taken to invent a ballot-paper different in form from the one now iu use. "We do not want men in Parliament who do not represent the considered choice of the electors. 
I think a ballot.papeer in circular form could be evolved, which would tend to a distribution of these votes fairly among the whole of the candidates, lt might not be attractive in appearance, hut if it served the purpose which T am suggesting, it would be wort experimenting with. With a circular ballot-paper, probably not two of the politically illiterate electors would start to mark his paper at the same point. Thus the votes of the politically illiterate would be distributed more equally than with the present form. Something will have to be done in that direction/ The increase of the number of papers marked automatically from top to bottom has become more or less of a scandal. 
*That would be difficult to ascertain. The evil I am condemning obtains in every State, but possibly it has been accentuated in Tasmania because of the comparatively large number of candidates.. 
Yes; but those cards only show the names of candidates without any order of preference. This bill will certainly remove several anomalies, and, therefore, I support it. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8.10 p.m. 
One could be excused for finding some difficulty in understanding all the provisions in this hill, becausewe are nearing the end of the session, and the Government is rushing legislation through without giving proper time for its consideration. The right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  misunderstood an interjection of mine with regard to the provision requiring electors to vote for all Senate candidates. My interjection was to the effect that the provision would increase the difficulty which some electors experienced in casting an intelligent vote, and the right honorable gentleman at once proceeded to laud the intelligence of electors generally. I have no quarrel with him on that score. But he entirely missed the point of my complaint, which was that where there was a large number of candidates, many of whom might be unknown to most of the electors, it would be impossible for a man to cast an intelligent vote if he had to indicate his order of preference in respect of them all. That has been my own experience on more than one occasion. Many years ago, when the proportional system of voting was in force in New South Wales, there were at one election no fewer than 25 candidates for the district for which I was enrolled. I never heard of the great majority of them, and almost all of them were unknown to me personally. How couldI, at that election, vote intelligently on their relative merits? Many of them had had no previous career in public life, and, consequently, they were merely names to me. Many other people to whom I have spoken on this subject have mentioned the same difficulty. I therefore repeat that if electors are required to vote for a large number of candidates they might easily give primary votes to the least desirable instead of the best. 
Ever since federation, there have been many alterations of the electoral law, and while I am not one to object, if alterations are necessary, it is, I think, wholly unjustified to. alter the electoral law merely at the whim of some person in authority, particularly if the alterations are made just as electors have become accustomed to the existing system. That hasbeen done time after time, and it is being done now. This amending bill has been brought in on the eve of a general election, and the amendments contained in it will, I feel sure, result in an increase instead of a decrease of the number of informal votes cast. For some considerable time, electors have been accustomed to voting for seven candidates instead of for the whole list. 
SenatorRAE. - I am aware of that, but many electors limited their votes to seven, if they did not have some knowledge of the remaining candidates. They might not even know the whole of the seven, but they would he more likely to know that number than the complete list. The Leader of the Senate must agree that it is regrettable that people should, under the preferential system, be asked to vote for candidates concerning whose merits they are entirely ignorant. In such circumstances they cannot possibly cast an intelligent vote; they might just as well enter the polling booth blindfolded, and mark the list at random. My complaint is that, just as electors are getting used to the system of voting for seven candidates, under this bill they will be required to vote for all candidates offering at an election. I cannot see how there can be finality in an electoral law that perpetuates and increases that evil. 
As to the provision for the punishment of persons who interrupt at election meetings, my views are quite definite. I believe that every person should have full liberty to express his view on any subject of public importance, irrespective of whether or not his opinion is in agreement with my own, and my experience is that relevant interjections at election meetings very often enliven proceedings that otherwise would he dull and uninteresting. Nothing , is so depressing to a candidate seeking the suffrages  of the people as to face an audience that lacks animation, and is, in the main, silent ; he does not know if his views are appealing to his hearers. Therefore, 'we should 'be very careful not to penalize persons who make pertinent, or possibly informative, interjections at election meetings'. 
Exactly. A candidate might be indulging in personalities that have nothing to do with his case. To bc told to give his policy instead of sidestepping and skirmishing around his subject would certainly be to the point. Under this bill any person who chose to be vindictive might cause an interjector al; an election meeting to bc ejected, and, if the offender dared again to enter the building, he might subsequently be fined heavily or imprisoned. 
It seems to me that this Government believes that the cause of. progress and culture is to be furthered by increasing the number of offences for which persons may be liable to fine or imprisonment. The Crimes Act provides penalties for many new offences, and this bill creates still another. I admit that, if au interjector at an election meeting persists in irrelevancies, and prevents a candidate from stating his views, he should he removed and penalized in whatever way may be thought reasonable; but I strongly object to penalties being enforced against persons who make pertinent interjections. I realize, however, that the Government has its majority, and that, whatever may be said against the bill, it will be passed. 
There is, however, another point which I should like to mention. In former years, when the second reading of a measure was assented to, it was customary for the details to be left to the good sense of the committee, party lines heini* eliminated for the time being. Now. when a government introduces a bill and takes it to the committee stage, it appears to be the custom to insist on the whole of the details, even to the dotting of the " i's " mid the crossing of the " fs ", being passed in the form in which they were presented' by the Minister in charge of it. 
I voted for the Government only when I approved of its policy in respect of particular items, and I am inclined to think that, with all their during, Ministers would not count me amongst their camp followers. It will, I hope, be admitted by honorable senators generally that the combined wisdom of this chamber is not to be found only among Government supporters, and that, when considering the details of bills, honorable senators, whatever their party allegiance may bc, should have every opportunity to  offer  suggestions for the improvement of a measure. It is entirely wrong for a government to use its iron fist and force the acceptance of every detail of its proposals at the committee stage of a bill. 
One of the greatest difficulties associated with our electoral law is the chang-' ing of the method of voting almost as soon as the electors become accustomed to it, and the consequent increase of the number of informal votes. I predict that that difficulty will be increased, rather than decreased, by this legislation. 

 Senator DUNCAN-HUGHES (South Australia) [S.21j. - I am not in agreement with  Senator Rae  on the subject of voting for all the candidates. In my opinion, the alteration proposed in this measure is a wise one. In South Australia there were eight candidates for the Senate at one election, and under the law then existing, and indeed, as it now stands, it was necessary for each elector to vote for double the number of candidates required, plus one That is to say, a number had to be placed against seven of the eight candidates; the elector could, if he wished, refrain from voting for the eighth candidate. That system tends to confuse -the elector. I cannot understand the desire of some people to leave n number of blanks on the ballotpaper. It gives me some degree of satisfaction to place last in my order of choice the candidate that I admire least, just as it gives me a feeling of satisfaction to place the figure 1 against the name of the candidate whom  I  like best. I cannot see why any confusion should arise in voting for every candidate. That system at least has the merit that electors know that a number must be placed alongside the name of each candidate,  and under it. there is less likelihood of confusion than if, say, seven candidates out of eight or more must be voted for. 
I do not view with any great satisfaction the' clause providing for the removal from the room in which a meeting is being held a person who causes a disturbance, but  1  point out to  Senator Rae  that this power is merely permissive. The  chairman  of a meeting may- direct any member of the police force of a State or territory or of the Commonwealth, to remove from the room any person who, in his opinion, is preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting is held.  Any one who has had experience of public meetings knows that most speakers welcome interjections. Generally a candidate for Parliament, is the last person in the room who would wish to  prevent  reasonable interjections. The object of this clause is not to prevent such interjections, but to deal with persons who attend a meeting deliberately to  prevent  others from hearing the views of the speakers. 
Could not such persons be removed from the room under existing legislation? 
The principal act provides that any person who, at any public meeting, acts in a disorderly manner for the purpose of proventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting is held, shall be guilty of a.n offence', and shall be liable to a penalty of £:&gt;, or imprisonment for one month. I can conceive of a person thinking it worth while to make a nuisance of himself at a meeting by preventing a candidate from being heard, and the  chairman  being powerless to eject him. I willingly concede that, in some instances, it may not bc possible to eject offenders. During the last State election campaign in New South Wales I attended a stormy meeting at which a noisy section of the audience prevented me from being heard. I do not recollect having seen a policeman at that meeting; if a policeman was there, he did not take active steps to remove the offenders. Although I have no great enthusiasm for restrictive enactments, I imagine that these powers would be exercised by most chairmen in a reasonable manner. No  chairman  would attempt to have ejected from a meeting a man who, by his interjections, really helped the  speaker.  All. honorable senators know that the sympathies of an audience are nearly always with the  speaker,  rather than with the interjector. 
The Minister, in his second-reading, speech, referred to the election of 1928 at which  Senator Barnes  was elected to the Senate owing to the death of a Nationalist candidate between nomination day and polling day. A similar happening occurred in South Australia in 1914, when a candidate died between nomination day and polling day, with the result that a Liberal candidate,  Mr. J.  W. Shannon, received the votes of the supporters of two opposing parties. On that occasion a double dissolution had taken place, and there remained six Liberal candidates and five representingthe Labour party. Under our present law it is possible for a candidate who does not represent the views of the majority of electors to be returned to Parliament. That is a great mistake, and some effort should be made to prevent it. In the early days of this Parliament, when the party system was not so strongly developed as now, candidates stood as individuals rather than as representatives of political parties. We must, however, admit that those days have passed, at least, for the present; that there are, in fact, two or more political parties whose candidates are grouped together on the ballot-paper; that it is almost inevitable that the voting will be in groups; and that the result of the poll will be the return of the candidates of one party or the other. That it should be possible for a -political party to lose a seat owing to the death of a candidate between certain days is evidence of a real flaw in our electoral law. Let me suggest to the Senate an extreme case. It may be that the three candidates supporting one political party are killed in a motor accident between  nomination day and polling day. The effect of such an accident would be that, although the feeling of the State was strongly in favour of the views those candidates represented, their side would have no representation in Parliament so far as that election was concerned. We should make some attempt to meet a contingency of that kind. It 
Las been suggested to nae by one of my colleagues that one way would be for each of the groups of three to have one reserve or substitute candidate who would come into the picture only when one of the three nominated candidates dropped out owing to death. That is a suggestion which the Government might very well consider. I am leaving individual candidates out of account because, if the individual falls, he falls as an individual and there is no need for a substitute for him. This is a matter of some importance, seeing that a senator, if elected, is elected for six years, and circumstances might arise in which three senators who did not represent the feeling of their State would be elected for that term. The reserve candidate should be nominated on the same date as the group candidates, and on a death occurring he should forthwith automatically be substituted for the deceased, whether there was time to substitute his name in the actual voting paper or not. I suppose that in 49 cases out of 50 there would be time. Each group would then have its own substitute. Obviously this suggestion has no tinge of party bias about it. It cuts equally both ways. It might bo a matter of extreme importance to either side in politics, because it might make tho difference between a minority and- a majority in the Senate. Personally I do not think that ought to be left to chance. Neither party should, by the mere accident of a death occurring between nomination day and polling day. lose the representation which it would otherwise have. Of course, if the whole three candidates  dropped  out together, this  suggestion  would not completely meet the difficulty, but such a contingency has never yet occurred. I do not think there has ever been a case where more than one Senate  candidate  has died at  election  time. Probably what I have put forward represents all that would be necessary to meet any practical difficulty. I put it to the Senate that this matter goes to the foundations of the Senate itself, and the method by which it i3 elected. Whilst clause 11 makes some sort of provision, it really does not face the major difficulty at all. I do not think that such a provision as I have suggested would take long to draft, but if the Government thinks that there is no time to include it in the bill, it should at least be given careful consideration with a view to a future amendment. I repeat that the suggestion is not mine, but as soon as I heard it I thought that there was a great deal to be said for it. 
 Senator Duncan-Hughes,  in his customary fair-minded manner, has put forward a means of overcoming the difficulty caused by the death of a candidate  after nomination day.  His  suggestion has much to recommend it. I know that the Labour party found extreme difficulty when the late  Senator McGregor,  who was one of the six candidates passed away. We were forced to support another candidate who was absolutely opposed to us politically, .but that was our only alternative. We, therefore, directed Labour supporters to give their sixth vote to  Mr. Shannon.  We made sure that those who voted the Labour ticket voted for the five remaining Labour candidates first, and gave  Mr. Shannon  their sixth preference, in order that the Labour vote should not be split in such a way as to elect other mcn. I do not. know whether the substitute candidate suggested by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  would be expected to pay his £25 deposit. 
The Government might, well consider the advisability of accepting an amendment on the lines the honorable senator has put forward. I think, it is a good idea to make electors vote for the whole of the candidates on the ballot-paper. In South Australia, if ari elector asked us whether he had to vote for the whole of the candidates, our answer depended entirely on his intelligence. 
That does not matter. Already we have to vote for seven candidates whether we know all of them or not. If we thought we were safe in telling the elector to -vote for seven, we gave him that advice, hut if we were doubtful we told him to vote for the whole of the candidates on the ballot-paper, because in that way he could not make any mistake. If this bill becomes law, we shall be able  to tell  the electors that they must vote for the whole of the candidates on the ballot-paper, if they do not wish their votes to be invalid. I do not think that knowing all the candidates personally makes any difference. We vote for our own ticket, and then indicate our preferences for the rest of the list. I remember when  Senator McLachlan,  the late  Senator Sir John  Newland, and the late  Senator Chapman  were candidates.  Senator McLachlan's  name appeared between the other two, hut he was No. 1 on the ticket, and it did not make any difference to the electors who voted that ticket. They voted No. 1 for  Mr. McLachlan,  as ho then was, and made no error. The electors know how to vote, and they did their job well for  Senator McLachlan's  side of politics. The intelligence that the electors exercise shows that they know how to do the work. Each side knows who its candidates are, and follows its ticket whether the voters know the candidates personally or not. Our party has taken the opposite view, telling the electors to take the candidates in order from the top, thinking that in that way a more intelligent vote would be obtained, but I do not accept that view at all. In the election to which I have referred, the electors followed the advice of their party leaders, and put  Senator McLachlan  in, because the swing on that occasion was towards his party. Whichever party has the benefit of the swing of public opinion will win. 
On a casual glance at the bill, I was inclined to accept the proposal to give the  chairman  of a meeting discretionary power to direct a member of the police force to eject disorderly persons, but I have since come to the conclusion that that is a matter which should still bo left to the discretion of the police. If I were  chairman,  I should not like the job of naming a person to be ejected by the police. We have had in force in South Australia for a number of years an act which leaves the discretion to the police, and I cannot recall one instance of a man being ejected unless he abso-  lately deserved it. In that State, a great deal of latitude and privilege is allowed to the public at election meetings. I have been so constantly interrupted at times that I have been almost unable to proceed with my speech, because the police in attendance gave the electors the privilege of interjecting as much as they liked. Queensland and South Australia have legislation which does all that is necessary. Although the measure was introduced in South Australia by a conservative government, and when it was first put into force we regarded it as a curse, which would be -used for one particular purpose only, the result has not justified our  fears.  In fact, we have found the act fair to. both sides. A man has to make a very great row before he is interfered with by the police. I do not like the idea of leaving the discretion to the  chairman.  It places him in an unenviable position. He may not like to name somebody. 
If he does not act, the police will not be able to put an unruly elector outside. When a person has been put out and again enters the meeting, then the police are given power to turn him out again. Why not give them the power in the first place, and savo the  chairman  an unpleasant duty, which he may not want to discharge for fear of offending some one? It is not a fair position in which to place any  chairman.  I think we should alter that clause, and leave the discretion with the police. In many instances it would be unfortunate if the  chairman  of a political meeting were compelled to enlist tho services of a policeman to remove from a building a person said to be causing a disturbance. I trust that an amendment will be made in the direction suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  and that  Senator DuncanHughes  will submit a definite proposal to overcome the disability imposed on a party when one of its candidates for the Senate dies between the dato of nomination and polling day. 
I am glad that the Government has provided for compulsory preferential voting for the Senate, as under that system the opinion of the  electors can be more clearly obtained. I am, however, opposed to the authority proposed to  be  conferred upon the  chairman  of a political meeting to order the ejection of persons alleged to be causing a disturbance. During the 23 years in which I have been associated with politics, I cannot recall an occasion when the interests of the candidate would be served by " sooling" a policeman on to an interjector or those said to be causing disorder; but if the Minister can show, as he has not yet done, in what circumstances such power is necessary, I may alter my opinion. Prior  to  an election feeling runs high, and  Senator Pearce  will recall the instance in which a gentleman who representedWestern Australia in the Federal Parliament many years ago became closely associated with racing interests in Melbourne, and did not return toWestern Australia for a considerable time. Had he returned and addressed a public meeting before his term of office expired, the gathering would have been rowdy. In a State where the tariff is a burning question, if a strong advocate of tariff reduction were elected to the Federal Parliament, and after his election supported a high tariff policy, his first appearance at a meeting of electors would naturally be noisy. Electors would be present to protest against the member's disregard of his election pledges. In such circumstances, the  chairman  should not have power to order the removal of those who attended to express their opinions, or to receive some explanation of the candidate's attitude. It is strange that on the eve of an election, when there is important legislative work to do,  we  should be asked to consider this unimportant measure. For some time I have been asking the Government to introduce legislation in the interests of the primary producers, but so far I have been unable to ascertain whether such legislation is to be brought forward. This bill could he left until after the general election, when we should have a  better  idea than we have to-day as to whether such a provision is necessary. In most instances a dis-service would be rendered  to  a candidate by invoking the aid of  the  police to remove an interrupter. I have seen it done, but only when the sympathies of the audience were entirely with the  chairman. 
As suggested by  Senator Johnston,  this measure is not of sufficient importance to occupy the attention of the Senate when there arc more pressing matters to be considered. I am disappointed at the omission from the bill of two matters which I mentioned whena Supply bill was under consideration. I then suggested that the different parties should be allowed to arrange the order of their own candidates within the party groups on the Senate ballot-paper instead of the names within the groups having to appear in alphabetical order. Further, I suggested that instead of the groups appearing on the ballot-paper on the arbitrary principle that the group with the lowest arithmetical total, based on the numbering of the letters of the alphabet as indicated by the initial letter of the candidates' surnames, the order should be by lot as decided under the supervision of the Chief Returning Officer. Having given some attention to this matter for twelve years, I regard it as of sufficient importance to warrant an instruction to the electoral officers to submit a scheme to place the voting for the Senate candidates on abetter basis. It is a non-party matter and one which should have the support of honorable senators - it would wipe out the existing idea that it is important that candidates with names beginning with A,B or C should be selected in order to obtain an advantage over other groups by being on top of the ballot paper. I support the proposal that electors must vote for the full number of candidates on the ballot-paper instead of for the number to be returned plus one as at present. 
-That may be so; but generally speaking it is preferable to the present system. I have no objection to the  chairman  of a political meeting being empowered to call upon a policeman to remove a member of the audience who is causing a disturbance. It is unfortunate for a; candidate when an inefficient  chairman  is in charge, and the candidate has to appeal to him to order the removal of the persons causing disorder. I have no objection to interjectors, because they frequently assist a  speaker,  but those who persist in interjecting with the sole object of preventing a  speaker  from being heard should be removed. The  chairman  of a meeting should have the power to order the removal of such persons and the public should know that he is legally entitled to exercise that authority. All meetings, however, are not held in halls or rooms and sometimes candidates speak from a motor lorry or some other vehicle. I can recall instances where persons under the influence of liquor have attended meetings after the closing of the hotels and have caused a great deal of disturbance. On one occasion when a big chap came along and attempted to upset the  chairman  on his precarious rostrum, a policeman was not available, and I had to undertake the job of removing the intruder from the lorry. As there are always some who persist in mounting the platform and causing a disturbance the  chairman  should have the power to order their removal from the building. The power proposed to be conferred on the  chairman  is not. mandatory; it is discretionary and may conduce to political meetings being conducted in an orderly manner. 
The proposal to confer the extensive powers provided in the bill upon the  chairman  of a political meetingas a reflection upon the Australian people. The federal system in Australia has been in operation since 1901, and I cannot recall an instance in which a political meeting has got really out of hand. 
Those are subject to State control. If the conduct at public meetings held in that State is so disorderly as to lead the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to consider this provision necessary, the same state of affairs does not obtain in South Australia. I think this provision will expose this Parliament to the ridicule of the people against whom it is aimed. It gives power to a  chairman  to instruct the police to remove an interrupter. That interrupter does not commit an offence until he returns to the meeting without the authority of the  chairman.  If a man who has been removed desires to return to the meeting, is he, in a spirit of repentance to stand at the door, and sing the Moody and Sankey hymn, "May I come in?" Implicit in the power of the  chairman  to allow him to return, is the right of the offender to ask for the permission of the  chairman  to return. He might interfere with the remainder of the proceedings by standing at the door and reiterating his request, or he might continue walking to the platform, asking the  chairman  for permission, leaving the hall, and returning on the same mission. I can understand the Communists particularly exploiting this provision in order to bring ridicule on this Parliament. For instance, if they wanted to interrupt a meeting being held by  Senator Hoare,  they could cause themselves to be put out, and then from the door keep the  chairman  occupied in giving rulings on their requests to be allowed to return. This procedure could be kept up for the duration of the meeting. I would like to see this clause eliminated. It is an indictment of those people who attend public meetings, and could be capriciously used by a partisan  chairman  or by any other person who desired to ridicule this Parliament. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [9.4]. - SenatorRae spoke of the possibility that in case of a multiplicity of candidates, electors would not know some of the persons for whom they were required to give a preferential vote. There is not much likelihood of that difficulty arising in Australia to-day. By the time the approaching election is held he will be a very dull person who does not know something about all the candidates. In New South Wales, for instance, there will be a combined United Australia party and United Country party team, and teams representing the Federal Labour, State Labour, and Communist parties, and possibly a Douglas Credit candidate. All of the parties have their enthusiastic followers, who will take good care to let the people know through the press, the cinema, and the broadcasting system, who the candidates are and the principles they advocate. 
I was very much impressed by the point raised by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  regarding the difficulty that arises when a candidate dies between nomination day and polling day. That contingency was inquired into - by a royal commission, if I am not mistaken - more particularly in reference to the House of Representatives, and a change was made in the law to provide that where a candidate died under such circumstances, a fresh election should be held. That course would be too complicated and costly to adopt in Senate elections. I have never heard the solution suggested by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  mentioned before, and I am sure that he does not expect us to accept it without full inquiry into all its implications.I have asked the Commonwealth electoral officer to look intotheproposal, and to see what consequent ialalterations to the act would be involved. A proposal may seem simple at first sight, but the providing of machinery for its operation might not be so simple. The suggestion will be carefully investigated. 
Regarding disturbances at public meetings, this measure aims not at ordinary interjections, but at tactics which are becoming increasingly common in all democracies. A small minority seeks, by organized disorder, to prevent a candidate from putting his view before the electors. No member of any party condones such methods. It is not right that a small number, and it is generally a small number, should prevent the majority at a meeting from hearing the views of a candidate. In some States the law in regard to public meetings is similar to the amendment now proposed. The Victorian Police Offences Act of 1928, section 32, provides - 
Public Meetings. 
Clause 32- 
Every person who in or near any hall, room or building, in which a public meeting is being held - 
behaves in a riotous, indecent, offensive, threatening or insulting manner ; or 
uses any threatening, abusive, obscene, indecent, or insulting words, shall be liable  to  a penalty  of not  more than Five pounds or to imprisonment for a term of not more than one month. 
Where, in the opinion of the  chairman  presiding at any public meeting, any person in or near the hall, room or building, in which such meeting is, being held - 
behaves in a riotous, indecent, offensive, threatening or insulting manner ; or 
uses any threatening, abusive, obscene, indecent, or insulting words, such chairman may verbally direct any member of the police force who is present to remove such person from the said hall, room or building, or the neighbourhood thereof, and such member of the police force shall remove such person accordingly. 
In some States the law is not so complete as this. In Western Australia, and in some otherStates, the law provides that those who organize a meeting may appoint stewards and may authorize those stewards to remove any person who tries unduly to interrupt the proceedings. There is no authority for the police to intervene until the person being removed from the meeting assaults the steward; then the police can arrest the person who commits the assault. That is the law in Western Australia and some of the other States ; but the conduct of political meetings in federal elections is a matter on which the Federal Parliament itself should legislate. Section 177 of the Electoral Act reads-  (1.) Any person who, at any public meeting to which this section applies, acts in a disorderly manner for the purpose of preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting is held, shall be guilty of an offence against this act. 
Penalty: Five pounds, or imprisonment for one month. (2.) This section applies to any lawful public political meeting held in relation to any election of the Parliament between the date of the issue of the writ for the election and the date of the return of the writ. 
Honorable senators will notice that in that section no direction is given as to who is to enforce this power; it has been suggested that the way in which the section can be operated is by the  chairman  or the candidate himself lodging an information; but to do that, either has to ascertain the name of the person disturbing the meeting. Consequently, this section is inoperative. Clause 11 of this bill is complementary to this provision, as it gives power to somebody to operate it; that person is the  chairman  of the  meeting, who, I suggest, is the proper person. Usually, the  chairman  of the meeting is somebody in an official position, such as the mayor of the town, or the  chairman  of a roods' board or district council, and may be regarded as impartial. That is the class of man to whom this bill gives power to call upon tho police to remove from a meeting any person who misbehaves himself. Obviously, no candidate with any sense will invoke this power unless it is absolutely necessary to do so, as he will run tho risk of making an enemy of any person ejected from a meeting, and candidates naturally  arc nervous of doing that. No sensible candidate would ask the  chairman  to operate this clause unless a deliberate attempt was being made to break up the meeting. Nobody who believes in democracy should object to this provision. I myself have seen some peculiar incidents arising from disorderliness at meetings. At a meeting at Cottesloe, Western Australia, I and another candidate for the Senate were the speakers. The steps leading up to the front entrance to the hall were about  6 feet or 8 feet high. My colleague was continually interrupted by a man ; the  chairman  seemed to be impotent, and no policeman was present. ' My fellow candidate went down into the hall, and, taking the interrupter by the scruff of the neck, carried him to the front door and dropped him from the top of the steps to tho ground. There I thought was a man who knew how to conduct a public meeting, and that judgment has been confirmed by the fact that he baa 'been placed in the presidential chair of this Senate. 
Another case which comes to my mind at the moment is that of a meeting which we had to convene with the aid of a bellman, who waa equipped with a bell secured from the local hotel. He got together quite a good meeting, and was paid his 5s. for hia services. The meeting was progressing very well when the bellman re-appeared, having obviously invested his 5s. not wisely but too well. He took a seat in a front portion of the hall, and quickly made himself a nuisance. Although the law did not permit it, the  chairman  called upon the police to remove the interrupter. Our bellman had placed the bell inside his shirt, and, when the policeman grabbed him, the bell rolled out, clanging loudly. The irony of the situation was that the man who had 'brought the meeting together was the first to be ejected from it. All honorable senators must have had experience of disorderly meetings, and we know that it has become a practice for some people to go to meetings, not for the purpose of learning  the views of the candidate by asking questions-, or by intelligent interjections designed to place him in difficulties or to require him to answer for past delinquencies, but solely for the purpose of preventing him from being heard. For such cases only, and to maintain order and discipline at public meetings, is this provision designed. 
Could the bellman come back to the meeting? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Ho could not. Obviously a person who wants to remain at a meeting may do so by behaving himself. 
Under this provision he could return with the consent of the  chairman.  How could he get such consent? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Such consent could be obtained, for instance, by the person who has been ejected sending a message into the  chairman.  Before a man has been ordered to be put out, he must have tried to break up the meeting, and any attempt on his part to get back would be looked upon with suspicion. If the honorable senator himself were the  speaker  he would not look with friendly eyes upon a man who tried to get back to a meeting which be had tried to break up. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11. 
Section one hundred and seventy-seven of the Principal Act is amended by adding at tlie end thereof the following sub-sections: - 
The  chairman  of any meeting to which this section applies may direct any member of the police force of a State or territory, or of the Commonwealth, to remove from the room or building in which the meeting is being held any person who, in tlie opinion of the  chairman,  is .preventing the transaction of tlie business for which the meeting is held, and thereupon the member may take such steps as are necessary for the removal of the person from the room or building. (4.) Any person - 
whose removal from a room or building has been directed under the last preceding sub-section and who has left that room or building, and who, without the authority of the  chairman  ( proof whereof shall lie upon that person) returns to that room or building while the meeting is in progress, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Ten pounds or imprisonment for one month. 
.- I move - 
That the words " if he again disturbs the meeting " be added to proposed now subsection 4. 
The position was well explained by  Senator Daly  on the motion for the second reading of the bill. If a person is ejected for causing a disturbance at a public meeting, and if he regrets his action and desires to return, he will be debarred unless he obtains the permission of the  chairman.  If the amendment is accepted the efficiency of the clause will not be impaired in any way. All that it does is to enable a penitent to return to a meeting, without having to go through all the circumlocution of getting the chairman's permission. In its present form the clause provides that, if an interjector is thrown out of a public meeting by a policeman, it will be impossible for him to return, even if he makes up his mind to behave himself. If he returns without the permission of the  chairman  he will be liable to a fine of £10 or imprisonment for a month. A man should be allowed to return to a public meeting if he promises to behave himself, without suffering this penalty. 
If he is not then he will, of course, he subject to the penalty provided in this clause. 
[9.21]. - I remind  Senator Barnes  and other honorable senators opposite that under the clause as it stands, there is nothing to prevent a person ejected from a public meeting from returning to it, with the consent of the  chairman.  I am quite sure that  Senator Barnes  has on many occasions seen notes, making certain requests, passed up to a  chairman  at an election meeting. That course would be open to any person who, after having been ejected from a public meeting, desired to return on the condition that he did not again cause a disturbance. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  has submitted a very reasonable proposal which should not be treated with levity by the Leader of the Senate. As the clause stands the right is given to any person ejected from a public meeting, to seek the authority of the  chairman  to re-enter. I advise honorable senators to read the clause carefully. It provides that a person ejected from a public meeting "who, without the authority of the  chairman  (proof whereof shall lie upon that person), returns to that room or building, while the meeting is in progress, shall be guilty of an offence ". It is an elementary principle of law that if a right is created in a person, that person has a right to enforce it. It follows, therefore, that if a person has the right to seek authority of the  chairman  to return to a meeting, he is entitled to take all reasonable means' to enforce his right. If, for example, the  chairman  decided that a disorderly interjector should be ejected, the person concerned, if he desired to re-enter the hall, could come in through a side door to ask the  chairman  for permission to return to the body of the hall. 
-The honorable senator's interjection shows that he has not given very much consideration to this clause. If the person ejected asked the permission of the policeman at the door, and the policeman went to the  chairman  to obtain his authority for the man to re-enter the hall, the conditions contained in this clause would not be met, because it throws upon the individual concerned the responsibility, either by himself, or through his agent, to get authority to re-enter a. public meeting from which he has been ejected.  Senator Barnes  has suggested a very good way out of the difficulty, namely, that if the person ejected is repentant and promises not to disturb a meeting further, he should be allowed to return to it. It is obvious that the principle enunciated in clause 11 will then be complied with. 
I suppose the honorable senator will not deny that the man " donged " would be able to plead his right to enter by the stage door to seek the chairman's permission to return to the meeting, and that if interfered with by the candidate addressing the meeting, he would have right of action for assault. If  Senator Sampson  happened to be the candidate he would probably find himself convicted under a State law for assault. I realize that nothing that we on this side may say will affect the result. The Government and its supporters must accept the stigma attaching to this foolish provision, which, if placed on the statutebook, will entitle a man who has been ejected from a room in which a meeting is being held to re-enter it time after time to ask the chairman's permission to remain, thereby creating further disturbances. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [9.32].  -  This clause does not confer on a person who has been ejected from a meeting the right to return, but only the right to seek the authority of the  chairman  to return. 
 How can he get that authority without re-entering the room? 
Amendment negatived. 
 Last night, while this measure was under discussion, I promised to give consideration to certain criticism advanced by  Senator Daly,  and to obtain the views thereon of the Crown Law officers. This has been done, and I am satisfied that the proposed new section 10a simply provides a convenient method of proof of statistics compiled by the Statistician  in  pursuance of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1930. It does not purport  to  make them conclusive as  to  the facts  to  which they relate. That is to say, except where the Statistician's figures are made the legal basis of a calculation  or  an adjustment,  it is  still open, for instance, in proceedings in the Arbitration Court, to produce other evidence with a view  to  disproving the conclusions to be drawn from the Statistician's  figures. Where, however, iu awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Com t, the Statistician's figures are specifically prescribed as- the basis for the determination or adjustment of rates of pay, those figures must, by virtue of the terms of the award, be accepted, and for the purpose of facilitating proof of those figures, the new section is proposed for enactment. In the absence of the proposed provision, it is necessary for the Statistician or an officer thereto authorized by him, to attend at the court and give evidence of the figures, and this evidence may have to be given in any part of Australia. The production of a document in pursuance of the proposed new section would certainly be evidence that the figures contained therein were those compiled by the Statistician, but it would be competent for any party to dispute the correctness of the Statistician's compilation. Thc onus of proving their incorrectness would, of course, be on the party challenging them. The document would not, however, except in cases such as those mentioned above, bo conclusive evidence of any conditions existing as at the date to which the figures relate. The proposed new section embodies, in relation to the proof of the Statistician's figures, the same principle as is observed in tho Evidence Act in relation to the proof of other matters such as proclamations, orders, or regulations. Although it is quite clear that the proposed new section as it stands does not, in itself, give any greater weight to statistics compiled by the Statistician than is given to statistics compiled by other persons or bodies, I propose to submit an amendment recasting sub-section 1 of the proposed new section. I suggest that, as proposed to be amended, the section will be quite acceptable to ail concerned. In order that there may be no suspicion or doubt left in tho minds of honorable senators with regard to this matter, I move - 
That sub-section ( I ) of proposed new section 10a be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following: - " ( 1 ) The mere production of a document purporting to be published by the Statistician and to contain statistics or abstracts thereof compiled and tabulated by the Statistician pursuant to the Census and Statistics Act 1905- 1930 shall in all courts be evidence that those statistics or abstracts were compiled and tabulated by the Statistician pursuant to that act." 
That provision make3 it perfectly clear that none of those untoward events which  Senator Daly  visualized, can come about. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
[9.58]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a simple measure of two clauses designed to amend the Wheat Growers Relief Act 1933, so as to provide for an additional payment to the State of Tasmania. As Tasmania produced very little wheat, provision was made in the original act for the payment of a special rebate to that State to offset the effect of the flour tax. During the time the tax has been in operation, a sum of £45,000 has been paid by the Commonwealth Government to Tasmania by way of rebate. It has been estimated, however, that the total receipts from the flour tax in Tasmania amounted, approximately, to £53,000. Under the terms of an act passed by the Tasmanian Parliament, the Government of Tasmania has become liable for refunding to the millers an additional £3,000. That Government has so advised the Commonwealth, and tho present bill is designed to empower tho Commonwealth to pay this sum of £8,000 to Tasmania. There is nothing contentious in the measure. It is in accordance with the design and plan of the original act passed by the Commonwealth Parliament, and I ask honorable senators to agree to its immediate passage. 
This measure, which is to provide for the payment of an additional £8,000 to the State of Tasmania in connexion with the assistance given to the wheat-growers last year, should he passed without much discussion. The £3,000,000 provided from revenue last year for the assistance of the wheat-growers was distributed in the following manner: - New South Wales, £911,094;  Victoria,  £603,586;  Queensland,  £76,455;  South Australia,  £764,543;  Western Australia,  £639,493;  Tasmania,  £4,024;  and Federal Capital Territory,  £805.  As those amounts were provided under legislation passed last year, I ask the Assistant Minister if the Government proposes to renew that legislation this year. It should certainly do so. For the past three weeks I have taken every opportunity to ascertain from the Leader of the Government the intention of the Government in respect of the forthcoming wheat harvest. - To-day the prices of this staple export commodity are somewhat higher than they have been for some time, but unfortunately, there is no certainty of the present rates being maintained. As the Minister knows, those engaged in the industry arc overloaded with debt, their machinery is worn out, and they have lost hope. 
I hope not. At the existing price wheat production is still unprofitable and the industry needs assistance. It is amazing to find that the shortest paragraph in the budget speech is that dealing with the wheat industry, and is to the effect that the Government is awaiting the interim report of the royal commission on the wheat industry before making a statement of policy. 
No ; and  £3,000,000  was made available as a result of pressure on the Government. This year there is a brief reference to the industry but we have not yet received any information as to the Government's intention to stabilize the industry by a home consumption price for wheat or by a grant. I am perturbed concerning the delay in the presentation of the interim report of the royal commission. A day or two after Parliament re-assembled this year the Leader of the Government said that the report would be made available to honorable senators, and that it would be considered during the  present  sitting of 
Parliament, but the session is now drawing to a close, and we have no information as to the date on which it will be made available. I trust that the Minister will expedite its presentation, and see that the promised statement of policy is made. During the short period the Senate has been in session this year I have reminded the Government of the promise of the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in November last that marketing legislation would be introduced before the coming harvest. The representatives of that federation and also of other wheat-growers from all over the Commonwealth visited Canberra in November and urged the introduction of marketing legislation and the fixing of a home consumption price for wheat; but the Government said there was insufficient time to pass the necessary legislation before the harvest, and that it would be introduced before the next harvest. The farmers are relying upon that promise being honoured. If legislation is not placed on the statute-book before Parliament adjourns within a week or two, I am convinced that when the new Parliament reassembles we shall again be informed that there is insufficient time. The matter is urgent, and in view pf the fact that no mention is made in the budget of a renewal of the assistance given last year a definite announcement of policy should be made. If direct assistance is not to be given it is essential that legislation providing for a fixed price for home consumption should be passed at the earliest possible moment. The wheat industry has been in a desperate position for the last four years. The present improved prices do not relieve the Government of its responsibility. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  Lynch). - I remind the honorable senator that this measure is to amend one section of the principal act, and that he is not entitled to discuss the wheat industry generally. 
Am I entitled to ask whether it is the intention of the Government to renew the principal act for the coming year? If it is competent for me to move that the principal act ibo re-enacted for another year, I  intend to do so. This would renew the £3,000,000 grant for the coming harvest. Although I have asked a number of questions on this subject, I have not received a definite reply. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the marketing of wheat on this bill. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [10.10]. - I do not intend to risk your displeasure, sir, by attempting to reply to  Senator Johnston,  or to make a statement of government policy. As an act of courtesy, I repeat the assurance given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  this afternoon that a statement on the subject will be made before the termination of the present session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I do not propose to offer any objection to the bill, but I understand that the Minister has a statement to make concerning the amendment suggested yesterday by  Senator Daly. 

 Senator McLACHLAN (South Australia - Vice-President of the Executive 

 Senator Daly with reference to the amendment he suggested, and gave him an assurance that what he was endeavouring to secure can already be done. I am exercising my prerogative in that direction every day, by permitting payments by instalments. Discretionary power rests with the Attorney-General, and acting in that capacity I can give an assurance that, at present, instalments are being accepted, and will be accepted in future in deserving cases. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I have listened with considerable interest to the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  Unfortunately, I was not present when  Senator Sampson  launched his inquiries on this matter a few days ago. To-day I asked  Senator Sampson  for a copy of his questions, and the answers to them, but he replied that they were not available. I particularly wished to send them to the gentleman whose interests  Senator Sampson  was so jealously conserving -  Mr. Grondona,  of London, who is a close friend of mine, and has often discussed with me his matter before publication. 

 - Senator Sampson was concerned also about the copyright in these diagrams.;  Mr. Grondona  is an Australian, resident in London, and he is doing a great work for Empire trade - work which involves much study and self-sacrifice. Undoubtedly he will appreciate very much the interest  Senator Sampson  has taken in this matter. Afew days ago, I advised him that three pages of statistics based upon his chart had appeared in  Hansard,  and also mentioned that some senators appeared to be greatly concerned about the matter. I received the following reply from  Mr. Grondona  :  - " Most gratified, would like copy and press writing. Regards both." 
That covers the point which seems to have caused so much concern to  Senator Sampson.  I am delighted to think that he has given such close attention to this matter, and I am certain that after studying closely the graphs which I have had published, he will better appreciate the opportunities for the expansion of Commonwealth trade with the Mother Country. In reply to the remarks made by the Leader of the Senate, I may say that the blocks were not prepared in the GovernmentPrinting Office at Canberra. I had them made from big sheets which I use in my public addresses. They are well known throughout Tasmania because recently I made a number of speeches in the island State on the subject of Empire trade, and I know that much interest was aroused by my remarks on these sheets. I submitted the blocks to the  President  and to the Principal Parliamentary Reporter before seeking their insertion in  Hansard,  so I do not think there could have been any misunderstanding of my purpose. 
I am afraid I cannot tell the right honorable gentleman, but I appreciate his point. All I say is thatI am delighted that the publication of the blocks in  Hansard  has  brought home to honorable senators the great opportunities before Australia in connexion with an Empire trade policy, which is inevitable. 
 All I wish to say is that as soon as I saw the blocks published in  Hansard,  I recognized the graphs as similar to those which appeared in a pamphlet that was sent to all honorable senators last year by  Mr. Grondona,  and when I examined them more closely, I found that, with the exception of the colour, they were identical. But I do not take exception to them on that ground. My complaint is that  Senator Elliott  led honorable senators to believe that he had prepared them himself, and that the figures were his. Actually, they were not. They were simply taken by  Senator Elliott  holus bolus from  Mr. Grondona's  publication. I consider that the precedent established is a dangerous one, because no one can say to what it may lead. The honorable senator could quite easily have presented his case in  Hansard  in the ordinary way. I still await an explanation of his reason for saying - 
In order to convey to honorable senators a graphic survey of the position of the British markets, I have prepared several diagrams. . . . 
We know now that the diagrams were not his own; they were prepared by  Mr. Grondona,  in London. This is not a personal matter with me. It is quite possible that, at some future time, I shall be tempted to present to the Senate a set of graphs, and also ask for their inclusion in  Hansard,  because during the war wo were continually preparing graphs of all descriptions - casualtygraphs, ration graphs, and other sets of figures - and were studying them daily. This practice, if continued, may make  Hansard  a little more attractive, but I am inclined to think that the precedent is a dangerous one. 
.- I shall beglad if the Leader of the Senate will indicate the legislation which the Government intends to bring forward before the close of : lv! session, and also, if he can, say when Parliament will adjourn. We have just had two weeks' respite, whichwas necessary to enable the Government to prepare the budget, but it was inconvenient for Senators from Western Australia, because they alone of the members of this Parliament were unable to return to their homes and come back in time for the re-assembling of this chamber. The general election is near at hand and we are anxious to make our arrangements. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J Lynch).  - Referring to the publication in  Hansard  of the graphs accompanying  Senator Elliott's  speech on the 5th July, I may inform honorable senators that I was asked by  Senator Elliott  if I would permit the insertion of the statistics referred to. He said that he had blocks prepared. He is under a misapprehension if he believes that he showed the blocks to me. I saw them for the first time when they appeared in  Hansard.I  readily agreed that certain tables of figures which he showed me should be published. But when I did see the diagrams in  Hansard,  I thought then, as always, that they convey more effectively and impressively  the  arguments used by an honorable senator. But I realize, as the Leader of the Senate has pointed out, that this innovation is liable to abuse. Therefore, I suggest that the matter be left in my hands andI shall consult with the Printing Committee for the purpose of determining whether, in future, blocks of this description should appear in  Hansard. 
[10.34].  -  I can only say, in answer to  Senator Johnston,  that I am not in a position to-night to indicate what legislation shall be brought forward, or when Parliament will be adjourned. Towards the end of the week, I may be able to say how long the session is likely to last. As soon as the Government decides what legislation has to be dealt with before the, session closes, I shall inform the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the Government  has acted upon the report presented by  Mr. Buring  upon the condition of the wine industry in Australia, can the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs explain why the document in question is being regarded as confidential and withheld from members of the Senate? 
I understand that the report is of  a  confidential nature and is intended solely for departmental  use. 
That question was answered yesterday. Certain recommendations made by  Mr. Buring  have been given effect. 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister inform the Senate when the report of the Petrol Royal Commission will be submitted, and if there will be an opportunity to discuss it during this session? 
On the 25th July, 1934,  Senator Sampson  addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following questions,  upon notice :  - 
Has the contract for the buildings in connexion with the broadcasting stationat Kelso, Tasmania, been finalized? 
If so, what is the name or names of the contractor ? 
Is difficulty being experienced in finding suitable and solid ground for the foundations? 
I  am  now in a position to inform the honorable senator as follows :  - 
Tenders were invited on 21st July, 1934, and close on6th August, 1934. 
See reply to 1. 
No difficulty is being experienced. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been directed to to-day's issue of the  Daily Telegraph,  Sydney, containing a leading article entitled "  Sir George's  Museum," in which the editor seems to cast ridicule upon the right honorable gentleman, and, in various ways, makes an attack on his dignity and ability? It seems to me that the article in question should be brought to his notice in order that he may, if he thinks it necessary, invoke the Crimes Act, or bring the editor to the Bar of the Senate. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Before the right honorable the Leader of the Senate replies, I again remind the Senate that for a long time it has been the practice in this chamber not to invest persons outside Parliament with privileges that are not allowed to individual senators. Opinions expressed by outsiders should not be quoted in questions asked of Ministers. 
I refrained from quoting an opinion. 
But the honorable gentleman made plain to honorable sen a tors the opinion which had been expressed by a person outside this Parliament concerning a member of this chamber, and a member of the Governmentat that. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.If the reading of the article will cause me as much gratification as apparently it has given  Senator Rae,  I shall take an early opportunity to read it. 
Has the Leader of the Senate noticed in the press a statement attributed to Professor Walter Murdoch, of the University of Perth, to the effect that Englishmen regarded the secession movement in Western Australia as a joke, and considered it an undreamt of possibility that the British Government would interfere in Australia's internal affairs; further, that it was regarded as a certainty that the petition for secession would be referred to the Australian people? Have representations been made by the Commonwealth Government to the British Government with regard to the secession movement in Western Australia or any other State, and, if so, have any replies been received? If no representations have been made, can the Minister supply the reason? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The honorable  senator feels, no doubt, that he is at liberty, by interjection or otherwise, to capitalize the secession movement in Western Australia for his political advantage. I may, however, tell him that the pending general election will not in any way influence the Government in the matter. The reply of the Commonwealth Government to the case submitted in favour of secession will bc circulated to honorable senators shortly. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether the statement which the Prime Minister is to make in regard to secession will be made before the coming federal election ? If not. why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I am unable to give the date when the statement will be made. 
In order to kill effectively this stupid bogey of secession, will the Leader of the Government give the Senate an assurance that the inquiries made by the committee will definitely determine whether any one in Western Australia honestly believes in secession? 
Question not answered. 

 Mr. GIBSON, M.P. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Prime Minister been drawn to a report in the Sydney  Telegraph  of to-day's date, to the effect that the honorable member for Corangamite  (Mr. Gibson),  an exPostmasterGeneral, and a member of the Country party, has left Canberra for Melbourne to accept nomination with the United Australia party members of the "Victorian Senate team? Is the right honorable gentleman, who is to be the lieutenant of the Prime Minister during the election campaign, aware that  Mr. Gibson  has left Canberra for this purpose? Is he also aware that  Senator Elliott  has stated that whether he is or is not endorsed by the United Australia party or the United Country party he proposes to stand as a. candidate in the interests of the Country party in Victoria ? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the total sum  to  be granted to the Government of New South Wales for distribution to wheat-growers in 1 933-34? 
How much of the above has already been paid to the Government of New South Wales? 
When will the balance be available to that Government? 
What sum was paid to wheat-growers in the interim payment? 
When is it anticipated that the balance will be paid to growers? 
£911,094. 
£500,000. 
This grant is being made available to the Government of New South Wales as and when required. 
£374,744 has been distributed by the State Government to wheat-growers in that State. 
The payment of the balance of the grant to growers is a matter for the Government of New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact that the Agricultural Bank, administering the distribution under the Wheat-growers Relief Act 1933, in Western Australia, refuses to make any payment on areas cropped last harvest and carried on by trustees in bankruptcy? 
Is this decision in accordance with the intentions of the Federal Government in making the grant? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The Commonwealth Government is not aware whether this is so. 
The legal position cannot be determined without a knowledge of the facts. If the honorable senator supplies to the Minister for Commerce any detailed facts which are in his possession, the matter will be investigated. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With reference to the representations recently made by the Government of Western Australia to the Federal Government requesting that the Federal Government and the Imperial Government should, as a defence measure, co-operate with the State Government in providing the necessary finance for the provision of an up-to-date dock at Fremantle - 
Has the Federal Government made representations to the Imperial Government, asking for their co-operation in this matter as suggested ? 
If not, why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Ministerhas supplied the following answers to  the honorable senator's questions :  - 
No. 
The Commonwealth Government is of the opinion that, in the existing circumstances, it would not be justified in seeking assistance from the British Government, as a defence measure, in the provision of the necessary finance for such a dock. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
How many sittings of the Common wealth Grants Commission were held in each State, and in Canberra? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following information in answer to the honorable senator's question: - 

<graphic href="144332193407264_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

What fees and allowances have been paid to each of its members to date? 
The desired information is now available and is as follows: - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
With reference to answers to a question asked by  Senator Johnston  on the 12th July, in which it was stated that in 1931 80.4 per cent, of the cane-cutters in Queensland were British - 
Do these figure's include naturalized British subjects? 
If so, what proportion of same were (a) British horn, and (6) naturalized? 
The answers supplied by the Minister for Trade and Customs to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
Yes. 
Seventy-one per cent. British born and 9.3 per cent, naturalized British subjects. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received a request from the State School Teachers Union of Western Australia asking for the establishment of an educational films bureau by the Federal Government? 
If so, what reply has been made to this request ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Not direct, but on the 23rd July the Prime Minister received a letter from the honorable senator transmitting a ' letter which he had received from the  president  of the union on this subject. 
In reply to similar requests previously received, the Government had expressed its inability to accede to them. As education is controlled by the State Governments the question of providing educational films for use iu educational institutions is one for consideration by the State Governments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the reason why wheat prices at Port Adelaide are quoted at from 3d. to 5d. per bushel below Sydney and Melbourne prices ? 
Is wheat grown in South Australia inferior to wheat grown in New South Wales and Victoria? 
What are tha handling charges per bushel fur wheat from truck to ship's hold at the following ports: - Sydney, Williamstown, Port Adelaide, and Fremantle? 
Does the Government consider that the wheat-grower is getting the full advantage of the 25 pur cent, exchange on the sale of his wheat? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following information in answer to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Precise information is not at present available to the Commonwealth Government in regard to these matters. The royal commission on wheat is inquiring into all matters concerning the wheat industry and that body will be asked to consider the questions raised by the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What amounts, under all headings, are included in the budget for 1934-35 in respect to payments to or on behalf of Western Australia? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The following particulars of amounts included in the budget for 1934-35 in respect to payments to or on behalf of 
Western Australia, excluding normal Commonwealth expenditure, have been furnished by the Treasurer: - 

<graphic href="144332193407264_5_3.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice  - 
What is the total amount in money that Australia owes to England for war debt, including interest? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
The amount of war debt duc to the United Kingdom Government is £79,724,220. Since 1931 payment of interest has been suspended by the United Kingdom Government, pending settlement of the war debts question in its wider aspects. 
asked the  Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it necessary to obtain a licence to engage in prospecting for gold in the Federal Capital Territory? 
If so, what is the cost of such licence? 
If a person, not in possession of a licence to prospect, should discover gold in the Federal Capital Territory, is he entitled to retain the gold, or does it belong to the Crown ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following information in answer to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yea: known as a "miner's right." 
Five shillings. 
No. It would belong to the Crown. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What foreign countries have intimated or indicated that, owing to unfavorable trade balances with Australia, they are contemplating applying restrictions against the importation of Australian primary products? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question : - 
The question of trade balances is the subject of discussions with 'foreign countries, and no public pronouncement can be made at the present time. 
Whether it is a fact, as stated in the press of 2")th July. 1934, that the Italian Government has decided to reduce imports of wool from Australia from 1st August. 1934, by one-half - representing about 100,000 bales, worth perhaps £2.000,000 or £3,000,000? 
Whether any efforts have been made to avert this catastrophe? 
Whether the Government proposes to discover new market.) to replace the good customers of  whom  we are now being deprived; and. if so, what has been done? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes, but negotiations are still proceeding. 
Yes. 
See answers to 1 and 2. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
In addition to the questions asked by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  relating to Australia's trade in wool with Italy, is the Italian attitude in any way attributable to the GO Tariff Board reports which have npt yet been considered by Parliament? 
What have been the respective values of imports and exports, as between Italy and Australia, during the last four financial years? 
What have been the main items concerned, with values? 

<graphic href="144332193407264_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it to be understood from the letter written by the Minister for Trade and Customs to  Mr. Pittman,  secretary of the Employees Union concerned, that irrespective of what the finding of the Tariff Board may be, the present protective tariff on motor bodies will not be interfered with? 2.In the event of an adverse report by the Tariff Board, will the Government give a definite undertaking that it will advise Parliament not to act on such report? 
If the answer to question 1be in the affirmative and the Government proposes to adopt the attitude suggested in question 2, why is the industry to be kept in astate of suspense pending the result of the inquiry? 
Is it not a fact that this inquiry has all the semblance of complying with the British manufacturers' demands for the right of entry of English motor bodies, under a lowered tariff, to the detriment of Australian workmen? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
No. Consideration of the matter must necessarily await receipt of the Tariff Board's report. 2, 3 and 4. See answer to 1. 
[3.34].- I move- 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to ratify and approve an agreement for the further variation of the agreement entered into between the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth and the Premiers of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, respecting the River Murray and Lake Victoria, and other waters, and for other purposes. 
The principal agreement, made on the 9th September, 1914, came into operation on the 31st January, 1917, and provided, amongst other things, for the construction of the upper Murray storage, now known as the Hume reservoir, the Lake Victoria storage, twenty-six weirs and locks on the River Murray, from Blanchetown to Echuca, and nine weirs and locks on the River Murrumbidgee. The estimated cost of these works was set out in the agreement as £4,663,000, towards which the Commonwealth was to contribute the sum of £1,000,000. It was also provided that any receipts in respect of tolls prescribed by the River Murray Commission should be credited to the contracting governments in the proportion in which they shared the cost of construction of the work, provided for in the agreement. 
An amended agreement, made on the 10th August, 1923, came into force on the 16th November, 1923, and increased  the Commonwealth contribution to onefourthof the cost of the works, which was then estimated to be in the vicinity of £10,000,000. It had become apparent by then, that, amongst other things, the original estimates had been based on insufficient data. This agreement was ratified, but the provision of the principal act, No. 46 of 1915, which limited the Commonwealth liability to £1,000,000, was not then amended. Action is now being taken to put the matter in order. Similarly, advantage is being taken by the introduction of this bill to correct a typographical error in section twenty of the principal act, where the words "contracting authority " appear instead of the words "constructing authority". The amended agreement of 1923 also provided that the works to serve the needs of irrigation should have precedence over those intended primarily to serve the needs of navigation, and that tolls collected should be divided equally between the three State contracting governments, instead of between the four contracting governments. 
At a conference of Ministers representing the four parties to the agreement held on the 9th August, 1924, it was decided to construct the Hume dam of sufficient dimensions to provide a reservoir with a capacity of 2,000,000 acre feet of water, and in 1926 the four contracting governments decided that the reservoir bo constructed to that capacity forthwith. 
That decision had since been modified in that it is not at present intended to install the 29 steel vertical lift gates, each 20 feet long by 15 feet high, in the spillway section. So the storage will not exceed 1,250,000 acre feet of water. It has been considered desirable that this limitation should be stated in the bill, but provision has been made to enable the storage to be increased to 2,000,000 acre feet at a later date, if so desired, by agreement between the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, the Commonwealth not being a contributor towards the cost of such extension. 
A present-day estimate of the cost of the scheme as covered by the principal agreement is, approximately, £15,000,000. Some of the reasons for the increased cost are :  - 
The original estimate submitted in 1913 was not based on any plans or data and was a mere guess which proved to be much too low. 
Increased cost of labour, material and freights. 
Additional provision at the Hume dam to meet exceptional floods following the experience gained as a result of the record flood in the river Murrumbidgee which overtopped the Burrinjuck dam in 1925. 
Necessity to carry parts of the foundations of the Hume dam deeper than was indicated by the original bores. 
Construction of the Hume clam of dimensions for a capacity of 2,000,000 acre feet of water. 
Up to date the following works have been constructed: - Twelve weirs and locks in the Murray River, viz., Nos. 1, Blanehctown, to 11, Mildura, and No. 26, Torrumbarry, together with the Lake Victoria storage and the Hume reservoir, to the 1,250,000 acre feet capacity, with the exception of the completion of road deviations, land acquisitions and the necessary clearing up. Work upon the weir and lock No. 15 at Euston is in progress. The expenditure to" the 30th June, 1934, has been £9,600,000, of which the Hume reservoir accounts for £5,250,000. 
The agreement set out in the schedule to this bill clearly defines the limits of the Hume reservoir, and provides that the cost of any extension beyond the 1,250,000 acre feet capacity is to be borne by the three contracting States in proportions agreed to amongst themselves. It also authorizes the construction of a roadway over the Hume dam, five barrages in the channels at the mouth of the River Murray, a diversion weir at Yarrawonga, and two weirs in the River Murrumbidgee. The effect of the proposed amendment of paragraph 20 of the principal agreement will be that the works mentioned in the principal agreement which have not yet been commenced will not be proceeded with. The amendments of the agreement tobe made by this bill will also release the Commonwealth from its obligation to contribute towards the cost of maintenance, operation and control of completed works and gauging stations. 
The roadway over the Hume dam was provided for in the original design of the dam and specific mention of it has been made in this agreement for the purpose of removing any doubt as to the legal authority for its construction. 
It has been demonstrated that the provision in the principal agreement for maintaining the lower reaches of the river fresh, viz.,- the allocation of a certain quantity of water, is not fully effective, and that damage to the reclamation settlements in that area is being caused by an influx of salt water. The River Murray Commission recommended that, to remedy the position, five barrages be constructed across the channels in the vicinity of the Murray mouth. This recommendation was subsequently supported by the South Australian Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. The location of the barrages will not interfere with the wharfage at Goolwa, nor with any proposals for the development of a port at or near the Murray mouth. 
The State of New South Wales has only been waiting for water to be impounded in the Hume reservoir to enable it to develop schemes to utilize its share of the water. From the Yarrawonga weir an area of approximately 5,000,000 acres in New South Wales can be commanded by gravitation; but the water available will be sufficient to supply only a portion of that area. The district for which water from this weir is required, as soon as it can be made available, is that at Berriquin and consists of 605,000 acres between Berrigan and Deniliquin. The objective of this development is the growth of fodders under irrigation for the feeding of stock, and not for any extension of fruitgrowing until the marketing position is more assured. Similarly, water from the Yarrawonga weir is urgently required to serve an area of approximately 400,000 acres in Victoria, of which about 90,000 acres will actually be irrigated to grow lucerne and sown pastures to permit of an extension of lamb-raising and dairying. 
The two proposed weirs in the River Murrumbidgee are to be constructed at sites selected for two of the weirs and locks contemplated under the original scheme, and will be built in such a manner as to allow locks to be added at  a  future date, if so desired. There is  a  considerable area of country on the lower Murrumbidgee, the carrying capacity of which is much enhanced by the growth of herbage, &amp;c, resulting from flooding. The landholders in the district have for several years been urging that fixed weirs be constructed to enable the land to be flooded at least once a year when the river is not sufficiently high to break out under natural conditions. The two weirs proposed will effect this object and benefit an area comprising upwards of 200,000 acres. 
Owing to the decline in navigation the four contracting governments are of the opinion that the construction of the remaining thirteen weirs and locks in the River Murray and the nine weirs and locks in the River Murrumbidgee provided for in the principal agreement should not be proceded with at present. The amendments made in the agreement by this bill give effect to this decision. Should it be desired to construct any of these weirs and locks in the future the making of a new agreement to cover their construction, and the necessary financial arrangements, will be considered by the interested parties. 
The estimated cost of the additional works covered by the amendments of the agreement now to be made is £1,200,000 and the estimated total cost of the scheme as now proposed is £12,000,000, representing a saving of £3,000,000 on the original scheme. These amendments to the agreement definitely limit the expenditure to £12,000,000, including the money already expended. 
As the result of an opinion given by the Crown Law authorities it was ascertained that although, by the amended agreement of 1923, tolls received were to be credited equally between the three contracting State governments instead of between the four contracting governments as previously provided, the Commonwealth was still liable to contribute one-fourth of the cost of maintenance, operation and contol of completed works and gauging stations. The three State Governments have therefore decided to  release the Commonwealth from this liability, and provision to this effect has been made in the agreement covered by this bill. 
Great benefits have been derived from those works which have already been constructed. The water stored in the Hume reservoir and Lake Victoria, together with that retained by the various weirs and locks, has been the salvation of the irrigation settlements along the Murray River, both by providing water at a convenient level at times required by the settlers, and by preventing salt from seeping out from the soil. The additional works proposed will consolidate and extend these benefits. 
The amended agreement set out in the schedule to this bill must be ratified by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia before it can come into effect, and as it is desired that the additional works referred to shall be put in hand at the earliest possible moment, it is asked that the Commonwealth Parliament will 'do its part by passing tho ratifying bill. At a time when unemployment is rife, this class of work is of particular value, because most of the expenditure represents payment for labour rather than for materials. The sooner the new agreement is ratified by the Commonwealth and the States, the sooner the works can bc proceeded with. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There is no time limit; it is intended to push on with the works as quickly as possible. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. 
.- I offer no opposition to the passage of this measure, for I agree with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that the work should be put in hand as quickly as possible. As the right honorable gentleman has said, this class of work is of particular benefit to the unemployed, in that most of the expenditure represents wages rather than payment for material. I may be wrong, but I was of the opinion that all the States concerned had already agreed to the proposals, and that only the passage of this measure was needed for the work to be proceeded with. If that is not so, I shall be disappointed. 
I am glad to have that assurance from the Minister. So far from delaying the passage of the bill, I shall be pleased to expedite its progress through this chamber, so that the works to which it refers can be put in hand without delay. 
.- As I listened to the Minister's speech, I was impressed with the financial history of this undertaking. If I understood the right honorable gentleman aright, the original estimate for the full work was £4,663,000. 
I have always understood that in the works branch of the Department of the Interior there is a highly-trained staff. If, however, departmental estimates are merely guesses, is it any wonder that taxation in Australia last year was equal to 30 per cent, of the value of our total production, and that industry is so heavily loaded? The Minister said that the revised estimate for the whole work is £12,000,000. That may be merely another guess. 
Even when departmental officers have supplied firm estimates, they can always advance reasons why those estimates have been exceeded. What guarantee have we that the present estimate of £12,000.000 which, apparently, is based on something more than a mere guess will not be exceeded? I understand :1' 9.t the expenditure on this work to date is £9,600,000. 
The expenditure to-date on the Hume reservoir amounts to £5,434,095, representing an increase of nearly 20 per cent. of the original estimate for the whole of the river Murray works. 
I believe it was, but I understand that there has been a modification of the plans, the height being increased to provide for a greater acreage. 
Now the Minister tells us that, under the new scheme, certain sections of the work will be eliminated, and he refers to these modifications as representing a saving of £3,000,000. I find it difficult to follow the working of the departmental mind in this matter. I fail to understand how the total cost of £12,000,000 represents a saving of £3,000,000, when the original estimate of cost was £4,633,000. There should be more effective control by the departments concerned of expenditure on public works of this nature. We all agree that it is desirable to improve the unemployment position as quickly as possible, but we should not countenance this apparent lack of responsibility by departmental experts, technical, financial, or otherwise. Even now Parliament is called upon to pass what may be regarded as a guess as to the actual cost of these works.  I  should like the Leader of the Senate to furnish a little more information on this point. 
 SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [3.53] .  - I am glad to know that this proposed expenditure will absorb a good deal of labour. An enterprise of this nature will involve considerable expenditure on raw material, plant, &amp;c., but by far the greatest proportion of expenditure will be for labour. I am not so much concerned as  Senator Elliott  appears to be about the departmental view of the savings to be made, although I agree that we should, wherever possible, save money on undertakings of this kind. The saving to be made in connexion with this work reminds me of the story of a little girl who, when asked to describe the benefits conferred on the world by the use of pins, said that pins had saved the lives of thousands of people by not being swallowed. Apparently, the Government has saved expenditure on these works by modifying the plan, the capacity of the Hume weir being reduced from 2,000,000 acre feet to 1,250,000 acre feet. My purpose is not to hinder the passage of the bill, but I should like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to give me some assurance with regard to the labour conditions attached to employment on the works. Can he say if the money will be expended on lines similar to relief work proposals, or will Arbitration Court award rates and conditions be observed? I would further like to know if there is any possibility of union monopoly - whether the union presided over by  Senator Barnes  will practically have control of the work, or whether members of other industrial organizations will participate in the employment. 
 The expenditure proposed under the modified plan is, I understand, £12,000,000, of which amount the Commonwealth will provide £3,000,000. There is £600,000 of this amountstill to be paid. I do not object to this, but I should like to know the principle upon which the Commonwealth has undertaken to bear a considerable portion of the expenditure. The development of the river Murray irrigation scheme is a very desirable work. I must, however, emphasize that the States of New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia will benefit chiefly from this expenditure. They are fortunate in having made an agreement with the Commonwealth Government, under which the latter will provide one-fourth of the total cost. 
That is just what I want to know. May I assume that Western Australia will be given similar assistance in respect of any irrigation works which it may put in hand? 
I could say a good deal about the way in which that line is being operated for the benefit of industries in the eastern States. I want to know definitely if Western Australia will receive similar assistance for irrigation schemes which it may initiate. Recently the Government of that State applied unsuccessfully for assistance to provide a dock at Fremantle, which the Commonwealth Government admitted would be of great value for defence purposes. No one will deny that a suitable dock at Fremantle would be an important addition to the defence measures of the Commonwealth, because at present there are no docking facilities for naval or other vessels on the western seaboard. 
I do not know that the honorable senator is correct as to the reason for the refusal.  Senator Pearce  is a very good Minister for Defence, although. I do not agree with his views on a number of subjects. Defence is a federal responsibility and the Commonwealth Government should assist in the construction of a dock at Fremantle on at least the same basis as it is assisting in the Murray irrigation works. I claim that, in justice to Western Australia, similar assistance should he forthcoming from the Commonwealth for any irrigation or defence schemes which may be formulated in that State. 
I agree with  Senator Johnston  that the principle contained in this bill with regard to the Commonwealth's contribution to expenditure on works of this nature should bc applied to similar schemes which may be brought forward in Western Australia, Queensland and other States. On this point, we should have an explanation from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce). 
That may be so, but Queensland contributes a good deal of the water that has made the MurrayDarling River system so important. A considerable volume of water from southern Queensland goes to the enrichment of the three Sta;tes which benefit from irrigation works along the Murray.  Senator Johnston  has emphasized the principle governing the participation of the Commonwealth in this expenditure. If irrigation schemes are proposed in Queensland, we would be quite justified in citing this precedent in support of a request for Commonwealth aid in carrying out such works. Although good progress has been made in developing the Dawson Valley irrigation area in Queensland, the Queensland Government has not sought the assistance of the Commonwealth Government or of any State government A big flood-prevention work is proposed on the Stanley River, which is a tributary of the Brisbane River. If the Brisbane River should again reach the flood level it once reached, it would mean a loss of £15,000,000 to people of Brisbane, which would be felt all over the Commonwealth because of the resultant reduction of the purchasing power of the Queensland people. A proposal has been made to expend several million pounds to prevent such a disaster, which would be the most serious that has ever occurred in the history of the Commonwealth. As suggested by  Senator E.  B. .Johnston, I trust that the Minister in charge of the bill will explain more fully the principle involved in the measure, and state why those States which ,do not receive any benefit under the River Murray Waters agreement are asked to contribute to the extent proposed. If an irrigation scheme of similar magnitude were undertaken in Western Australia, or in Queensland, I suppose that the States not directly concerned would be expected to contribute towards the cost. I hope, however, that honorable senators who have criticized the protection given to sugar and tropical products will realize that the States which do not produce them are assisted by the Commonwealth in other ways. 
I agree with many of the arguments advanced by  Senator E.  B. Johnston, concerning the position in Western Australia, but at the same time it is open to argument whether the docking facilities* in that State, which the honorable  senator mentioned, are really required. Docks are necessary for the development of trade and commerce, but  Senator Johnston  must admit that the conservation and reticulation of water is one of the most important problems which Australian Governments have to solve. At present the govermnents of European countries are expending large sums of money in the development of their rivers and waterways in order to increase production and to provide additional transport facilities.  Senator Johnston,  who must admit that the waters of the River Murray cannot be diverted across the Nullarbor Plain, to render fertile land which at present is unproductive, should remember that a large amount of money has been expended in providing Kalgoorlie with a water supply, and in constructing the East-West railway, which brought Western Australia into closer commercial communication with the eastern States. If  Senator Johnston  can show how £3,000,000 can be spent on a reproductive water conservation scheme in Western Australia why does he not submit a proposal to the Commonwealth Government for consideration? I trust that the Minister will explain more fully how this money is to be expended, and also state whether those engaged on the proposed works will be paid at relief rates or in accordance with the awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are anxious to assist in providing employment wherever possible. I should, however, like to have a definite assurance from the Minister that this huge sum will not be expended merely in paying the salaries of administrative officers, but will be used in providing a living wage to blacksmiths, carpenters, stonemasons, timber-getters and others.  Senator Elliott,  who is a member of the Country party, must admit that the conservation and reticulation of water increases development and production in rural areas, and is of benefit not only to those in the areas supplied, but also indirectly to those in the cities. I intend to support the bill, but when it is in committee I should like the Minister to give more information as to the manner in which the money is to be expended, the wages to be paid, and generally the conditions under which men are to be employed. We do not want to assist in making this huge amount available if it is to be a matter merely of writing cheques or issuing bonds in the interests of the wealthy. If the proposal involves the continuance of a reproductive undertaking, and will provide work at award rates so that many of the men, women and children who are at present experiencing extreme hardship will receive some benefit, it will have our support. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [4.21]. - There seems to be confusion in the minds of some honorable senators as to the financial liability involved. The total expenditure under the final amended agreement is £12,000,000, which represents a reduction on the £15,000,000 expenditure which was undertaken under the agreement which this bill amends. Of that £12,000,000, £9,600,000 has been expended, leaving £2,400,000, of which the Commonwealth's share is £600,000, to be devoted to the completion of the works indicated in the bill. 
I come now to the question of why the agreement was drawn up between the three States named and the Commonwealth. It was because the Murray was the only great river in Australia which found its way through the territories of three States, and it was necessary, in order to arrive at a comprehensive plan, and to have a scheme based upon such a plan, to secure their cooperation. The then Commonwealth Government took a great part in inducing the States to come to an agreement, because it saw the economic value to Australia of conserving the waters of the Murray, and of the settlement that would follow. The three States concerned had been conferring for many years previously, but had never .reached agreement. It was only when the Commonwealth came into the picture that an agreement became possible. There was. a conflict of interests between South Australia, which was more interested in navigation than in irrigation, and New South Wales and Victoria, which were more concerned with irrigation than with navigation. There were other causes of jealousy between the States, but the Commonwealth was able at length to reconcile them. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes. The Commonwealth was able, by reconciling the States' differences, to get something done. I have been asked by  Senator Johnston  and  Senator MacDonald  what principle underlies the agreement. I inform  Senator MacDonald,  who represents Queensland, that it is the same principle that underlies the sugar agreement. The States of Western Australia, Tasmania, and Queensland are asked to contribute indirectly to the cost of the Murray Waters scheme, because it is for the general good of Australia that the contiguous lands should be used to the fullest extent, and the water availed of to the greatest advantage of the community. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The principle that underlies the Murray River Waters agreement is involved in the sugar agreement, of which for the general good of Australia, the people of Western Australia and Tasmania have been willing to bear a share of the burden. 
Certain honorable senators asked what labour conditions will obtain in connexion with the proposed works, and, in reply to them, I cannot do better than quote  Mr. Perkins,  the Minister for the Interior, who administers this expenditure. He said, in the House of Representatives - 
I aSsure honorable members, however, that award conditions have been observed in connexion with the works already carried out, and I see no likelihood of that practice being departed from. The constructing authorities - the Minister for Public Works in New South Wales, tlie State Rivers and Water Supply Commission in Victoria, and the Commissioner for Public Works in South Australia - have always paid award rates and the Commonwealth will express, the wish that that practice shall continue. 
The Commonwealth is not one of the constructing authorities, but it will express to the States the wish I have quoted.  Senator Rae  also raised the question of whether - particular unions are to be favoured. I suggest that that question does not arise in this bill. It is one for the unions to which he is referring to thrash out with the State constructing authorities, but. apart altogether from whether union or non-union labour, or any particular union labour, is to be engaged, the Minister has indicated that award rates ha.ve always been paid, and that the Commonwealth desires that they shall continue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Third schedule). 
Clause 1 of the third schedule reads : " This agreement is subject to ratification by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and of the States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia ". The agreement is not to be referred to the Parliaments of the other three States. It is true that those States, as States, neither contribute to, nor benefit from this expenditure, but honorable senators representing them are entitled to ask for a full explanation of the general principle upon which the Commonwealth makes a substantial monetary contribution to a work that, directly benefits only South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. I do not agree with the Minister when, he says that this bill is based on the same principle as that which underlies the sugar agreement. The White Australia principle is the basis of the sugar industry agreement, but that principle does not enter into the agreement which the Senate is now considering. This bill may be defended on other grounds - the conservation of water resources, increase of production, and the general betterment of Australia. 
There is a more substantial difference than thai. Queensland representatives in this House and the people of Queensland do not adopt a dog in the manger poliCy when considering matters of this nature. We are quite prepared to co-operate in measures which, while conferring particular benefits on certain States, are really for the good of the nation as a whole. In other ways, to the States not directly concerned in this measure, generous treatment has been meted out. I acknowledge that. Queensland does not object to this agreement. My earlier remarks were prompted by the desire to obtain a little enlightenment on the general principles of the measure. I think it is a good thing at any time, but particularly when we are having a rather thin session, as we are at present, that senators should seek information when they are in doubt as to the real import of measures and amendments. In such circumstances the seeking for information and even the moving of amendments, as was done on two occasions recently, is to be commended. It shows that honorable senators are awake to and aware of the business being transacted in this chamber. 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
When introducing this bill the Minister outlined fairly completely the history of the efforts which have been made by this Parliament during the last ten years to assist the wine industry out of the difficulties it has experienced during the whole of that period. It is interesting to review the development of this industry in Australia. Although the production of wine is partly a primary industry, the distilling side of it demands a good deal of science and technical knowledge. Wool-growing and agriculture generally and other purely primary industries have been longer established in Australia than the wine industry, which, however, is one of our oldest, and, I think it will be agreed by all those who have any knowledge of viticulture, one of the most efficient. Therefore we must look outside the industry itself for a justification of the measure of assistance now proposed . The difficulties which exist in the industry to-day are serious and affect all those directly or indirectly connected with it. They affect the growers, the wine-makers, and the employees of both. I think these difficulties can be traced to the actions of the State Governments, encouraged, to some extent, by the Federal Government, in extending viticultural operations very considerably after the war as a means of repatriating ex-soldiers. Before that period the industry, for a number of reasons, which I need not recount at this juncture, was in a relatively prosperous position, and thus appearedto offer opportunities for soldier settlement at a cost that was low in comparison with the costs of agricultural or pastoral settlement. [Quorum  formed.]  Through this encouragement by governments the industry has expanded rapidly in South Australia, Victoria and Now South Wales, some of the increased plantings being intended for the production of beverages and others for the production of dried fruits. But for this encouragement given by authorities outside the industry, and often in opposition to the adviceof those actually engaged in it, the industry would not have fallen into the appalling condition in which it has been for the last ten years, and which makes the passing of measures such as this imperative. Prior to the repatriation activities the industry had developed gradually over a long period. The growers and wine-makers, experienced in every branch of wine production, had slowly extended the areas under vines, planting suitable areas with grapes which would produce the beverage wines and spirits for which a market could be readily found. But with the intrusion of governments into the field this policy was departed from and, as a result, the industry suffered materially. In South Australia, for instance, there were extensive plantings of heavy-yielding types for the production of fortifying spirit. Later, it was found almost impossible to dispose of the spirit. At Berri, on the river Murray, a distillery was built and run as a co-operative concern; but, later, government aid became necessary, and now it is used extensively for the production of beverage wines. Practically all the plantings under the repatriation schemes in the several States show the same result. A study of these schemes would convince honorable senators of the need to grant relief to the industry. 
There is an erroneous impression, widely held throughout the Commonwealth, that South Australia is the only State which obtains any substantial benefit from the wine bounty. It is true that South Australia is the principal wine-producing State ; but the  Year-Booh  reveals that considerable areas are planted with vines in all the States except Tasmania, where the climatic conditions are not favorable to the growth of grapes. For the last year for which official figures are available- 1931-32 - the areas under vines in the several States were - 

<graphic href="144332193407264_16_6.jpg"></graphic>

That total includes areas devoted to the production of sultanas,  lexias,  and currants. The two brandies of the  viticultural  industry are indissolubly linked together; the prosperity or otherwise of the one is reflected in the other. The wine production of the several States in 1931-32 was as follows: - 

<graphic href="144332193407264_16_7.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures show that over 60 per cent. of the total win" output of Australia is produced in South Australia, and it may be thought that that State will benefit most from the passing of this legislation. That is not so. Almost all of the wine produced in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, and 
Western Australia is consumed in Australia, whereas each year South Australia has a large surplus which must be disposed of overseas. My point is that this legislation will benefit all persons engaged in the viticultural industry, whether or not they are" producing wine for export. Were there no encouragement of the wine export trade, the surp.113 production of South Australia would detrimentally affect the home market. That part of the viticultural industry devoted to the production of dried fruits has also benefited from the legislation directed towards the encouragement of the wine export trade. At one time it was seriously suggested that large areas in South Australia which had been planted with beverage grapes should be devoted to the production of types suitable for drying; but, fortunately, the growth of the export market for wine has been sufficiently encouraging to dissuade grape-growers from making that change. 
The first attempt by the Commonwealth to assist the wine industry was made about ten years ago by the BrucePage government. The bounty then provided was so generous that it probably did more harm than good, in that it led to the export of quantities of inferior wine and the good name which Australian wine had won, as the result of the judicious exporting of the beverage in previous .years, was endangered. Later, it became evident that a long-range  policy  would have to be adopted if the industry was to succeed. Credit is due to the Scullin Government for taking the first definite Step to place the export trade in wine on a sound footing. That Government introduced  legislation  to provide for the payment of a bounty extending over five years. Its action stabilized the industry; and a continuance of the same policy is essential to the future success of the industry. The Scullin Government also introduced legislation to provide for the proper control of the export of wine, the setting up of the Wine Export Control Board, and the prevention of the export from Australia of immature or inferior wines. The knowledge that the Wine Export Bounty Act will expire early next year underlies the decision of the present Government to introduce this legislation. I commend the Government for the way in which it has maintained the principle established by the Scullin Government. This measure embodies that principle, and contains other provisions designed to overcome difficulties which have arisen during recent months, particularly with regard to the fixation of the price of grapes. Parliament thought that it had protected the growers when it empowered the Minister to fix the price to be paid to the growers of grapes by wine-makers who claim the bounty. Last year, however, the arrangement broke down completely, and growers of .grapes in South Australia, and probably in the other States also, were seriously affected. This legislation authorizes the Minister to co-operate with the State authorities, which are the only bodies with power to take action to fix the price of grapes, irrespective of whether they are used in the production of wine for the local market or for export. At no time has there been any doubt about the power of the Federal Minister to fix the price to he paid for grapes used in the production of wine for export. All that he had to do was to refuse to pay the bounty, unless the wine-makers could show that they had paid to the growers of the grapes a price which the Minister considered fair and reasonable. 
I was coming to that point. Almost, without exception Australian wine-makers are engaged in both the local and the export trade. It is true that one big wine-maker in South Australia produces wine solely for export, but, in the main, the winemakers of Australia sell their product in both home and foreign markets. The difficulty arose because while the growers were entitled to receive a fair price for .grapes used in the manufacture of wine for export, there was no provision governing the price paid for grapes used in the manufacture of wine for local consumption. As the major part of each vintage is intended for wine and other beverages for use in Australia, a serious position was created because of tho absence of effective protection for the growers. To remedy this state of affairs the Governments of the three States chiefly concerned have agreed to cooperate with the Commonwealth Government in the administration of price-fixing provisions with respect to grapes used for the production of wine intended for local consumption as well as for export. In South Australia the principles upon which action shall be taken have already been settled, and the Government is now considering legislation to give effect to the agreement reached. One of the difficulties of administering the previous price-fixing arrangements was indicated by  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  namely, the fixation of the price to be paid too late in the season. I anticipate that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White),  who will be responsible for the co-operation of the Commonwealth and State Governments in this matter, will see that steps are taken to fix the price early in each vintage, so that growers and makers will know where they stand and be able to make their arrangements accordingly. 
I agree with the honorable senator. Growers and makers will then know the conditions applying to that particular vintage. 1 hope also that once a fair price has been fixed, it will be adhered to unless it is proved that it detrimentally affects a major section of the industry. We have had instances in South Australia of certain people, acting in their own interests, interfering with price- fixing arrangements which, had they been observed, would have been of substantial benefit to the growers and the majority of wine-makers. 
The purpose of the new principle should be to ensure that the price is fixed before grapes are delivered, and that it will give a reasonable return to the growers and, at the same time, he fair to vine-maker3. If this is done many of the difficulties which have been experienced hitherto will be eliminated. Already, because of the prospect of the early passage of this legislation, there is evidence of a more heartening spirit of cooperation among those engaged in the industry on the wine-making side. For a number of years the growers have been organized,  for the protection of their own interests, hut the wine-makers have been somewhat loosely organized, owing largely to the fact that some makers produce entirely for export, some confine their attention to the local market, while others manufacture both for export and the home market. The position is further complicated by the production of wines of different types and qualities, each calling for different treatment and varying periods of maturation. 
There is now some prospect of co-operation between all sections of the industry, which I need hardly remind the Senate, is a very important one in South Australia. In the volume of wealth produced it ranks third amongst our great staple industries - next to wool and wheat, our two main industries. Its importance is enhanced because of its capacity to provide employment. Those districts which are primarily concerned in viticulture are very closely settled, having comparatively large towns in close proximity. When the industry was in a healthy condition, those towns were noted for their prosperity, but latterly they have felt the depression severely. 
I am glad to know that in this legislation the Government is maintaining the principle, established by the previous administration, of assuring for the employees in the industry .fair and reasonable conditions of work, as a" condition of the assistance afforded to the industry by the community. It may be said that this primary industry is being assisted at the expense of the community. That is not accurate. 
It is classed as one, although, as every one knows, it calls for the application of a great deal of technical skill and knowledge. But the point I wish to make is that, although this bill provides for the continuance of a bounty on export wine, that portion of the product consumed in Australia" is liable to a very heavy excise duty. 
The consumption of wine in Australia is, to some extent, interfered with by this high taxa tion in the form of excise duty on fortified spirit. The proposal to return to the industry portion of the excise duty on fortifying spirit is an attempt to rectify what, in my opinion, is an injustice. Serious consideration must bc given to the position that will arise in 1940, when this legislation will expire. There will bc a demand by manufacturers of other forms of intoxicating beverages for a reduction of the taxation which they have to pay, but if the excise duty on fortifying spirit is removed, the viticultural industry will be placed on thu same basis as the industry in France and Spain, and there should be no need for the periodical review of this legislation. It is important to remember that the wine-producers in the countries mentioned are our competitors in the export market, and because wine intended for local consumption in those countries does not pay heavy taxation, as is the case- in Australia, the makers are able more effectively to compete with our producers in overseas markets. This is important because, following the repeal of prohibition in the United States of America, a new market has been opened for Australian wine in that country. If we can exploit that field on relatively equal terms with continental wine-producing countries, we should be able to capture a greater quota of the trade than we can command at the present time. The export trade is dealt with by the bounty, plus a drawback. A further burden is laid on the industry by the excise duty on brandy and other spirits used in Australia. That burden, is not entirely removed by this legislation. 
While generally I support the bill, I regret that before we are called upon to deal with it, we have not been informed of the nature of the recommendations made by  Mr. Buring,  who made an inquiry into the industry some time ago at the request of the Government. The Government, which has refused to release  Mr. Buring's  report because it is confidential, has informed us that his recommendations have been adopted.  Mr. Buring  has had a long experience in the wine industry, and although he is eminently qualified to make suggestions for its improvement there are others possessing similar qualifications who were not asked to submit, confidential  reports. Tb.&amp;re is such a wide variation of manufacturing methods, that the opinion of only one authority, however qualified, should not be regarded as representative of all engaged in the industry. 
Exactly. The publicity given to tho fact that he bad been asked to submit a report has created the impression amongst members of this Parliament and others interested that the document would be published and that Ins recommendations could be discussed. Unfortunately, that opportunity is not afforded to us. The Government has stated that  Mr.  Buring's  recommendations have been given effect to and are not embodied in this measure as, apart from the variation with respect to the fixed price of grapes, the bill is a replica of the legislation passed by the Scullin Government four years ago. There has also been an adjustment of the excise, which, apart from anything  Mr. Buring  may have advised, has been prominently before Parliament, and lias for some time been a feature of the requests by deputations representative of the viticultural industry. While' the reduction will be of some assistance, it i3 not so great as those concerned consider that it should be. I support the bill. 
I congratulate the Government upon its efforts to assist the wine-making industry, which, particularly in South Australia, has been in a serious position for some years. I am pleased that at last the Government is dealing with the industry in a manner that should he satisfactory to all concerned. Although the bill may not provide all that some require it appears that those directly interested will at least be able to thank the Government for the assistance to be given. I am not, however, sure that the Government has . thoroughly mastered the situation, which presents problems, some of which would be difficult for any government to solve. Even if this measure is passed some engaged in the industry will not he quite sure of their position. Since I have been a member of the Senate I have endeavoured unsuccess fully to secure information on this subject to enable me to arrive at definite conclusions, but on certain points even those engaged in the industry are at cross purposes. The position is as intricate as is the making of good wine. Having investigated the matter the Government has arrived at certain conclusions and in this measure it has provided a solution of some of the problems. My chief concern is for the grape-growers, who, for many years, have been unable to obtain an adequate return for their product. In some seasons the price of grapes has not been fixed until months after the crop has been sold, and in other cases the growers have not been paid for three years, although the bounty has been collected and wine made from their grapes sold in the Commonwealth or exported. Moreover, wine made from grapes which have not been paid for has been sold in competition with that made from grapes purchased at a fixed price. £ am glad that a clause has been inserted to provide that the wine-maker is not to be paid until the grape-grower has received the. price fixed. I am rather doubtful as to the meaning of clause 17, which reads - 
The Minister may withhold the whole or part of the bounty which would otherwise be payable under this act lo any claimant if he is satisfied that - 
at any time during the financial year in which the claim is made or during any preceding financial year, the claimant has received a payment of bounty, under this act or under the  Wine Export Bounty Act  1030-1932, to which, by reason of the fact that he had not  complied  with the requirements; of the law then in force, he was not entitled ; or  la  the exporter or the wine-maker to pay the fixed price to the grape-grower? Will the exporter receive the bounty or will it be- withheld until the fixed price has been paid? Does the clause mean that if an exporter has not paid for grapes purchased under the Wine Export Bounty Act 1930-32 he is not to receive a bounty under this bill? The administration must be carefully watched. I am particularly anxious that the grower shall not have to wait for years before he is paid, perhaps pay interest at 6 per cent, or 7 per cent, on an overdraft, or obtain credit from his storekeeper to enable him to purchase his requirements. I believe that the bill, which provides for quarterly payments, will go a long way towards solving some of their difficulties. It has been stated in some quarters that if the growers complain of any delay in the making of payments, they may be boycotted by the winemakers. I believe that the measure is sufficiently comprehensive to prevent winemakers from adopting unfair tactics, and that it will meet with the approval of the grape-growers and wine-makers. I agree also with the principle of diminishing the bounty by1d. a year after the expiry of two years from1s. 3d. to1s. a gallon. 
I hope that will occur, because, if the tariff were not so high to-day, the cost to the grower of producing the grapes would not be so great, and there would be no need to pay him a bounty. We should be able to avoid the necessity of paying bounties to support primary industries. 
SenatorO'Halloran. - Will you help to take the excise off ? 
I would gladly help to take the excise duty off wine. The South Australian growers, as I have said, are in a perilous position. South Australia is the State in which the greater part of the wine exported from Australia is produced. I understand that the industry in that State was in a fair position until repatriated soldiers were settled by the State Government on the land, resulting in a great increase of the area under vines, particularly in the districts near the Murray. Those new areas have built up large stocks of wines, which are stored in both the co-operative and proprietary wineries. These are situated mostly on the River Murray, and difficulty has been found in providing storage for the accumulated stocks, particularly in the co-operative wineries. The South Australian Government has been put to considerable expense in assisting the Berri distillery to provide the storage required. This bill may help to overcome that difficulty, particularly as the repeal of prohibition in America will give Australia a better opportunity, as  Senator O'Halloran  pointed out, to export its wine overseas. The Government should do its utmost, at this early juncture after the repeal of prohibition in America, to establish the export of wine to that country, and to see that the exporters ship only wine of good quality. There is a conflict of opinion with regard to the class of wine to be exported. Some makers believe that wine should not he exported until it is at least twelve months matured, whilst others are anxious to export it within six or eight months of manufacture. On that point there is a great divergence of opinion among the growers and makers. The export of wine from Australia has increased considerably of recent years. In 1925-26, the quantity exported was 1,085,000 gallons, whereas, in the year just expired, it increased to 2,678,000 gallons. The value of the wine exported in 1928-29 was about £500,000, in 1931-32 £908,000, and in 1932-33 £788,000. I have not been able to obtain the figures for the year 1933-34, but I believe they show a considerable increase over those for 1932-33. I trust that the Government will be able so to administer the bill that the grape-grower will receive the full reward for his labour, without having to wait years for his cash after delivering the fruit to the winery. 
The wine industry is of immense importance to Australia, and more particularly to South Australia. I accordingly congratulate the Government upon introducing the bill, and accept its broad principle. It should have been introduced years ago, but the authorities could not then foresee the' iniquities which have since operated, greatly to the detriment of the grower. We have always contended that if any one in the industry required assistance, it was the grape-grower. It was claimed that the wine-maker could look after himself, and that, I think, was a sound and logical conclusion. Seemingly, one of the main objects of the bill is to compel wine-makers to pay within a reasonable time what is due to the grower. As other honorable senators have pointed out, growers have been placed in a most awkward position by having to wait for payment for the fruit they have sold to  the makers, who have them absolutely at their mercy. The makers accept the grapes when they choose; if they want them this week, they take them; if they do not want them until weeks afterwards, they delay taking them until then, and afterwards pay for them when and how they like. In many instances £1 a ton was paid shortly after delivery and the balance handed over months afterwards, or even, as some honorable senators have stated, years afterwards. That was not fair to the growers, many of whom were living on credit and paying heavy interest on borrowed money, or living in poverty. In the long run, what will count most is the administration of the bill. If it is properly policed, an immense amount of good can be done by it. I hope that those who have to administer it will endeavour to look after the growers and enforce it in every detail, otherwise those whom we desire to help will not benefit to the extent intended. It is easy for educated people, with means to pay for the best legal advice, to evade the law, but the growers cannot take that course, and often are not so well-educated as are the wine-makers. It is the duty of the Government to see that no advantage is taken of them.  Senator Badman  spoke about America taking a quota of wine from Australia. I do not know whether America is in earnest or not in that matter. 
I trust that shipment will be followed by thousands more, because, if any community owes a great deal to Australia, it is the United States of America, seeing that, whereas America took goods to the value of £5,800,000 from us in one year, we, in the same year, took from America goods valued at £38,000,000. Those figures showed a considerable trade balance against us, and if America is not prepared to treat us fairly, we should talk pretty straight to its Government. 
I quite agree. When we are dealing more than fairly with America, America should at least endeavour to reciprocate. Another important provision, upon which I heartily congratulate the Government, compels those in the industry to pay award wages and observe prescribed labour conditions. The success of that stipulation also will depend upon the administration of the bill. If it is not policed thoroughly, it will not have the effect desired. I hope the Government will see that it is enforced in every detail. It was a pleasant surprise to me to find the Government introducing that provision. If an industry receives bounties from the consolidated revenue, those who benefit thereby should be prepared to do their best to pay at least a living wage to their employees. There are unscrupulous wine-makers as well as good ones. The wine-makers themselves admit this, because certain of their number have indulged in under-selling. The makers have met in conference and agreed upon certain courses, and have then found one or more of their number breaking away from or " scabbing " upon the rest. Some way should be devised of preventing men of that kind from underselling their confreres in the Australian market. 
 It is not fair competition. 
 Wine-makers tell me that, even taking costs of production into consideration, those people have unscrupulously undersold them. 
 Yes, but the practice of underselling on the Australian market injures not only the fair winemaker, but also the grape-grower, whom the bill aims at helping. 
 I know nothing about that. I have never drunk wine, and perhaps never will. Although I have always been a teetotaller, I have endeavoured to deal with the liquor trade in a broad-minded way, and have done my best to help the wine industry by supporting the payment of bounty to grape-growers.  In  fact, when the Wine Bounty Bill was first introduced, it provided for bounty payments for two years, and I was mainly responsible for extending the term ' to three years. Although I am a teetotaller,  I  have endeavoured to take a broad view of this matter.  I  think the measure is a good one, and I hope that it will help the men it is designed' to help. 
.- Tho favorable reception given to this measure is very gratifying to the Minister for Customs  (Mr. White),  who has been mainly responsible for framing it. He has gone to considerable pains to equip himself with the fullest information so that be might be able to deal with the wine industry on a practical basis. I concur with the suggestion that the price of grapes should be fixed early in each season. In past years I have made representations to that effect. I understand that the matter has some complexities, but I am sure that the Minister for Trade and Customs will give the fullest consideration to the statements which have been made in this debate. 
In  regard to the report of  Mr. Buring,  C suggest that the country should express its gratification that he, a member of the wine trade, was prepared to give to the Minister certain confidential information, which may or may not bring him into conflict with his confreres in the industry. 
It was, but if the honorable senator can show me how anything of this sort can be kept confidential in Canberra I shall be very grateful to him. In regard to securing agreement between the ' Commonwealth and State governments, so far the undertakings required in the bill have been entered into only by South Australia, which produces 80 per cent, of  out  wine. The other two States have not yet 'intimated ' whether they will fall into line. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
Senate adjourned at G.55 p.m. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate observed the following newspaper report of an interview with the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Latham)  after his return from the East :  - 
In Japan, somebody had asked him why Australia did not buy sugar from Java or Formosa.He replied, " Are you not excluding the cheapest sugar in the world in the interests of Formosan sugar"? His questioner had answered in the affirmative, and there the conversation had ended. In Java, people had asked why Australia did not buy Java sugar. He had replied that it had been due to Java that Australia now grew so much sugar. Afterthe war there had been a sugar shortage, and sugar had been bought from Java at £80 a ton. Australia had found that she could produce sugar for much less than that, and had gone ahead and had not been able to stop before producing a large surplus. 
If the Minister has Been the report, will he, in view of recent criticisms of the sugar industry, include it, for future use, in the archives of departmental informationrelating to sugar and sugar agreements? 
That information is already embedded in the minds of the Australian people, and also in the archives. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
When does the Government intend to redeem its promise, if any, to erectahydrogenation plant for the purpose of extracting oil from coal? 
Has the Prime Minister been informed of the conditions existingon the coal-fields and that such conditions are due to the unemployment of6,000 minersand other workers? 
Did not the press demand that the Government do something immediately in this matter? 
Is it not a fact that during the month of March,1934, in the town of Kurri Kurri, New South Wales, the Prime Minister received a deputation representing over 1.000 boys of that locality whoseages ranged from15 to 21 years, on the subject of their conditions? 
If so, is it a fact that none of these boys had ever obtained employment? 

 Senator Sir GEORGEPEARCE.The Prime Minister supplies the following answers: - 
No such promise was made that the Government would erect ahydrogenation plant. The Prime Minister told a representative gathering of coal-mining interests at Cessnock on the 23rd March, 1934, that in view of the serious position on the coal-fields he was prepared to ask Cabinet to give consideration to the question as to whether it would be advisable, in co-operation with the Government of Now South Wales, to ask Imperial Chemical Industries Limited to undertake the construction of a plant in Australia for the production of oil from coal by the hydrogenation process concurrently with construction of a similar plant at Billingham-on-Tees, England. In accordance with that promise the matter was considered by Cabinet early in April, but during the intervening period, that is, between the 23rd March and early in April, other States  had made representations on the subject. It appeared to the Commonwealth Government that there was considerable divergence of opinion as to the proper location of sucha plant, and as to the relative merits of brown coal as compared with black coal. Therefore in order that these matters might he investigated an expert committee was appointed comprising representatives of the Commonwealth and the States, and of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited with  Dr. A.  C. D. Rivett. Chief Executive Officer of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research as  chairman  of the committee. The committee has been waiting the receipt from England of certain up-to-date information. This information is due now, and the committee will be called together about the end of this month or early in August. In the meantime, however,  Dr. Rivett  has, by letter, set out a number of matters that may receive the consideration of members of the committee, so that it can bo taken that no time is being lost in getting down to consideration of the subject. 2, 3, 4 and 5. Yes, but it is the responsibility of governments to see that in establishing any new industries, such industries have sound foundations. Any" ill-considered schemes of development would be certain to collapse, bringing in their wake conditions probably much more serious than those prevailing to-day. 

 Senator DUNN (through.  Senator Hoare)  asked the Minister administering the Development Branch,  upon notice - 
What were the salary and travelling expenses of  Mr. Rogers  for the nine months he was investigating" the shale oil industry in connexion with the operations atNewes? 
What countries outside Australia were visited by  Mr. Rogers  during these investigations? 
Has  Mr. Rogers  presented his full report to the Government; if so, when will such report be available to the public? 
What are the problems which  Mr. Rogers  was unable to deal with in his recent investigations, and which now necessitate a further trip abroad? 
What is the estimated duration of  Mr. Rogers's  further tour of investigation and the approximate cost thereof? 
Will the development operations at Newnes be further heldup pending another report from  Mr. Rogers;  and when is it expected that finality can bo reached in these preliminary investigations ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 

 Mr. L. J. Rogers, the Commonwealth fuel adviser, was associated with the Newnes Investigation Committee during the whole period of its investigations extending from 16th February, 1933, to 9th April, 1934. During that timehe received: salary, £515 and travelling expenses, £258. 
Great Britain, France, and the United States of America. 

 Mr. Rogers obtained information for the Newnes Investigation Committee and reported to the committee. The information which he obtained is embodied in the report of the committee. 
The purpose of  Mr. Rogers  forthcoming visit to the United States of America is to obtain a further check on the costs of refining of the crude spirit produced by the cracking ofNewnes shale oil and to bring back about 50 gallons of such spirit for road trials in Australia.It is intended that he should co-operate with an eminent petroleum technologist to be appointed who will also be asked to submit a report on the refining of the crude spirit. This action is being taken in pursuance of a recommendation made by the Newnes Investigation Committee. 
Approximately three months. The cost, including the cost of the services of the petroleum technologist, has been estimated by the Newnes Investigation Committee at £2,000. and such expenditure will be borne in equal proportions by the Governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales. 
Negotiations in connexion with theconduct of operations at Newnes are at present proceeding. If a company of the Tight type can be induced now to undertake the development of Newnes it is unlikely that it would be ready to commence operations at Newnes before  Mr. Rogers  completes the work that he is now about to undertake. It is expected that the investigations will occupy a period of from three to four months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce - 
Has his attention been drawn to the press reports appearing in Sydney newspapers, that W. Carpenter and Company. island traders, of Sydney, are placing two motorships of 9,000 tons to trade between England, Europe. Australia, and New Guinea ? 
Will the vessels be mannedby Australian white crews, and will they be registered in Australia? 
If not, why not? 
What number of passengers can each vessel accommodate? 
. I have seen such reports. 
The intentions of the owners with respect to manning or port of registry are not known. As regards the latter, the company may register at its option at any British port at which it carries on business. None of its other vessels is registered in Australia. 
See reply to No. 2. 
It is not known what number of passengers the vessels can accommodate. They are not duo to arrive in Australia forsome months yet. 
NEW BUSINESS AFTER 10.30 p.m. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir  George  PEARCE) agreed to - 
That Standing Order No. 68 be suspended up to and including Friday, 3rd August, for the purpose of enabling new business to be commenced after half -past 10 o'clock at night. 
The present practice is being continued; payments in the past have been subject to a deduction under the Financial Emergency Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4 - 
In this act, unless the contrary intention appears - "fortified wine" means wine, the produce of Australia, which is the fermented juice of the grape . . . 
I move - 
That the words " the grape " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words, " fresh grapes ". 
The Federal Viticultural Council has requested that no bounty be paid on wine made from dried grapes, as the wine made therefrom is of inferior quality and would not enhance the prestige of Australian wines abroad. Furthermore, the use of dried grapes in wine-making is prejudicial to the interests of the growers of wine grapes. One ton of dried grapes used to make wine would take the place of about three and a half tons of fresh grapes grown expressly for wine-making purposes. There is a duty of 20s. a gallon on wine made from dried grapes. That high rate of duty was imposed to prevent the use of dried grapes in the manufacture of wine for the domestic market. 
As there is no duty payable on wine made in bond and exported direct,  ex  bond, dried grapes could be used to manufacture wine in bond for export purposes only. The representations which were made to me were submitted to the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White),  and although the matter is one which could be regulated by the department in its administration, the Government decided after the bill had passed through the House of Representatives to meet the situation in this way. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause consequentially amended. 
.- In this bill the Government is making a commendable effort to ensure to the growers fair and reasonable prices for grapes which are sold to winemakers for manufacture into wine for local consumption. The matter has been the subject of conferences between representatives of the three States most vitally interested and the Federal Government; but the Minister, in his reply last night, indicated that only the Government of South Australia had agreed to a definite proposal. Can the Minister assure us that, under this legislation, the growers of grapes will be. guaranteed fair and reasonable prices for the grapes which they supply to wine-makers, irrespective of whether those grapes are used in the manufacture of wine or fortifying spirit for export or for local consumption? 

 Senator McLACHLAN (South Australia - Vice  President  of the Executive been made to the governments of the three States most concerned, but, so far, the only absolute assurance we have received is from the Government of South Australia. Negotiations are still proceeding with the Governments of Victoria and New South "Wales, but so far no definite assurance has been received from either of them. 
 Can the Minister say whether joint action by the Federal and South Australian Governments will ensure fair prices in South Australia? 
Unless the other States fall into line, an injustice may be done to South Australian exporters of wine. I do not doubt that, ultimately, there will be uniformity on the part of the three States. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Clause  1 - 
The rate of bounty payable under  this act  shall be as follows: - 
Provided that, if it appears in any financial year that notwithstanding the payment into the Wine Export Encouragement Account oi the total amount specified in the proviso to sub-section 7 of section 5 of this act, there will not be sufficient money available in thai account . . 
fll.22].- I move- 
That the words  " it  appears in any financial year  that "  be left out, and  that  after  the  word  " act,"  the words " it appears  to  the Minister that, in any financial year  " bc  inserted. 
These amendments are necessary in order to make it clear that the Minister will be the authority to determine whether sufficient money is, or is not, available in the Wine Export Encouragement Account for the payment of the bounty in full in any financial year. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 21 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
On the 17th August, 1922, the Commonwealth Government entered into an agreement with the South Australian Government, by which the State, through the State Bank of South Australia, under-, took to provide homes for returned soldiers aud others eligible under the War Service Homes Act, all loans being made under State legislation. The Commonwealth agreed to provide the necessary finance, which the State undertook to liquidate by paying to the Commissioner the principal repaid by purchasers each month. The State, however, was required to pay interest at the rate charged to purchasers on the total of the outstanding Commonwealth advances, whether or not such interest had been paid by purchasers. The effect of this provision was that the State, owing to purchasers being unable to meet their obligations through unemployment, and other causes, found itself called upon to withdraw funds from revenue to supplement the interest short-paid by purchasers. Subsequent to the agreement coming into force, a High Court judgment made it clear that agreements between governments, similar to that made with the State of South Australia in this instance, required ratification by the Parliaments in order to give them validity. The South Australian agreement was not ratified by the Parliaments, and for some time the State has made representations that it is not reasonable to expect it to shoulder the heavy liability which the agreement imposes, more particularly as neither party contemplated such a position arising at the time the agreement was entered into. The Government has given close consideration to this matter, and, having regard to all the facts, including the difficult financial position existing in South Australia, it has decided to release the State from the present agreement by arranging for the transfer of the homes to the War Service Homes Commissioner, who will in future control the activities in South Australia. The formal agreement between the State and the Commonwealth giving effect to this proposal is embodied in Hie bill. In submitting the measure for the approval of the Senate, I point out that the termination of the agreements with the Agricultural Bank, Tasmania, and the Victorian State Savings Bank, has enabled the commission to make a saving in administrative expenditure of £13,000 per annum, whilst the reduction in the remuneration payable to the Western Australian Government, which was agreed to by that State and commenced on the 1st January, 1934, will achieve a further saving of £4,000 per annum. It is anticipated that the transfer of the homes in South Australia to the control of the Commissioner will bring about an additional saving of approximately £1,000 per annum, making a total -slaving of £21,000 per annum. The object of the bill is merely to ratify the new agreement. The bill contains only the necessary machinery clauses, and T ask the Senate to carry it through all its stages. 
, - I agree with* the principle incorporated in the bill of removing the financial disabilities imposed on the State 'bank of South Australia. That institution is an instrumentality of the State Government, and disabilities imposed upon it are, therefore, disabilities borne by the people of South Australia. As the Minister said in his second-reading speech, when the original agreement was made no one foresaw the magnitude and severity of the present depression, which is entirely responsible for the arrears of interest that accumulated under the old agreement, and have to be made good to the Commonwealth by the State of South Australia through the State bank. It is generally agreed that the State housing activities of the State Bank of South. Australia have been administered with extraordinary efficiency. The hank has a staff of officers, many' of whom have grown up with those activities over a long period of years; they are well-trained to handle housing, and thc;v effort s have given fairly complete satisfaction. What can be said of the administration of the St.ve housing activities, placed under their direct control by State legislation, can be said with equal truth of the administration of the war service homes under the agreement which this bill now seeks to terminate. There is, however, one point which, I think, will not earn the approval of the majority of the people of Australia, who desire that, wherever bodies representing a State government and the Federal Government respectively exist side by side within a State, performing similar duties, one of them shall be eliminated by amalgamation, and the work carried on by the survivor. I personally favour, wherever possible, that survivor being the federal authority, which is in a position to establish uniformity of principle for the whole of Australia, and ensure that all concessions, benefits, or advantages conferred shall be the same iri all parts of the Commonwealth. In this case, however, the position is somewhat' different. The war service homes activities in South Australia, while they are fairly substantial, are small compared with the State housing activities carried out by the State bank under State legislation, and it would have been advisable, in the circumstances, to continue the policy of allowing the State bank to administer the Commonwealth war service homes, at the same time making provision to relieve South Australia of the liability for losses to the extent granted in all the other States in connexion with war service homes administration. The Minister has stated that, as the result of taking over similar activities in Victoria and Tasmania, the cost of administering war service homes has been reduced, and estimates that, in this connexion, the cost to the Commonwealth of administering war service homes in South Australia will also be reduced by £4,000 a year.. It is. however, unanswerable that the 'State revenue will. suffer a corresponding loss, because the cost of administering the State bank cannot be proportionately reduced. To that extent, seeing that the State bank is an instrumentality of the State, the finances of South Australia will bc detrimentally affected. I admit that the amount involved is small, but seeing that tlie State bank is an instrumentality of the State Government and its losses or profits either injure or benefit the State  revenues, we can scarcely call the reduction of Commonwealth expenditure by £4,000 in this instance a saving to the people. There is, however, no very strong feeling on the matter, because the Government of South Australia, which is, after all, the body most vitally concerned, has not, so far as I am aware, communicated with its federal representatives regarding it. For that reason I am not stressing the point strongly. 
Its attitude indicates, I suppose, its satisfaction with the new agreement. It appears to me, however, that in principle it is wrong where co-operat'ion in administration has been accomplished and a federal activity has been worked co-operatively with, and controlled by, a State activity, to discontinue the arrangement and create another federal body within the State. However, I offer no opposition to the bill. 
All governments are anxious to give effect to the cleaning-up process to which the honorable sena to:r has referred, in order to have all governmental activities administered by one body. Pursuant to that policy, the arrangements made some years ago with the State Savings Bank of Victoria- and the Agricultural Bank of Tasmania, have been terminated. These arrangements, under happier conditions, might have worked very well, but the position changed completely when there was a lack of applicants for houses, and houses became empty. Up to a few week ago, there were, in South Australia, 295 vacant houses of this class, awaiting tenants or sale. 
I think so. In any case, the party with which the honorable senator is associated was responsible for the construction of most of them. Judging by external appearances, they are habitable. 
I think we can assume that in any selling and letting transactions the .State bank would first endeavour to dispose of those houses in which it is directly concerned, rather than the houses in respect of which it acts as agent for the Commonwealth. The arrangement proposed in this measure is not going to result in any. administrative loss to South Australia. I believe that the Minister in charge of war service homes has already arranged for the commission to take over certain members of the staff at present employed by the State bank. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
.- The transfer of the administration of the war service housing activities in South Australia to the War Service Homes Commission must involve some adjustment of the staff now employed by the State bank. I do not think it is possible to provide complete safeguards in this regard in an agreement between governments. But I would like to have an assurance from the Minister that, as far as possible, those already employed in the administration of this act under the State bank will be protected. I make that point because, obviously, it will be necessary to establish a branch of the War Service Homes Commission in South Australia, and I think it would be unfair to engage employees from outside in preference to those now being employed in this work by the State bank. 
This particular matter was the subject of prolonged negotiation between the Minister controlling war service homes and the South Australian Government. I gather that it was finally agreed that some of the employees concerned will be absorbed into the State Public Service or the State bank. In the appointment of any additional staff the commission will give preference to returned soldiers, with secondary preference to relatives of returned soldiers in respect of adults, and to children of returned soldiers in respect of juniors. That was the arrangement made between  the State Premier and the Minister administering war service homes. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended.; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[11.55] - I  move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a measure to ratify certain administrative action which appeared to conform to the intention of the original Flour Tax Assessment Act, but of the validity of which there are certain doubts. The necessity for such action arose because, in the administration of the law, it was discovered that refunds could not legally be made of tax paid on, first, self-raising flour and ordinary flour in certain circumstances; secondly, flour exported from ships' stores in certain circumstances; and thirdly, flour purchased in one of the States for consumption in the Northern Territory. The levying of the tax in those cases was clearly contrary to the intention of the law, because Parliament definitely contemplated that the tax would not have to be paid twice on any flour, and that  flour for  export  or  for consumption in the Northern Territory should be exempt.  It  was also clearly intended that a refund  of £4  5s. a ton should be made with respect to flour that was not consumed when the act ceased  to  operate. I may add that there is nothing in the bill which has the effect of imposing any disabilities or further obligations upon those who were affected by the tax which was lifted on the 31st May last. As the measure aims at giving clear legal effect to the intention of Parliament when passing the original act, I feel sure that honorable senators will give the bill a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[12.0]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure deals merely with the method of calculating the unimproved value of leasehold estate in certain types of Crown leasehold which are subject to federal land tax. The cases concerned are conditional leases - that is to say, leases which have a fixed term, with the right of purchase - in New South Wales. 
By the Crown Lands (Amendment) Act 1932 of New South Wales, the rent reserved on conditional leases was reduced by 22½ per cent. as from the 30th December, 1932. The effect of this reduction is actually to increase the unimproved value of these lenses for federal land tax purposes. The consequence is that an act which was designed to give some relief to these particular leaseholders would, in the absence of some such action as is proposed in the bill, result in the Commonwealth receiving by way of land tax a substantial proportion of the relief which the State Government sought to give. 
The bill proposes that, for purposes of the calculation of federal land tax, the old 'actual rent reserved before the reduction of 22½ per cent. was made should be re-instated. This provision is to be retrospective to assessments for the year commencing on the 1st July, 1.933, the first assessments affected by the reduction made by the New South Wales act already mentioned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[12.4]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under the Merchant Shipping Act provision is made that where the British Government has erected any lighthouse on or near the coasts of any British possession, light dues may be imposed on ships passing and deriving benefit therefrom. These dues are leviable throughout the Empire. 
At the request of the British Government, the Colonial Light Dues Collection Act was passed in 1932, to provide for the collection in Commonwealth ports of light dues on all vessels arriving here after passing and deriving benefit from certain lighthouses erected in the Bahamas and Leeward Islands, West Indies. Subsequently the Board of Trade of the United Kingdom, by virtue of powers conferred by the Merchant Shipping Act, modified the conditions governing the collection of the dues, exempting, for example, vessels in ballast. A request has since been received from the Dominions Office that similar arrangements be made here. The Colonial Light Dues Collection Act does not provide for, or permit of, any exemptions or remissions. An amendment of the act is consequently necessary to give effect to this request. 
The proposed amendment takes the form of a new section - section 4a. Under this provision, the collector of customs for a State is authorized to grant exemptions from, and remissions of, light dues in circumstances similar to those under which the Board of Trade grants exemptions or remissions of light dues payable in the United Kingdom. 
The bill also defines the ships which shall be deemed to have passed and benefited from the lighthouses and buoys specified in the schedule to the act. This matter is at present covered by subsections 2 and 3 of section two of the act, but these provisions are inelastic, and would necessitate the introduction of fresh legislation in the event of any alteration in the conditions governing liability for payment of the dues. It is accordingly proposed that the sub-sections mentioned be omitted, and section 10 be amended to provide for the making of regulations for defining the ships which shall be deemed to have passed and to have benefited from a lighthouse or buoy specified in the schedule. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill road a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[12.7]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This  is a  comprehensive measure designed to give effect to the majority of the relief proposals mentioned in the budget. For convenience, the bill has been divided into eight parts, namely: - 
Preliminary. 
Sales tax. 
Maternity allowance. 
War pensions. 
Salaries  and  wages. 
Relief to primary producers. 
Assistance to fruit-growers. 
VIII.- General. 
It is desirable that the measure should  be passed as early as possible so that the relief proposals contained in it may have legal sanction. I am not suggesting that discussion should be curtailed or that the bill should not have proper consideration ; but I invite the co-operation of honorable senators in passing the measure as speedily as may be possible, consistent with due consideration of the Government's proposals. 
Part II., which is very lengthy, contains proposed amendments of the several Sales Tax Assessment Acts  to  give effect to the further exemptions announced in the budget speech. The proposed exemptions include a wide range of articles classified  as  building materials, certain requirements of the dried fruits, mining, fruit-growing, and pearling industries, specified foodstuffs, twenty additional articles or groups of articles used for primary production generally, fifteen miscellaneous articles or groups of  articles, and a reduction of the basis of tax on spectacles. A detailed list of items expressed in general terms has been made available to honorable senators. 
Last year the position of primary producers received special consideration, and it was thought that the further exemptions then granted exempted from sales tax practically all known items used by primary producers. It has since come to the notice of the Government that a few other items are used by primary producers, and these have been included in the list of additional exemptions. 
The total relief involved in all these exemptions is estimated at about £220,000 a year. The exemptions will come into operation on the date of commencement of the amending legislation. There are also certain minor amendments with a retrospective effect, which will be explained in committee. 
Part III. of the bill relates to maternity allowances. Under the existing law relating to such payments, an allowance is paid at a flat rate in respect of each birth, and there is also a flat rate income limit, above which an allowance is not payable. It is proposed to grant concessions in two directions, namely - (1) The income limit of £20S per annum is to be progressively increased by £13 per annum for each child under fourteen years of age, subject to a maximum income limit of £299 per annum; and (2) the present allowance of £4 is to be increased progressively by 5s. in respect of each child under fourteen years of age, subject to a maximum payment of £5. The cost of these concessions is estimated at £60,000 a year. 
Part IV. deals with war pensions. It will be remembered that, when the Financial Emergency Act was passed in 1931, no reductions were made in the pensions of disabled soldiers, war widows, orphan children, or widowed mothers. On the recommendation of the committee, representative of ex-soldiers, which was  appointed  at that time, the reductions were restricted to the pensions of relatives, and to certain allowances paid under regulations to ex-soldiers and their dependants. In respect of the  pesnions  of wives of incapacitated soldiers, the reduction was 22$ per -cent. Last year a partial  restora-  tion of 12$ per cent, was made, and it is now proposed to restore the pensions in full. This further restoration will involve an additional £109,000 a year, and will benefit 57,000 wives. Including the restoration made last year, the total relief represents £245,000 a year. Other concessions in respect of repatriation benefits announced in the budget speech are not incorporated in this bill, but will be given effect to partly under the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Bill now before Parliament,. and partly by amending the relevant regulations. 
Part V. relates to salaries and wages. Honorable senators are aware that, under arbitration awards and Public Service regulations, the salaries of Commonwealth employees are adjusted annually in accordance with the rise or fall of the cost of living. The original Financial Emergency Act embodied comprehensive reductions, including a reduction on account of the fall of the cost of living,, and a further reduction of "real" wages on a percentage basis, ranging' from 1 per cent, to 24 per cent. Under the provisions of the Financial Relief Act 1933, a partial restoration was made last year of the reduction of " real " wages, namely, the reduction over and above that due to the fall in cost of living. The amount involved was £550,000, and it had the effect of fully restoring the reduction that had been made in " real " salaries up to £250, calculated according to the 1930 standards. It is now proposed to make a further restoration of £270,000 which will have the effect of restoring in full the " real " reduction of salaries up to £388, and of partially restoring reductions of salaries above that amount. As compared with July, 1930, the reduction, on account of the fall in the cost of living, for au adult male is £48, and that reduction will not be affected by the proposed restoration. "With this restoration, the percentage reduction of Commonwealth salaries, including reductions of the cost of living, will be - 
From £389 to £1,000-12$ per cent. 
From £1,001 to £2,000-15 per cent. 
From £2,000-17$ per cent. 
Salaries up to £388 per annum will be affected only by the cost of living  reduc-  don of £48. The percentage reduction on all salaries, including the cost of living reductions, will then average 15 per cent. A corresponding adjustment will be made in respect of females. 
In the case of members of the naval, military and air forces, adjustments will be made which will have the effect of putting them in relativelythe same position as other members of the Public Service. 
Part VI. of the bill provides relief to primary producers. In the Financial Relief Act 1932, provision was made to assist farmers in the purchase of fertilizers used in growing crops other than wheat. A subsidy of 15s. a ton on fertilizers applied to soil in 1932-33 was paid through the State governments. The total payments were approximately as follow :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407275_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The subsidy proved of considerable benefit to primary producers, and encouraged the desirable practice of adequately fertilizing the soil. In view of the results that accrued, the Government is satisfied that further assistance is justified this year. Provision is accordingly made in the bill for £250,000 to enable the payment of a subsidy of 15s. a ton on fertilizers applied to the soil in the growing of crops, other than wheat, from the 1st July, 1.934, to the 30th June, 1935. It is estimated that £200,000 will be payable this financial year and £50,000 next year. Following previous practice, the amount will be paid to the State governments for distribution to the primary producers concerned, after claims have been certified by the Department of Commerce. 
Part VII. of the measure relates to assistance to fruit-growers. Last year, £125,000 was made available to the States under the Fruit-growers Relief Act for assistance to the growers of apples and pears because of the serious con dition of the industry as a result of the extremely low prices realized for exports to the United Kingdom and Europe. During the current season exports are being reduced and restricted to the most suitable types of fruit. As one half the crop will be exported, the oversea prices are of great importance to the industry, particularly in Tasmania. Unfortunately, the prices realized up to date for the current year's apple crop are very unsatisfactory, and growers will have difficulty in making ends meet. Further, the industry has suffered from adverse seasonal conditions. The Government believes that assistance is still necessary, and proposes . to provide a further £125,000 to the States for this purpose. Last year the assistance was limited to growers who had suffered losses on exports, and, as a result, were in financial difficulties. Owing to the practical difficulties of administering such an arrangement, and in deference to the general views of State governments, it is now proposed to dispense with this condition and to leave the method of distribution to the State governments, which, through their departments, are more closely in touch with growers than is the Commonwealth Government. The £125,000 will be allocated to the States on the basis of exports for the year from July, 1933, to June, 1934, the amount for each State being - 

<graphic href="144332193407275_10_1.jpg"></graphic>

The State governments will be asked to consult with those engaged in the industry as to the method of distribution. Each State will, therefore, be free to assist the producers in such ways as will meet the conditions existing in the State. 
Part VIII. refers to the commencement of the relief proposals. Generally, they will take effect on the date of the commencement of the legislation ; but, in the case of war pensions and salaries, the restorations will apply to the whole of the first pay after that date. The 
Government is anxious that the relief provided in. the bill should not be delayed, and trusts that its passage will be expedited. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[12.25].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the bill is to give effect to Articles8 to 10 of the Convention on certain questions relating to the conflict of nationality laws, which was concluded at The Hague in 1930. Those Articles read as follow: - 
Article 8. - If the national law of the wife causes her to lose her nationality on marriage with a foreigner, this consequence shall be conditional on her acquiring the nationality of the husband. 
Article 9. - If the national law of the wife causes her to lose her nationality upon a change in the nationality of her husband occurring during marriage, this consequence shall be conditional on her acquiring her husband's new nationality. 
Article 10. - Naturalization of the husband during marriage shall not involve a change in the nationality of the wife except with her consent. 
Every one will agree that it is very desirable that steps should be taken to remove the serious difficulty which arises when a British woman becomes stateless by reason of her marriage. The Commonwealth nationality law is based on the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act of 1914. All the selfgoverning dominions have adopted Part II. of that act with a view to carrying out a uniform system of naturalization throughout the Empire, and of defining who are British subjects. It is obviously to be desired that such uniformity should be maintained. 
The general principle which underlies the British law is that the wife of a British subject shall be deemed to be a British subject and the wife of an alien shall be deemed to be an alien. The Commonwealth law, however, in common with the general British law, already provides that, where a man, during the continuance of his marriage, ceases to be a British subject, by becoming naturalized in a foreign State, his wife may retain her British nationality by making a declaration that she desires to do so. It also provides that the GovernorGeneral may grant a certificate of naturalization to a British-born woman married to an alien who is the subject of a State which is at war with Hie Majesty. At present, there is no provision in the Commonwealth law by which a British-born woman, who, on her marriage with an alien, becomes stateless, may retain or regain her British nationality while her husband is still living, except under the special circumstances I have just mentioned. 
The foreign law which has affected British women to the greatest extent in rendering them stateless on marriage, is' that of the United States of America. Since 1922 a woman who married an American citizen did not thereby acquire her  husband's nationality unless she became naturalized on her own account after at least twelve months' residence in the United States of America, and as she had lost her British nationality by reason of her marriage she had no nationality. Thousands of British women, including many Australians, became stateless through marrying American citizens. The position was regarded so seriously by Canada, which was naturally the dominion most affected, that, in 1931, legislation was passed to give effect to the Hague Convention. The British Parliament passed the necessary amending act last year, and New Zealand is now proposing to follow suit. 
It is very desirable that the Commonwealth should lose no further time in fulfilling its obligations and doing its part to restore uniformity of nationality laws throughout the Empire. Anomalous situations are arising on account of the lack of uniformity.For example, wives  of American citizens are arriving in Australia from time to time in possession of British passports under the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1933, on which they are described as British subjects. An Australian-born wife of an American citizen, when abroad, would be entitled to claim the rights of a British subject, but in this country she must still be regarded as an alien. This anomaly should be remedied as soon as possible. 
There have been strong representations from women's organizations in Australia and elsewhere that the Hague Convention should not be ratified until it has been revised to embody the principle of equality between the sexes. These representations have received the very careful and sympathetic consideration of the Government from time to time, with the result that before the matter came up for reconsideration at the League of Nation!! Assembly in 1932, the British Government and the League of Nations were advised in the following terms: - 
Australian  Government  is prepared to accept principle that  ti.  woman on marriage shall not tone her nationality or acquire new nationality without her consent nml to amend nationality law accordingly, provided Eis Majesty's Govern men ti in United Kingdom and British self-governing dominions are agreeable to take similar action bo that uniformity of nationality laws throughout Empire may be preserved, such uniformity being of importance in the interests of the system of Imperial naturalization now in force. 
The Government still subscribes to the views expressed in that message. During the past year the Commonwealth lias been requested to take a lead in passing legislation embodying the wider principle. This subject has been given very earnest consideration by the Government, which feels strongly that nationality, in so far as British subjects are concerned, should be dealt with on an Empire basis, and that any attempt on the part of tha Commonwealth to get out of step with the rest of the Empire would lead only to confusion. It may, however, be stated, emphatically, that this bill is not an alternative to the demands made by the women's organizations. It is designed to remove a real hardship experienced by many women, and docs not close the door to further consideration of the principle of equality and to the acceptance of the women's demands when a more general agreement on them can be reached between the various governments of the Empire. 
A few words of explanation respecting the provisions of the bill may bc useful. .1 1 is proposed to substitute a new section for section 18 of the principal act. Paragraph 1 repeats the existing provision that the wife of a British subject shall bc deemed to be a British subject, and the wife of an alien shall be deemed to be an alien. Paragraphs 4 and fl re-enact the existing exceptions to the general principle, and paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 add new exceptions. 
Paragraph 2 deals with the British woman, who marries a foreigner, but does not thereby acquire his nationality. It provides that whether she. was married before or after the commencement of this act, she will retain her British nationality. Paragraph 3 makes a similar provision for the British woman, who, having married a British subject, is liable to become stateless when her husband has become naturalized in some other country. Paragraph 4 also applies to a British woman whose husband changes his nationality after marriage; hut as a result of the provisions of paragraph 3, this provision will, in future, apply only in cases in which under the law of the foreign country the woman acquires her husband's new nationality. Paragraph 5 is intended to give effect to article  10 oi  the convention which provides that naturalization of the husband during marriage shall not involve a change in the nationality of the wife except with her consent. Paragraphs 3 and 4 deal with this provision so far as British women aro concerned, but paragraph 5 applies to the alien woman whose husband acquires British nationality by the grant to him of a certificate of naturalization. After the end of this year, she will be afforded an opportunity to declare whether she, too, desires to acquire British nationality. I have already explained that paragraph 6 re-enacts an existing provision. 
In conclusion, let me repeat that the passing of this bill does not place any obstacle in the way of future consideration  of the principle of equality. Whether we believe in that principle, or in the principle that the nationality of the wife should follow that of the husband, we are not committed by accepting the provisions of this bill. It will remove a hardship, and will avoid confusion that is resulting from the fact that Canada and the United Kingdom have already passed legislation containing provisions similar to those embodied in. this bill. They did so in the belief that Australia and the other selfgoverning dominions would follow suit, and no good purpose would he served by further postponement of legislation which is already long overdue. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
[12.33].-I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Honorable senators have,no doubt, read in the press the report of the assassination of  Dr. Dollfuss,  tho Chancellor of Austria. Although the circumstances surrounding the assassination are not yet entirely clear, the official information received by the Government is generally on the same lines as the press reports. Martial law has been declared in Vienna, the army remains loyal to the Government, and the situation in the capital and provinces remains quiet. 
I am sure that in expressing condemnation of this terrible act of assassination, and sympathy with the people of Austria and the widow and family of tho late  Dr. Dollfuss,  I am voicing the opinion of all honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senateadjourned at 12.37pm. 
On the 25th July,  Senator Collings  asked the following questions  upon notice - 
What quantity of castor oil was imported  into  Australia during the years 1930-31, 1931-32, 1932-33, 1933-34, what  was  the value of same expressed  in  terms  of  Australian currency, and what  was  the country of origin! 
What quantity of peanutswas imported into Australia by the Queensland Peanut Board during the years 1930-31, 1931-32, 1932-33, and 1933-34? 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following information :  - 

<graphic href="144332193407312_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

Imports of Peanuts by Queensland Peanut Board.- 1930-31, nil; 1931-32, nil; 1932-33, nil ; 1933-34, 357 tons for distribution for manufacturing purposes. 
. [3.4] -  by leave  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the honorable member for Ballarat, David Charles McGrath, esquire, places on record  its  appreciation of  his  notable public services, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and the members of his family in their bereavement. 
Since the adjournment of the Senate last Thursday, death has removed from our midst another member of this Parliament. The late  Mr.  McGrath was first elected to the Federal Parliament in1 91 3. He was out of Parliament for a short period, but was re-elected at a by-election in 1920, since which time he had continued to represent Ballarat. He was a member of the Joint Committee on PublicWorks from 1926 to 1929, and from 1929 to 1931 was  Chairman  of Committees. Prior to his election to this Parliament he was a member of the Victorian Parliament as the representative for Grenville from 1904 to 1913. During the GreatWar he was a member of the Australian Imperial Force for about two years until his discharge through medical unfitness. The deceased gentleman was well known to most honorable senators. We all knew of his fidelity and the earnestness with which he strove to carry out his public duties during a parliamentary career extending over 30 years. I am sure that all honorable senators will join with me in expressing sincere sympathy to his widow and the members of his family in their bereavement. 
.- I second the motion. The late  Mr. McGrath  was well known to mo. For many years we were associated in political contests in the days when it was necessary to fight strenuously for the principles of the Labour party, but, unhappily, some years ago, we reached the parting of the ways, a break which 1 regretted very much, because of my high regard for the deceased gentleman. We can easily understand the tremendous blow which his death has caused to his wife and family, because I know that they were very much attached to one another. I offer my most sincere condolences to  Mrs. McGrath  and her family in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Has the Leader of the Senate seen the severely critical " Open letter to the Lyons Government ", printed in this morning's  Canberra Times,  above the name of Frederick "Watson? Is the writer of the letter the same  Dr. Watson  whom the Hughes and BrucePage Governments placed in charge of historical records? 
In view of the fact that the Leader of the Senate has tabled " The Case for Union ", are we to under stand that the Government is opposed to the secession movement? Can the right honorable gentleman explain the association of two Senate candidates of the United Australia party in "Western Australia with  Senator Johnston,  VicePresident of the Dominion League which advocates secession?Will the right honorable gentleman explain where the Government stands in relation to this team? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What amounts under all headings, excluding normal Commonwealth expenditure, were paid by the Commonwealth to the State of Tasmania during the financial year, 1933- 34? 
What amounts are included in the 1934- 35 budget to be paid by the Commonwealth to or on behalf of Tasmania, excluding normal Commonwealth expenditure? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Treasurer has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1 and 2. The following table shows, under the main items, the actual amounts for 1933-34 and the estimated amounts for 1934-35 in respect of payments by the Commonwealth to or for Tasmania: - 

<graphic href="144332193407312_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

[3.23]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a. second time. 
This bill is designed to simplify the administration and collection of income tax, particularly with regard to the assessment, of shareholders in companies. It is based principally upon the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Taxation, which was appointed in 1932 to inquire into the simplification and standardization of the taxation laws of the Commonwealth and the States, and has now completed its inquiry so far as income tax is concerned. This bill, however, deals with aspects which affect the Commonwealth system of taxation, leaving for later discussion and agreement, if possible, a large number of other matters, dealt with by the royal commission, which affect the State governments as much as they do the Commonwealth. Since uniformity of treatment is the main aim in relation to these items, it is necessary that agreement should be reached so far as is possible before either the Commonwealth or any of the States proceeds to pass legislation relating to them. This bill, however, introduces reforms iu the Commonwealth law which are urgently necessary and which are not dependent upon agreement with the States. 
Under the present law, the assessment of a shareholder upon dividends is so complicated that it is impossible for him to check it and ascertain whether he has been correctly assessed or nor. The main difficulty is connected with what are known as "rebate" calculations, which are of two kinds, namely, " income rebates " and " tax reba tes ". The " income rebate " is the calculation necessary to ascertain what portion of a dividend should be included in the assessable income of a shareholder. The " tax rebate " is that necessary to ascertain the deduction which should be allowed from his gross tax to prevent double taxation in view of the fact that the company has paid tax on all, or part of, the profits distributed as dividends often at varying rates of tax. On this subject, the royal commission on page 24 of its first report summarized the position as follows: - 
The complications which disfigure the present system as at present applied are not necessarily inherent in it, and we believe that the adoption of the recommendation we have made will, to a very great extent, remove them. They are almost entirely due, in our opinion, to the meticulous .analysis of every dividend and the attempt to trace back each pound, of it to the source from which it was originally derived. We feel it our duty to gay with great emphasis that until this attempt be abandoned it is hopeless to expect that any effective simplification of the present system can be looked for. 
I draw particular attention to the last paragraph of the above extract. 
The recommendations of the commission in this respect, which, with slight modifications, have been adopted in this bill, may be described as follows: - 
That all distributions by a company of its profits should be treated alike whether made in cash, in shares, or in any other manner. The bill departs from this principle in two minor respects only, namely, that distributions in shares should be exempt if made out of profits arising from the revaluation of assets not acquired for sale at a profit or from the issue of shares at a premium. Distributions in cash, however, out of those profits will not be exempt for the reason that such distributions would not ordinarily he made for legitimate purposes and a provision for their exemption would lay the way open for evasion of taxation by manipulation of accounts. 
That all dividends should be assessable in full unless paid wholly and exclusively out of specified profits and income. Under the present law a dividend may be partly assessable and partly exempt, and serious complications arise in arriving at the respective proportions. The funds out of which dividends free from tax may, under the bill, be distributed by a company may be described in popular language as: - (a) ex -Australian profits taxed abroad. Though the royal commission did not recommend that dividends out of these profits should be exempt, the Government lias decided that, in accordance with the general scheme of the act which exempts  such  profits from tax in the hands of persons who receive them directly, dividends out of those profits should also be exempt;  (b)  capital profits; and (c) pre-war profits. To obtain exemption for its shareholders, however, a company must pay a dividend wholly and exclusively out of these profits in order that the complicated apportionment of dividends necessary in the past may be avoided. 
That the " tax rebate " upon dividends should in all cases be at the taxpayer's own rate of tax or at the rate of tax payable by companies generally for the year of assessment, whichever is the less. This will obviate the present necessity for an intensive examination of the profits out of which a dividend is paid to ascertain at what rate, if any, the company has paid tax upon those profits over past years. This is an essential feature of the scheme of simplification. Tt is to be remembered that this altered system will not affect, to any extent, distributions by companies out of current profits, for the rebate would, in such cases, be the same under the existing law as under the bill. It will affect only distributions by companies out of " old " profits upon which it has paid taxes at varying rates. Moreover, no shareholder whose rate of tax is less than the present company rate, namely, ls. in the fi, will be affected, for, under either system, his rebate would be at his own rate of tax. It is estimated that over 80 per cent, of taxpayers fall into this class. While these amendments have, in general, been made applicable to assessments for the financial year 1934-35, and subsequent years, the Government has decided to modify their application for the first year so that companies or shareholders may not be adversely affected in respect of distributions made without knowledge of the proposed amendments. As regards distributions in cash, therefore, the existing law will apply to all those made prior to the date of assent to the hill. As regards distributions in shares, the existing law will be applied to all those made prior to the 31st December, 1934. This further time is given because a distribution in shares presents some technical difficulties and cannot be made with the same facility as a distribution in cash. Moreover, as the amendments affect distributions in shares to a greater extent than distributions in cash, it  is  considered to be proper to grant a further period of time for the former. Distributions of profits by liquidators of companies will be, as under the present law, assessable to shareholders to the same extent as if made by a continuing company, but as a liquidator is unable to make such distributions wholly and exclusively out of any particular exempt profits, the distributions will be exempt to the extent that they are made out of such exempt profits. 
In furtherance of the scheme of simplification, the bill provides that where any allowable deduction under the act, except the " statutory exemption " which is later referred to, does not relate directly to any particular class of income, it shall be set off against the different classes in the following order, namely - Income from personal exertion, income from, property, other than dividends, income from dividends. The royal commission has pointed out that to remove troublesome complications, the " statutory exemption " should be the same for all classes of income, and it has therefore been decided that the present maximum in respect of income from property be increased from £200 to £250, thus making it the same for both classes. The exemption diminishes by £1 in every £2 by which the net income exceeds £250 and vanishes when the net income is £750. The " statutory exemption " is to be set off against the various classes of income in the following order, viz. : - Income from property (other than dividends) ; income from dividends; and income from personal exertion. By this means all apportionments of deductions will be obviated. It is considered that the alterations will tend to counteract each other in their effect upon the revenue and that, in achieving simplification, little difference will be made in the tax payable by any person affected. The "flat rate "'deduction of £250 given under the existing law for the purposes of arriving at the income liable to " special property tax " will be continued under the bill. 
The measure introduces new provisions in substitution for section 21 of the present act, to deal with insufficient distributions by companies. Liability to tax in this respect is to be limited to " private " companies and a large number of definitions has become necessary to define what is a " private " company for the purposes of the new provisions. These provisions are, however, based upon those appearing in the laws of Great Britain and New South Wales, which have stood the test of time. Apart from the limitation to " private " companies, the main alterations of the law, in principle, are - 
To make the application of the provisions automatic where a private company does not' distribute two-thirds of its distributable income. Under the present law, the Commissioner of Taxation has discretionary powers to refrain from the application of the section or to modify its effect, but, according to the evidence received by the royal commission, the existence of these discretionary powers has given rise to a great deal of dissatisfaction with the system which now operates and it is better that they should be withdrawn so that there may be certainty in the application of the section. 
That with regard to certain types of holding, investment and property companies, the section should be applied unless the whole of the distributable  income  is distributed. 
The necessity for this provision is amply demonstrated by the examples of avoidance of tax set out by the royal commission on pages 118-121 of its third report. 
That in the application of the pro visions to the income of any year, credit should be given for " excess " distributions in the preceding four years. This will be of considerable benefit to companies which may have made ample distributions over a series of years but which come to a year when, for good reasons, they desire to make a reduced distribution. 
That the " assumed distribution " of the company's income shall be deemed to have been made on the last day of the year in which it derived the income. Under the present law, the distribution is deemed to have been made at so late a date that an assessment cannot be mad* until over two years after the income has been derived. The assessments will now be greatly facilitated and undesirable delays obviated. Where a company distributes a dividend wholly and exclusively out of profits upon which it has paid tax under these provisions, the shareholders will obtain a rebate of tax with the result that the dividend will be included in their income for averaging purposes only. 
Further provisions are included to prevent avoidance of tax by the distribution ).f profits to shareholders disguised as loans, advances, remuneration, &amp;c. The bill provides that as the statutory exemption is now £250 in respect of all classes of income, returns should in future be required from resident individuals only if their assessable, or gross, income amounts to £250 or more. 
The bill makes one further amendment which is not the result of the recommendations of the royal commission. This extends the power of the Commissioner of Taxation to reduce an assessment after three years have elapsed from the date when the tax was originally due and payable if within that period a taxpayer has made application for the reduction and has supplied all the information necessary for the application to be decided. 
It is considered that in an ordinary case, where there is no question of fraud or evasion, a period of three years should be sufficient, both for the taxpayer and the department to obtain all information necessary to indicate that an assessment should be made either by way of reduction or increase. The bill will achieve this result. 
The amendment of the principal act, will, with the exception of the last mentioned,apply to assessments for the financial year 1934-35. The exception will apply to allow an amendment for any financial year, provided that the necessary conditions exist. 
I realize that it is not easy for honorable senators to follow such a technical exposition of the bill, but I may remind them that it is the result of a considerable amount of investigation and study by the royal commission on taxation, and has already passed the Houseof Representatives. 
Yes, for the sake of uniformity, and to dispense with the technical nature of many assessments. The averaging system relates principally to dividends. 
-It is not retrospective. In the distribution of bonus shares certain technicalities have to be complied with, and by fixing the 31st December ample time is given to companies or individual taxpayers. Copies of the second-reading speech of the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  were sent to organizations likely to be interested or affected, and when the measure was in committee in the House of Representatives, amendments were made as a result of the representations by such organizations. The measure, when enacted, will simplify the legislation, prevent the evasion of taxation, and greatly facilitate the administrative work in  the  Taxation Department. It will also be of considerable assist ance to taxpayers. The amendments contained in the bill have been recommended by  His  Honor,  Mr. Justice  Ferguson and  Mr. Nixon,  members of the royal commission, who have carefully studied their legal and commercial bearings. 
SenatorO'Halloran. - What effect will the measure have upon the revenue of the Commonwealth? 
It will be improved, but not to any considerable extent. It provides for an adjustment of anomalies and a simplification of procedure. It is not a taxation measure in the sense of adding to the burdens of the people. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.That and other points can be explained in committee. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Barnes)  adjourned. 
. -I should like to know if the Government has received any representations for the exemption of cloths for tailored suits. Since I mentioned the matter some time ago. I have been informed that a letter was sent to the Government, hut, apparently, no notice was taken of the request contained in it, because the item "tailored suits" has not been added to the list of exemptions. The tailors of Brisbane contend that they are being unfairly treated; they have to pay the full amount of sales tax, not only on the cloth received from wholesale distributors, but also on completed suits. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria Assistant Minister) [8.3].- . This is not the relevantsection under which we can discuss 'the matter mentioned by the honorable senator. Sales Tax Assessment Act No. 5, which is amended by this clause, deals with imported goods. 
The sales tax on tailored . suits is dealt with in another measure. The represent tations referred to by the honorable senator have been considered and dealt with. The previous Government allowed 20 percent, off the retail sale price, and, by regulation, this concession has been increased to 33 per cent. Therefore, the Government feels that the position has been met as far as it is possible to do so, 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 11 agreed to. 
Clause 12 (Who may be claimants). 
.- I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the clause with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following new clause - 
Amaternity allowance shall be granted to any woman who produces evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner that she is the mother of a living child, such allowance not to be less than £5. 
On many occasions in both the Senate and the House of Representatives, Ministers and their supporters have declared that, because of the Restoration of confidence since this Ministry took office, there has been a steady return of prosperity in Australia. This amendment gives Ministers and their supporters an opportunity to prove their sincerity. In the course of a few days they will be appealing to the electors for a further mandate. The Government has granted remissions of taxation totalling approximately £10,000,000 to the wealthier sections of the community; so it is not too much to ask that the maternity allowance be restored to the original amount. The Fisher Government, which introduced the original measure under which the maternity allowance has been payable, declared emphatically that it was to be a recognition, regardless of class distinctions, of the service rendered to the nation by every woman who bore  a  child. The Government has given relief in many directions to other classes of the community. If it is honest in its declaration that it intends to deal fairly with all section's of the people, it should accept my amendment. Ministers will, no doubt, be advised by departmental officers that, for financial and other reasons, the concession cannot be made. I do not blame the officials ; they are doing their duty  as they see it. But Parliament, as the voice of the people, is master of its own business, and if, in its wisdom, it decides to accept my amendment, there need be no further argument. It is not necessary for me to labour this subject. The amendment will test the sincerity of the Government and its supporters. We may be told that provision for the restoration of social services will be outlined in the policy speech to be delivered shortly by the Prime Minister. I am not disposed to rely upon promises. I want action, And, above all, I wish to see the will of Parliament paramount. 
[8.15]. - By his amendment,  Senator Dunn  seeks to restore the maternity allowance to £5, irrespective of the income of the claimant. This bill proposes to restore in part the amount by which the maternity allowance was reduced under the financial emergency legislation passed by this Parliament. This clause provides for the raising of the income limit in cases in which the claimant has had other children. Theexisting limit of £208 will be retained where there are no surviving children under the age of fourteen years; but, in cases in which children of fourteen years and under are living at the time of the birth in respect of which a claim is made, the income limit will be increased by £13 per annum in respect of each such child, up to a maximum of £299 per annum, and the allowance will be increased by 5s. in respect of such child, up to a maximum of £5. On this basis theposition will be as follows: - 

<graphic href="144332193407312_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

The cost of this concession is estimated at £60,000 per annum, whereas the amendment would involve £260,000 per annum. A provision which would result in that increased expenditure would throw the whole measure out of balance, because the several proposals of the Government have been considered in relation to one another. No government could consent to a vital alteration of its budget proposals, and, in any case, an additional £260,000 is more than the budget could stand. We all hope that the time will soon come when the proposal of the honorable senator will be justified, in view of the improved prosperity of the country; but the proposals embodied in this measure are the beat that can be done in existing circumstances. The Government would have more pleasure in restoring all that has been taken away than in asking the people to continue to make sacrifices; but, until a full measure of prosperity has returned, sacrifices will continue to be necessary. I ask the committee to reject the amendment. 
I shall support the amendment. The Minister said that the object, of the Government throughout had been to ensure equality of sacrifice; but I fail to see where that principle has been embodied in any of the legislation which it has introduced. 'Equality of sacrifice should be measured, not by what has been surrendered, but by what is left. A millionaire may surrender half his income and yet not make so great a sacrifice as would be made by a man in receipt of the basic wage who gave up 10s. 
We want to do away with the present discrimination, and to make it unnecessary for a person to prove the amount of income when making a claim. 
The Minister objected to the amendment on the ground that it would involve an additional expenditure of £260,000 a year.  He  would probably have rejected it if it meant only an additional 5s. a year. The Govern-  ment insists on its supporters falling into line, even to the extent of dotting an " i " or crossing a " t ". The amendment provides the Government with an opportunity to shine before the people in a new light. Acceptance of the amendment would increase its prestige. 
The Minister himself is so generous that, were he the Government, he would accept the amendment, even if the £260,000 had to be provided by those who are better able to bear it than is the average claimant of  a  maternity allowance. There are wealthy people in the community who would not claim the allowance. 
The complications which arise under the existing legislation would disappear with the acceptance of the amendment, and, in addition, the expense involved in making inquiries would be saved. The amendment embodies the principle of the original enactment, that a woman who brings a living child into the world renders a service to the community. The majority of mothers belong to the working class, and sometimes they do not got the care and attention to which they are entitled. The maternity allowance has conferred a real benefit on Australia by diminishing infantile and maternal mortality. 
The basis of computation in regard to the income of claimants is unfair, for  it  takes into account moneys received as superannuation payments. Sums put aside out of a small salary for superannuation purposes should not be regarded as income for the purpose of the maternity allowance. The amendmenit provides the committee with an opportunity to reverse an earlier decision to place heavy taxes on the poor and comparatively light taxes on cbe wealthy section of the community. It is claimed that, if taxes were removed from the wealthy people in our midst, they would hare more money available to expand their businesses, and provide employment for others. Unfortunately, remissions of taxation have not had that result. The  chairman  of directors of David Jones and Company Limited, Sydney, said recently that remissions of taxes meant £20,000 a year to his company. 
I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the subject before the Chair. 
Whilst I am anxious to give the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  credit for his desire to do what is fair to the working mothers of Australia, I seek further information. The Assistant Minister has intimated that the Government is keenly anxious to secure equality of  sacrifice  and to restore gradually what has been taken away, but can he tell me the  total  amount saved in the maternity allowance  as  the result of the Premiers  plan?  Some time after that plan was adopted, £60,000 was saved in the vote,  by  the benign efforts of the present Government, according  to  the budget statement, appearing in  Hansard  of the 1st December, 1932. The Assistant Minister now  says  that the Government proposes  to  restore £60,000, which, therefore, can be only a partial restoration. Evidently  the  principle of equality of sacrifice  of  which the  Minister  spoke so ably before, the dinner adjournment, is not  being  upheld  by  the Government in this instance. On principle, I am opposed to the system of requiring any person to he  in  receipt of  less  than a certain sum before becoming entitled to the allowance, because it has a pauperizing effect, and puts many working mothers in an invidious position. A few months ago the case came  to my  notice of a man employed  on  relief work at a nominal wage of £208  a year.  The State Government retained from his pay a small amount  towards unemployment relief, but for this he was given no credit, and his wife was refused the maternity allowance on the birth of their child, because his salary was officially stated to be £4 a week. He did not handle the money which was deducted from his pay. 
I admit that the ideal allowance would be one payable to every mother irrespective of income. It should be a gift from the nation to the mother who is doing her duty to Australia. The object of the original legislation was to encourage the best immigrant that Australia can have - the native born. . 
SenatorRae. - And to give him better care in infancy. 
The object was also to save the life . of as many infants as possible. In most cases the money is not kept by the mother, but is paid to the doctor and nurse. I do not find fault with that, because doctors and nurses doing properly the skilled work for which they are trained, are worthy of being paid in full. We on this . side believe that the labourer should receive full remuneration for the work which he does. In the aggregate the money has gone into the pockets of the doctors and nurses, with the result that many child ret, who would otherwise have died for lack of proper attention are growing up into good Australians. In its keen desire, as outlined by the Assistant Minister, to do its best for the community, the Government proposes a paltry addition for every child in the family of £13 a year to the allowable income. Such a policy shows the limited outlook and thetrifling mind of the Government. It. isakin to its paltry attitude in regard to pensions. 
Order ! The honorable senator will have other opportunities to discuss that matter. He must at present confine his remarks to the clause and the amendment. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [8.45]. -  Senator Brown  claims to be fighting against the principle of inquisitions. That is to say, he thinks there should be no inquiry regarding the means of an applicant for a maternity allowance. The principle of inquisitions was established by the first financial emergency legislation introduced by the Scullin Government. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.No; but I believe in reasonable investigation being made. Under the original financial emergency legislation passed by this Parliament the maternity allowance was reduced from £5 to £4 and its payment limited to those whose annual income did not exceed £260 per annum. When that legislation was introduced the annual expenditure in this respect was £630,652, and in the succeeding year the amount claimed was £378,022, or a reduction of £252,630. The principle of the curtailment was established by the Scullin Government and endorsed by honorable senators opposite. I am not blaming the Scullin Government for its action in that respect, because the financial position demanded that some alteration be made. The Government now proposes that, in certain cases, those in receipt of incomes up to £299 a year shall be entitled to claim maternity allowance. It is affording additional relief to the amount of £60,000 annually, and what is proposed isin proper ratio to the other concessions given under the bill. It is easy for honorable senators opposite to oppose the principle, but they should remember that it was first established by a Government which they supported. By the concessions now proposed we are improving upon what was done by the Scullin Government. 
In my secondreading speech, I mentioned that the measure provides that £250,000 is to be made available to subsidize the purchase  of  fertilizers for use in producing crops other than wheat. The Minister in charge of the bill charged me with having little faith. If the wheat-growers of Australia have little faith in what is coming to them it is entirely the fault of the Government, because during the seven months Parliament has been in recess and during the three weeks it has been in session this year, Ministers have not given to the wheat-growers the slightest indication of the assistance they are to receive this season. If assistance is to be forthcomingI do not know why an intimation of the Government's intention should be left untilthe dying hours of the session. That, has been the practice during the past three years, and legislation has been passed at a time when honorable senators were in a state of exhaustiou. In this instance the Government has not only promised that assistance will be given, but it has also stated that the interim report of the royal commission on the wheat industry will be made available. The clause provides that assistance to the amount of 15s. a ton shall be provided for purchasing fertilizers used in the production of crops other than wheat; but I cannot understand why the wheat-growers should be excluded. The bill should be amended so that producers of all primary products should be assisted in the same way, particularly when the resources of the Government are not limited to the amount set out in this clause. Last year the amount to be made available for the assistance of wheat-growers was increased almost weekly by £500,000, until it reached £3,000,000. I move- 
That the words " other than " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " including ''. 
This bill makes provision for an appropriation of £250,000 for the relief of certain primary producers " other than wheat-growers ". The honorable senator's amendment is designed to include among the recipients of this appropriation, producers of wheat, and would have the effect of altering the destination of the grant. A previous  President  of the Senate ruled a similar amendment out of order, and I rule that the amendment proposed by  Senator Johnston  is not in order because it seeks to alter the destination of the grant set out in the bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 20 and 21 agreed to. 
Clause 22 (Payments to primary producers in territories). 
What amounts have been paid out of a similar appropriation last year to the Commonwealth territories and the respective States ? 
[9.2]. - The figures are: Queensland, £32,052; New South Wales, £19,632; Victoria, £85,878; South Australia, £34,899; Western Australia, £50,902 10s.; Tasmania, £17,903; and Federal Capital Territory, £28 10s. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 23 to 27 agreed to. 
Clause 28 (Payments to States). 
This clause allocates to the various States the amount to be provided for the assistances of growers of apples or pears. I would like the Minister to explain how the very small amount to be granted to Queensland is arrived at. 
This grant then is essentially a fruit export bounty. If that is so it should be explicitly stated. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant-Minister [9.5]  - The allocation to the different States is based on the quantities exported, but there is no provision binding the States in regard to the distribution of this relief. They may distribute it in any way they think fit. Although the amounts are made available on the basis of exports, this is not really an export bounty. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 29 (Application of moneys paid to States). 
Am I to understand from what  Senator McLachlan  said previously that assistance to growers of citrus fruits will be provided in another measure? 
I give the honorable senator that assurance. I have the matter under consideration at the moment. The Citrus Fruits Committee made certain recommendations and as a result of these an amount of £10,000 is to be made available for this purpose, and a similar amount is to be provided for citrus fruitgrowers in. New South Wales. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 30 (Repeal section 19, Financial Emergency Act 1932). 
[9.8 J. - I ask the committee to negative this clause. It provides for the repeal of so much of section 19 of the Financial Emergency Act 1932 as is in force at the commencement of the Financial Relief Act 1934. Section 19 of the Financial Emergency Act 1932 relates to the Wine Export Bounty Act 1930-1931. Actually the whole of that section is in force and will be in force until the commencement of the Wine Export Bounty Bill 1934 which was before the Senate recently. If clause ;-i0 were retained, it would result in the omission of certain portions of the Wine Export Bounty Act 1930-1931, a result which is not desired until the new Wine Export Bounty Act comes into force on the 1st March, 1935. I assure honorable senators that the object of clause 30 was merely to remove certain formal parts of section 19 which it was considered would remain after the passage of the Wine Export Bounty Bill. Because of the postponement of the date of commencement of this latter measure, clause 30 would have a result which was not anticipated. 
Clause negatived. 
Clauses 31 and 32 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bid reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- This bill proposes to give benefits to certain people to whom promises were made at the last election by the party now in power. On that occasion the leaders of the United Australia party were prolific in promises to the people, and the Government has since received considerable publicity out of what has been claimed on its behalf to be a legitimate fulfilment of those undertakings. Our desire to populate this country as fast and as beneficially as possible is expressed in the law which grants an allowance to mothers in respect of each child born in Australia. That the native-born child is the best migrant we could possibly get was admitted by all. But when the depression commenced a majority in this Parliament determined to make the poorer sections of the people contribute heavily to the financial recovery of the country. Formerly the amount distributed in maternity allowances was £630,000; but this amount was substantially reduced by curtailing the allowance for each child and by restricting it to persons having a very limited income. This bill proposes to restore merely £60,000 of the amount which was taken from the mothers, by slightly raising the income level of recipients; the present income limit of £208 per annum is to be progressively increased by £.13 for each child under fourteen years of age, subject to a maximum income limit of £299 per annum; and the present allowance of £4 is to be increased progressively by 5s. in respect of each child under fourteen years of age, subject to a maximum payment of £5. Thus a mother will get £4 in respect of her first child if the husband's income does not exceed £20S; £4 5s. in respect of the second child if the husband's income does not exceed £221 per annum, and so on. The Government stated that the sacrifices imposed upon the people were only emergency measures and would be discontinued at the earliest opportunity; but it has been very lax in keeping that promise. The public servants were forced to submit to heavy reductions of salaries and wages in order to enable the Government to balance its budget. In July, 1931,  Mr. Lyons,  then Leader of the Opposition, said that the reductions were only to help the country in the emergency, and that as soon as the public finances warranted it, the reductions would be restored. That promise has not been honoured, but the two budgets immediately preceding the present one made remissions of taxation amounting to approximately £9,500,000, principally foi' the benefit of large landholders who are not so much in need of relief as are wageearners. Although some public servants are receiving high salaries, because of their great responsibilities, the big majority of them are wage-earners at very low rates and are suffering severe hardships because of the reduction of salaries and wages. The land tax has been reduced by 50 per cent.; but it was never regarded as art emergency impost. It was originally imposed for definite economic purposes, some of which it has accomplished. "When the country was in the throes of the depression, the - landholders were not taxed for emergency purposes, but when the public finances improved, they were the first to be relieved and were granted huge remissions of taxes at the expense of the public servants and wage-earners in other walks of life. All the promises made hy  Mr. Lyons-  at the time when the emergency legislation was passed have been lostsight of in the preparation of his latest budget. In 1934 the Government paid to the Public Service £1,900,000 less than in 1930, and of that amount, £1,550,000 represented reductions of the cost of living. The balance of £350,000 represented the actual " cuts ". The Government proposes in this budget to restore £270,000 of that amount, leaving a balance of £80,000 yet to be given to the public servants before  Mr. Lyons'  promise is redeemed. There is no excuse for breaking such promises. It cannot bo claimed that the country has not recovered to a very large extent; or that the Government has been just in respect of the sacrifices it has imposed upon the people. The remission of £9,500,000 of taxes was largely for the benefit of people who could well afford to bear the burden ; they had made huge fortunes in prosperous times, but when in a troublous time sacrifices became necessary, relief should not have been given to the wealthy, at the expense of breaking the promises that had been made to the wageearners. 
The Scullin Government levied certain imposts on the people, but had it remained in office it would have given relief long ago. One of its first steps to meet the difficulties confronting Australia was the conversion of £550,000,000 of internal public debt. The lower rate of interest resulting from that successful operation meant ah annual saving to this country of £6,500,000 in interest, an advantage which has been enjoyed by this Government for nearly three' years, and which, I suggest, has been of material assistance to it in balancing the budget. This Government has remitted taxes to the big landlords and insurance Companies - in fact, it has given relief to nearly all sections of the people except the wage-  earners. The remissions in the last budget amounted to £7,500,000, of which £1,100,000 represented relief to big landowners, chiefly banks and other financial institutions occupying valuable city sites. These are the people who have been benefited most from the remissions of taxes by this Government. For this reason I claim that it has broken many of its promises, and for this Ministers and their supporters will suffer at the hands of the electors shortly. 
Although this Government has a majority in both Houses, it is appealing to the people six months before the expiration of its full term. It is idle to say that this is necessary in order to obtain a fresh mandate. The Government obtained its mandate at the last election, and it should make an effort to give effect to the promises contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons).  The sudden decision to appeal to the people is probably due to the dry rot that has become apparent in the ranks of the great army of ministerial supporters, and since the Government has not kept its promises the electors will be glad of the opportunity to deal with it. 
I welcome the bill because it contains many features that will be acceptable to the people. The remissions of sales tax will bo particularly welcomed, and will be of great assistance. One has only to look through the long list of exemptions to appreciate the difficulty which taxpayers experience in making up their returns. In some cases, it is said, the cost of preparing returns exceeds the amount of tax payable. 
I am glad that, probably as a result of representations made to Ministers, the Government has seen fit to continue the subsidy to assist farmers to purchase artificial manure used for the growing of crops other than wheat. Last year, we voted a similar amount, and I assure the Senate that it was of great assistance to a large number of dairy farmers, potatogrowers, mixed farmers and graziers, who will heartily welcome the continuance of the subsidy. While there is evidence of returning prosperity to Australia, I am quite sure that the majority of the farmers are not getting their share of it. I regret, however, that the Government has not included agricultural lime in the definition of " artificial manure." To have done so would not have involved much additional expenditure. Personally, I would prefer to see clause J25 struck out and provision for the payment of a subsidy on agricultural lime included in clause 21. Certain types of soil require the application of lime, which is an expensive treatment as the land requires to be dressed heavily. If the Government had included agricultural lime in the definition clause, it would have been of very great help to our farmers. I also think that if the Ministry had consulted with the State authorities with regard to this subsidy on artificial manures, the State Governments would have agreed to make an equal contribution so that the amount available for the assistance of farmers in this way would have been doubled. I express this view because, during the recent election in Tasmania, the then Government announced that, if returned, it would provide free railage for agricultural lime and manure, and as this would represent 8s. or 10s. a ton added to the 15s. a ton subsidy granted by this Parliament, it would have been a very real help. I do not know that it is too late even now to make representation to the State Governments in this matter. Clause 25, paragraph  b.  provides that the purchaser of " agricultural lime or other soil amendment " will not be subsidized. I suppose " other soil amendment " means a commodity that will alter the constituents of the soil without supplying plant food. Then in paragraph c there is the provision prohibiting payment of subsidy in respect of the purchase of " any product prepared primarily for supplying lime to the soil ". I am sure that definition will bo very hard to interpret, and I should not be surprised if it leads to litigation. I say that for this reason: A mixture containing 19 cwt. of lime and 1 cwt. of sulphate of potash is applied to certain classes of soil. How could any one say whether " that mixture was prepared " primarily " for supplying lime to the soil, or primarily for the purpose of applying potash as a plant food? I believe that 1 cwt. of potash would bo  slightly dearer than 19 cwt. of lime, and I am sure that it could be argued that a mixture of this nature would be regarded as a fertilizer. Any difficulty in the future could be avoided by an amendment providing that if the plant food in the product exceeded the monetary value of the lime, it could be  regarded  as a fertilizer. The definition clause should be made clearer, otherwise it may be tested at law, and I am afraid that interpretation of the word " primarily " may lead to difficulties. 
I note also that the Government has again set aside  the sum  of £125,000 for assistance to fruit-growers. This amount, as I said when the grant for last year was under consideration, is totally inadequate, because the fruit-growers of Tasmania, at all events, are down and out, and require a very much larger measure of assistance. I am glad to know, however, that the money is to be made available to the State governments for distribution, without any hampering conditions. The fruit-growers have had a very lean time for many years and the out-' look for this industry is causing a great deal of concern. It is one of the most important industries in Tasmania. No other rural activity gives more employment, because for fruit-growing the land has to be cultivated intensively and heavily manured ; the trees have to be pruned, sprayed and cared for. It also provides a great deal of work for saw-millers. In Tasmania the millers provide 20,000,000 superficial feet annually for case-making alone. In addition, it gives a great deal of employment to pickers, packers, carters, and wharflabourers, and the freight charges on overseas shipment are an important addition to ship-owners' revenue. If something is not done  very  soon to  rehabilitate  the industry, it will come to an end. That would be a disaster for Tasmania, because if our orchardists fail and are obliged to grub out their trees, there is no other industry for which the land is suitable, as the areas are too small to provide a living by growing any other commodity. 
The present position of our fruitgrowers is, to a large extent, the result of federal legislation. High tariff charges have increased production costs tremendously. About twenty years ago the industry was prospering, because, while returns then were only slightly better than the price received for the early shipments this year, production costs were very much lower, and if fruitgrowers were not making much money, they were at least getting along very nicely, but now, with the high costs, they are unable to live. A reputable grower told me that expenses to-day amount to 7s. 6d. a bushel case, made up as follows: - picking, packing, grading, cases, &amp;c, ls. 5d. ; cartage and freight to wharf, 4d. ; shipping charge, 2£d. ; freight to  London  4s. 1-id.; consolidated charge and selling, ls. 5d. Nothing is provided for interest, rent, depreciation of plant, cultivation, spraying and general upkeep, or the living expenses of the orchardist. The gross return this year was, in many instances, only equal to about 7s. 6d. a case. In many instances this year's small credits went to pay off last year's debits. Prior to the war the shipping freight was 2s. 6d. a case; now it is 4s. lid., a difference of ls. 7-Jd. Other costs also have increased. By restricting the varieties grown for export, the fruit-growers have tried to assist themselves. I agree that there should be some restriction of varieties, with a view to giving consumers what they want; but the greatest care should be taken in this connexion. The restrictions which were made were recommended by fruit-growers on the mainland, and were, in many instances, particularly hard on Tasmanian growers, who had been in the fruit-growing business many years before the mainland States took it up, and had planted their orchards to a greater extent with the older varieties. I tried to get the restrictions removed from the variety known as' the " Wolseley," but without success. I did not altogether blame the Minister for refusing the request, because representations in favour of the restriction were made to him by the growers' representatives who were advising him. It is, however, significant that "Wolseley" apples give good returns to New Zealand growers. Apples of that variety  ex  the  Sultan Star  and  Middlesex,  realized from 8s. to 10s. a case in London, compared with 7s. 6d. and 10s. a case for " J  Jonathans."  Those  figures show the need for care in restricting the varieties for export. One grower told me that the restriction on the export of " W olseley " apples meant that he was unable to export one-sixth of his crop. He had 900 cases which had to be sacrificed although there was a good market abroad. It may be said that the trees can be grafted  over  to more desirable varieties, but the prevalence of fungus diseases makes the reworking of fruit trees a hazardous undertaking. Moreover, there is the danger that by the time the re-worked trees are in full bearing the fashion will have changed again. Honorable senators may not know that there are fashions in apples. At one time growers were advised to plant the " Spitzenberg " variety ; to-day that variety is barred from the export trade. The best way to deal effectively with this industry is to reduce costs. Given a fair deal, Tasmania can produce apples at competitive prices for disposal in the world's markets. If freights were reduced to pre-war rates, a great fillip would be given to the industry. Unfortunately, under existing conditions in Australia, we cannot produce apples in competition with other countries. Unless costs and freights can be reduced considerably, a guaranteed price for apples will be essential. In all probability, the wheat-growers of Australia will be given a guaranteed price for their wheat in the home market. 
Fruit cannot be dealt with in the same way as wheat. There are too many varieties to permit of that being done. As citizens of the Commonwealth, the fruit-growers of Tasmania ask for a guaranteed price for next season's crop. The fruit industry is as important to Tasmania as the wheat industry to the mainland. Although manufacturers may not be guaranteed certain prices, they can rely on being able to pay their way, because the tariff eliminates competition to that extent.What is done for our secondary industries should also be done for our primary industries. 
I was speaking of the export trade. Before shipment, all fruit is inspected, and only the best quality is exported. The owner  of the  factory in which ploughs are made is assured of a fair profit; the man who works in the factory is guaranteed  a  fair wage; but the man who uses the plough is not protected; he has to accept for  his  product what he can get for it in competition with the world. Spray-pumps and other requirements of the orchardist have increased considerably in price,  but  no protection  is  given to the man who uses them. Primary producers, whether they grow fruit, potatoes, wheat  or  other products, should share the good things of life, with the manufacturers  and factory  workers. There is evidence of  a return  to prosperity in Australia, but those who work the land are not sharing in it. 
During  the  last two or three years shares in most industrial undertakings have doubled their value. In support of the claim for a guaranteed price of 4s. 6d.  a  case for fruit, I point out that no industry provides more employment than does fruit-growing, and that in New Zealand' there is a guaranteed price  for  fruit. What is done in New Zealand  for  the orchardist should be done in Australia. I hope that the Government will do something for the fruit-growers, many of whom are  in  a serious plight. 
 In the case of wheat, a pool may be all right, because  a  fair average quality can be arrived at; but there are so many varieties of fruit that I do not think that a pool would be successful. There might, with advantage, be more co-operation on the part of producers than there is now. I trust that the Government will give these representations its earnest consideration. 
 I am glad that  the  Government is able to give financial relief to some sections of the community. My only regret is  that  it  is  not able  to  go further,  and  remove  some of the burden imposed by the tariff. The reduction of the sales tax, the increase of the maternity allowance, the restoration of war pensions, the partial restoration of salaries and wages, and the small measure of relief to primary producers, including growers of apples and pears are most welcome. 
I wish to refer particularly to part VI. of the bill, which provides for the" granting of relief to primary producers by means of a subsidy of 15s a ton on artificial manures. Two years ago similar relief was granted at a cost of £250,000, and at the same time the wheat industry was given a bounty of £2,000,000 by means of a bonus for each acre cropped. On this occasion no assistance is promised to the wheat-growers. I disagree with the restriction that the £250,000 shall be expended in the relief of primary producers other than those who grow wheat, but the wheat-growers should be given the same subsidy of 15s. a ton on the fertilizers they use. Had the wheat-growersbeen given no concession in respect of fertilizers two years ago, when other direct assistance was given to them, I could have understood the action of the Government; but I cannot understand why, on this occasion, when no other assistance is promised to them, they should be deprived of the subsidy on fertilizers. I agree that orchardists, potato-growers, dairymen and others who use fertilizers, should be granted a subsidy, but I claim that the wheat-growers should share in the amount. 
SenatorO'Halloran. - The pastoralist who top-dresses his pasture will benefit. 
That is so; and the producer of beet or cane-sugar will also be assisted. I fail to understand why only the producer of wheat is to be excluded from these benefits. It is an unjust and unwarranted discrimination against a most deserving section of primary producers. 
-I do not know. Generally, the policy of the Government in such matters is revealed in the budget, but the budget presented a few days ago does not include any provision to assist the wheat-grower. I saw in to-day's press a statement that wheatgrowers may he permitted to find money for themselves by means of a home consumption pool or some other such arrangement, but that is no reason why they should be excluded from the fertilizer bounty. The bill provides for assistance to every producer of cereals, except wheat, to the amount of 15s. a ton of any kind of fertilizer he chooses to apply to his land. I see no reason why it should discriminate against the wheat-grower at a time when, so far as we know, the Government is giving no assistance to his industry. 
That is the burden of my complaint. The Government selects superphosphate, which is widely used for the improvement of pastures and the production of cereals, and says to people on the land : " We want you to use superphosphate on your properties; if you use it to encourage the growth of grass, or for the production of hay, so long as it is not wheaten hay, or the growth of barley, oats, rye, or any other cereal which is not half so valuable a support of human life as wheat is, we shall subsidize you to the amount of 15s. a ton. But if you use it for wheat, the essential for bread, which is the staff of life, we can give you no such assistance ". 
The honorable senator may be right on that point. I do not know whether he is or not. I do know that the wheat-growers are getting nothing now. We are copying legislation which we passed two years ago in different circumstances. At that time, when we accepted a bill in the same form as this, excluding the wheat-grower from participation in the fertilizer subsidy, we made a direct grant of £2,000,000 to the wheat-grower. Last year we granted £3,000,000 in the same way for his assistance. This year, however, so far as I have been able to ascertain, we are giving him no assistance, but rather are discriminating against him by preventing him fromsharing in the fertilizer subsidy. I object to such discrimination and do not understand why the producer of wheat should be put at a disadvantage under this legislation in comparison with all other primary producers. Even if it is the intention of the Government to assist him in another direction after the elections, we should, in the meantime, so amend this measure that he will be given a subsidy of 15s. a ton on the fertilizer he uses. 
I come now to the provision of £125,000, for the second successive year, for the assistance of the growers of apples and pears. 
-I should have been pleased, with the hon- orable senator, had the amount been larger, but I compliment the Government upon the fact that it is learning by experience, in that this year it is not confining the distribution of the vote for this purpose to necessitous growers, but is giving it to the States to distribute without restriction, I take it, to all those exporters of apples and pears who made a loss on this season's operations. Last year the bill was introduced in this form, but when it reached this chamber, the Minister in charge of it, for some reason that did not appeal to members of the Country party, sought to confine the distribution entirely to those who had not only made losses on their export operations, but could also prove that they were in necessitous circumstances. The members of the Country party in this chamber voted against that alteration. 
There is no reason why all fruit producers should not be included, whilst the Government is in its present beneficent mood. Much dissatisfaction has existed among the exporters of apples and pears throughout the Commonwealth with the method in which the relief has been granted under last year's act. We learned a few days ago that up to that time no distribution had been made in Western Australia of last year's grant. I believe that some States still have in hand a great deal of money from last year, and I urge the Minister in charge of the bill to see that, in those States where it has been found difficult to distribute last year's grant to the exporters of apples and pears who made a loss on their operations - a difficulty which has to a great extent arisen over the interpretation of the word " necessitous " - arrangements are made to distribute the balance in hand on the same basis as is adopted in this bill in relation to this year's grant. Such a policy would do away with a great deal of the confusion and annoyance experienced in some of the States. I hope the Government will take that suggestion into consideration while the bill is still before the Senate. I am glad that the Government is again making the grant, of which Western Australia will receive £14,505, to those who are making a loss on their export operations in apples this year. 
Western Australia is in a slightly better freight position than is Tasmania, but, on the other hand, its apple and pear industry has not nearly attained* the proportions that have been so happily reached in the island State. In any case, this assistance is being given on an allAustralian basis, and is most welcome. I am glad the Government is granting it again, but I urge it to see that the balance of last year's grant is distributed by the State Governments to all those who are entitled to receive it, on the basis adopted in this measure. 
.- I wish to express appreciation of the measure. It is a tribute to the Government that it has managed the affairs of the Commonwealth during the past year so satisfactorily as to be able to introduce another hill that will give considerable financial relief to the people. I hope that these measures of financial relief will each year' confer increasing benefits upon the people, at any rate, until a normal condition of affairs is again  established in Australia. That would, after all, be only carrying out the promise made by the Minister who introduced the original Financial Emergency Bill. It  is  as well to remember that when the emergency legislation requiring heavy sacrifices from various sections of  the  community was first introduced, it was definitely and distinctly stated that whilst the Government very much regretted its necessity, it hoped, within a reasonable period, to be able to bring forward a financial relief bill. That is practically the contract made with the people, not only by this Government, but by its predecessors. The undertaking was that  the Financial Emergency Act was  to  be only a temporary measure to meet  the  abnormal conditions then existing, and that relief would be afforded to the community as speedily as possible.  The  result is that we now have before us tho second or third instalment of help which  is  very much appreciated by all sections of the community. 
I  am gratified that so much attention  has  been paid to the need for adding  to  the list of exemptions from sales tax. This is one of the best forms in which relief could be given to tho community as a whole. It is interesting to note the caro that has been exercised in the selection  of  additional items for exemption from  the  operations of the tax. Any one who goes carefully through the lengthy list embodied in the bill must realize the amount of care and interest shown by the Treasurer  (Mr. Lyons)  and his responsible officers in allocating this portion of the assistance afforded by the bill- It will, as I say, be gratefully received by many sections of the community. 
The relief to be afforded once more to the growers of apples and pears has already been discussed by  Senator J.  B. Hayes, who, with other honorable senators, expressed regret that the Government had not been able to see its way clear  to  give even greater help in this direction, seeing that the fruit export season through which we have just passed has been literally disastrous. I do not suppose any honorable senator knows more about the progress and development of the fruit industry in Tasmania than I do. When a youth, I was in the Huon dis- trict looking over the lands which are now the leading fruit-growing area of Australia. Not one acre of them was then being used for any purpose whatever. The country was looked upon as a desert which could not be utilized for any good purpose, but after a while it was discovered by experiment to be eminently suitable for the growing of apples and pears, and for nothing else. There is to be found there to-day the closest settlement existing in Australia. The areas are small, and settlement is compact. Every inch of ground that can be used for fruitgrowing in the Huon district has been taken up. One good point made by  Senator J.  B. Hayes was that unless measures are taken by the community to preserve the industry it must eventually perish, and this wonderful settlement be wiped entirely off the map, because the land can be used for no other purpose. Agriculturists regard the Huon soil as the poorest to be found anywhere, and it is the poorest imaginable for agricultural purposes. However, for fruit-growing it is excellent, but I know of no other purpose to which it could possibly be put. The fruit-growing industry, which has developed considerably during recent years, is the most important in Tasmania. The greatest difficulty with which orchardists have to contend is that, while the cost of production has increased - mainly through the adoption of our standard of living - returns from the sale of fruit have been lower, as the purchasing power of the people in whose countries our fruit is sold has not increased. As the growers have to shoulder additional responsibilities Parliament should provide them with some permanent form of relief, and thus ensure the stability of the industry which is  so  important to Australia. 
It is pleasing to note that the Government proposes to renew the assistance previously given to primary producers by subsidizing the purchase of fertilizers used in the production of crops other than wheat, to the amount of 15s. a ton. The measure does not embrace so many sections as did a similar bill passed last year; but as the Government has endeavoured to afford relief to those most needing it the bill will be welcomed by a large section of the community. 
I congratulate the Government upon being able again to introduce a financial relief bill under which assistance is to be given to a large number of the Australian people. Even the Leader of the Opposition.  (Senator Barnes)  found it difficult; to offer any serious criticism of the Government's financial proposals. He said that; relief would have been afforded in other directions, such as by providing a greater restoration of public servants salaries, had the financial position of the Commonwealth warranted it. 
The Leader of the Opposition does not criticize the Government merely for the sake of doing so; and commends the Government when commendation is warranted. I am pleased to find that the relief afforded to primary producers during the last year or two is to be renewed this year, as upon them the burden of taxation has pressed perhaps more heavily than upon any other section of the community owing to the enormous fall in the prices realized for our exportable products. This has resulted in tremendous financial embarrassment to many primary producers, who in common with other sections of the community have had to submit to additional taxation. Moreover, owing to our fiscal policy, the financial emergency legislation passed by Parliament and the high exchange rates at present prevailing between Australia and Great Britain, the tourist traffic has been interfered with and freights have increased. 
The relief proposed in respect of sales taxation will be of direct benefit to the whole community, but I regret that fruitpicking bags have not been included in the Hat of exemptions. Last, year representations were made to  Sir Walter  MassyGreene, concerning the disabilities experienced by fruit-growers as a result of the imposition of the sales tax on these bags, and it was then said that through an oversight they had not been included. As I believe an undertaking W Fl S then given that they would be included in the next list of exemptions I trust that when the bil] is -in committee the oversight will be remedied. Many of the growers of apples and pears in Tasmania are receiving debit notes instead of credit notes in respect of their overseas shipments of fruit, and consequently are experiencing the greatest difficulty in arranging finance for this year's crop. A tremendous volume of work is entailed in cultivating and fertilizing the ground and in pruning and spraying the trees. At this time of the year they have to make arrangements to purchase casing material required when the crop is being picked.  Senator J.  B. Hayes mentioned that 20,000,000 super feet of timber is used for this purpose. 
Some of those in the trade prefer the  use  of soft woods for case-making, but in view of the extensive supplies of Australian timbers available, it is regrettable that imported soft woods are used. Much employment is provided in felling the timber and in cutting it and manufacturing it into causes to pack the enormous crop. Arrangements have also to be made early in the year for the supply of case material and space for shipment overseas of from 3,000,000 to 3,500,000 cases of fruit, and this trade necessitates about 40 of the large overseas ships calling at Hobart. Honorable senators will readily realize what the apple trade means to transport and other workers. A great amount of capital is invested in this industry, which is now in serious difficulties. Whilst 1 appreciate, as I am sure the growers do, the help which the Government is giving to the industry in the form of an unconditional bounty, I regret that the amount is inadequate to meet fully the desperate straits of. the growers. I cannot suggest any method by which the Government could substantially help the industry other than those measures already proposed by my two colleagues. I believe that the growers, in conference, have come to an agreement as to ways and means of assisting the industry, and among these are proposals for reducing the freight overseas by ls. 6d. a case, and guaranteeing to the growers a minimum price of 4s. 6d. a case. These steps, it is claimed, would be of substantial help to the industry. Another proposal to which the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  has given a lot of attention, is that the fruit floors of Great Britain should be cleared of foreign fruit earlier than at present so as to give the Australian crop, when it arrives in Britain, a clear market, unhampered by the tail end of the American crop. This proposal is worthy of the closest consideration of the Government. It is the declared policy of the Government to encourage reciprocal trade with Great Britain, and something of this nature could be done as part of that policy. A deputation representing the Tasmanian fruit-growers has discussed this matter with the Minister and has suggested to him that this is one way in which the Government can substantially assist the industry. 
Tasmanian primary producers have nothing but words of commendation for the Minister, and' they feel confident that if he fails to accomplish the objective he has in mind, it will not be because of lack of interest or effort on his part. The Minister for Commerce is doing his job remarkably well in the interests of all those engaged in the export of primary products. 
I have no doubt that the subsidy for the .purchase of artificial fertilizers will be greatly appreciated by those who find their use essential. I commend the Government for having repeated the provision made last year to assist the primary producers in this way. Already the subsidy has been of immeasurable benefit to the man on the land.  Senator E.  B- Johnston referred to the omission from the bill of any provision for the wheat-growers, even in connexion with the purchase of fertilizers, but I feel sure that the Government, at the proper time, will see that that industry does not suffer. The Government realizes the importance of the wheat industry; and  Senator Johnston  knows quite well that the Government will again, as it did last season, come to the assistance of the farmers. As a primary producer myself, and a representative of a State that is mainly concerned in primary production, I have no doubt that what the Government proposes jo do in this bill will bc appreciated, not only in Tasmania, but throughout the Commonwealth. I hope that the relief afforded in the bill is only a forerunner of even more substantial relief to be given when the Government introduces its budget proposals for next year. 
We all know this bill is submitted, to some extent, as a bit of political window-dressing on the eve of the elections. While all my Tasmanian friends have been congratulating the Government on the assistance it proposes to give to the fruit-growing industry, it seems to mc that some fruit-growers, equally deserving of such assistance, and with equally great obstacles to contend with, have been overlooked altogether. I refer particularly to growers of citrus fruits. 
It has not been given to growers of mandarins. I have seen tons of mandarins left to rot in the orchards, owing to lack of markets. I do not believe we shall all become rich by subsidizing o«e another, but I think assistance should be given to mandaringrowers in the hills, the Kurrajong district, and other parts of New South Wales. This fruit has been a waste product so far this season, and the market will not improve as the season advances and other fruits come into competition with mandarins. It is unjust to exclude mandarin-growers from the benefits of this measure. It is self-evident that if the fruit-growing industry is to be subsidized, all sections of it should participate in such assistance. I was an orchardist for seventeen years, in a district in which the soil is incapable of growing anything but fruit trees, and it would not have grown them if it had not been heavily fertilized over a period of years. The cost of fertilizer  thu3  absorbed a fair proportion of the income, and the orchardist could subsist only with the aid of the supplementary returns from peas and bean  3.  Any help given to one section of fruit-growers should be given to all. I have expended upwards of £4 an acre on fertilizers to grow citrus and passion-fruits. 
In regard to wheat-growing, I understand, from newspaper rumours, that some measure of relief will he given :o the farmers, but  Senator Johnston  is perfectly correct in stating that they have been overlooked in this measure. The wheat-producers form a very large body of men who, at the moment, are having a desperate uphill fight against unusually low prices and other obstacles. I hope that this measure will be supplemented by another to give substantial relief to the wheat industry, not as a mere haphazard grant to be appealed for annually, but in accordance with a permanent, and well balanced plan. At one time I was, for a few years, a wheat-grower, and my experience was similar to that of many growers of the day. When I commenced to grow wheat the price  waa  round about 4s. 6d. a bushel. Gradually, it fell until, when I abandoned the industry, it was down to about ls. lOd. a bushel. I mention my experience in order to show that unprofitable prices are not by any moans of recent date, and to emphasize also that the benefits of the Government's policy with reference to the purchase of fertilizers should not he confined to a mere handful of fruitgrowers. 
The slight addition to the maternity allowance provided for in this measure is farcical. The Government should revert to the original conditions under which this allowance was payable, so that it may he available to every mother  at a  time when it is most needed. The idea of attaching to the payment, property qualifications of any kind is repugnant to every fair-minded person. This attempt to make paupers of those who claim the allowance by compelling them to undergo an examination of a most intimate character as to their financial position is scandalous. I happened to be a member of the Senate when the Fisher Government introduced the bill for the payment of maternity allowances, and I well remember the emphasis then laid on the provision that it was to be payable without class distinction of any kind; that it was to be a recognition by the community of the value of the contribution t&gt;&gt; the nation's assets made by every woman who gave birth to a child. There is no justification for this attempt at piecemeal restoration of  any  of our social services in view of the fact that the Government has remitted £9,900,000 in taxation to the wealthier sections of this community who can well afford to bear that burden. It is scandalous that pensions, maternity allowances and other social services have not been restored in full. I cannot congratulate any government that fails to realize that taxation should be levied on the people in proportion  to  their ability to bear it, and neglects to remove unconditionally the restrictions in respect of social services. Instead of congratulating this Government for what  it has  clone I feel like indicting it, because it has bestowed benefits on those who least require them, and has refrained from showing simple justice  to  those of our people who are in the greatest need. 

 Senator Herbert Hays this afternoon endeavoured to show that the remarks of  Senator Barnes,  with respect to the maternity allowances, were indirectly a tribute to the  Government,  when, as a matter of fact,  Senator Barnes  was merely trying  to  prove that if, as is claimed, this Government has been responsible for the restoration of prosperity, it should be  in a  position to make greater concessions  to the  poorer sections of the community. When the financial emergency legislation was under discussion the people were told distinctly that the sacrifices required of them would be removed as soon as possible.  No  one dreamed then that restoration of Public Service salaries and  of  social services would be made  in  this piecemeal fashion, especially when such wholesale concessions were being made  to the  wealthier supporters of the Government. Public servants are having restored to them merely a fraction of what they have lost, although I know that a great song is being made about the " generosity "  of  the Government in its dealings with  the  Public Service. Before important concessions are made to the wealthier classes of this country, all public servants should have restored to them in full the deductions made under the Financial Emergency Act. 
The way in which the laws of this country are being administered against the poorer classes is well illustrated in  to-day's  issue of the  Labor Daily,  which publishes an article stating that a crippled young woman, the sole support of her unemployed brother, is being billed by the Pensions Department for about £7. the balance remaining, after paying funeral expenses, from a life insurance policy on the life of her mother, who died recently. That case is a scandal  to  the Government, and also to a community that permits to continue the conditions which make it possible. It seems that this claim has been made under those provisions of the amended Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act which enable the Government to levy on the estate of pensioners. In this case there was a life insurance policy of £33, and after the funeral expenses amounting  to  £26 had been deducted, there was a balance of £70s.10d. which is being claimed by the Government. 
If the right honorable gentleman will read the article to which I have directed attention, he will find  that  the Deputy Commissioner is claiming from the crippled daughter the amount mentioned.  The  facts are beyond dispute. They are contained in the memorandum from the Deputy Commissioner. 
Under this bill a small amount of relief is being given to dependants of returned soldiers, but thousands of returned soldiers are still suffering very serious disabilities due to the fact that there has not been complete restitution of the pensions payable to them. The many complaints that are brought under the notice of honorable senators indicate quite clearly that the relief given by the Government is very partial. I believe that the people of this country will show that they realize that these small concessions are only political window dressing, and that the Government does not intend to do simple justice or honour its promises. 
Any property comprised in the estate of the pensioner which - 
is not bona fide required for the payment of his funeral and testamentary expenses and debts (including any rates and taxes charged upon his property), and 
is not exempt from the provisions of this section, shall be applied towards the satisfaction of the debt due to the Commonwealth under this section. (5.) The following property shall be exempt from the provisions of this section: - 
personal effects, as prescribed, of a value not exceeding Fifty pounds; 
any sunt representing funeral or mortuary benefit received by reason of the death of the pensioner from a friendly society registered under any act or State act to the extent to which such sum exceeds the funeral expenses; 
property which passes under the will of the pensioner to a relative who - 
is a pensioner, or 
ii ) is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, in necessitous circumstances : or 
was, at the death of the pensioner, residing as a member of the family of the pensioner in a home owned by the pensioner. (6.) Where any perron who has an interest in the estate of the pensioner satisfies the Commissioner that the application of the provisions of this section would cause undue hardship to him, the Commissioner may exempt the interest of that person from the provisions of thissection, or may reduce the amount repayable under thissection to such extent as he considers necessary for the purpose of preventing such hardship. 
Under the law as it exists, the case presented by the honorable senator could be dealt with under sub-section 6 if application is made for relief. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The section quoted does not refer to insurance policies. The provision for the  recovery of the debt operates when a stranger is to benefit, or when the pensioner's estate is so large as to justify  the  Government in claiming a refund of the amount paid to him. There is full power to the Commissioner to make such remission as he thinks fit in cases of hardship. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.If particulars of the case are submitted, I undertake that an investigation will be made, and that the law will be administered compassionately. The amount owing to the Government by pensioners is not given priority over other debts as is generally the case with amounts owing to the Crown ; it is payable only when the circumstances fully justify it, and no hardship is entailed. Having found the officers of the department most sympathetic and considerate, I have no reason to doubt the fairness of their administration. 
I can only repeat that if details of the case are submitted to me, I shall have them investigated. 

 Senator Rae also referred to the granting of assistance to the growers of mandarins. A sub-committee of Cabinet has been considering this subject, and I hope to make a pronouncement of the Government's policy in due course. 
There will be ample time before then for the Government's policy to be announced. 
The honorable senator described as paltry the proposed restoration of salaries to public servants. I suggest that there is nothing paltry in a full restoration to all public servants in receipt of a salary up to £388 per annum. 

 Senator Herbert Hays said that a promise was made by  Senator Massy-Greene,  when Minister, that fruit-picking bags would be exempted from sales tax. I have asked the officers of the department to search  Hansard  and the departmental records in order to ascertain whether there is any record of such a promise having been made. If the promise was made, the Government will honour it. So far, no record of the promise referred to has been found. 
The Government, in giving careful consideration to the requests tor exemptions from the sales tax,has endeavoured to provide the maximum relief to primary producers by extending the list of exemptions as far as possible, having regard to the loss of revenue involved. The policy of the Government 'is to grant relief in equal ratio to all sections of the community; this bill embodies that principle. Every claim for exemption is considered by the Government in the light of its effect on the whole scheme, and the amount of revenue involved. 
Several honorable senators have suggested a guaranteed price for fruit. Provision to that end could not well be incorporated in a measure of this kind. That the Government has not lost sight of the plight of the fruit-growers will be recognized when it is remembered that last year £125,000 was provided for their relief. The Government is asking Parliament to vote a similar sum this year to assist them. I ask honorable senators not to press this matter unduly. 

 Senator Payne spoke in complimentary terms of this bill, and commended the Government for what it had done. I am confident that his sentiments have the support of the community generally. 
To  Senator E.  B. Johnston, who drew attention to the words " other than wheat " in clause 19, I would say, as was said in olden times, " Oh ye of little faith ". The honorable senator has been promised several times that a statement of the Government's policy in regard to wheat will be made before the termination of the session. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.Those honorable senators who are trying to make political capital out of the noninclusion in this bill of any provision for granting relief to wheat-growers will be disappointed when the Government's policy is declared, because they will find one of their best arguments taken from them. 
Promises made by this Government become realities in due course. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.If I thought that the ship was sinking, I would remain with it. The reason why wheat  is  not mentioned in this bill, is that it has not been the practice to include assistance to wheat-growers in an omnibus measure. 
In 1931- 32 wheat-growers were assisted to the amount of £3,400,000. 
In 1932- 33 the wheat-growers were granted £2,000,000 and in 1933-34, £3,000,000. The proposals of the Government for 1934-35 will be announced before the end of the session. 

 Senator Johnston referred to trouble that had occurred in Western Australia in the distribution of the relief grant to fruit-growers. I am advised by the officers of the department that the difficulty in that State, relative to last year's apple and pear grant, has now been settled. The amount to be distributed is £10,918. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.That is correct. The difficulty was not the creation of this Government, but was found by the State Government to exist in administration. It has now been overcome, and we hope that everything will proceed smoothly. 

 Senator J. B. Hayes referred to agricultural lime, and deplored its exclusion from definition of artificial manure. Clause 25, to which the honorable senator drew attention, and particularly paragraph c, was prepared under the advice of the agricultural chemists of one of the State departments. The Government is acting on the advice of the State Departments of Agriculture in excluding lime from the operation of this measure. Agricultural lime is a soil amendment, and not a fertilizer, which is plant food. Lime is relatively cheap, and a subsidy of 15s. a ton would be too great. The Government wishes to devote the whole of the funds available to encourage the use of fertilizer. The experts of the State agricultural departments support the omission of agricultural lime. We are trying to do the greatest good to the greatest number, and so to render assistance that the greatest benefit will be reaped. 
In reply to my genial colleague,  Senator Barnes,  who characterized the remission of land tax as quite improper, I may state that land tax was remitted by this Government as part of its policy for the assistance of those engaged in country industries. They were down and out, and the tax had to be paid out of capital, or out of liabilities, instead of profits. The Government, therefore, felt that some remission was due, and made it accordingly. In that action it was supported by both Houses. The honorable senator also spoke about the promise to restore salaries to the Public Service. In this connexion, I wish to repeat what I said a little earlier, that the underlying principle of the financial emergency legislation was equality of sacrifice. On the one hand, burdens were imposed upon the people, and, on the other, reductions were made in salaries and social services. The Government has, from year to year, endeavoured to give relief on a symmetrical basis, bearing in mind the underlying principle of equality of sacrifice. Reference has been made to relief from taxation. We have by no means given relief from all the depression or emergency taxes that had to be imposed. We still have the sales tax, the primage duties, and the super property tax of 6 per cent. The Government remitted taxation in equal ratio with the benefits which it was giving in other directions, that is, with the lifting of the burdens on other classes of the community. It endeavoured to spread the burdens according to the ability to bear them, and in keeping with a definite public policy, and to restore salaries and other payments in the same ratio. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  regarded it as a sin on the part of the Government that it had made certain concessions to life assurance companies. He condemned the Government for what it had done. Its action was, of course, supported by Parliament, and inferentially, therefore, the honorable senator is blaming, not only the Government, but the whole Parliament. I remind him that people in glass houses should not throw stones, and that people, when they charge others with failure to fulfil promises and carry out election pledges, should make sure that they and their party and their government have given effect to the promises and pledges for which they made them- selves responsible. If the honorable senator refers to the policy speech made by the Right Honorable J. H. Scullin, at Richmond, Victoria, when he appealed to the electors in 1929 for a mandate, and was returned with a triumphant majority, be will discover that it contains the allegation that the tax which the BrucePage Government had put on life assurance companies was a tax on thrift, and, therefore, to be deprecated, and that one of the first acts of the Scullin Government would be to lift it. What did the Scullin Government do? 
I know that the situation changed with lightning-like rapidity, but the Scullin Government did something else. It said to the life assurance companies, "You were formerly chastised with whips, but now you shall be chastised with scorpions'' and it. enormously increased the burdens which such companies had to bear. It is only because of the emergency conditions operating in this country that the continuance of that kind of taxation is justified. These are thrift institutions, like friendly societies, making provision for widows and children and other dependent people. As a matter of public policy, speaking now for myself and not. for the Government, the greatest measure of exemption from government taxation should be afforded to life assurance funds. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.They lend at current rates of interest only. They invest in government securities, and in that way help governments. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.That interference with the contract was justified only by conditions of national emergency. The reduction in the rate of interest originally contracted to be paid has been made permanent for so long as the contract between the Government and the bondholder endures-, but we are gradually ameliorating the other emergency measures in the shape of reductions of salaries and other payments according to a well-considered scheme or plan, bearing in mind during the whole time the principle of equality of sacrifice and the ability of the section of the community concerned to bear the burden. We favour no one section more than another. This measure is introduced as a scheme to give effect to that programme. Not all the old taxation has gone, although some of it has. The honorable senator is condemning the Governmentbecause it has made a reduction of taxation, but he knows as well as I do that if taxation is made too oppressive and too burdensome, it reacts adversely upon the whole community, and that, if excessive burdens are imposed on industry and enterprise, business is retarded, and employment is restricted, becauseopportunities for the proper employment of the people at reasonable rates of remuneration are lessened. We were finding very definitely that this very heavy and burdensome taxation was having upon the community a repressive, instead of a stimulating, effect. It was retarding industry, reducing the area of employment, and checking business enterprise and the investment of funds. People were simply closing up their purses. They would not enter into enterprises. It therefore became part of the definite policy of the Government, not favouring any particular section, and bearing in mind the public welfare, the natural flow of trade and business, and the imperative necessity for providing employment, to endeavour to encourage and stimulate business enterprises, and so to create work for the people. It recognized unemployment as the greatest social evil which this country has to face. 
It did, although it did not completely cure the then existing conditions. Australia is not yet out of the wood. It is all very well for the honorable senator to say that we could do this and that, and that if he was occupying my position to-day, the Government would restore the Public Service salaries in full, and, in short, give back everything. 
We admit with sorrow that serious unemployment still exists, but the position is not so bad as it was. We have been able to introduce only this measure of financial relief. The amount of restoration which the bill provides is due to the sanity that has prevailed in government business since this Administration took office, and to the fact that confidence has been restored in the minds of the community by the methods which the Government has employed. I suggest to the honorable senator that if, unfortunately, he and his party had been allowed to remain in charge of the nation's affairs, we should not to-day be in a position to introduce any of these measures of relief which it has been our good fortune to be able to bring in from time to time. 
SenatorO'Halloran. - The correctives were enacted two and a half years ago when we were in power. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The honorable senator's party when in power was travelling headlong to perdition. Matters were going from bad to worse, and the drift was arrested only by the action of the people in returning . to power a government that stood for sound finance. Since then the position has immensely improved, although it is not yet right. The work is not finished, but the Government proposes to ask the country to give it another mandate to continue along lines of sound and safe finance. In regard to the matter of insurance, there is one other word I should like to say to  Senator Barnes.  He knows of the industrial insurance policies which are specially designed for the benefit of the industrial section of the community and of the poor in our midst. 
I do not think  Senator Brown  was present when I made a lengthy and interesting exposition of the law in regard to the debt due in certain circumstances to the Crown by old-age pensioners. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.Charges of robbery are easily made, but are much more appropriate when uttered on a soap box than in the Senate chamber. 
The honorable senator will find the facts clearly set out in what I said earlier. The relief given to industrial policy-holders through the remission of some taxation in respect of mutual life assurance societies, is much appreciated by the section whom the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  professes primarily to represent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Exemptions - Sales Tax Assessment Acts Nos. 1-4). 
I understand that photographs used for reproduction in newspapers are exempt from sales tax, but that those produced by a photographer for sale are subject to the tax. 
The Minister will admit that it would be very difficult to determine whether the tax is paid on photographs produced for newspaper proprietors and eventually sold to the public. Why should newspaper proprietors receive this concession while many photographers who have to depend upon their work for a living have to pay the tax ? If the Government wishes to extend leniency in the matter of exemptions, it should commence with those on the lowest rung of the ladder, and not with the wealthy newspaper proprietors who are quite capable of looking after themselves. 
[5.55]. - Up to the 2nd September, 1932, newspaper proprietors had to pay sales tax in respect of blocks purchased or manufactured by them for use in the production of their newspapers. Administrative difficulties arose in determining the sale value upon which tax  should  be paid in respect of blocks manufactured by the newspaper proprietors themselves, because these were generally of a type not purchased from other block makers in the ordinary course of trade. In view of these difficulties, and the comparatively small amount of revenue involved, it was decided that blocks used in the production of newspapers should be exempt from 2nd September, 1932. The difficulties encountered in respect to these goods also exist in connexion with photographs, and for similar reasons, the Government deems it expedient to grant the exemptions provided for in the bill. The position of photographs generally has, at the same time, been fully inquired into, but it is not considered that, at present, a complete exemption of all photographs is warranted. The Government has already granted relief to professional photographers by requiring payment of tax on only 40 per cent, of the amount payable by individual customers for photographs made to their order. I presume that all types of photographers are included, and that they will obtain the benefit of this exemption. The amount of revenue involved is negligible. 

 Senator O'HALLORAN (South Australia) L6.2J. - In looking through the lang list of exemptions in respect of materials used in the building trade, I am somewhat perturbed as to whether the slates produced at the Mintaro quarry, in  South Australia, are exempt. Building stone is exempt, and it is quite possible that this particular type of slate may be included under that heading; but before the clause is passed, I should like an assurance to that effect. 
I presume that the slates produced at Willunga, in South Australia, and which are used for roofing purposes, are exempt, but I am referring to slabs used extensively throughout Australia for flooring and paving purposes and in the manufacture of billiard tables. 
If the Minister assures me that they are exempt I have no further objection to offer. 
I move - 
That after the word "therefor", item "water pipes," the following item he inserted: - " concrete and concrete asbestos pipes for reticulation and irrigation purposes ". 
On the 26th July I received the following telegram from James Hardie and Company, Rivervale, Perth - 
As we manufacture asbestos cement water pipes at Rivervale works please endeavour have same placed on similar Sales Tax exemption as galvanized iron pipes which latter being manufactured only New South Wales. 
As soon as I received this telegram I placed the request before the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson),  who promised that the representations would receive consideration. Thus the Minister has had this request before him for the last five days. It is a very reasonable request which does not need labouring. I consider that if exemption is provided for galvanized iron water-pipes which are made in New South Wales, it should certainly apply to concrete pipes made in Western Australia for similar uses. We have very few secondary industries in Western Australia, and I think it is only fair that concrete and asbestos cement water pipes, wherever they are made in the Commonwealth andused for the same purpose as galvanized-iron pipe's, should be exempt from sales tax. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [6.7].- It is true that the honorable senator handed to me a copy of the telegram he has read and that I promised that the matter would be investigated. The matterhas been investigated,but it cannot be dealt with as an isolated instance. We are proposing here a limited extension of exemptions in order to assist the primary producers; this action is in consequence of representations made during the last session of Parliament: The department has supplied to me a long list of applications for exemption of pipes, and we could not deal with concrete pipes with- out considering all the other applications. The Government feels that it has already granted sufficient exemptions. 
 I cannot see why galvanized iron pipesused for reticulation should be exempt, and the concrete article used for identically thesame purpose's not exempt. Both classes of pipes aremade in Australia, but whereas the galvanized iron pipes are made only in New South Wales, thecement pipes are made in various parts of the Commonwealth. 
I intend to' press my amendment. It is very rarely that we ask for any aid for a secondary industry in Western Australia. I think this industry is entitled to be encouraged as much as the manufacture of galvanized iron, which is confined to New South Wales. 
.- I cannot understand the reasoning of the Government in regard to this matter. The clause defines the exempt pipe as "galvanized." I assume that "wrought" iron is not exempt, but is in the same class asconcrete pipes. But galvanized iron pipes, which are manufactured in only one State, and arethe product of a wellsheltered industry, are to he exempt. Competition in the manufacture of wrought iron and concrete pipes in various parts of Australia will tend to keep prices low; but in respect of galvanized iron pipes, there is no competition, and the makers can fix any price they choose. I agree with the amendment. We should exempt all classes of pipes for reticulation purposes, or none at all. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON  (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [6.13].  -  The real logic of the arguments adduced by honorable senators is that the exemption to galvanized iron pipes should be struck out-. As the Government cannot agree to the amendment, is  Senator Johnston  prepared to strike out the exemption of galvanized iron pipes? The Government has to take a stand and say, " Thus far and not farther "; it cannot face the loss of revenue that would result if it were absolutely logical: and yielded to the persuasiveness of the two honorablesenator's who have just spoken. We must admit the soft impeachment. 
Suppose we delete the word "galvanized" and substitute "concrete "? 
[9.10].  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to appropriate the sum of £1,000,000 for post office works out of loan funds to be raised under the authority which is provided for in the bill. No loan funds have been specially raised for the purpose of works expenditure since 1930; the only works expenditure from loan fund authorized since that date was the appropriation of £810,000 by Parliament last year, by a repayment to the loan fund of the proceeds of the sale of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. 
With the exception of the appropriation of £810,000 last year, the works expenditure since 1930 has been met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and, owing to the financial stringency, coupled with the cessation of new loan moneys for works purposes, it has been necessary to restrict works expenditure to urgent and essential requirements. The provision of additional funds to carry on absolutely essential works has become a matter of urgent necessity. This bill provides for the expenditure of £1,000,000 for the carrying out of post office works, namely, telephone exchange services, trunk line services, buildings, and the acquisition of sites. In addition to this amount, the sum of £244,000 is being provided for other post office works on the estimates of works from revenue, making a total of £1,244,000. The amount actually expended on post office works during 1933-34 was approximately £865,000, so that the total now to be appropriated from revenue and loan represents an increase of approximate' y £379,000. The past year revealed a considerable increase in the activities of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. The post office revenue for 1933-34 exceeded the budget estimate by £406,000, and the revenue for the preceding year, 1932-33, by approximately £522,000. During last year, there was a net increase throughout the Commonwealth of 13,740 telephone subscribers as against a net increase of 3,036 during 1932-33. This bill provides tha minimum amount considered to be necessary to enable the requirements for telephonic services to be met. Provision is made for new buildings and sites, the expenditure on which will be approximately £150,000, which includes £60,000 for buildings required for the new regional broadcasting stations. The total expenditure on new works from all sources this year will be approximately £4,070,000, as compared with a total expenditure during 1933-34 of £2,330,000, or an approximate increase of £1,740,000. A considerable portion of this increase will provide additional employment in Australia, and to that extent will contribute, along with increases of expenditure in other directions, to the relief of unemployment during the current year. 

 Senator O'HALLORAN (South Australia [9.14].- I do not think any honorable senator on this side of the House will offer any opposition to the passing of this bill, more particularly as one of its objectives, as the Minister has pointed out, is to stimulate employment. All of us are cognizant of the facts which have necessitated this appropriation. The growth of the Postal Department's activities has been due to the increase of population, and a growing demand for postal, telegraphic, and telephonic facilities. In addition, the wireless branch has also grown considerably during the last few years. Another feature connected with the expenditure of this money to which I direct attention is the practice that has prevailed, during the financial depression, of requiring any new proposed telephonic services to show a profit before expenditure upon them is authorized. This, no doubt, is the result of a direction on Government policy, but I think the time has arrived when some relaxation of that regulation should bo authorized so that essential services urgently required by people living in remote country districts may be provided. I have in mind the injustices that have been perpetrated in some country districts in South Australia, compared with other districts similarly situated. We are all aware that,' as the result of the vigorous developmental policy initiated some years ago, telephonic services were given to districts with a relatively small earning capacity because it was considered, and I think rightly so, that the amenities of life should be provided for people who pioneer our outback country. But since the onset of the depression - from which some supporters of the Government appear to think we have emerged, although the Minister, judging by his attitude to suggested amendments to the Financial Belief Bill, would seem to be of the contrary opinion - country districts urgently in need of telephone services have been denied them or, alternatively, have been required to guarantee the- department against loss. In some cases they have been asked to subsidize the construction of the lines. I stress this point, and hope that the Government will give it consideration. The position is very much the same in all country districts. These services are essential to people living in out-back areas, and where possible they should be provided even if they do not show a profit at the outset. This is particularly true of one district in South Australia where a small community of men is engaged in the dangerous occupation of mining, using explosives. It is important that those people should have a telephone service because of the risk of accidents, but under the departmental regulation to which I have referred, such provision cannot be made, as it would not show a profit. I hope that, in future administration, the Postmaster-General will relax somewhat this regulation, so that once again people living in isolated country districts will be entitled to telephone services without being required to make good the loss. I heartily commend the bill. 
. -I endorse all that has been said by  Senator O'Halloran.  Recently I paid a visit to Cooktown, the most northern port in Australia, and learned that efforts were being made by the people living there to get telephonic communication with Cairns. Up to the present their request has been refused by the department on the ground that it would bo too costly. I hope that the remarks of  Senator O'Halloran  will he noted carefully by the Minister, and that some action will be taken immediately to relax the regulations relating to new telephone services in country districts. It is important, from a defence point of view, that Cooktown should be in telephonic communication with Cairns. 
I heartily endorse the remarks of the previous speakers with regard to the provision of telephone services to country districts. Every honorable senator is aware of the difficulties experienced bycountry people in carrying on their operations, and how important it is that they should be given telephone services as cheaply as possible. The telephone is no longer a luxury. It is a necessity, and everything should be done to make it available to rural dwellers. I have always thought that departmental estimates of costs for some country telephone services were excessive. Provision is made for standard poles  standing  20  feet out of the ground. In country districts where timber is readily available it should be possible to install a thoroughly satisfactory service without using standard poles. If shorter poles were allowed in country districts the cost would be less, and in the event of any interruption due to accidents, country people traversing the roads could easily make repairs without requiring the use of a long ladder, which would be necessary if poles of the standard height were used. In some country districts the departmental specifications make the coat of a telephone service prohibitive, whereas if shorter poles were used, and other departmental specifications modified, the people concerned could be given a service which would  meet  all their requirements for probably one-half the cost. In some instances farmers and station owners have their own private lines, and are able to get cheaper communication with outlying districts at a minimum of cost. I have had a private telephone on my property for years. It cost only a trifle of the sum that would be required to install a standard line, yet it has proved most efficient in every respect. I mention this matter because I feel sure that with some relaxation of the regulation governing the cost, it would be possible to provide small country communities with a cheap telephone service that would meet all their requirements, whereas the cost of a standard line would be prohibitive. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales)  [9.28]. -  I support the remarks of those honorable senators who have preceded me. The suggestion by  Senator Herbert  Hays" for the provision of cheaper telephone services is particularly good. Twenty or thirty years ago the telegraph lines in south-western New South Wales, down the Murrumbidgee towards Hay were carried along the tops of fences and were taken on high poles across intersecting roads. That service proved highly satisfactory. By that method, also, stationowners were able to communicate with their boundary riders and hut-keepers. Of course, all such makeshifts are liable to interruption or damage, but on the other hand, the cost of repair is correspondingly less than in the case of a standard line. 
It is wrong to penalize people living  in  isolated parts of the Commonwealth  by  requiring them to subsidize or guarantee the department against loss for telephone services provided for them. Sometimes a serious illness or an accident occurs and the lack of telephonic communication may make all the difference between life and death. I am sure that Ministers will sympathize with this point of view. 
Again I protest against this orgy of borrowing for public works. It seems to me that we cannot do anything - that we are absolutely gagged, muzzled and hobbled in all our activities - unless  we  float; a loan. No private individual could carry on his business in this way and remain solvent. This policy of continually borrowing may delude us that we arc enjoying temporary prosperity, but ultimately it will result in a greater collapse than any we have yet suffered. It seems impossible to do anything to improve conditions without first floating a loan. Clause  2  provides that the Treasurer may, from time to time, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act, or of any act authorizing the issue of treasury-bills, borrow moneys not exceeding  £1,050,000.  The schedule to the bill shows that  £1,000,000  is to be devoted to the requirements of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. It would appear, therefore, that the difference of  £50,000  represents the estimated cost of floating the loan. I should like to know if that is so. Sooner or later, we must put an end to this orgy of borrowing, otherwise our last state will be worse than our first. 
. I endorse the remarks of  Senator Herbert  Hays with regard to the cost of erecting telephone lines-. I have previously seen the way in which money has been wasted when such work has been carried out bydaylabour. I have met men on their way to work in the country at  9  o'clock in the morning; they probably arrived at their destination by  9.30  o'clock, when they lit a fire and had morning tea. They were probably at work by  10  o'clock. Altogether they did not work more than five hours a day. Moreover, although suitable . poles were available in the vicinity of the line, other poles were carted  9  or  10  miles. In some places, growing trees  could have been utilized, but that was not done. Country district^ are denied telephonic facilities largely because of the heavy expense involved - an expense which could be reduced considerably. I suggest that the practice of utilizing the wires of fences which I saw in use 30 years ago in New South Wales be tried as a temporary expedient when the expense of erecting a standard line is too great. Such lines would prove satisfactory for nine or ten months each year, although the absence of proper insulation might make them ineffective in wet weather. 
In places where the cost of erecting land lines is too expensive, as, say, between Cooktown and Cairns, in North Queeusland, small wireless transmitting and receiving sets could be installed, so that outlying places could be brought into closer communication with the rest of the world. 
Some of the telephones in general use are out of date. It is true that a generous department has given subscribers the privilege of installing their own instruments; but it charges 5s. for connecting them, notwithstanding that it is saved the cost of the instrument. Although, in many respects, the department is progressive and up-to-date, in other directions it is far behind the times. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [9.37]. - I thank honorable senators . for their generous reception of this measure, and I assure them that their representations will be placed before the Postmaster General for his consideration. I am in sympathy with the observations which have been made regarding the provision of telephonic facilities in country districts. It is the policy of the Government to extend such facilities, where practicable, on 'the best terms possible; but commercial principles cannot be disregarded entirely. 

 Senator Rae spoke of an orgy of borrowing. I assure him that the Government has been most careful in regard to its loan policy, and does not intend to embark on heavy loan expenditure. The works to be undertaken by the PostmasterGeneral's Department are long overdue, and as the revenue of the department has been buoyant, the demands of the com munity for better facilities should not be ignored. The proposed works will pay interest and prove sound business propositions. 
The honorable senator also said that, although it is proposed to borrow £1,050,000, only £1,000,000 is shown in the schedule, and he asked whether the other £50,000 represented the cost of floating the loan. That sum is a roundfigure estimate of the amount required to float the loan and to meet contingencies. The Treasury will offer the loan on the terms mo3t advantageous to itself. To that end, it may issue the loan at a discount, in order to get a lower rate of interest. Honorable senators may depend on the Government and the Treasury officials seeking the best terms possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I have no desire to delay the passage of this measure, which, according to the explanation given by the Minister when moving the second reading, has for its object the simplification of the existing legislation, and neither remits taxation nor imposes greater burdens on the people. I understand, moreover, that it is in conformity with the recommendations of the royal commission which recently investigated taxation matters, but I regret that a more comprehensive measure, to give effect to the recommendations of that body for the standardization  and simplification of taxation laws throughout the Commonwealth, is not before us.  
I hope that every effort will be made to secure such an agreement. I do not know the position in all the States; but, in South Australia, the poorer sections of the people must look to State, rather than to 
Common wealth legislation, for taxation relief. Working men and traders in a small way cannot expect much from this bill. I have looked with a fair amount of care through the marginal notes and clauses, and to me most of the definitions appear to relate to dividends, shareholders, private companies, and other things that are more or less mysteries to honorable senators on this side of the chamber, and the people whom we in the main represent. No doubt the effort of the Government will be commendable to those who derive some benefit from it. Seeing that no additional burden is placed upon the. people by this legislation, and no remission of taxation which could not in the circumstances be justified is included in it, I intend to offer no objection to its passage. 
.- I  do not rise for the purpose of opposing the bill. I support it because I consider that many of the amendments outlined in it are necessary, but I draw the attention of the Government and the Senate to a serious omission from it. This is not the first time that I have had to draw the Government's attention to the omission from Income Tax Assessment legislation of a clause to right what I consider a very grave wrong that is being perpettrated by the operation of a section of the amending Income Tax Assessment Act of 1931. I now again remind the Government that the original Income Tax Assessment Act defines an income taxpayer as  a  person whose income exceeds £250 a year. That is the general exemption. At the tail end of the 1931 session when honorable senators had no opportunity to obtain full information or consider the possible ramifications of an amendment of the existing act, a bill was passed containing a provision that companies might, if they so desired, deduct from any preference dividend paid to a shareholder, the special property tax which, at that time, was 10 per cent, or 2s. in the £1. Certain companies have since exercised their right under that act by deducting from the income of their shareholders - which income is a dividend on preference shares held by them - the sum of  23.  in the £1, although many of them are not income tax payers under the original act, their total income being less than £250 a year. The company after deducting the 2s. in the £1,  pay3  it direct to the Taxation Department. It was never contemplated that an optional provision of that nature should drag into the taxation net hundreds of small people whose incomes are less than  £250 a  year, and make them pay the enormous impost of 2s. in the £1, as it was then, although it has since been reduced to 6 per cent., or ls. 2£d. in the  £1. 
By adhering. to the original act. If 2s. in the £1 has been deducted from any person who can prove that his income is under £250 a year, the department should' refund it, because it has no right to it. If we provide that people with small incomes shall be exempt from income tax, we should see that the law is carried out. I do not blame the company, but I do blame the Government for not having devised some means by which the wrong can be righted. 
I cannot see how the company protects the ordinary shareholder by deducting the tax from the dividend which it has to pay to the preference shareholder, and handing it to the Government. Rather the company penalizes that section of its shareholders which  13  really not liable to pay income tax at. all. I have Been furnished with instances to show how the existing act operates. A.B. has an income of less than the £250 general exemption, and in his income is included £20 representing preference share dividends. The company, exercising the power given to it by the 1931 act, deducts from the dividend the 10 par cent, amounting to £2. The shareholder receives only £18, thus paying £2 in further income tax, although, under the Income Tax Act, he is not  a  taxpayer. 
I cannot see the necessity for the provision at all. The company has no opportunity to ascertain the income of any individual shareholder 
Consequently if it exercises the power given to it, it deducts the amount of tax from every shareholder irrespective of his income. This I claim is wrong. 
I am not criticizing the company for doing it. 
No; and comparatively few companies have exercised the power. The next instance is that of B.C. who has an income of £260 derived entirely from preference share dividends. The general exemption being £250, he is taxed by the department on £10, but if the company has deducted the special or further tax from his dividends, then he has paid £26 in tax although the act provides that he shall be taxed only on the excess of £10. With reference to what I have just stated, I should add that hy a further amendment of the act, the first £250 of a person's income from property is not subject to the special property tax, although it is subject to the income tax on property, the additional income tax on property, and the super income tax on property. CD. has a taxable income of £1,000, £250 of which is derived from preference share dividends, and the balance from personal exertion. If the company has deducted the 10 per cent, tax from his dividends, he has paid £25 in further tax on this portion of his income which the act of 1933 says shall be exempt from the further tax, the act distinctly stating that the first £250 of income from property shall be exempt from the . special further property tax. D.E., a big man, has an income of £2,000, of which £500 is from property subject to the further tax. He is allowed his deduction of £250, leaving £250 of property income to be subject to the further tax. If £100 of this is from preference share dividends, from which the company has deducted the further tax of £10, he will be allowed a rebate of £10 from his total tax. Therefore, only the small people, particularly those who under the act are not income tax payers, are being penalized by having to pay this special property tax. I do not intend to suggest a way out of the difficulty; it is the duty of the Government to find the way out. I have conferred with Ministers, the Acting Commissioner of Taxation, and his officers, and also with unofficial experts, and am told that it is unfortunate that these people have invested their hard-earned savings in preference shares. What concern is it of any one how they invest their money? I am not blaming the officers of the department. They cannot be influenced by considerations of equity. Their duty is simply to administer the act as they find it; but it is reasonable to ask the Government to look at the subject from an equitable point of view, and devise means of affording the relief I have suggested as speedily as possible. It should also discover means by which, on sufficient proof being furnished to satisfy the Taxation Commissioner, a refund can be made of any taxation levied on people who either cannot take advantage of the full exemption of the first £250, or who are not taxpayers according to the law, and should therefore never have been called upon to pay a penny in taxation. I submit the matter to the Minister in the hope that he will confer with his colleagues with the object of devising a means of remedying the injustice, even if it means a repeal of the section which permits companies to make the deduction. I have tried to ascertain whether the repeal of that section will in any way penalize companies. I cannot see that it will. I have been told that it was made law for the protection of the ordinary shareholder; but I cannot see that ordinary shareholders are affected in any way by it. A contract is entered into by a company with any one who is prepared to buy its preference shares, and the undertaking entered into should be carried out. No law should be allowed to operate which gives the company an opportunity to refrain from paying in full to its shareholders the dividend which it declares, whatever the rate may he. 
The shareholder, as a taxpayer, pays it if he sends in his return properly; but, if his income does not exceed £250, he is under no obligation to furnish a return. I hope the Government will look further into the matter, on which I have already spoken three or four times. 
J am sorry that the bill is being put through with such haste, because, although copies of it were sent to the outlying States as soon as it was tabled in another place, they apparently reached Western Australia only to-day. I have already received two telegrams regarding it. One is from  Mr. Home,  the secretary of the Taxpayers Association of Western Australia. He says, " The income tax bill contains too little simplification and too many patches and contradictions."  His  association is sending me further information on the subject. Taxation measures of this kind can 'be dealt with for the most part only by experts; but the Government has decreed that tho bill shall pass to-night, and whatever expert information may be coming to me cannot reach Canberra in time to receive consideration. That i3 regrettable. 
That being so, it is impossible for honorable senators to obtain, full information from remote States with regard to directions in which the measure might be further simplified. I ask the Minister if the Government will assist those building societies which will be seriously affected by the proposed amendments. I have received a long telegram from the Perth Building Society, which is a purely mutual concern and the members of which comprise persons in the metropolitan area of Perth who are building their own homes. The directors perform their work for a small fee, but so far as I know, no one derives any profits. The society has made a special request that' the income of building societies conducted on a mutual basis, within the meaning of section 20 of the principal act, shall be exempt from the special property tax. The telegram I have received from that society reads - 
This society's income is almost entirely derived from interest which although in the case of the society is addressed as income from personal exertion is nevertheless liable to special property tax because it comes within  sub-paragraph  c  oi  paragraph E in clause 3 of Income Tax Assessment Bill now before Senate. Clause 11 of bill is incomplete because it makes no provision re personal exertion income which is subject to special property tax and clause 11 as it now stands will inflict serious hardship on this society. Please endeavour secure the addition of the following paragraph at the end of clause 11: - " (d) In the case of a building society which is a cooperative company within the meaning of section 20 of this act the deduction shall bo made successively from income which is not exempt from special property tax and from income which is exempt therefrom." The society however trusts that instead of tho above you will be able to secure the undermentioned amendment which would exempt it from special property tax now charged upon its undistributed income which prudence requires shall be held to meet contingencies. The special property tax operates most harshly on building societies because of the peculiar nature- of our business. There is no difference in essence between a company trading in goods and one trading in money, the former is exempt from special property tax, but this society is taxed at present we consider that some measure of the relief afforded last year to insurance societies should be extended to societies such as ours. The society exists to encourage thrift and provide homes for the people by purchase on easy weekly payments. Please therefore endeavour to add the following words to clause 5 of the bill: - "And by inserting after subsection 2 the following new sub-section 3. The taxable income of a building society which is a co-operative company within the meaning of section 20 of this act shall be exempt from special property tax ". 
This society exists for the purpose of encouraging thrift in the community, and of enabling persons with little capital to build homes for themselves. I commend its requests to the Minister, and I hops that, so far as possible, the Government will agree to the proposals made. 
to explain whether the proposed amendment of the Income Tax Assessment Act in respect of dividends will affect only dividends paid after the act has been assented to. I suggest that clause 7 should be amended to read " paid before the commencement of this act ". The bill is to provide for a changeover as from the 31st December next, when all companies making profits both within and outside of Australia must declare what proportion of dividend is paid out of Australian profits, and what proportion is paid from profits made outside Australia. It should be made quite clear that the act  affects only dividends to be declared after the passing of the act. In respect of a taxpayer whose taxing period ends on the 31st December in each  year,  a return has to be made in July, 1935, and will include dividends received for the taxing period ending 31st December, 1934, and which were declared before the passing of the act. Will the Assistant Minister state at what period they will be affected. The Law Book Company's Taxation Service Bulletin states that - 
If the new proposals are brought into effect immediately upon the date of assent to the bill, it will be impracticable for companies to arrange their accounts in time to meet the new conditions. The date of the change-, over should, therefore, it is considered, be extended to the 31st December next. 
As from the date of the change-over, the following provisions will apply: - 
An absentee shareholder will be liable in respect of a dividend to the extent to which it is distributed out of profit derived from sources in Australia. 
A resident shareholder will be liable in respect of dividends distributed by a company out of profit derived from any source, but the following dividends are accepted: - 
a dividend received from a company which does not carry on business in, or derive income from a source in Australia; 
a  dividend paid wholly and exclusively out of the income derived by the company from sources outside Australia and in respect of which the companyis not liable to Commonwealth income tax. 
Briefly, therefore, it may be said that in order to overcome the considerable difficulties and uncertainty arising out of the necessity to determine the proportion of any dividend paid out of profit derived from sources in Australia, a resident shareholder if to be taxed on the whole of the dividends received by him. In order, however, to overcome the harsh effects of this plan, companies which have exAustralian profits will, if they consider it worth while, be able to declare separate dividends, and so relieve their shareholders from the increased taxation which would otherwise result from the taxation of the dividend out of ex-Australian profits. This procedure will be much simpler than that at present in force, but hardship will arise if both companies and shareholders do not make themselves fully acquainted with the new proposals. From this it is obvious that the taxpayer should be fully advised of the difficulties and also any pitfalls in this new measure. 
As  Senator Johnston  has stated, the bill should not be rushed through too hurriedly, especially as it is difficult for honorable senators to get into communication with those who may be seriously affected by the new proposals. I am particularly anxious that the Assistant Minister shall state that only dividends paid after the date on which the legislation is assented to will be included in the assessable income of the taxpayer. 
I wish to refer to section 21 of the principal act which provides that at least twothirds of the profits of any company shall be distributed amongst shareholders in every year, or else the company must pay an additional tax on the difference between the dividend actually paid and the two-thirds which the Taxation Department claims should have been distributed. I understand that the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  has stated that that section applied only to private companies, but from personal experience I can say that that statement is inaccurate. I have interviewed the Commissioner of Taxation on numerous occasions concerning a public company in Tasmania. The actual position of the company was that it was not only unable' to pay a dividend, but was also being asked by the bank to reduce a substantial overdraft. The Commissioner of Taxation said that he could not make any allowance, and that although no profit had been earned, and the company was unable to pay a dividend and was being pressed by the bank to reduce its overdraft, it would have to pay a large additional amount. The words- used by the Assistant Treasurer were, " I point out that provision will apply in the future as in the past only to private companies with a limited number of shareholders." That statement is incorrect, as the company to which I have alluded is a large public company in Tasmania, and although during a period of years it was unable to pay a dividend, and had to reduce its bank overdraft, it was compelled to pay the tax. 
I do not know whether any new provision has been inserted in respect of depreciation of plant. The royal commission's report states that depreciation can either he a flat rate, or on the reduced value every year, but so far as I can ascertain, the Taxation Department has insisted that it should be on the reduced value which is most unfair. The owner of a plant cannot write off the full value of a plant however obsolete it may be, if allowed to write off each year only  10  per cent, of the reducing balance. The Royal Commission on Taxation said that it is optional, but the various companies with which I am connected have always had to pay on the reduced value. This causes a lot of confusion and trouble, and is an unfair way of trying to arrive at the true position with regard to plant. If a plant has a life of only ten years, it is only reasonable that the company owning it should be allowed to write off the whole of the value of that plant during that period, at the expiry of which it has to be replaced, either from a reserve built up in the meantime - which reserve is regarded as profit and taxed - or from further raisings of capital. That is not a proper system of finance. 
I have always been in favour of the establishment of funds to assure superannuation of old-age benefits to the employees, but, in the past, hampering conditions have been imposed by the Government. If money for such benefits was paid to one of the large insurance companies, which have enormous resources at their credit, it was not deductible from the income of the employer, but if the company creates a fund, however small, its contributions thereto are free of income tax, although such a fund could offer nothing Hie the stability and advantages obtainable by the employees if the same amount of money were invested in policies in large insurance companies such as the Australian Mutual Provident Society or the National Mutual Life Association. I notice that the royal commission has dealt with this matter, and I understand that a modification is proposed in the bill. It is high time that it was. 
With regard to gifts and donations to charitable institutions, I think all of us were astonished when we read recently that a very large donation for a charitable purpose would not be deductible from the donor's income. If a man is patriotic or charitable enough to donate a large sum to some organization for the help of the sick or needy, the least the 
Government can do is to exempt the gift from income tax, subject, of course, to necessary safeguards. I understand that an alteration is proposed to improve the past practice in this respect. 
The Assistant Minister stated that this bill was designed to simplify the making of income tax returns.  If it  doe3  that we all shall be very thankful. I do not think that any layman can possibly understand the assessments made under the present law. It is impossible to check them entirely, as they involve page after page of calculations, running often into decimal figures, whilst allowances have to be made for certain proportions in respect of various rates. The taxpayer becomes so bewildered that finally he concludes that it is better simply to pay and trust to luck and the accuracy of the Taxation Department. Any proposal that tends towards simplifying these returns will have my support. The procedure in regard to the taxation of company dividends - a matter of importance to the Government - could be simplified by taxing at the source, as is done in England and other parts of the world. The tax-gatherers in those countries do not have to worry about following the dividend through to the 'taxpayer ; they tax on the full amount of dividend at the source. If that method were adopted here, the Government would be able to reduce the taxation staff by one-half or more, and yet receive the amount it is now receiving or more. In this way the work of collection would be simplified, and the taxpayer would more readily know how much he was liable to pay. 
Did I understand the Minister to say that if there is a distribution of bonus shares in the future, tax will have to be paid on the shares as if they were a dividend? If a company has placed some of its profits to reserves, it has paid income tax at the full rate on such sums, and it would be grossly unfair if these reserves when distributed were again taxed. The distribution of such profits does not increase the assets of the company, but only divides them up into a larger number of shares. Such reserves are really part of the capital of a company, and when distributed as bonus shares should be treated, not as income of individual shareholders and taxed again, but as a capital distribution. 
I agree with the remarks made by  Senator Payne  on behalf of those people who have to pay the special property tax, although they are exempt because of the smallness of their income from ordinary federal income taxation. The super tax, as originally imposed, was an iniquitous impost. As a director of a trustee company I know of widows with incomes of about £200 a year; these people were not liable for ordinary income tax, and yet under the original provisions of this super tax had to meet a demand for £20. I am glad that the Government now proposes that this super tax should not be levied on any person whose income is under £250 a year. This anomaly could very easily have been surmounted, as very few companies are deducting super tax from the incomes of their shareholders. Most of them leave it to bc attended to by the individuals, knowing that the department follows these items right through to the final recipient. An effective method would have been to take from the companies the power to deduct the super tax from the income of shareholders, and to let the department make the allowance when the individual taxpayers put in their returns. It has been suggested that preference shareholders in the past have been getting off very lightly so far as taxation is concerned. That is not so, because they suffered a penal reduction of dividend by 22-J per cent, under the financial emergency legislation, and none of that has been restored to them. Nor has there been any restoration of the reduction of  22i  per cent, compulsorily applied to those who derived income from mortgages. In addition to that reduction of income, they have had to pay a penalty rate of 2s. in the £1, since reduced to 6 per cent. The interest on debentures also was reduced. 
I would like to have more time ;u which to consider the bill, hut I recognize that the Government wishes to get the measure through this session. Thus we shall have to accept the measure, being grateful that it proposes at least a step towards simplification and greater uniformity in Federal and State income-tax returns. I am convinced that these returns could still be made a great deal simpler than is proposed in this measure. Reasonable uniformity throughout Australia would be a valuable reform and one well worth every endeavour to obtain. 
[10.28]. -  Senator Payne  made an appeal for persons who, although their income is below the ordinary taxable minimum, have had to pay the super tax because some of their income is derived from preference shares and is taxed in the hands of the company. For his persistence in regard to this matter, the honorable senator deserves to be rewarded with, some promise of relief for these people, but I am afraid that is impossible at this juncture. The object of this provision when introduced was to make for equality between ordinary and preference shareholders, and if we attempted to do as the honorable senator suggests we would probably remove one anomaly and create a worse. I promise' that I shall take the opportunity of conferring with the Government's taxation experts as to whether any means can be found to carry out  Senator Payne's  suggestion. 

 Senator Millen raised several points which I undertake to investigate and reply to when the appropriate clause is under consideration in committee. 

 Senator Grant seemed to he under a misapprehension as to some of the objects of this bill. He referred to several matters quite outside  iti  scope, including the simplification of returns. That is a matter which will be dealt with in legislation to be introduced later. I explained in my secondreading speech that this measure deals merely with the Commonwealth aspect of taxation. We dealt with many of  the  recommendations of the commission  that  referred exclusively to  the  Commonwealth side of taxation measures,  but  certain other investigations have proceeded and recommendations were made concerning matters  that  were common to both Commonwealth and State legislation. It was considered wise  to  continue the negotiations through  the  taxation officers  in  order to arrive at  uniformity  with regard to a variety of subjects. When  we  reach agreement,  we shall be able to ensure simplification of the forms of the returns. This measure will make possible the simplification of, as well as a greater measure of equity in, assessments, and simplification of administration, and will also make assessments more easily comprehended by the taxpayer.  Senator Grant  mentioned that when he received his assessment, all he could do was to pay the tax and hope it was all right. He trusted to Providence or the good sense of the Commissioner. When the recommendations of the Taxation Commission have been given effect and we have arrived at an agreement with the States, many of the present difficulties will, we hope, disappear. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston presented to the Senate a three-volume novel in the shape of a telegram from the Perth Building Society, in which the society asked for a complete exemption from the super property tax. An exemption could not be given to the Perth Building Society unless it were made general in its application. Certain relief has been given to building societies by the reduction of the rate of the super tax from 10 per cent, to 6 per cent. I shall consider the financial incidence of the suggestion made. Building societies are organizations which deserve encouragement because they provide a useful social service. Consequently no government desires unduly to hamper their operations by oppressive taxation. I am not by any means sure that the loss of revenue which the exemption would entail can be faced by the Government at this juncture, but, to-morrow, when the bill is in committee, I shall advise the honorable gentleman more fully. 
Honorable senators will realize that this bill, being highly technical in character, is essentially one for consideration in committee. Only accountants and taxation experts who are continually dealing with these matters can be expected readily to understand its provisions. I am sure, however, that honorable senators will accept the assurance of the Government that the measure is an honest effort, based on the advice of the royal commission, to make taxation problems clearer, to simplify the administration and to make the tax itself less vexatious to the public. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read' a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce the following telegram which 1 have received from  Mr. Prater,  the secretary of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia :  - 
This association views with alarm Italian restriction of wool imports, which is yet another retaliatory measure against Australia's protective policy, and requests that the recommendation of the Wool Inquiry Committee, particularly with regard to tariff reform, he given effect. Above telegram was sent to the Prime Minister to-day. Please ask Country party to press matter. 
The Wool Committee, which was appointed a few months ago to inquire into this matter, made a number of important recommendations dealing with the appointment of a wool executive to control the sale of wool, and measures for relief through the tariff. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce will urge the Government to give this matter its - earnest consideration and approval to the recommend ations. 
In the debate on the Financail Relief Bill this afternoon, reference was made to a memorandum sent by the Pensions Department, in Sydney, to Miss E. Wilson, of Kent-street, Newtown, making a claim for repayment of pension paid toher mother,  who  had died recently. ' The Leader of the- Senate  (Senator Pearce)  suggested that the whole of the particulars" were not given this afternoon. I now desire to bring under the notice of the Senate the following memorandum, which was sent to Miss Wilson :  - 

 Invalid and Old-age Pensions Office, 72 Clarence-street, 
The right honorable gentleman is a leading member of the Government, and must accept his share of responsibility for the administration of the law in relation to pensions'. The memorandum which I have quoted appears in the  Labor Daily  of today'sdate, and the article, which is based on it, is not a  Labor Daily  stunt. It may interest the Minister to know that 90,000 copies of that journal are run off the press every 24 hours. If the Minister thinks that this action can he justified, I invite1 him to get on the soap box, with which he was familiar years ago before he was knighted for cervices rendered to the United Australia party, and place his views before the people. I have no desire to use threats in the Senate, but unless a satisfactory reply is given to-night, it is my intention to move the adjournment of the Senate to-morrow and to hold up the business of the chamber until justice is clone to this crippled girl. I do not know who was responsible for demanding ?7 0s.10d. from her, but that the demand was made cannot be denied. The  Labor Daily,  with a circulation of 90,000 copies daily, has placed the facts before the public. The last of this case will not be heard in this chamber; it will be ventilated outside, where the Standing Orders will not apply, and polite language will not be insisted on. One would think that the mother, who was one of the pioneers of Australia, had attempted to rob the Treasury, whereas her only crime was that she took out an insurance policy for about ?33 15s. to make provision for her old age. After she had received the call from her Creator, this Government, practically over the woman's dead body, held, as it were, a gun at the. 'head of her invalid daughter. The Government, which remits taxation to the wealthy, and proposes to spend ?4,000,000 on defence, treats a helpless woman in this shameful way! I shall not be satisfied with a telephone conversation that things will be adjusted; I want the assurance in black and white. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (VictoriaAssistant Minister) [10.54]. - In reply to  Senator Johnston,  who read a telegram from the secretary of the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia, I point out that, as trade relations with Italy, and the restriction of wool imports into that country, are now the subject of delicate negotiation between the two Governments, it would be both unwise and premature to make any announcement at this stage. I also inform him that the Italian consul has said that the action of his country is not in any way a retaliation for the Australian tariff. The tariff is blamed for manythings, but it is not responsible for what has occurred in this instance. 
The notice sent to Miss Wilson, to which  Senator Dunn  referred, was obviously a statement of account forwarded to her in accordance with the law. Apparently, this unfortunate woman became fearful and anxious when  she  received the notice. Had she come to me in her difficulty I would first have endeavoured to allay her anxiety by telling her that everything would be all right. 
Why was the notice sent to her? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Semite adjourned : at 10.58 p.m. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate the number of trade agreements in existence between Australia and other countries, including countries within the British Empire? 
Will he also give the names of such countries? 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers: - 
There are eleven trade agreements with foreign countries by which Australia is bound, and four, including the Ottawa agreement, with countries within the British Empire. There are also 23 agreements between the United Kingdom and foreign countries under which Australia is entitled to receive most-favoured-nation treatment on a basis of reciprocity. 
The trade agreements are - (a) A temporary agreement between Australia and Belgium; (b) trade agreements between the United Kingdom and Argentina Republic, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, Italy, Morocco, Persia, Peru, Switzerland, and Venezuela, which apply to Australia; (c) trade agreements between Australia and the United Kingdom, Canada, and New Zealand, and the Ottawa agreement. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is  it  a fact that chauffeurs are to  be sent  from the eastern States to drive  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester and his  staff  while they are in Western Australia? 
Has an envoy been sent from the eastern States to select a horse for the Royal visitor to ride whilst in Western Australia? 
Does the Federal Government think that Western Australians are not capable of driving cars or choosing horses? 
In accordance with the usual practice the personnel of  the  Royal Australian Air Force are being detailed to drive the cars to  be  used by His Royal Highness the Duke  of  Gloucester and staff while in Australia. Experience has shown that this arrangement makes for better control and efficiency  of  service than any other. 
So far as is known, no one has  been  sent from the Eastern States to Western  Australia  to select horses for the Royal party. The selection, &amp;c., of horses will be under the control of Lieutenant-Colonel Whitfield, Director of Remounts, Department of Defence, who will act through the various branches  of  the Defence Department in the several States. 
See answers to Nos. 1 and 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that during the last  two  years there has been a satisfactory reduction in the number of unemployed; but that, despite this, there still exists the serious problem of  absorbing  into industry the youth of Australia between the ages of 14 and 21 years, many thousands of them being without work and with little immediate prospect of obtaining same? 
If so, has the Government been in consultation with the State governments for the purpose of improving conditions? 
If not, does it propose to take such action ? 
Yea. According to figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician, the percentage of unemployment amongst reporting trade unions was  -  In the second quarter of 1932, 30 per cent.; in the second quarter of 1934, 20.9 per cent. Unfortunately, there still exists the problem of juvenile unemployment, to which the Government is giving close attention. 
Yes. During this financial year both Commonwealth and State governments are increasing their expenditure on public works, which will materially assist in the relief of unemployment. In addition, the Commonwealth is arranging for a special grant of £2,000,000 to bemade to the States, portion of which it is anticipated will be used by the State governments directly for therelief of juvenile unemployment. 
See answer to No. 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government received information from the British Government concerning the restriction of meat imports from Australia into Great Britain? 
Will the Minister give the latest information to the Senate concerning thismatter? 
From time  to  time during the past few weeks communications have been received from the British Government regarding that Government's policy  in  relation to the marketing of meat. 
The Government is not yet in a position  to  make a statement  on  the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,upon  notice -  1.Isit intended to give any relief under  the  budget  in  regard  to  the special (surcharge) duties on sporting goods under tariff items No. 310a (British 30 per cent, general50  per  cent.), and 310b (British 30 per cent., general 60 per cent.) ? 
Is it possible, when remissions are being made, to relieve those interested in the seventeen items subject to these special duties  of  either the surcharges, or a portion of  the  primage duties, now payable? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
Not at present. 
The number of items on which special duties operate is six. The question of  what  relief will he afforded will be a matter for later consideration. 
[3.14].- I move- 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
This is a short measure to amendthe Commonwealth Public Service Act is respect of salary payments in lieu of furlough, and also in respect of the appointment of returned soldiers to the Public Service. The first amendment relates to the salary rate upon which payment in lieu of furlough is to be calculated upon the retirement of an officer, or upon which the amount to he paid to his dependants on his death is to be ascertained. At present the different rates of salary received by the officer during a period immediately preceding his death must be taken into account. For example, an officer who retires after 40 years' service is eligible for payment of salary for twelve months in lieu of furlough, and to  ascertain the amount due to him hia varying salaries in the twelve months preceding his retirement must be taken into account. In that period he may have suffered a reduction which has  subsequently been wholly or partly restored, and the amount received in lieu of furlough would be less than twelve months' pay calculated on his salary at the time of retirement. It is considered that there should  be  a uniform method of payment in these cases, and that it should  be  based upon the salary the officer receives at retirement or at death. 
Tlie other amendment relates to section 84 of the act. Under sub-section 8 of that section, a returned soldier may be appointed vo the Commonwealth Service, although not free from physical defects clue to service in the war, if ho receives a medical certificate showing that he is free from such physical defects as would incapacitate him for the efi  cient discharge of the duties of the position to which he is to be appointed. 
Case3  have occurred where the medical officer certifies that the returned soldier is at present physically capable of performing the duties of the position, but that the indications arc that his present fitness is unlikely to continue. In such a case, having regard to the likelihood of premature retirement on the ground of invalidity, and the consequent charge upon the superannuation fund, a returned soldier is not appointed. The proposed amendment provides that if the medical practitioner certifies that any physical defect of a returned soldier is likely to prevent continuance of efficient service up to the age of 60 years, he shall not if appointed to the Commonwealth Service, be deemed to  be  an employee within the meaning, and for the purpose, of the Superannuation Act. This means that returned soldiers will not be debarred from appointment, as nt present, but in view of their disability they will not be eligible to contribute for a civil pension. The amendment is suggested in the interest of returned soldiers of this class, as it will enable them to obtain appointments at present not available to them, and at the same time will safeguard the superannuation fund from the encroachment of invalidity cases which were  not con  templated when the fund was established. 
They will be  in  receipt of  a  war pension. For some time the returned soldiers' organizations have urged that this amendment be made. If it is agreed to,  it  will enable men now temporarily employed  in  the Public Service, and who have pasted the necessary examination, to be permanently appointed, which at present cannot bc done. The amendments proposed in the bill are not contentious, and as the session is to terminate shortly, I trust that honorable senators will agree to pass the bill through all its  stages without  delay. 
.- As the proposed amendments appear to  be  necessary, I offer no objection to the passage of the bill. 
Although honorable senators on this side of the chamber intend to support the bill, certain persons in  the  Public Service who are not returned soldiers appear to have been treated unjustly. A few weeks ago  it  was discovered after  a  man had been occupying a position in the Post and Telegraph Department for two months that he was blind in one eye. No ordinary person could detect the young man's disability, but after a brief period of service he was dismissed. He is  only  eighteen  or  nineteen years of age. Whilst we on this side desire to do what is fair to returned soldiers by agreeing that  no  obstacle should be put in the way of their earning their living because of incapacity resulting from war injuries, we consider  the  provision in the  Public  .Service Act, which caused the dismissal of this young fellow, to be distinctly unfair. He showed  in  the few weeks of his employment in the Service that he could do his work well, and satisfied the foreman that he was highly capable; yet he was dismissed when it was discovered that, he was blind in one eve, although that defect had existed practically from his birth. This is the hard case of a young recruit in the industrial army, against whom, because he was  not  born in  time  to go. to  the  war, the Public Service Act operates unfairly. I rose  merely to point out that members of the industrial army also suffer disabilities. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [3.23]. - The case mentioned by  Senator Brown  is not relevant to this bill. Partial blindness is in ordinary circumstances a clear disqualification under the Public Service regulations. 
What would have happened if this young man had been a returned soldier? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I asked yesterday whether bonus shares declared out of the capitalization of profits of companies, having already paid income tax, were to be classified under this bill as dividends and again made taxable. The definition of " dividends " in this measure includes " the paid-up value of shares distributed by a company to its shareholders to the extent to which the paid-up value represents the capitalization of the whole or any part of the profits to the company". These profits have, in the past, been taxed at the full rate imposed on dividends, and have been passed to reserve. Will the Minister give the committee the assurance, if he can do so, that those reserves of a company will not again be subjected to taxation if distributed to the shareholders in the form of paid-up shares ? 
Yes; they have already paid income tax at the full rate. 
[3.30]. - This clause merely contains definitions, but it might be convenient at this stage for me to give the honorable senator the information which I promised last night to obtain for him. The present law taxes bonus shares, except those paid out of specified profits. The effect of the bill, based upon the recommendations of the royal commission, will be a reduction of exemptions in order to place bonus shares, for all practical purposes, on the same footing as cash distributions. The principle of taxing bonus shares is not introduced by this bill ; it has been embodied in the law for many years. The profits so distributed have paid tax in the hands of the company only at the flat rate of tax payable by companies, and the shareholders, when they receive the shares, receive a tax rebate at their own rate of tax or the standard company rate, whichever is the less. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
Section 14 of the principal act is amended by omitting paragraph (m) of sub-section (1.) 

 Section proposed to be amended - 14. (1)  The following incomes, revenue and funds, shall be exempt from income toco: - 

 dividends, bonuses or profits, or 
 the 
 face value of bonus shares distributedby 
 a 
 company among its members or shareholders, except as provided under section sixteen of this Act. 

SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON (Western Australia) [3.31]. - I move - 
That the following new sub-section be inserted: - 
The taxable income of  a  building society which is a co-operative company within the meaning of section twenty of this act shall be exempt from special property tax. 
Although in my second-reading speech I gave notice of my intention to move this amendment at the request of the Perth Building Society, it would apply also to other building societies which are purely mutual in character, and are regarded as cooperative companies within the meaning of section 20 of the principal act. The Government has shown its sympathy with thrifty people by granting assistance to life insurance companies. The result has been a lowering of interest rates and increased employment throughout the Commonwealth. For the most part building societies consist of persons who are building homes for themselves on a narrow margin of security. 
The only dividends it pays are to its shareholders, who are home builders. 
[3.35]. - Having given further consideration to this matter in the light of the telegram from the Perth Building Society, which  Senator Johnston  read last night, the Government has decided to resist the amendment because it proposes discriminatory treatment in favour of building societies which is not justified. A special property tax is charged on all interest included in the taxable income of any person or company, whether the interest is derived in the course of carrying on a business or not. A large proportion of the special property tax is paid upon interest, and the removal of any considerable portion of interest from the field subject to that tax would seriously affect the revenue. It would not be possible to relieve interest from the tax simply because it is derived in the carrying on of a business, because that would mean that interest received by banks and other financial institutions, upon which a large proportion of the tax is paid, would be exempt. Building societies could not be exempted from this tax without similar consideration being given to other cooperative and mutual assurance societies which are at present liable for the tax and would remain liable even if the amendment were passed. The exemption of all such bodies from the tax would have a serious effect on the revenue. Under the present law, building societies which are co-operative companies receive a substantial benefit, inasmuch as they are entitled to a deduction, in addition to the general deductions under the act, of all interest and dividends distributed to their shareholders. Their taxable income consists, therefore, only of undistributed income, whereas the taxable income of an ordinary company includes both distributed and undistributed income. It is important to note that the royal commission is of the opinion that this proposed concession to co-operative companies is not justified, and on page 147 of its third report the commission recommends its withdrawal from the act. Although this bill does not do that, the position will have to receive serious consideration when matters affecting both the Commonwealth and the States are being discussed by the respective Governments with a view to obtaining uniformity of treatment. The only concession that these societies can expect is the lifting of the special property tax at some future date. TheGovernment could not make a special exemption in favour of building societies without causing serious repercussions throughout Australia. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Dividends). 
I shall be glad to know if the Minister has a reply to the remarks I made last night. 
[3.39]. - The present law will definitely continue to apply toall distributions in cash by a company made prior to the date of assent to the bill, and, in respect of distributions  in  shares, to those made prior to the 31st December, 1934. The Attorney-General's Department advises that the present wording , of clause 7 definitely has this effect. 
The amendment of the clause, as suggested by  Senator Millen,  would frustrate that purpose. If paragraph c of subsection £ of proposed new section 16aa were to bc amended to read "before the commencement of this act" the effect would be to refer to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1922-1934, the commencement of which is a date in 1922. The " commencement of this section ", which, is the present wording, means, however, the date of assent to the bill which introduces it into the law - the present bill. The real position is that the amendments will " commence " when assent to the bill is given, and section 17 does no more than state to what financial year they shall, after their " commencement ", apply. The fears of the honorable senator are obviously based on a misapprehension. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Deductions in case of composite incomes). 
.- I move - 
That after paragraph (o), proposed new sub-section 23n, the following paragraph be inserted : - 
In the case of it building society which is a co-operative company within the meaning of section 20 of this act the deductions shall bo made successively from income which is not exempt from special property tax and from income which is exempt therefrom. 
This amendment does not ask for any exemption from taxation. It seeks very little relief, as all it asks is that the tax, which is payable under the act, shall be taken from the income which is subject to the special property tax. It is quite clear, therefore, that the arguments advanced by the Minister in reply to my previous amendment do not apply in this case. I hope, sincerely, that out of its sympathy with bona fide building societies and its desire not unduly to oppress people who are building small homes for themselves, the Government will accept the proposal. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [3.44].  -  The Government's objections to this amendment are dictated by the same considerations a-1. I mentioned in opposition to the previous amendment moved by  Senator 
Johnston. Notwithstanding what  the  honorable senator has said, his proposed amendment to this clause is also discriminatory in its effect. There is no principle enunciated in the proposed amendment which could "logically be confined to building societies. If the principle were justified in connexion with building societies, it would be equally applicable to all persons and companies, part of whose income is subject to the special property fax. Any such proposal generally applied would seriously affect the revenue, and would greatly add to the complications of assessment. It is to be remembered that the purpose of the bill is to achieve simplification  with  as  little  disturbance of the revenue as possible. The acceptance of the principle  laid down  iu the proposed amendment would seriously disturb tho balance now obtaining in the bill, and would amount  to  a remission of taxation, which the Government is unable at present to grant. The confining of it to building societies, however, would be productive of many anomalies which would not be justified. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13 (Division 2, private companies, definitions) . 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [3.45].  -  In regard to this clause  Senator Plain  made certain representations last night on behalf of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce,  and handed  to me the  following  telegram which  he  had received front that body : -  -Melbourne Chamber of Commerce strongly objects Income Tax Assessment Bill provisions relating private companies for reasons firstly power placed hand's Commissioner far too wide, secondly the legislation is direct interference with rights conferred under State Companies Act. Considers stringent provisions in bill unjustified and urges that division 2 be withdrawn. Will be grateful if you will place our views before House. 
DARLING  President. 
I have ascertained that many representations were made on this matter while the bill was being dealt with in committee  in  the House  of  Representatives, and I also understand that Sena  tor  Grant has an objection to lodge  in  terms almost identical  with  those in  the  telegram I  have read.  This  bill  is the  outcome of the prolonged and impartial investigation by the Royal Commission ou Taxation. The reports of the commission have been made public for months past, and the recommendations, which are being implemented by the bill, have been considered by a conference of Taxation Commissioners, the Federal Taxation Department, and the Government. The portion of the bill relating to private companies is based entirely upon the recommendations made by the royal commission after consideration of all the evidence given before it on the subject, and is necessary to remove dissatisfaction existing under the present law, and to prevent tax evasion. As regards the specific matters mentioned in the telegram received by  Senator Plain,  the bill removes tho discretionary powers now vested in the Commissioner in relation to insufficient distributions by companies, and makes the operation of the section automatic. The Melbourne Chamber of Commerce states that this legislation is ft direct interference with rights conferred under the State Companies Act: without some elaboration of this objection, I can only reply that it is considered that the bill does not interfere with any such rights. It is not reasonably possible at this stage to withdraw this portion of the bill, as ample time has been given to all persons affected to make any representations in regard to it, and the large number that have been made on every conceivable point has received full consideration. At an earlier stage, I informed honorable senators that the fullest publicity was given to the bill and  its provisions, and advice and suggestions were invited from all quarters concerned. As a result of representations received, certain1 amendments were made in the House of Representatives. This clause is an integral part of the bill, and the Government must insist on its retention. 
.- This morning I received from the Hobart Chamber of Commerce the following telegram : - 
Only able to see bill this morning. Consider amending act only adds to burdens imposed on bona fide private companies which morally should not have profits taxed ns property income at all. Suggest you  urge  postponement of measure and full consideration of whole taxation position in connexion with private companies. - Smithies, President, Hobart Chamber of Commerce. 
I agree with the contention by several honorable senators that we have not had time to consider this bill fully. Although the report of the Taxation Commissioner was published, there was no suggestion that the Government intended to act on the recommendations contained therein, lt was not until early in July that this bill, embodying many of those recommendations, was introduced in the House of Representatives, lt has been stated that copies of the bill were forwarded to the bodies concerned, but according to the telegram I have just read, members of the Hobart Chamber of Commerce had not seen a copy of the bill until this morning. 
I am aware of that; but I rem in;! lbc Minister that governments do not  invariably  accept in full the recommendations of royal commissions. In a number of instances a government has taken different action as part of its general policy. After this bill Was introduced into the House of Representatives, certain statements, based on incorrect information, were made by the Minister. This is why I think that a decision with reference to these proposed new provisions should be deferred until we get some idea of the extent to which they Will affect the interests concerned. I should also like an explanation of paragraph c, which state's that - 

 A company shall be deemed to be under the control of any persons where the major portion of the voting power or the majority nf the shares is held by those persons or is held by those persons and nominees of those persons, or where thu- control is, by any other means whatever, in the hands of those persons. 
I always thought that I could interpret the language of company law, but I must confess that I find it extremely difficult to understand what this provision means. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [3.54]. -  Senator Grant  said that when the bill was explained in the House of Representatives, the Minister in charge of it made an incorrect statement. I assume that the Minister was speaking in general terms. The provisions of section 21 will, under this amendment of the law, apply to private companies which are covered by the definition, and I think the measure will, in that respect, clear up a doubt that has existed hitherto. It may happen that a company which does not now come within the definition, has been regarded as a private company for the purpose of the application of the provisions contained in section 21, but those cases are, I suggest, very rare. 
The company to which I referred is an important public company. Its shares have been quoted on the Stock Exchange for many years. Yet the statement was made that this amendment of the law would apply only to private companies. 
As to the doubt expressed by the honorable senator concerning the precise meaning of paragraph  c  of the definition clause relating to private companies, I remind him that it should be read in conjunction with the definition of a private company - " Private company " means a company which is under the control of not more than seven persons, and which is not a company in which the public are substantially interested, or a subsidiary of a public company. 
If there are only three persons interested, or if the shares are controlled by them or on their behalf, the company shall be deemed to be a private company, and, as recommended by the royal commission, will come under the provisions of proposed new division 2. 
This matter has been the subject of a great deal of discussion. The proposals now before the committee have been designed with a view to simplification of the law and to remedy a very vexatious problem in administration. Assessments issued under the old law met with considerable opposition, and have caused a great deal of dissatisfaction. This bill, it is hoped, will put the matter on a definite basis. Every private company will know what are its obligations. 
.- In view of what the Minister has said, I should like to have his assurance that, because of the doubt that has arisen, the department will reconsider its decision, in respect of the company to which I referred, and, if it can be shown that the tax was levied without justification, refund the amount paid. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [3.57] . - I am unable to give the honorable gentleman the assurance he has asked for. The assessments were issued pursuant to the law as interpreted by the department. If mistakes have been made, doubtless the remedies are available to the persons concerned. 
But the Commissioner has sole discretion in this matter. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 14 to 17 agreed to. 
.- I move - 
That the following new clause he inserted: - 18. - Section 88a of the principal act is hereby repealed. 
Honorable senators will recall that yesterday I referred to the incidence of  section 88a in respect of preference shareholders in a company. That section reads as follows : -  88a. Where a company has paid or is liable to pay, in addition to income tax payable at the rates fixed for companies, further income tax of a specified percentage of its taxable income which is derived - 
from property; 
by way of interest, dividends, rents or royalties, whether derived from personal exertion or from property; and 
in the course of carrying on a business, where the income is of such a class that, if derived otherwise than in the course of carrying on a business, it would be income from property, the company may, notwithstanding anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association of the company, or in any other document or agreement, deduct from any dividends payable to the preference shareholders of the company an amount equivalent to the amount of that further income tax which has been paid or is payable by the company upon taxable income which has been distributed to its preference shareholders. 
No one expected when this provision was inserted in the act in 1931 that its effect would be to penalize a considerable number ofthe poorer people in the community who had invested their savings in preference shares. Certainly no one thought that they would be called upon to pay one of the highest rates of tax imposed under the Commonwealth law. Yet that has been the result. The department states that an alteration of the law in the manner I have proposed would entail administrative difficulties. I am not concerned with administrative difficulties so much as with the distinct hardship that is inflicted on a very deserving section of the community, which we profess to protect in the drafting of our taxation measures. Parliament, in its wisdom, decided that persons whose means are small shall be exempt from taxation. Yet this provision which may have been justifiable in its application to certain companies, actually places a heavy burden upon the shoulders of small investors who own preference shares. Their position is, I think, familiar to most honorable senators, because I have referred to it on other occasions, and it should not now be necessary for me to emphasize the injustice of this tax as it affects them. The deduction of the tax by the company from dividends paid to its shareholders is optional. Some companies contend that it would be unjust to the ordinary shareholders if the special property tax on dividends declared on preference shares were not deducted, irrespective of whether or not the recipients were persons enjoying exemption' under the Income Tax Act because of their limited income. Let us see how this provision operates. If a company has sufficient profits to pay its preference shareholders the dividend at the rate provided, and the ordinary shareholders a similar rate of dividend, those preference shareholders whose income is so small that they are exempted under the principal act, have to pay this special property tax, whilst ordinary shareholders with a similar dividend and similar income are not called upon to paythe tax. Both are exempted under the act, but in practice one section, the preference shareholders, has to pay the tax. For example, Brown may have invested £500, representing perhaps his life's savings in preference shares, and Jones a similar sum. in ordinary shares. The former, under section 88a, is required to pay the tax, but the latter is exempted. Fifty persons may be ordinary shareholders and another 50 persons preference shareholders in the same company; not having an income exceeding £250 a year, all of them are exempt under the act, but one section only has to pay the tax. A continuance of the present system cannot be justified. Where the tax has been paid by a company to the department on behalf of those who, under the act, are not taxable, it should be refunded. 
The amount involved cannot be large; but if  it  were the department should devise some other means to make up the loss. Even a considerable loss of revenue does not justify the department in making an exempt person pay at the highest rate levied under our taxation legislation. I consider that I am justified in testing the opinion of the committee as to whether the present unjust system should be continued, because under  it a heavy burden is imposed upon those least able to bear it. 1 have no axe to grind in this matter. I am a shareholder in companies from which I derive dividends on preference shares, but I am in a fortunate position in that I obtain 'the full exemption of £250, and a rebate of the amount which the company has paid on my behalf. Those more favorably situated enjoy the privilege of exemptions, deductions and rebates, while poorer- persons who should not have to pay anything at all have to pay the heaviest tax imposed by the law. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [4.8]. - The Government cannot accept the request moved by  Senator Payne,  and I trust that it will be rejected by the committee. The honorable senator has been so persistent in his efforts, and' appears to have made out such a good case, that I should like to meet him if that were possible. I have examined this proposal in proper perspective, and after consultation with the taxation officers I am satisfied that section 88a of the principal act is sound. That section was embodied in the Income Tax Act in 1931 because ordinary shareholders in companies said that it was unjust that they should have to carry the whole burden of the special property tax. When the position is analysed we can readily perceive that that is correct. In prosperous times ordinary shareholders in a company receive large dividends, but they do not always enjoy that privilege. During periods of depression preference shareholders are assured of receiving some definite amount, while ordinary shareholders have no such assurance. 
Many do not receive anything. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.Much depends upon the prosperity of the company concerned, and the state of trade at the time; but if the company did not make a profit, it did not have to pay the tax, which is a tax upon income. Section 88a was introduced in 1931 at the request of ordinary shareholders, who contended that it "was unfair that they should bear the full- weight of the special property tax payable by a company; df the whole of the property tax were paid out, the fund from which ordinary dividends were declared, obviously the amount available to ordinary shareholders would be reduced. Although the adoption of such a provision may have introduced anomalies, its purpose was to endeavour to do justice to both sections of shareholders. The preference shareholders would receive their full dividend at the rate provided for in the articles of association, the tax on preference dividends would be paid out of a common fund, and the rate of dividend to ordinary shareholders consequently reduced. This was an attempt to spread the burden equitably between the two sections of shareholders. 
A plea is now being made on behalf of preference shareholders because the act empowers, but does not require, a company to deduct from a preference dividend the portion of the special property tax paid by the company proportionate to that dividend. But where a company does exercise that power, the preference shareholder is, in effect, not in a worse position than the ordinary shareholder. As regards the latter, the fund available for distribution by the company is diminished by the amount of the special property tax paid by the company, and the dividend which the company can pay is correspondingly reduced. Preference shareholders desire to be assured of being in a better position than ordinary shareholders, namely, that they should get their full dividend without deduction in respect of the special property tax imposed as an emergency measure. If any relief is to be given, it could not be limited to companies with preference shareholders; neither could it be limited to holding companies nor to the dividend income of a company. The grievance really relates to the assessment of a company for special property tax at all. It may be said that any income upon which a company pays the special property tax would, if distributed to shareholders, and liable only in their hands, pay either no special property tax or a greatly reduced amount of tax because of the operation of the flat rate deduction of £250 which each such, shareholder would enjoy. The matter is bound up with the general scheme of company taxation, and it could be urged with equal strength that a company should not pay ordinary income tax upon that part of  its income, which, if distributed to its shareholders would not be liable to tax in their hands, because their net income is less than the statutory exemption. It could also be said that such a shareholder should be entitled to a refund of the tax paid by the company on the profits distributed to him. That involves a vital principle, the general application of which would bc too costly, and its limitation to specified types would not be justified because of the serious anomalies that would arise. For the reasons given by the department, the request moved by  Senator Payne  cannot be accepted. 
.- I was interested in the remarks of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson),  and I had no difficulty in concluding  that  the information he supplied had been furnished by the department. 
I remind the Assistant Minister that the department has made one or two errors. For instance, the Assistant Minister stated that the original super tax of 10 per cent., or 2s. in the £1 caine out of the funds of tho company, so in that respect there was a. differentiation between the tax imposed on preference shareholders and that imposed on ordinary shareholders. Dividends are always followed by the department into the hands of industrial shareholders and included in their assessments. To those having a taxable income a rebate is allowed; but shareholders whose income is below the statutory exemption of £250 do not get the rebate. 
I can assure the Assistant Minister that dividends are included iti assessments and rebates are then allowed at the company rate. As the department always follows dividends to individual taxpayers why should they not pay the tax? The department includes dividends in the assessment of an individual taxpayer, so that on the graduated scale he may be assessed at a higher rate even if a rebate is allowed subsequently.  A  special property (ax is imposed on companies, but if a company does not have any property income it does not, of course, have to pay the tax. It has been said that preference shareholders have been holding out for their pound of flesh in the matter of dividends; but it seems to be forgotten that preference shareholders have had to submit to a compulsory deduction of  22-^  per cent. I think that the majority of companies have deducted the full  22^  per cent., and the shareholders in such companies have, therefore, suffered to that extent. I agree with  Senator Payne  that&gt; on an income of  £100  a year, the department should not impose a property tax, as there is a statutory exemption of  £230  a year. It is easy for the department to say that it is impracticable to give effect to a request which would benefit the small taxpayer. If a suggestion is made in the interests of taxpayers tho department says that relief cannot be afforded, but no difficulties ure raised when the burden upon the taxpayer can be increased. A company should be deprived of the right to deduct the tax, and 'the department should be compelled to follow the dividend to the shareholder who receives it. Tho amendment, if .carried, would cause practically no loss of revenue. If any resulted, it would be only reasonable and proper for the revenue to bear it, seeing that; the existing act professes to grant the statutory exemption to every taxpayer. 
.- I can answer the question by the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce).  I understood that the matter was to be brought under the notice of the royal commission, and prepared a case for a certain gentleman to put, but, having other work on his hands, he was not able to carry out his undertaking. I am fairly sure, therefore, that the matter did not come before the commission. Two statements that have been made by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  call for a reply from me. I do not blame the department. My grievance is against the Government. The department must carry out the law as it finds it, and its officer? cannot consider equity. Equity, however, should exercise the mind of the Government. If they feel that a proposal is inequitable, they should take steps to remove it. The department, if so instructed, will find a means of working the machinery in such a way as to avoid injustice. The Assistant Minister said that a preference shareholder would under the 1931 provision be in no worse position than an ordinary shareholder, but that is not true where a company pays a dividend of an equal amount to its ordinary and preference shareholders, as many companies are doing. Some companies are paying to ordinary shareholders a dividend at least three times as great as that paid to holders of preference shares. The Minister is misinformed when he says that preference shareholders are suffering no more than ordinary shareholders. An ordinary shareholder receives his dividend, but if his net income is less than £250 a year, he is not deemed to be an income tax payer at all, whereas a preference shareholder in a company that exercises the power given by the act of 1931, even if his total income is only £50  h  year and that is all he has to live on, must suffer the company 'to deduct 6 per cent, of his dividend. In 1931-32 the tax was 10 per cent., and in the following year  7i  per cent. The amount deducted" is handed to the Income Tax Commissioner, although the preference shareholder's income from all sources is £50 a year; so notwithstanding the general exemption of £250, the department receives from him the highest tax levied in the Commonwealth. The Government must do something to cure this evil. It is unfair to allow it to continue. I have shown conclusively that ordinary shareholders are paid their full dividends, receiving at the same time all the benefits of the act in the way of exemption and deduction, whereas the unfortunate preference shareholder has to pay the highest rate levied, is allowed no deduction, and does not participate in the general exemption which is supposed to apply to the whole community. 
The Assistant Minister further objected that,  as  the general exemption from the special property tax is £250  a  year, the amendment would cause  a  heavy loss of revenue. Does the honorable senator mean that, although Parliament in its wisdom has decreed a general exemption of £250 a year, yet through the ramifications of a section of another act, which has nothing to do with the exemptions under the principal act, some people are compelled to pay the special property tax, and have no right or opportunity to participate in the general exemption? Does he mean that the department is justified in swelling the Consolidated Revenue by such means, in spite of the fact that the law enacts that the people thus penalized shall not be taxed at all? The Assistant Minister's statement that a loss of revenue would be caused is surely an admission that the receipts of the department have been wrongly inflated by imposing taxation on those whom Parliament exempts in the Taxation Act. These people are justified in expecting the Government to realize promptly the unfair position in which they have been placed, and to refund every penny they have had to pay in excess of what the principal act requires. I hope that the committee will support the amendment, the acceptance of which may necessitate some other provision to assist companies. That, however, is a matter for future consideration. My present object is to remove this burden from people who are least able to bear it. 

 Senator Sir HARRY  LAWSON (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [4.26]. - There is no fear of double taxation under the existing law. The section which imposes the special property tax includes the following sub-section : - 
Where income tax is payable by a company under this section, income tax shall not be payable under this section upon any taxable income derived by any person in consequence of the distribution by that company to its members or shareholders of the income upon which tax is so payable by that company, or in consequence of a succession of such distributions through another company or through other companies of that income or any part thereof. 
 The preference shareholder obtains his preference, because he has accepted a smaller return on his investment. 

 Senator Sir HARRY LAWSON.What the honorable senator suggests is, administratively, practically impossible. It would be burdensome and too difficult to administer. Section 88a was put in the act of 1931 by the Scullin Government in an endeavour to do justice as between the two classes of shareholders. A refund to preference shareholders would involve so much vexatious administration that it is considered impracticable. The 22$ per cent, deduction from dividends of preference shareholders has nothing to do with any Commonwealth act. It is made under the financial emergency legislation of the State in which the preference shareholder derives his income. 
.- I intended to suggest to the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  that, if he was prepared to promise definitely that the Government would look into the matter with a view to refunding all money collected through the operation of the 1931 section from people who are not liable to pay income tax, I would withdraw the amendment, but as the Assistant Minister has definitely stated that the administrative difficulty would be too great, I have no option but  io  press it to a division. Otherwise, 1 should have been glad to withdraw it. I have no grievance against the companies or the department. My complaint is that the Government is allowing the department, through the operation of this section, to extract money from people who are by the principal act exempt from taxation. 
.- Whatever the Minister may say, the people of Australia are evidently only now waking up to the fact that this bill is before Parliament. 1 have already received two telegrams on the subject this afternoon. The  president  of the Launceston Chamber of Commerce has telegraphed me as follows: - 
Chamber mainly concerned with the unfairness of retrospective action, and trust it will be wiped out. 
[4.40]. - I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
The estimates of expenditure  from the  Consolidated Revenue Fund  for additions,  new works, buildings, &amp;c.,  for the  year ending the 30th June, 1935, provide for a total expenditure of £1,624,880. The following table shows the distribution of that amount over the various sections of the new works estimates, and gives a comparison with the expenditure for the financial year 1933-34: - 

<graphic href="144332193408012_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amount provided in these estimates for new works from the Consolidated Revenue Fund is £184,423 less than the amount expended from revenue last year; but I remind honorable senators that provision is made in the works loan estimates for £1,000,000 for postoffice undertakings. The total estimated expenditure from revenue and loan fund, including the balance of the loan fund appropriation of last year, is £2,845,051, compared with £1,667,910 actually expended during 1933-34. The estimated increased expenditure of £1,177,141  is  exclusive of £1,160,000 to be expended on defence works from the amount to be specially appropriated for that purpose from the accumulated excess receipts in the Consolidated Revenue Fund at the 30th June, 1934. It will be seen that the Government is making substantial provision for additional expenditure on works during the current financial year. Owing to financial stringency, works expenditure has necessarily been curtailed during recent years. It  is  now necessary to provide for much more liberal expenditure in order to meet the growing needs of the various departments and to supply the public with postal and other facilities in respect  of  which increased revenue is being received. The larger expenditure on new works will aid in the alleviation of the unemployment problem. I commend the measure to the favorable consideration of the Senate. 
.- I congratulate the Government on its attempt to relieve unemployment, although the effort is very belated. The bill will provide work for a comparatively small number of men ; it will not go far towards fulfilling the Government's promise to provide work for the workless. Notwithstanding that this measure is brought forward practically on the eve of an election, I am glad that, at last, the Government is attempting to do something forthe unemployed, and I shall not delay its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
In the past there has been some doubt in the minds of honorable senators as to what powers the  Clerk  posseses while presiding during the election of the  President.  This amendment is designed to give the official all the powers of the  President  on such occasions in order that he may have full control of the debate. 
Nothing has occurred to warrant a departure from what has been the procedure in the Senate for over 30 years. This is an elected chamber, and I cannot agree with any proposal that would take control of the business of this chamber out of the control of the elected representatives. If the proposed procedure were applied to similar occasions in the House of Representatives, and all things were equal, one might be tempted to fall in with the wishes of the Government.I do not know what the Government has in mind when it proposes to give this drastic power to an official of the Senate. 
I am not going to say that the  Clerk,  whoever he might be, would abuse the power proposed to be given to him under this amendment. As a labour senator, however, I always look forward to the swing of the. political pendulum, and with that in mind I suggest that this proposal may have a boomerang effect. Of course it can be contended that the framers of the Constitution clearly contemplated that the Senate should not be a party chamber. We have, however, seen the Senate change from a chamber of review to a strictly party chamber, in which partisan feeling at times has been bitter. I do not intend to support the amendment. 
I desire to remove a misapprehension from the mind of the honorable senator. This amendment has not been proposed by the Government. It is the unanimous recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee, and in submitting this and other recommendations to honorable senators I am merely acting for the  President.  There is no doubt that the power proposed to be given to the  Clerk  is inferentially contained in the existing Standing Order. Unless the  Clerk  has some such control over debate the proceedings of the Senate might get. into a hopeless state. A certain amount of trouble has occurred in the past. 
SenatorRAE (New South Wales) [4.59]. - I join with my colleague in objecting to this proposal. With all due respect to whoever might be occupying the position of  Clerk,  I can see no reason why the control of an elected chamber like this should be given to any one not elected by the people. 
 The Standing Order already provides that the  Clerk  shall preside. 
The power given by the existing Standing Order to the  Clerk  is so slight as not to be dangerous. Somebody must preside while the  President  is being elected, and for the sake of convenience the  Clerk  is named. But an occasion might arise when there would be considerable friction between parties over the choice of a presiding officer, and I do not think the onus of giving a ruling on such occasions should rest on a paid official of this chamber. 
We have not yet given it to any one. Under the existing Standing Order the  Clerk  presides in a limited sense only. He is in the same position as the corresponding official in the British Parliament or in other parliaments of the Empire. He can indicate by pointing which honorable senator is to speak when two or more rise simultaneously, but he can go no further than that. In the event of a brawl occurring on these occasions there are other means of settling it, and I do not think that the  Clerk  should be placed in the invidious position of having to give a ruling should any friction occur. Under such circumstances the Senate should settle its own quarrels. Bather than give the proposed powers to an official it would be better to provide that the honorable senator previously occupying the position should fill the presidential chair until his successor was elected. Failing that, some other means preferable to the proposal contained in the amendment could be devised for controlling the business on such occasions. In the past we have always managed to get along without any serious disagreement. 
It was not of a serious character. Even the press, which at any time is eager to magnify anything in the nature of disorder,made little reference to the incident of which the right honorable senator spoke. I am not opposed to changes where they are needed, but I do not see any need for this change. 
It is difficult to understand the opposition of honorable senators who have just spoken to this amendment. It only authorizes the  Clerk  to apply during the election of the  President  the powers contained in the Standing Orders. 
During the election of a  President,  the  Clerk  who. presides on such occasions is not now armed with any authority or rules to control the debate. I think honorable senators' will agree that it is most desirable that he should be given such powers. The amendment will not put the  Clerk  in an invidious position, as has been suggested by  Senator Rae.  On the contrary, he is in such a position when he has no standing orders or rules to help him effectively to control the proceedings. The amendment should be carried unanimously. 
We do not know that the same procedure does apply in the British Parliament or in other parliaments of the Empire. What objection can be offered to observing for the election of  President,  the same rules as govern the conduct of senators at any other time? 
I think I understand the reason for the apprehension which, apparently, exists in the minds of Senators Dunn and Rae as to the consequence of vesting in the  Clerk  of the Senate the authority of the presiding officer in all proceedings for the election of the  President.  But it will be admitted that it is advisable to clothe some one with authority in order to reach finality. At present, there is a great deal of indefiniteness about the proceedings. Honorable senators can, if they wish, take a whole day over the business. Need  I  remind Senators Dunn and Rae that, in the State which they represent, on one occasion the choosing of a  speaker  for the Legislative Assembly gave rise to a discussion which lasted for many hours. Probably the less said about its conclusion, the better; it ended rather ingloriously. The motion now before the Chair defines clearly the procedure to be followed. If it is objected that it is unwise to give to the  Clerk  the powers of the  President,  I remind honorable senators that the privileges enjoyed by the presiding officer are subject to certain limitations, and the Senate may disagree with his ruling; so also, would the  Clerk,  if be offended, be subject to correction by the Senate, in which power finally resides. This recommendation of the Standing Orders committee is an attempt to end the uncertainty which exists at present concerning proceedings for the election of the  President,  and I think it will appeal to the good sense of honorable senators generally. We may take it that the  Clerk  will not act unfairly, because, for one reason, he will be clothed with the powers of the presiding officer for only a limited period, and if he offends he can be quickly called to order. 
 It is not my intention to oppose the motion, because in view of what has occurred in the past, it is desirable to agree upon some procedure for the election of  President.  Nevertheless, it seems to me that the amplification of the powers of the  Clerk  may place him in an invidious position. He will be expected, for the time being, to assume all the powers of the  President.  In view of what has taken place during the term of this Parliament, I am somewhat in sympathy with the views of Senators Rae and Dunn, whose desire is to ensure the fullest measure of debate in respect of any question that comes before this chamber, It is obvious that the Government did attempt to have the rules of debate altered so as to limit discussion on the first and second reading of important bills, and I am glad to know that the Standing Orders Committee did not lend its support to that suggestion. It is desirable that the freest discussion should be permitted in connexion with all bills brought before the Senate. Only to-day we passed, without discussion, a measure involving the borrowing of over £1,250,000. As the items in the schedule were taken as a whole, honorable senators bad no opportunity to deal with details of the bill. There is an undoubted tendency on the part of the Government to shorten debate on measures that come before the Senate, and to prevent honorable senators from being heard as they should be heard when they think that any particular measure affects the people whom they represent. I do not intend to oppose the motion to vest the  Clerk  temporarily with the powers of the  President,  but with other honorable senators I look with sus picion on this tendency to shorten debate. We have evidence of it in the fact, that although so far as we know, Parliament will be adjourned to-morrow night, there is a long list of bills to be dealt with. I view almost with alarm this tendency to restrict debate on important measures that come before this chamber. 
 I think we may assume that the Standing Orders Committee would not have submitted this recommendation unless it was convinced that there was good reason for it. The procedure suggested, of course, is a departure from a very old established custom in connexion with the election of the presiding officers. I have not had time to find out how long it has been observed, hut I know it has been the practice in the House of Commons for a great many years. This recommendation is a definite departure from the custom which lays down, in effect, that just as members of Parliament have freedom from arrest in Parliament House, so members cannot on the motion to choose the member who shall preside, be subject to any authority over them within their own Parliament. There was substantial reason for the adoption of that course. The only reason, I take it, for the alteration now proposed - I think it is a valid reason - is that it has been somewhat abused. I do not say that it has been abused in this chamber, but to my knowledge it has been taken advantage of in the House of Representatives, one member in particular making very long speeches about anything and everything, simply because there was no specific Standing Order governing the procedure by which he could be checked. We may quite properly assume that the  Clerk,  who knows the Standing Orders if anybody does,  is  not likely to adminster them unwisely, because, for one thing, his reign is short and the day of retribution would come soon. But apart from that fact, any one who has risen to the position of Clerk of the Senate or of the House of Representatives  is  not likely to be a person to take momentary advantage of his authority. 
I am not quite certain to what extent he would be forced to accept a motion that his ruling be dissented from. He might rule it out of order, and for the moment, be in complete control. Under the present system the  Clerk  is under the painful necessity of having to point. As we were taught, when children, that it is not good manners to point, we should not require the  Clerk  to be guilty of what* is regarded as bad form! That procedure, I think, is somewhat farcical. I see no objection to giving the  Clerk  power to call upon individual senators by name. I agree with that part of the recommendation which suggests that speeches in support of nominations for the presiding officer should be limited to fifteen minutes. That time ought to be quite sufficient for any honorable senator to extol the merits of even the greatest  President  or future  President.  Above all, the Senate, in surrendering temporarily by this proposal its right, does not give away its power. If any attempt were made to abuse the authority which it gives to the  Clerk,  or if the new procedure were found to be unworkable, it could be changed. While the suggested procedure is a definite departure from an old-established custom, I think it is justified. I intend to support the motion. 
It seems to me that the reasons advanced in support of the proposal to change the procedure for the electionof the  President  emphasize the arguments of those who are opposed to it.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  mentioned the trivial objection that, under the existing arrangement, the  Clerk  is obliged to point to the honorable senator who shall next address the Senate. That objection can be overcome quite easily. I have not the slightest objection to the  Clerk  being authorized to call an honorable senator by name. I have always thought the present practice rather foolish. As to the main objection that there has been a certain amount of abuse under the existing procedure or lack of it, I do not think that any one can accuse me of taking advantage of any situation to abuse fellow senators or any one else. While I admit that, in a moment of anger, I might feel impelled to say something which I would regret afterwards, I am not prone to abuse my fellows. It is, however, desirable that there should bo a clear distinction between abuse and candid criticism. In the ordinary conduct of business in the Senate no opportunity is afforded to criticize candidly the presiding officer, as is the case when the Senate is called upon to choose its  President..  It is only right that, when an honorable senator is nominated for the position, our right of criticism should be unrestricted. We should be able to say exactly what we think of his fitness or unfitness for the position. Short of offering a deliberate insult to a candidate to whom we might be opposed, we should have the full opportunity to criticize his conduct in the chair, if he is seeking re-election, or his fitness if he has not had previous experience in the chair. If the recommendation be adopted, we shall he rigidly bound, not merely by the rules, but by the practice in this chamber, and shall be denied the opportunity to say anything detrimental to the character or capacity of the honorable senator nominated. Ineffect honorable senators will be prevented from criticizing an honorable senator selected to hold the highest office which the Senate has to offer, and who, in their opinion, may be unsuitable for the position. It would be preferable to incur the risk of an honorable senator abusing his rights rather than to prevent legitimate criticism.  Senator Herbert  Hays said that the  Clerk  of the Senate should be as capable of controlling the proceedings in this chamber as is a duly elected president; but on such occasions we should not permit an officer over whom we would have no authority to exercise such power. I oppose the motion. 
I intend tooppose the motion. 
If the Leader of the Government were a candidate for the office of  President  it would take me a week to say what I think of him, and if SenatorRae or  Senator Barnes  was proposed I could dilate upon their good qualities for more than fifteen minutes. As I consider that the time provided is too limited, I move - 
That the following words be added to the motion :  - " with an amendment making the time thirty minutes ". 
If thirty minutes were allowed, and each honorable senator exhausted his time, eighteen hours would elapse before the  President  would be elected. I ask the committee to reject the amendment. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The amendment is formal. When the present standing order was adopted, the intention was that the  Chairman  of Committees, having been elected, should hold office until at least the 30th June following the next periodical election of the Senate. It was not anticipated that a session would be commenced between the date of an election and the 30th June following, but such has been the case, and the amendment is proposed in order to meet that position. 
Motion agreed to. 
Standing Order No. 66a - 
The following business shall be placed on the notice-paper as "business of the Senate", and shall take precedence of government and private business for the day on which it is set down for consideration, viz.: - 
a motion for the disallowance of a regulation or ordinance. 

 Committee's recommendation - 

At end of paragraph (c) add the words "or the disapproval of an award made under the authority of any act which provides for the award being subject to disapproval by either House of the Parliament ". 
.- I move- 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The amendment is considered desirable in order to place the disapproval of an award on the same footing as the disapproval of regulations and ordinances. It brings the whole scheme into harmony. 
No. Since the standing order proposed to be amended came into force, power has been given to the Senate to disallow awards, and there must be some method of fixing the time during the sittings of the Senate when a motion to that effect can be taken. The amendment merely provides the procedure. The committee saw the necessity for it, and agreed to recommend it. 
Motion agreed to. 

 Proposed new Standing Order - 66b. The following business shall take precedence of any other " general business " on the day on which it is set down on the noticepaper, viz.: - 
A motion for the consideration or adoption of the report from any standing committee of the Senate or joint standing committee of the two Houses. (A note to be put in the Standing Orders to the effect that where the words " Private Business " are used the words " General Business " shall be read in place thereof.) 
I move - 
That the proposed new Standing Order he agreed to. 
After the present Standing Orders were drafted, certain joint standing committees and other standing committees were brought into being. The proposed new standing order allocates the time at which such business may be dealt with. 
Proposed new standing order agreed to. 
I move 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
This matter has been the subject of careful consideration. In March, 1932, the present Standing Order196 was adopted. The manner in which it was expressed did not make for clarity. It was onlya few days ago that  Senator E.  B. J ohnston proposed a motion to refer a bill to a select committee, and the question of procedure cropped up. Standing Order 195a, adopted at the same time as Standing Order 196, is as follows - 
When it is the intention of the  Senator ire  charge of a bill to move the bill be referred to a select committee or standing committee, the second reading may be moved  pro formar  and in such case there shall he no speech by the mover and no debate: Provided the notice of intention to move  pro forma  must he given either at the time of fixing the date for second reading or not less than two clear sitting days before the date fixed for second reading, and such motion shall be placed on the Notice-paper. 
That is to say, the Minister or private member introducting the bill has the right to say that he is moving the second reading  pro forma,  and then no debate is allowed, provided that an intimation has been given of the intention to move the reference of thebill to a select committee or standing committee. The proviso ensures that all honorable senators shall  be  advised of the position, but honorable senators other than the mover, who have no rights up to this stage, have had their rights provided for in Standing Order  196.  All that has been done by the Standing Orders Committee in the amendments now proposed is to simplify the method adopted in Standing Order  196.  The recommendation of the committee is that present Standing Order  196  be left out and that three new Standing Orders should embody the whole of the provisions now contained in it. Proposed new Standing Order  196 repeats the  ordinary practice of the committal of the bill after the second reading. By proposed new Standing Order  196a  a motion to refer the bill to a standing committee or select committee, and/or an instruction, may be moved immediately after the second reading. Proposed new Standing Order  196b  provides that where the second reading of any bill has been taken  pro forma,  on the first occasion for consideration of the bill in committee of the whole the question that the bill be now committed shall be proposed, and the motion shall be open to debate as though  it  were a second-reading motion. The committee has not interfered with Standing Order  195a  at all relating to the  pro forma  introduction of the bill if the honorable senator in charge of it intends to have it referred to a committee, but it has preserved all the rights of debate given in Standing Order  196.  There were some suggestions of limitation. 
I suggest that that objection has been met. As regards the possibility of repetition of debate, raised by proposed new Standing Order  196b,  under our old procedure the proposal to refer a bill to a select committee was made as an amendment to the motion for the second reading. Under the new procedure the action will be taken as the result of a substantive motion made after the second reading. In the former case the following rules of debate would apply  - (1)  Senators who had spoken to the motion for the second reading could speak again, but only to the amendment;  (2)  Senators who had not previously spoken would, if speaking after the amendment had been moved, be taken as speaking both to the original motion and the amendment. In the latter case the remarks of senators speaking to thesubstantive motion would be confined to the subject-matter of it, and they should not discuss the bill itself. What, then, are the possibilities for repetition of debate? Presuming that the amendment was moved practically at the close of the debate on the second reading, any senator who had already taken part in the debate could speak again to the amendment. In such circumstances the opportunity for debate would be very little less than would arise as the result of the moving of the substantive motion. Repetition would occur if senators, in speaking to the substantive motion, digressed into a discussion of the bill itself, but such digression would not be in order and could be checked by the  President  or by senators themselves. 
Motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
It is considered that the proposed alteration provides a better form of putting the question for the peremptory closing of a debate. Under the present Standing Orders, after the Senate has divided on the question " that the Senate do now divide ", should the question be resolved in the affirmative, the Senate must at once divide again on the main question. The Senate may not desire to divide on such question, but may be prepared to allow it to go on the voices. The amendment really effects a cleaning up. 
Motion agreed to. 
Consequential amendments in Standing Orders 431 and 433 agreed to. 
 Unfortunately, the suggestion of SenatorRae was not brought  forward until after the  Standing Orders 
Committee had made its decisions. The subject was not one covered by the reference to the committee. 
I have discussed the proposal contained in the motion with several honorable senators, and they appear to think that it is somewhat unfair to ask the Senate to determine on each occasion the length of any extension of time which should be granted to a senator. Under the existing standing order, a senator who is granted an extension of time is entitled to an additional 30 minutes; the amendment suggested by the Standing Orders Committee provides that the duration of the extension shall be stipulated in the motion proposing it. When the matter came before the Standing Orders Committee I was not favorably impressed with the proposal to vary the time of the extension ; but I assure honorable senators that the Standing Orders Committee made its recommendation on the understanding that the standing order would be administered in a friendly spirit. It was not aimed at any one honorable senator, and was not intended to prevent a  speaker  from completing his remarks, if he had sufficient material for a speech of a little longer duration than the usual time allotted to him. The committee had in mind occasions when senators had intimated that an additional few minutes would be sufficient, for them to complete their remarks. The unanimous view of the members of the committee was that an honorable senator who desired an extension of time should indicate the length of the extension necessary, and that, if the motion for such extension was agreed to, no objection would be raised if he took an additional 30 minutes. The committee has endeavoured to amend the standing order with a view to shortening the time of debate without infringing upon the rights of honorable senators. If the new standing order is administered in the spirit in which it was framed, no injustice will be done to any member of this chamber. 
 Senator O'Halloran  stated the objections which could be raised to this amendment in order that he might meet them; but I do not think that he did meet them. Frankly, I do not see that anything is to be gained by the proposed amendment. Under the existing standing order, any honorable senator may move that the limit of one hour, or one and a half hours, may be extended for 30 minutes. If such a courtesy is extended to an honorable senator, it does not impose on him any obligation to speak for the full 30 minutes. 
The tendency to utilize the  full 30  minutes  of  additional time is not general. Surely an honorable senator who is granted an extension of time will recognize the obligation to complete his speech in the least possible time! 
That may be; but the honorable senator need not avail himself of the full 30 minutes.  Senator O'Halloran  said that a  speaker  sometimes intimated that a further five minutes would enable him to conclude his argument, and that it was a pity means did not exist to grant him that extension of time. Is the honorable senator sure that means do not. exist? If an additional five minutes will suffice to conclude an address, what harm is done by granting an extension of 30 minutes? 
There is probably not any member of the Senate whose speeches would not be improved by condensation ; but it may sometimes happen that ' a senator honestly finds that he cannot say in five minutes what he thought he could. If he wants another extension of time must some one move that he be allowed a further five, ten, fifteen, or 29 minutes? So far, no solution of the difficulty mentioned by  Senator O'Halloran  has been offered. In m.v opinion, the amendment will present difficulties; the Senate may be placed in the invidious position of having to ask an honorable senator how much more time he desires for the completion of his speech. 
I question the wisdom of the amendment, which I do not think is necessary. 

 Senator Rae suggested that a  speaker  should be given a signal when the time allotted1 to him has nearly expired. The purpose of the honorable senator can be achieved without a standing order. The  Clerk  keeps a record of the time at which each honorable senator commences to speak, and he could intimate the approach of the termination of the time allowed, either by a memorandum to the honorable senator speaking, or by informing the occupant of the chair, who, in turn, could advise the  speaker.  I agree with  Senator Rao  that it is a convenience to a  speaker  to know when his time is about to expire, so that he may round off his remarks in the time still remaining to him ; but there is no need for a standing order to enable such notification to be given. 

 Senator MacDONALD (Queensland) 1 6.4]. - When I read in the report of the Standing - Orders Committee the phrase " except a slight modification of the provision with regard to extension of time," I was inclined, to think that nothing of great importance was proposed. I have had sufficient industry to refer to the existing Standing Order, and I have come to the conclusion that the words proposed to be inserted will very materially alter it. I base that conclusion on the experience of this Parliament. I listened with great attention to the arguments advanced by  Senator O'Halloran,  but they did not convince me, although I regret to have to disagree with my  deputy  leader. I think  Senator Brennan  dealt with this matter very fully and convincingly. We have to provide for such contingencies as might arise from party bitterness in the future. I am not saying that any power of restricting debate would be used more maliciously by one side than by the other. We have to remember 'that, if drastically-minded,  either party might use the provision now suggested, simply for the purpose of harassing an opponent. If a leader should suggest that an opponent be stifled by the application of the Standing Orders, members of his party would naturally support him in the carrying out of that suggestion. 
If the proposed amendment to include the words " for any period up to thirty minutes " is adopted, a ridiculous position might arise. If honorable senators on this side wished to curtail an opponent's speech they could do so very easily by moving a contemptuous motion. Or a member of the majority party might move that a  speaker  be allowed to continue his speech for a minute. All honorable senators cannot express themselves succinctly; some are naturally verbose and discursive, but that is no reason why their right of speech should be limited by their opponents. I read recently of a very fine journalist who won his case at law but obtained a verdict for only one shilling. That verdict was contemptuous. Under the proposed amendment a  speaker  might be facetiously or contemptuously granted an extension for 30 seconds. The modification of the existing Standing Order, although described by the Minister as slight, can have very serious consequences. It could be used purely as a means of wasting the time of the House. Senators could move for an extension of 20 seconds or half a minute or any other such ridiculous period and upon the rejection of the motion, a further motion for a slightly longer extension could be made. These trifling motions, and amendments upon them, could continue almost indefinitely. 
Nevertheless the proposed amendment would open the way for the moving of a succession of contemptuous motions, thus wasting time. I think it would be far better if a definite time for the extension of speeches were stated. Otherwise it would be better not to permit any alteration at all. It appears to me that the Standing Orders Committee did not give to this proposal adequate consideration ; probably it was pressed by a strong member of the committee and passed without its implications being fully appreciated. I hope that the committee will reject the amendment. 
Personally I would have been very pleased to support the amendment if it stated a definite period for the extension of speeches. The freest possible discussion should be allowed on matters of national importance, especially as during this year the Senate has met for only comparatively a few hours.  Senator Sir George  Pearce has been so long a member of this chamber that he has reached a stage when he cannot really enjoy a good discussion on anything. Probably if I had been a senator for so long a period I should feel the same. From what I can see of the honorable senator, he is very happy in limiting discussions and curtailing speech on matters coming before the Senate. I have noticed a look of boredom on his face. 
The honorable senator is not in order in making personal references. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 Having regard to the objections that appear to have been taken to this suggested amendment, I have consulted with some of my colleagues and  Mr. President,  who is  chairman  of the Standing Orders Committee, and I am willing, if the committee so desires, that this amendment shall not be agreed vo. 
Motion negatived. 
Resolutions reported. 
Motion (by  Senator MoLachlan)  agreed to - 
That the report from' the committee be adopted, and the amendments and additions to the Standing Orders come into force from 1st October, 1934. 
[8.4].  -  I move - 
That tho hill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to appropriate £4,160,000 out of revenue for defence expenditure of a capital nature. This amount will be paid to the credit, of the Defence Equipment Trust Fund, and will be applied to naval construction, purchase of armaments, aircraft, munitions, equipment, machinery, plant, and reserves of ammunition and oil fuel; for defence works and buildings, and for the acquisition of sites therefor. When speaking on another measure this afternoon, the Assistant Minister  (Senator Lawson)  indicated the origin of this money, and explained how it came to be available, so it is not necessary for me to say anything further on that point. 
On the 25th September, 1933, when speaking in Sydney, I outlined to the  [Ml  people of Australia the Government's defence policy. I pointed out then that owing to the financial stress through which Australia had passed, our defences had fallen below a reasonable margin of safety. I did not then, and I do not now, place any of the blame for that state of affairs on the preceding Government. The Scullin Administration was the victim of circumstances. During its regime the financial position of Australia was so serious that drastic reductions had to be made in all forms of governmental expenditure. But with the revival of our finances, and in view of the condition of world affairs to-day, it becomes the bounden duty of this Parliament to make more adequate provision for the protection of Australia than we have to-day. 
One of the most serious aspects of defence is that owing to the period, of financial stringency through which wo have passed, not only was there insufficient money available for the upkeep of existing defence services, but, in addition, our reserves were exhausted. As honorable senators are no doubt aware, we are not selfsufficient in this respect, so if, unhappily, war again broke out, and Australia were attacked, we should have to depend very largely upon our reserves. A start was made last year to make good the deficiency. Provision for the continuance of that important, work is contained in the bill now before honorable senators. 
I am aware that there are in Australia many people who cavil at this proposed expenditure; but I suggest to honorable senators that if there is one country on earth with peaceful intentions, that country is Australia. We have no intention or desire to interfere with any other nation. All we ask is to be allowed to continue the peaceful development of this country. No matter how strongly some people may be opposed to expenditure on defence, and how firmly convinced they may be that it takes two to make a quarrel, they must realize that circumstances may arise in which it takes only one to make a quarrel - if, for example, one government has peaceful intentions, and the government  of another country is aggressive. Ju recent history there have been many instances of peaceful nations having been attacked by other nations. Therefore, it behoves us to make more adequate provision for the defence of Australia against attack. 
Another serious phase in connexion with our defence is that all the material for the three arms of the Service - the Navy, the Army and the Air Force - has become obsolete at about the same time. On the naval side the cruisers  Sydney  and  Adelaide  are obsolete. The same may be said of our fixed defences. The guns in our forts were installed in 1911, and to-day are out of date. In the air force the trouble is not so much obsolescence of equipment as wastage of material duc to ordinary wear and tear. Thus it happens that capital expenditures for the three arms of the Service synchronizes in this particular period. 
When I outlined the Government's defence programme in September last, I emphasized the necessity for a long-term policy, and urged that the defence of Australia should be treated as a non-party question, pointing out that it would be a waste of money for one government representing a particular political party to lay down a policy if, later, with a change of government, that policy were materially altered or perhaps abandoned. 
The Government is now asking for the necessary appropriation to give effect to this policy. We should like to feel that no matter what change takes place as a result of the ensuing elections, the defence programme for Australia will be carried on by the succeeding government. I need only point to the position of our fixed defences to bring home to honorable senators the urgent need for a long-term policy. Obviously it is impossible to provide the whole of the necessary equipment for land defence in one year. The expenditure must necessarily be spread over three or four years before the most vital ports in Australia are placed in something like a reasonable state of defence. It would be aif absolute waste of money if we were to spend a large sum. on this year's  -programme  and then, because of a change of government or some other untoward happening, the programme were abandoned next year. I, therefore, hope that whatever may be the 'result of the coming election we shall be able to ensure, under the provisions of this bill, a coherent and continuous defence programme for Australia. This, I think, is a reasonable request to make, and it is one to which I hope all parties in this Parliament will subscribe. 
The first arm of the Government is to restore the defence forces from the weakened condition to which they were reduced by the radical cuts in expenditure in 1930-31 and 1931-32; and having established the permanent organization on n satisfactory maintenance basis, then proceed with the programme, the fulfilment of which will be a step towards those strengths which I outlined in my speech in Sydney last year. This developmental programme has been planned for a period of three years at an estimated cost of £6,200,000. ' Of this amount £5,000,000 is to be applied to capital expenditure, and £1,200,000 for an increase of maintenance expenditure consequent upon the capital expenditure referred to. The appropriation of £4,160,000 in this bill is towards that capital expenditure. The maintenance expenditure for 1934-35 is (included in the estimates of expenditure for ordinary services. Of the total amount of £4.160,000 the sum of £2,250,000 is to be applied to naval construction. Practically the whole of this sum is required- for the purchase of a new cruiser to be named H.M.A.S.  Sydney,  and a second sloop. One sloop is already under construction at Cockatoo Island Dockyard, the money for it having been provided during the last financial year. An amount of £50,000 appears on the Estimates towards the construction of the second sloop. 
In pursuance of the Government's policy to maintain the Royal Australian Navy at an effective strength, and as a fair contribution to Empire naval defence, in April of this year the Government decided to replace H.M.A.S.  Brisbane,  a cruiser of 5,120 tons, and armed with eight 6-in. guns, and which became over age in 1932, by a new ship of the  Leander  type, to be named 
H.M.A.S.  Sydney.  The following description of that vessel will be of interest to honorable senators - 
Cruisers of this class are of 7,250 tons. The armament consists of eight6-in. guns, four anti-aircraft guns, and six 21-in. torpedo tubes. The speed is32½ knots, and oil fuel is used in the engines. The machinery includes Parsons-geared turbines and four screws. The6-in. guns are in four turrets, and are of an entirely new model. The new cruiser will be the most up-to-date vessel of the kind afloat. Its length will be 564½ feet, the beam 55 ft. 2 in., and the mean draught 16 feet. 
The approximate cost of building the vessel in Great Britain will be £1,800,000, and, with about £450,000 added for exchange, the total cost will amount to £2,250,000. 
The types of cruisers and the ships we have on the Australian station are not selected haphazard. In this matter the Commonwealth Government is in direct consultation with the Committee of Imperial Defence, and that committee is in consultation with the Admiralty in the selection and stationing of ships, with a view to the service which they would have to perform in time of war. I know that some ill-informed critics, who have discussed the merits of the ships that we have on the Australian station, have endeavoured to show that we have been ill advised in selecting particular types. All I can say on that point is that, if  we  have been ill advised, it is a poor lookout for the British Empire, because those advising us are responsible for British naval strategy, not merely on the seas surrounding the United Kingdom, but also on the seas in every quarter of the globe. Every ship on the Australian station is there as the result of such advice. The. role which such a squadron willplay if war should eventuate has already been predetermined in the naval strategy of the Empire, and surely those responsible for this plan are qualified to know in what part of the Empire a particular type of ship can perform the greatest service.Some ill-informed persons also speak of the ships as if their role in the defence of the Australian coast is not determined with that object in view. The task of the fast cruisers of the Empire navies is to defend the trade routes, and the tradeand commerce of the Empire, and for such a taskthese ships, and particularly those of the type 
I have described, are the most suitable. In the southern hemisphere there are other British squadrons which, in time of war, would act in co-operation, and quite probably would be under one command. The composition of them is determined by the knowledge that on the Australian station there are ships of certain types, speeds, and armament. "With the possible exception of New Zealand, Australia is more vitally interested in the protection of trade routes than is any other portion of the British Empire. Our whole economic life depends upon the seas being kept open. I ask honorable senators to visualize what would happen to this country if our overseas trade were interrupted for even a month. 
Unfortunately, during the depression, there were some who came very near to starvation. If the whole of our overseas trade were interrupted, what would be the effect upon our finances, trade and economic life? This country would be practically paralyzed. In these circumstances, it is vital that, in any emergency, the trade routes between Australia and the Mother Country, and other parts of the Empire, should remain open. For that purpose no ships are more valuable than the types that are being placed on the Australian station. 
There is another aspect to this question to which I invite the attention of the Senate: In our treaties with foreign countries, in relation to disarmament, the British Empire is regarded as one unit. In the treaty that resulted from the Washington Disarmament Conference, the fleets of the Empire are regarded as one, and the quota of ships allotted to the British Empire includes the Australian squadron. In that treaty a certain life is allocated to each of various classes of ships, and at certain periods the nations which are parties to the treaty are entitled to replace with modern vessels those that become obsolete. H.M.A.S.  Brisbane  became over age in 1932, and, from that year, was regarded as obsolete; the British Empire was not entitled to replace it in 1932, but is entitled to do so in 1935. 
In acquiring the new ship, is Australia being induced to do something that Great Britain itself cannot do in accordance with the Washington treaty? 
It is also interesting to note that when  Mr. Scullin,  as Prime Minister, was in England in 1930, he gave the British Admiralty an undertaking that if the financial conditions permitted, H.M.A.S.  Brisbane  would be replaced in 1935 with an up-to-date cruiser. In these circumstances I feel confident that the Government will have the unanimous support of the Senate in the action which it is taking in this regard. 
In regard to the  sloops  that are to be built in Australia, an order for one has already been placed with the company at present controlling the Cockatoo Island Dockyard. Honorable senators will remember that at a time when the Government was losing £60,000 a year on the dockyard It entered into an agreement with a company to lease it and a grant from the Treasury had to be made to make up the deficiency. At that time 350 men were employed at Cockatoo Island, but  on  the sloop  now  being constructed there  150 men are at work. Later the number will be increased to 350. On this one job which the Government has already given to the dockyard, as many men will be employed as were engaged in the whole dockyard when it was controlled by theGovernment. It is proposed to place an order for a second sloop this year, which will provide employment for au additional 350 men, and it is estimated that within six or nine months the number of men working on the sloops will be 650. The total number that will be employed at the dockyard when the two sloops are fully under construction will be 1,000. If, therefore, anything were needed to justify the action which the Government took at the time it handed over the dockyard, those figures amply demonstrate its wisdom. 
In addition to this programme, it must be remembered that the Navy to-day lives on oil, and as Australia is not yet selfcontained in the matter of oil fuel, although we have hopes in regard to Newnes, and trust also that some day supplies of flow oil may be struck, we must provide for reserves of fuel in Australia until those hopes are realized. Therefore, towards the capital expenditure on these matters, provision is here made for : " Reserves of stores, £109,395 ", and " Oil fuel tanks at Darwin and Sydney, towards cost, £26,810", or a total of £136,205. 
The capital expenditure on the Army for this year will be as follows: - Coast defences £141,500, anti-aircraft defence £28,000, mechanization £3,000, gun ammunition £42,126. technical stores £9,020, or a total of £223,646. That is the amount to be provided from this trust fund, but  additional  sums are included in the ordinary Estimates. As regards the fixed defences, we are not relying merely " on the judgment of local experts, but have the benefit of the advice of the Committee of Imperial Defence, as to which, in their opinion, are the most vital points that need adequate coastal defence and also the nature of that defence. In that regard too, we have acted upon the best advice that the British Empire can produce, as to both the points to be defended and the class of the defences there. In the provision now being made, a considerable step will be taken in that direction. 
As to the Air Force, for the replacement of damaged and lost planes we are providing in the ordinary Estimates for eighteen Hawker Demons, those being the latest type of aircraft advised by the British Air Ministry and our own Air Force officers. We have also made provision for the purchase of 24 seaplanes of the amphibian Seagull Mark V. type, which is the latest type now being used by Great Britain. In addition, we are in this bill providing for the extension of the Air Force. The provision to which I have just referred will make up the wastage, but by the use of this reserve fund, which we are setting aside, we propose to put into operation the remainder of tho first portion of the plan which Air-Marshal Salmond gave to Australia some years ago. To that end, out of this vote we are providing for the following capital expenditure: Technical equipment, including aircraft engines, motor transport vehicles, ammunition and technical stores £162,400, and for build*  ings,  works and sites £88,600, making a total of £251,000. This will entail the formation of the following new units: Two general purpose squadrons and one wing head-quarters, with stores depot, aircraft repair section, and engine repair section at Richmond, New South Wales; one general purpose squadron at Laverton, Victoria; coastal reconnaissance flight at Point Cook, Victoria, and Citizen Air Force squadron at Perth, Western Australia. These additions will considerably increase our strength in the air as compared with what has existed hitherto. They will enable us, if necessary, to put the seaplane carrier  Albatross  in commission again and equip her with modern amphibians. 
Another factor in our defence, partly covered by this bill - a factor which does not excite quite so much public attention as do other branches of the service, but still is in- itself of almost vital importance -is the development of the manufacture of munitions in Australia. I am glad to announce that Australia can conscientiously say that there are no millionaires within its borders making profits out of the provision of armaments. We have no armament firms whatsoever in Australia. Our armament and munition factories are not owned by private enterprise and therefore the element of profit does not enter into the production of these needs. I have read many sensational stories and allegations of the part that the proprietors of munition works play in promoting war. These can never be told of Australia, because our munition factories are owned, not by private enterprise, but by the people. It is pleasing to know that in this regard Australia is more self-reliant to-day than it ever was before. In this bill, and also in the Estimates, provision is made for a considerable extension of these works. The vote in this bill for capital expenditure in the Munitions Supply branch is £5,000 for machinery and plant, and £15,000 for buildings, works and sites, or a total of £20,000, but a very much larger vote is provided for in the ordinary budget proposals. With the money that is to be made available this year, Ave shall be able to commence the manufacture in Australia of the special class of cordite, the most up to date in existence, used particularly by the Navy. Whereas we depended previously for many of these requisites on importations from overseas, we shall not only be able to supply our own needs, but, pursuant to the co-operation that has taken place in the last twelve months "with the sister dominion of New Zealand, will be able to supply, and, indeed, are supplying, to that dominion a considerable proportion of the munitions required for its local defence. This progressive policy will also be most valuable should any trouble approach from, let me say, anywhere in the vicinity of India, because, by these means, we, in Australia, should be able, in view of the comparatively short distance involved, to provide many munitions if they' became necessary in that quarter. I was recently furnished with a list showing that no longer than five years ago, the munitions imported for our peace-time requirements largely exceeded what we made in Australia. I am glad  to  be able to state that Inst year the munitions made in the Commonwealth -far exceeded those which we imported. In a large proportion of these votes, and especially in the case of munitions, and the building up of our reserves, we are giving employment locally, and also making ourselves self-contained, so that if "we should be for a period cut off from other portions of the Empire during a war, we should be better able to defend ourselves. As I have received resolutions from people who seem to think that this expenditure could be better made in giving employment in other directions, I wish to emphasize that the employment given by it is no mean item. I have already stated that work is to be given at the Cockatoo Island Dockyard to as many as 750 men, all of whom will be earning substantial rates of pay. In addition, we are this year recruiting for the Navy, in order to man the new cruiser in August, 1935, just under 700 men. These are adults, not boys, who will enter the service and to that extent relieve the labour market. It is also gratifying to know that whereas, before the war, 75 per cent, of the personnel of the Australian Navy were officers and men of the British Navy, to-day 98 per cent, of the personnel, both officers and men, are Australians, who entered the service and received their naval education and training in the Commonwealth. We are progressing towards the ideal of self-reliance. It cannot be said that our defence preparations savour of militarism, in any degree whatsoever. Our system of defence is based entirely on the belief that the citizens of this country should be trained to defend themselves and their homes. Our permanent army consists of a small number of men whose sole duty is the training of officers and rank and file in their military duties. If war came, our army would consist of citizen forces, officered by citizens trained by this small cadre of permanent officers. The position of the navy is different; it must be prepared to act on short notice. We must have a naval reserve of Australian citizens capable of manning any vessel which is in reserve. 
I have taken up more time than I intended, in an endeavour to make the position clear to honorable senators, so that they, and. indeed the country generally, may realize that the proposals of the Government are a substantial step towards the defence of Australia. I assure the Senate that these proposals contain nothing that can be dispensed with; they are the minimum which considerations of national safety permit. In my opinion anything less would be evidence of foolishness. Unless in peace we are prepared to train men and provide ships, materials and arms to defend this vast and. rich country we cannot hope to hold it. 
.- The Leader of tho Government  (Senator Sir George Pearce)  has made an eloquent speech in support of the proposals of the Government for the defence of Australia. I have no desire to offer factious opposition to this bill, and, therefore, I shall not seek tho adjournment of the debate. If a country is made a desirable place for men to live in, there will be no hesitation on the part of its citizens in rallying to defend it. 
A country which is not worth living in, is not worth fighting for. If the leaders of a nation are wise they will make conditions such that, at the first approach of danger, its citizens will rally te defend their liberty. 
The only feature of the bill to which I object is the proposal to purchase a cruiser. Each of the three arms of defence - the navy, the army, and the air force - thinks that it is the most important in the defence of any country. The army believes that it is indispensable; the navy recalls the days of Nelson and Drake, and argues that, as the navy saved England in the past, so to-day it is the nation's greatest bulwark; the air force claims that future wars will be fought in the air, and that only by providing adequate air equipment can the safety of the nation be assured. In 1925 when the Bruce-Page Government decided to purchase two cruisers of 10,000 tons each, I opposed tho proposal, because I did not think that the money would be expended in a way which would provide the best means of defending Australia. I had previously had a conversation with an air force expert, in which I asked him what would happen if a battleship and a number- of aeroplanes were opposedHe said that, given six aeroplanes with two men in each, he would sink the biggest battleship afloat. He expected that in the conflict two aeroplanes and four men would be lost.  His  argument appealed to me, and I opposed the spending of £5,000,000 to purchase two cruisers. I believed then, as I believe now, that the money would have been better spent in equipping an up-to-date air force, so that no ship would venture near our shores. I do not believe that it is necessary to purchase the cruiser which the Government proposes to obtain. The BrucePage Government said that one of the two cruisers then thought necessary would be built in England, but that no decision regarding the building of the second vessel would be arrived at until after Parliament had been consulted. Notwithstanding that undertaking, both cruisers were ordered from England before Parliament had an opportunity to discuss the matter. At a cost £5,000,000 to Australia, the two cruisers were obtained, but their condition wai such that no one knows what would hav, happened had they met an enemy battleship. 
It is difficult to say what would happen if they had to undertake duty under active service conditions; so far they have been kept, for the most part, in calm water. In acting without the authority of Parliament, the present Government  i3  following tha example of the Bruce-Page Government. Already it has committed Australia to the purchase of a new cruiser. I object to Parliament being disregarded in this way. We on this side of the chamber disagree with many items of the Government's policy; but we are not opposed to the taking of adequate measures to protect this country. We consider, however that, as the representatives of a large section of the people, we should be consulted in these matters. 
Yesterday the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Parkhill)  said that considerations of u rgency and cost had decided the Government to purchase the cruiser overseas. Let us examine the claim of urgency. Every citizen who reads bis newspaper  knows that a state of tension exists in Europe; but Australia is an isolated country. 
That is progress and we cannot escape such developments. When our fathers and mothers came to Australia the voyage occupied six months, and many of them were lucky to get here at all. We are the children of sturdy and courageous pioneers, and all of us must feel eager to preserve the liberties they won for us. I think we can depend upon the progeny of such forebears to protect the country they helped  to  settle. But what is the urgent need for acquiring a battleship ? The vessel which is to be brought from England will have taken three years to construct, and has already been on the stocks for two years. Even if Australia did require this vessel urgently, I emphasize that Australian workmen, backed by the Australian nation, would be game enough to try to build a bigger and better battleship than it would be possible for England to send to us. But there is no urgent need for this battleship. The time is approaching when Australians will have so developed the resources of this country that its workmen will be capable of building anything, including a battleship. We have already built a battleship and we can do it again. 
At any rate Australia built me, and I am not a bad battleship. I do not see the necessity for Australia to spend about £3,000,000 on the purchase of a vessel that is to be built in another country. The work will employ people who are our kinsmen certainly; I do not necessarily object to that, but when we have among our present hungry population unemployed workmen well equipped in technical knowledge; when we have the dockyards and the country can supply the necessary materials for the building of the vessel, the sending of money abroad is indefensible. If the Government challenged the workmen of this country to build this warship they would build it in half the time that will be required to bring the vessel from England. I, and members on this side of the chamber, will certainly not vote for the proposed purchase. The Postmaster-General  (Mr. Parkhill),  when discussing this matter in the  House of Representatives, said that the stationing of this vessel in Australian waters was part of a scheme for Empire defence, and that its urgency arose out of that. This evening the Minister for Defence said that one of the purposes of Empire defence was to protect trade routes. Certainly the protection of trade routes is very vital to Great Britain. This was one of the reasons why Great Britain built its navy to such proportions that prior to 1914 it was equal to the next two most powerful  navies.  That naval superiority was necessitated by the fact that Britain was an isolated country, which, could not feed itself and so was driven to take measures to keep trade routes open for the carriage of foodstuffs from its colonies and dominions, and other parts of the world. Thus it was Britain's particular responsibility to protect the trade routes. But is that aspect of the matter of so much importance to Australia? Would it matter to Australia if the trade routes of the world were not open? We could not be starved. So far as I can see any interruption of the trade routes would, affect this country only to the extent that we would not be able to pay our debts to the landlord, as we do now with revenue received for our exports. In a local sense it is the landlord's job to keep the footpath open to facilitate his collection of the rent. So we say to the landlord of this nation, " If you want to gather the rent from this country it is your job to keep the road clear." Only the United Kingdom would be embarrassed if we could not send our produce abroad to pay our debts. The Minister for Defence stated that the new cruiser is to be a unit in the system of Empire defence. If that is so, it is immaterial whether the vessel belongs to Australia or to  Great  Britain. In either case the vessel will be part of the defence of the Empire. Australia did not place the order for the cruiser to be built; 
Great Britain must have been constructing it to replace another cruiser. The Mother Country, like other countries, is embarrassed, and involved in the European embroglio. In protecting itself it has entered into agreements with other countries for the limitation of armaments by the restriction of naval building to certain quotas and classes of ships. Now, apparently, something has gone wrong. Great Britain has reached the danger limit, and has decided to sell to Australia a cruiser of the  Leander  type, so that it may be able to build a new one without exceeding its treaty obligations. I admit gladly and earnestly that Great Britain has done more than any other country to secure the peace of the world. And I am glad that it has done so. We are continually being reminded of what the Mother Country has done for Australia; but, as I said a few days ago, the boot is on the other foot. Australia has been doing a great deal for the Mother Country. If Great Britain wanted to evade its compact with other nations it would be a more graceful action on its part if it treated Australia as a sturdy father would treat a sturdy son, and said ".Tack, you had better take this job on: I will give you the ships with which to do it." In 1925 the cost of building a 10,000 ton cruiser  wa3  estimated to be £2.!879,000. Since then the cost of living index figure has dropped from 1.844 to 1.459. The cost of living makes a tremendous difference to the cost of building a warship; on such work a large number of men is employed, and the cost of living regulates the wages. It has been stated that, if this vessel were built in Australia, approximately £1,000,000 only would be expended here on material and labour. If with that money we could employ 1,000 men on this work, I think it would be well worth our while to adopt that course, considering that there are 300,000 men out of work in Australia to-day, and that many of them are skilled tradesmen. In addition, their sons are leaving school, and seekiii: any job that will .provide them with a living. Why should we send money out of this country for anything? Even at the risk that if Australian artisans were given this work they might build a ship that would sink as soon as it left 
Sydney Harbour, this work should be undertaken locally. I oppose strongly any proposal that such a large sum of money as £3,000,000 should be sent out of this country to build a ship that can be built at the Cockatoo Island Dockyard. The Government expended a lot of money in developing and equipping that establishment, and we have the opinion of experts that our workers are competent to build ships. I am aware of the agreement the Government has made with the company which recently took over these docks, and I think that the company, with a guarantee of work front the Government to the value of £40,000 annually, is " on a good wicket." Notwithstanding my love for Great Britain, I resent this purchase. It is time that Australian workmen were given the opportunity to show what they can accomplish in this -field of industry, and it is for this Parliament to provide that opportunity. I disagree entirely with the suggestion inferentially contained in this proposal that Australia has not the workmen capable of building a warship. In 1926 the then Prime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  speaking at Glasgow, said - 
I  give you fair warning that Australia  is  going ahead  at  such a pace that she will  soon  build all her own vessels.  It  is essential  from  a defence point of view that we should  build  our own. 
That statement was reported in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 25th November, 1926. Speaking in the House of Representatives on the 27th March, 1925,  Mr. Bruce  said this - 
The Government is very anxious that  at  least one cruiser should be built in Australia.  Many  reasons for this must he immediately obvious to any one. One is that the Government would naturally be desirous of promoting industry in Australia. Another is that unless it  is to  come about that defence will not be required wu should in future years have to make  provision  for the construction of further units  of  the- Australian Navy. To do that it will  be  essential that we should have a first-class dockyard and first-class staff in Australia, capable of doing the work. Apart from  this  we have the fact that from time to time  w»  should inevitably require to repair our  ship*.  We should not be  in  a position to do  that until  we have actually built in the Commonwealth  ships  of the class we require. 
I commend  Mr. Bruce  for the wisdom which he displayed and the sentiment* expressed on that occasion. I agree with him that if we are to defend this country,  weshould he in a position to supply all our own equipment. We might very well tell the " old man " 12,000 miles across the sea that we want to build some of these vessels ourselves. 1 view this matter not as a soldier, a sailor, or an airman, but as a citizen of this country who is proud of the achievements of his fellow Australians. Iamfirmly convinced that the day will never come when it will be possible for an aggressor to invade Australia successfully. I agree entirely with Commander Wackett whose seaplane design attracted somuch attention a few years ago, that the future of Australia's defence is in the air. Commander Wackett assured mo that with sis of his Widgeons he would be able to sink the greatest battleship that was ever built. 
I can readily understand that a military man should have a special pride in his arm of the service, and be unable to appreciate the importance of, say, the naval arm or the air force. Some permanent naval men, I believe, are under the impression that the mere landsman is unable even to stagger home properly. My honest opinion is that we should not depend upon squadrons of soldiers alone for the defence of Australia. Science, as applied to warfare, has made that impossible. A military aeroplane, supplied with a few poison bombs, can decimate an army. I t would be wise to build in Australia, all the naval vessels we require, hut my view is that small ships such as the one now under construction at Cockatoo Island Dockyard are sufficient to police our waters. With an efficient air force I doubt that any battleship could come within 300 miles of the Australian coast without being sunk. 
SenatorMacDONALD (Queensland) [9.21]. - I agree with  Senator Barnes  that it is necessary to take measures for the defence of Australia, and I am in accord with some of the remarks of the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  As an integral part of the Empire. Australia should be prepared to hear a reasonable proportion of the expenditure required for that defence, and allow the experts to determine the means to be employed, though.I believe that the major portion of the ex penditure on defence should be confined to Australia. The Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  mentioned that Australia was now exporting munitions to New Zealand. It is only necessary to pursue that policy a little further to reach the stage at which we should be building all the naval vessels required, as well as naval and military aeroplanes for the defence of Australia. 
Although one would like to think that, in this 20th century, war between the white races is impossible, we remember that war did take place some years ago, and we must face the fact that, in all probability, it will occur again. Therefore, repugnant as expenditure of this nature may be to the majority of the citizens of Australia, it is our duty to put the defence of this country on an organized basis. Towards this end we should, as far as possible, manufacture all the necessary equipment, and not, as in the past, depend so much upon the Mother Country. I agree with the sentiments expressed by  Mr. Bruce  some years ago, that we should endeavour to build in Australia warships required for the defence of this country. Naval construction is not such a formidable proposition as some people believe it to be. The cruiser which the Government is purchasing is, I think, of 7,250 tons. A vessel of that size could be constructed at Cockatoo Island Dockyard, and the money kept in this country. Certain of the equipment would, of course, have to be imported. I was surprised to hear the Minister say that the main armament of the new cruiser will be only 6-in. guns. I doubt that guns of that calibre will be an effective protection, because we all remember that, during the Great War, the German cruisers  Scharnhorst  and  Gneisenau,  armed with 8-in. guns, wrought havoc off the coast of South America with the  Good Hope  and other British cruisers of the older type, but in their turn were destroyed by British battle cruisers of the  Invincible  and the  Indomitable  class with 12-in. guns, which I saw at Spithead twenty years ago. It would, therefore, appear that the new Australian cruiser, with a main armament of 6-in. guns, will not prove a very formidable opponent to modern war vessels, which might be sent to harass Australian shipping. As it was known that the  Brisbane  was becoming obsolete, action should have been taken earlier to provide a more up-to-date cruiser for Australian defence. Certainly the proposal should have been brought before Parliament before the Government committed itself to the expenditure of a large sum of money for the purchase of a vessel in Great Britain. Apparently there has been a grave oversight on the part of some one in authority. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber cannot be held responsible. I understand that  the new cruiser  was laiddown about two years ago during the term of the present Government. My principal objection to this bill is that the vessel was purchased wi thout the consent of Parliament, and that arrangements should have been made for its construction in Australia. 
I believe that a stronger air force is essential for the effective defence of Australia. Some experts hold that an effective air force will be the deciding factor in future wars; but my sympathies are with the land forces, and I should not be surprised if the final issue in future wars rests with the land armies of opposing forces as in past centuries. 
I understand that the cost is estimated at £3,000,000. I repeat that it should be possible to build a cruiser of that type in Australia, and that, in developing our defence policy, we should endeavour to manufacture all the equipment and munitions required. Although the Minister for Defence stressed the point that our trade routes and those of the Empire generally must be kept open, there is the possibility that, as the result of some terrible disaster, we may be completely isolated from Great Britain and other parts of the world and we should be as ready as possible to defend ourselves. 
.- The statement of the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce),  based as it was upon his personal knowledge of the subject, was so comprehen sive, clear and convincing, that there does not appear to be any need to elaborate the subject, or to criticize any of the points he raised. The right honorable gentleman referred to the fact that the Government's defence proposals embrace the three arms of defence, as is necessary since knowledge and experience have proved that no country can be defended by only one arm of the service. In listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  and his account of a conversation he had with an airman, it was not difficult to understand how ideas originate, and to realize that they usually have their genesis in the fact that a man has pride in the service of which he is a member. In primeval days, when personal contact became inevitable, the weaker sought protection by arming himself with a sling while his opponent assumed suitable armour to protect him from the assault of his rival. The same principle is being adopted to-day,and battleships with the protection they enjoy are equal to the onslaughts of modern aircraft. 
The. Minister mentioned that H.M.A.S.  Brisbane  will be obsolete in 1935, and as she must be replaced next year by a modern ship, it is impossible to build such a vessel in Australia. I am strongly in favour of units of the Australian fleet being built in Australia whenever practicable, but unfortunately we have not reached the stage when that can be done economically. 
The Minister mentioned that the primary function of H.M.A.S.  Sydney  will be to protect our trade routes, that her speed will be 32 knots, and that she will carry eight6-in. guns. These are light guns of high velocity and of extreme range, and are particularly suitable for vessels travelling at a high speed. The lighter guns are often more effective under certain conditions than are those of a heavier type. I have heard the Leader of the Opposition deliver a number or interesting speeches in this chamber, but I have never known him to display less enthusiasm for his subject than he did to-night, possibly because he was endeavouring to express opinions in which he did not honestly believe. The honorable senator knows that adequate defence of Australia is essential, and that if one portion of the Empire fails to provide a proper defence system, Empire defence becomes ineffective. 
The subject of defence has  been  discussed in this chamber so often that it is not my intention to labour it to-night. On this occasion I believe that the Government is submitting additional defence proposals on the eve of an election in an endeavour to stampede the people. The members of the Labour party do not apologize for the attitude they adopt towards defence. As was stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  one ot the main planks of the Labour party's pintform is the adequate defence of Australia. I presume that, the order for a vessel costing £3,000,000 was placed in Great Britain by the High Commissioner in congenial company and in the most attractive surroundings, in an endeavour to assist British workmen regardless of the strong claims of the unemployed in Australia. Some time ago,  Mr. Bruce  conducted negotiations with the British Government, which resulted in orders for ships required in Australia being placed with British shipbuilders at a  time when the slipways on the Clyde were empty and the British people were on the verge of an industrial revolution. Although certain vessels are becoming obsolete, suitable cruisers could be constructed at Cockatoo Island Dockyard.  Senator Grant  will endeavour to justify before the Tasmanian electors the vote which he proposes to give on this bill, but I know that there are many in that State who would prefer to see £3,000,000 devoted to industrial developments in Australia. When I commenced to learn my trade in 1913 in what were then the State workshops adjacent to Balmain, on Sydney Harbour, large contracts were accepted by those works from the Sydney Harbour Trust and from other similar undertakings. There were also State works on what was then known as Biloela. Under the name of Cockatoo Island that establishment was transferred by the State to the Commonwealth Government, whose property it became. Australia at that time was embarking on a comprehensive policy of defence, and the then 
Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  came from Melbourne and met the men at a mass meeting at what was known as the 25-ton steam crane on the island. He made a very fine oration to them. I heard it, because I was one of them.  His  speech was indeed a classic, because at that time he was younger and more vigorous; he had a punch, and he was a member of an energetic fighting party - the Australian Labour party. He pointed out the ideals of the Australian nation, stressed what Australian workmen could do, and wished the men Godspeed in their mission. The first unit constructed at Cockatoo Island was the  Warrego,  a Baver type of torpedo destroyer. She came out in cases and was assembled at the island, and her launching was made the occasion for a- great festival. It marked an epoch in Australian shipbuilding, and the progress of the handicrafts connected with it. The gentleman who at that time enunciated the principles of naval shipbuilding in Australia was no other than the present Leader of the Senate. No doubt he recollects the occasion when he stood on top of the 25-ton steam crane in 1913. The men employed there next built the  Parramatta,  and then went on to bigger jobs, turning out the cruisers  Brisbane  and  Adelaide  in a very efficient manner. If those vessels and their auxiliaries, the aeroplane carrier  Albatross,  and merchant vessels, such as the  Fordsdale  and the  Ferndale,  which became merchant cruisers, could be built by Australian workmen, why in the name of commonsense cannot this 7,250-ton cruiser be built in Australia? The Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  has stated that it is required straight away, but the Government will not receive it at once. We know that in the British shipbuilding yards, which were the cradle of an industry that has now spread all over the world, it takes two and three years to build cruisers of this kind. The  Sydney Morning Herald  definitely stated that the new cruiser was one of the stock vessels, that her keel was not laid down to the order of the Commonwealth Government, but that  she  was already under construction. She is not nearly finished, yet the Government rushes in to spend £3,000,000 on her purchase. 
The platform and objective of the Australian Labour party lays it down that naval and military expenditure must be allocated from direct taxation. Consequently the whole of the money required for this purpose will have to be found by the people of Australia. Appeals are constantly being made by bishops and clergymen of all denominations, and public men, including shire presidents and mayors of suburban councils, for the provision of work for the idle youth of Australia. A well-known distillery firm, whose head-quarters are in Adelaide, publishes a feature " stunt " in a leading newspaper, covering many subjects of topical importance. I read one a few weeks ago entitled " The Call of South ". It asked what Australia was going to do for the youth of the nation. Only a few short months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  met a deputation of lads between the ages of 15 and 23 who had never worked. It represented 1,500 young men in one centre of the northern coal-fields alone, and it met the right honorable gentleman at Kurri Kurri. Similar critical conditions exist throughout all the other States. Business men, big and small, including manufacturers, who are capable of tendering for the supply of the machinery and other essentials for the construction of a cruiser, are given no opportunity to undertake this important work, with the result that the young men of the nation are still compelled to stand idle at street corners. It may be argued that Australia is not in  a  position to build this vessel, but that, excuse is mere " eye-wash ". The Minister for Defence admitted in reply to a question which I placed a few weeks ago on the notice-paper, that during a period of  a  little over twelve months, the present lessees of the vast establishment at Cockatoo Island paid only £1,300 in rent for the use of machinery and plant, which cost Australia nearly £2,000,000. The Government no doubt will claim that it is giving work to the shipbuilders, artisans, and skilled labourers of Sydney in the construction of a sloop and three auxiliary vessels, but that does not alter the fact that £3,000,000 has to be found out of direct taxation to pay for the building of a cruiser on the other side of the world, notwithstanding the fact that the competent tradesmen and draftsmen of Australia successfully built the  Brisbane  and the  Adelaide,  which worthily played their parts during the late world war. 1 appeal to the Government to recognize that it is wrong both in principle and in practice to allocate such a huge sum for the performance of this work overseas.  Major Elliott,  a member of the Ramsay MacDonald Government, is preaching in and out of season in the House of Commons the doctrine of economic nationalism for Great Britain. How can tho Australian Government justify to the. primary producers of Australia, thu taking out of circulation of £3,000,000 raised by direct taxation in Australia? The farmers as well as the Government know well that the best market for the products of any nation is its home market. There are to-day in Australia 500,000 men and women living in the shadows of dole relief. They may be regarded as practically unemployed because they have to work for sustenance. No right thinking man feels that he is holding his proper place as a unit in the nation unless he is working a,t his calling for full award rates and conditions. It is useless for Ministers to quote the figures of the Commonwealth and State Statisticians to prove that employment is on the increase. No doubt they are true as the statisticians see them; but they are wrong as we see them. We are in a better position than Ministers of the Crown or officials who compile statistics to know the facts, because it is the section of the community we represent in this chamber that is to-day suffering the awful penalties of unemployment. The expenditure in England of £3,000.000 which should be circulated in Australia will have a serious effect on primary production in this country. Money which, if paid to Australian workmen, would be expended by them in the purchase of fruit from Tasmania, wine from South Australia, sugar from Queensland, boots and shoes from Victoria, and in Australian products generally, will now circulate to the advantage of primary producers and manufacturers on the other side of the world. In asking the Senate to vote to send £3,000,000 overseas for the purchase of a cruiser the Government is asking that the door be bolted and barred against Australian producers. Why not ensure this country's safety by manufacturing in Australia aeroplanes which would be of more value as a weapon of defence than any cruiser could possibly be ? God forbid that Australia should ever be embroiled in another war, but should that catastrophe overtake us, does any honorable senator imagine that our safety would be assured because of our possession of a 7, 250-ton cruiser? The £3,000,000 would be expended to far greater advantage in the manufacture of aircraft. The Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  spoke of Australia's danger in the event of war. I remind him of the vulnerability of the steel works at Port Kembla and Newcastle. These establishments are situated practically on the coast, and are not immune from attack by naval vessels whose guns have a range of over 25 miles. Britain showed wisdom when it established its great steel works and munition factories inland, where there is at least a fighting chance of their being successfully defended by fleets of aeroplanes. European countries, such as France, Austria, Italy, and even Turkey, have displayed similar caution. How can one cruiser patrol the thousands of miles of Australia's coastline, to say nothing of the trade routes between this and other countries? The Leader of the Senate has the audacity to ask Labour senators to agree to send £3,000,000 out of this country when by expending the money here employment would be provided for Australian workmen. At Cockatoo Island there is the necessary equipment for the manufacture of the cruiser," as well as capable shipwrights, electricians, moulders, plumbers, carpenters, and other artisans, who have already displayed their skill in the construction of the  Adelaide  and the  Brisbane.  The Government having the numbers, will no doubt go ahead with iti proposals; but I assure it that a higher authority than this Parliament is awaiting an opportunity to pass judgment on it. Australians pride themselves that nothing necessary for the development of their country need be imported. In our forests and fields, our mines and our factories, there are the materials and the men to build as many modern cruisers as we require. I strongly oppose the proposal to send out of this country money which should be expended here. 

 Senator RAE  (New South Wales) [10.9  j. -  I shall not appeal to the Government to change its mind in regard to these proposals, because I know that it would be useless to do so. Instead, I, and those who think as I do, will appeal to the electors who, after all, make and unmake governments. It is true that the platform of the Labour party provides for the adequate defence of Australia against invasion; but I feel impelled to ask myself, first, whether Australia needs a cruiser, and, secondly, whether the need is urgent. If the urgency alleged by the Minister for Defence is due to the disturbed state of Europe, I remind him that, ever since the close of the world war, Europe has been in a state of unrest. The terms of the treaty forced on enemy nations, and the artificial subdivision of certain European States, have intensified the resentment and racial antagonisms which existed previously. If, however, the urgency is due to causes which have had their culmination in resent events in Europe, it is possible that hostilities may break out at any moment. In that case we would have been wiser had we purchased a completed vessel, so that it would have been available for our defence when needed. If the urgency is only relative, there is no need to do more than set to work immediately to establish in Australia the means of defending ourselves. If a vessel such as that proposed to be bought in England is essential to the safety of Australia, it should be built here.  Senator Barnes  spoke truly when he said that the first line of a nation's defence is a country worth living in. From a defence point of view it is not a sane policy to have thousands of people in enforced idleness. 
We shall not dispose of our unemployment problem by sending money overseas. I cannot see that Australia is in imminent danger. Even in the great war, Australia was in danger only because its leaders chose to enter  the war, having been persuaded by the press that otherwise Australian citizens would be enslaved. The consequences of that war have been disastrous to the world; yet European nations, including Britain, are now engaged in another armaments race. There is, however, no reason why Australia should follow their example. The quarrels and territorial ambitions of European nations are no concern of ours ; our sole duty in matters of defence is to protect ourselves from invasion. Until that danger is manifested, we should take no other steps for the provision of defence than we have done as part of the ordinary programme in recent years. The demand at present for this orgy of expenditure on defence is due to the hysteria generated a few months ago by the press and by public men in search of a new means of publicity. To me it appears that the bounden duty of Australia to herself, and the world in general, is to keep out of the old world's quarrels, and to steer clear of the disagreements between the nations in Europe, which is the stormcentre of the world. We appear to be ambitious to become an imperial power ourselves, and to take part in the business of other nations, thus inviting reprisals. In my opinion, we could justifiably make neutrality treaties and peace pacts with other nations, and by those means keep clear of any war of aggression, and confine ourselves to defending Australia against attack. Practically every male citizen will be prepared to do his share to defend his country against any wilful or deliberate aggression on the part of any foreign nation. I regard the proposal now before us as nothing less than a political crime, which is being perpetrated upon the people of this country. I cannot describe otherwise the Government's action in contracting to spend this money on the other side of the world, when we have available numbers of artisans skilled in every class of labour who have already demonstrated their capacity by the construction of warships of considerable size in a manner that elicited favorable comment from competent judges overseas. It has already been demonstrated that we have the men  to  build ships, whether they be required for the merchant service or for war purposes, and, should war threaten, we would have ample time to carry out defence measures. 
I say we do not want to establish any means of defence other than those for which we already have the material in this country. 
I am not an advocate of peace at any price. I appreciate the fact that circumstances can arise under which an appeal to armed force becomes necessary; but the only justification for that is a foreign invasion. I agree with the statement recently made by a distinguished statesmen, when he said that his country did not wantto take a foot of territory from any other country, but would resist to the last ditch any attempt to steal a foot of its territory on the part of any other country. I would sanction and advocate any means of defence that would be rendered necessary by an attempted invasion of this country. 
I do not. I have already said that we could make nonaggression pacts with othercountries. If all nations would come to an agreement that they would fight only when invaded, there would be no war. 
We are in the most favorable position of any section of the white race to-day to decline to go to war for any reason except to withstand an attempted invasion to deprive us of our national rights. I admit the logic of the argument that there may not be any clear line of demarcation between defence and aggression; but, as we are an isolated country, thousands of miles from any other country, we are in a position to foresee when war is threatening. For the present, we should provide ourselves with the raw material of defence, by qualifying ourselves to construct whatever is necessary to defend us from attack, as we are doing in the manufacture of up-to-date cordite more than  ample to supply the needs of Australia. We should supply our own materials for defence, and keep them in reserve. In  thi3  way we can conserve the skill of our artisans, who at present are being driven to other countries in search of work. In practically every country one can find skilled- Australians occupying positions they could not have hoped to obtain "in their own country, because of the imperialistic notion held here that kinship with Great Britain justifies us in getting everything done there, sacrificing our own people in order to feed others distantly related to us. I dissent altogether from that view. The principle under which this Government is working is repugnant to Australian opinion. The Government is abusing the position it gained by breaking the promise made at the last election, in order to embark on a course of action that does not. meet with the approval of the average citizen. The people of Australia are desirous of having adequate means of defence, but they are still more desirous that those means should be built up in the Commonwealth ; they do not approve of purchasing a ship overseas on the grounds of urgency, and overlooking the fact that there is an equally urgent need to provide employment for our own people. 
 lt is always interesting to listen to  Senator Bae. His  speech is invariably clear and logical, and it is easy to follow his arguments, whether one agrees with them, or not. I do  not  agree with him on the subject of defence. For instance, he said that many Australians occupy positions overseaswhich they would not have had the chance of gaining in their own country, because of the failure of the Government to utilize their skill when opportunities offer. One might reply that many people not born in Australia are occupying high positions here, and that the Governments of their native lands failed to provide sufficient opportunities in industry for the utilization of their services. Such men have included  Mr. W.  M. Hughes,  Mr. Andrew  Fisher,  Sir George  Reid, and  Sir Joseph  Cook, each of whom became Prime Minister of Australia, and it could not reasonably be argued that they would all have achieved similar eminence in the countries of their birth. The conditions which have forced Australians to go abroad in search of high position have operated equally in the other direction to induce people from other countries to come here. This will be found to be a tendency in business generally. We find that in engineering and commercial circles not only Britishers, but also foreigners, who have migrated to these shores have attained the highest distinction without influence and through sheer intelligence. This is the result of freetrade in brains. I do not see anything wrong in an Australian of ability going abroad to make his mark in his particular calling. Of course, his departure is a loss to his native land. 
So far as general opportunities in industry are concerned, Australia is a relatively small country. We cannot afford to pay for skilled services what the older and financially stronger countries can pay, and it is only natural that able men should aspire to greater conquests in the outside world. A medical man, after he has made his name in this country, will want to win additional laurels in such medical centres as London, Vienna and Berlin. That is both natural and desirable. 

 Senator Rae said that this Government is indulging in a perfect orgy of expenditure on defence. I do not suggest any ill-faith on their part, but the remarks of some honorable senators have been hopelessly wide of the truth. The summary of expenditure involved in the budget this year shows that war and repatriation services and invalid and oldage pensions are costing this country £31,000.000 per annum, whereas on defence we are expending a little over £4,000,000. Docs that appear to  Senator Rae  to be a fair apportionment; that  we  should spend, as it were, £3.1,000,000 on the past, and £4,000,000 on the future. Is that carrying out our obligations  to  future generations? 
I ask the honorable senator again if, taking the broadest view, it is sound policy to spend £31,000,000 this year on what practically refers to the past and only £4,000,000 on the future? 
I consider that the vote for defence is disproportionately low, and quite inadequate, having regard to what we are expending on social services. The honorable senator also said that any one in Australia would be prepared to do his share in defending this country against invasion. I do not doubt that, but how is any one to be able to do his share unless he has been provided with the means to do it - unless he has been trained to shoot and drill and has assimilated some idea of discipline? If an invader threatened our land, what would be the use of a volunteer coming forward and saying, " I have never had any training; compulsory training was done away with at about the time when I came of age for training; I have never lived in the country, and thus never had an opportunity to learn to shoot; and I do not care for discipline in any case ; but I am anxious to do my share for my country " ? It would be of no more use for us, as someone once said in the House of Representatives, than if the honorable member for Bourke went out to defend this country with a soap box in his hand. It is idle to talk about defending Australia to tho !a3t ditch, because, I put it to honorable senators opposite, with us the last ditch is the first ditch. 
I remind the honorable gentleman that, leaving the soap boxes behind them, they went out to fight with rifles in their hands. 
I should again like to pay a tribute to the old Labour party, of which the right honorable the Minister for Defence  (Senator  Pearce)  was a prominent member many years ago, for the part which it played in the building up of the defence force of this country by instituting the system of compulsory  miltary  training for the youths of Australia. Every historian I have read admits that the establishment of the Australian Military Force on . that basis was of the greatest value, not only to the Commonwealth, but also to the Empire during the war years. This tribute is applied, not merely to the men in the ranks, but to the officers who were trained at Duntroon, and it so happened that they were just ready for service when war broke out. It is fitting that I should say a word or two on this subject because the Minister for Defence moved the second reading of this bill to-night. Probably no man living has done more for the defence of Australia than the right honorable  gentleman.  He held the portfolio of Minister for Defence during the whole period of the war. No one can deny that the old Labour party recognized that acceptance of the privileges which this country affords to its citizens also implied the duty to be ready to fight for it when the need arose. I am glad to be able to say a word or two in support of the excellent speech which the right honorable gentleman delivered to-night, although, as on other occasions, I did not find myself in complete agreement with everything that he said. I admit, however, that he is in a much better position that I am to state the facts about the defence of Australia. The right honorable senator expressed the hope that the Government's proposals would be treated in a non-party spirit. I regret that that is not possible. He said he hoped that this defence expenditure would be spread over a period of about five years, and that all parties would agree to carry out the programme. That also I say is impossible because, as at present constituted, the Labour party has turned its back on the defence of Australia. The only form of defence which it is prepared to concede is that which will give work to artisans in Australia. 
Some branches of the Labour party at least are against this policy for the defence of Australia. 
It may interest honorable senators to know what is the defence policy of the Labour party. I propose to state it, by quoting from an interesting document which has not before been mentioned in this debate. I refer to the resolutions of the conference of the Victorian Labour party, held in Melbourne on the 13th January, 1934. They are in the following terms: - 
That the Australian Labour party forbids any Australian Government to participate in any war - 
Against the Soviet Union. 
That apparently is the really outstanding feature of the resolutions agreed to at that conference. Australia, we are told, must not make war against the Soviet Union, not indeed that with our 80 odd obsolete aeroplanes, or with our present naval forces, we are likely to engage the Soviet Union, in either the East or theWest. 
Perhaps it would be better if I accepted the honorable senator's suggestion. We find then that the Victorian Labour Conference resolved - 
That the Australian Labour Party forbids any Australian Government to participate in any war - 
Against the Soviet Union. 
To suppress any movement for the independence of India, Ireland, or South Africa. 
To suppress any movement for the emancipation of India or China. 
Arising from the existence of the Polish Corridor. 
Arising from any Balkan disturbance. 
Arising from the French ownership of Alsace Lorraine or the Saar. 
Arising from the union of Austria and Germany. 
Arising from the violation of the neutrality of Belgium or Denmark. 
To maintain British control of Egypt or the Suez Canal. 
To further capitalistic ends in  Levantine  or any other countries. 
Arising from the conduct of law proceedings in any countries. 
Against the United States of America. 
Senatorbrown. - Evidently the conference overlooked the contest in the Gran Chaco between Bolivia and Paraguay. 
I am satisfied that, if anything was left out of these resolutions, it was of rather a minor nature. 
Personally, I am all for peace when peace is practicable. But I had between three and four years of war, and I know what it means. I did not want to fight. Fighting was forced upon me, and, having had experience of it, I endeavour to recognize facts when I see them, and do not go about crying peace, peace, when thereis no peace. No one can look at the general conditions of the world to-day without realizing that the nations are not at one another's throats simply because they are not in a financial position to carry on a war. This inability to finance hostilities is the only thing that prevents the outbreak of war instantaneously. 
I am sure the honorable gentleman would not.  Senator Barnes  is, at the moment, so amicable, that I must return to  Senator Rae,  who has invited me to comment on the resolutions of the Victorian Labour Conference. 
It is, I think, significant that the Soviet Union is the first country against which no Australian government must engage in war. It is strange that the United States of America is down at the bottom of the list. That arrangement, I suggest, is a little hard on that country, because so many citizens of the United States of America are sprung from the same stock as ourselves, although a century or two earlier. This being so, why should the United States of America be twelfth in this peace list of the Victorian Labour Conference, and the Soviet Union first? Apparently, also, no Australian government is permitted to suppress any movement for the independence of Ireland, India, or South Africa. In other words, we are, presumably, to encourage any movement in those countries to break away from the Empire. Further, we are not to engage in any war arising from the violation of the neutrality of Belgium or Denmark. Our participation in the Great War was due to the violation of the neutrality of Belgium. Apparently, that was a grave mistake in the opinion of the Australian Labour party, and wc must not make the same mistake again. 
Now, I have something to say to  Senator Barnes.  One of the resolutions of the Victorian Labour party states that Australia must not participate in any war to maintain British control of Egypt or the Suez Canal. This, I feel sure, will interest  Senator Barnes,  because Egypt and the Suez Canal are one of the main links in our trade routes. Much of our commerce goes through the Suez Canal. If, because of some trouble in Egypt, British control of the canal is jeopardized, Australia must not, wc are told by the Victorian Labour Conference, do anything to assist the Mother Country. It follows then, that if that trade route is closed to us, we must find some other route by which to send our commerce to overseas markets. 
I may not lie able to do that directly, but the honorable gentleman did say that a few aeroplanes could beat off any naval vessels that attacked Australia. Apparently, he entirely overlooked the fact that, even assuming Australian aeroplanes succeeded in bombing opposing war vessels off the Australian coast, the use of aircraft would not, of itself, be sufficient to keep open our trade routes, the chief of which is through the Suez Canal. I suggest that it is at least as important to Australia to be able to send our wool, wheat, wine, fruit, and dairy produce overseas as it is to defend our coast line against naval attacks. I do not know whether the honorable senator realizes even now the trend of my argument, which is that it would be useless to defend the coast line of Australia unless at the same time we could secure the safe passage of our produce, which represents the true wealth of Australia, to overseas markets where it could be sold, and get something in return for it. It would bc useless for thousands of farmers to grow sheep and produce wool if, owing to the closing of our trade routes in time of war, that produce could not be disposed of. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  and  Senator Bae  said that we should endeavour to make Australia a place worth living in. It is generally agreed that the standard of living in Australia and the number of persons employed is at least as high as it is in any other part of the world, though thousands who have no work to do know no such standard. 
That is a big question, and one which I cannot debate at this juncture. It is difficult to say why Australia with a population of 0,500,000 persons should be expected to give a lead to the world. 
I once - tried, I believe in Parliament, to answer that contention, and came to the conclusion that Australia led the world in three respects. The first was in the production of fine merino wool. No other country has ,yet beaten us in that respect, although some honorable senators opposite are loath to believe that pastoralists possess the modicum of brains necessary to achieve such a result. The second is in the cricket field ; but after all cricket is only a game; and the third is that Australia produced Madame Melba, who was once the world's greatest singer. I do not know that Australia has ever led the world in medicine, law, commerce, engineering or politics. The Torrens title system also originated in Australia, but such things are not vital matters. Even if a doctor discovers a remedy for one complaint, he is not regarded as leading the world, seeing that there are many other complaints to be remedied. We should not think that Australia, with a population of 6,500,000 persons can achieve what other nations  with ten times that number of highly intelligent persons, and with a long history, can achieve. 
That may be so. Sometimes more can be done by one brain than by many. In drafting a report it is often found that one person who knows the subject can produce a better result than 50 persons. 
Australia should be able to defend itself, and wherever practicable manufacture its own equipment, provided that it can be produced at a reasonable figure. We should manufacture our own ammunition, shells, guns and ships, if we can do so on a proper commercial basis. A reasonable allowance should be made in favour of Australia, but that is now provided by the tariff.  I  am not in favour of producing equipment in Australia simply with the object of producing it here, and unless such equipment is capable of performing the functions for which it is produced,  its  manufacture should not be undertaken  in  this country. The building  of  ships  of  any kind is a highly intricate and specialized work, and cannot be done without proper preparation, or with any more possibility of success than a nation can defend itself without adequate preparation. It is a question of whether ships can be built in Australia at a reasonable figure and properly equipped for the work which they are intended to perform. I am opposed to paying for locally-constructed ships a price two or three times higher than that at which they could be obtained overseas. 
I have not made a very close study of this aspect of the subject, but I think that the bulk of the guns and ammunition is manufactured in Germany, Great Britain, America or France. The majority  of  countries do not produce their own munitions. 
Because some men are trained to a higher degree of efficiency than others. The Leader of the Opposition suggested that Great Britain should do more than she has been doing for Australia in the matter of defence. I have not the actual figures before me, but for many years past the cost of defence per head of population has been infinitely higher in Great Britain, where the people on the whole are poorer, than it is in Australia. The Leader of the Opposition, who suggested that Great Britain should present the Commonwealth with a cruiser, should remember that only a year ago Great Britain loaned five destroyers to  Australia  free of cost. 
SenatorRae.  -  They are obsolete. 
On the 25th May the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  said - 
When the Attorney-General  (Mr. Latham)  was in London in August, 1032, he discussed with the British Government certain phases of Australian defence, and particularly the age of our destroyer flotilla. The outcome of the conference with the British Government is that certain vessels will be loaned to Australia to replace similar vessels which are approaching the end of their useful lives. 
Five of such vessels were loaned to Australia and the only obligation upon the Commonwealth is to maintain them.. I do not think that they have to be returned. The Prime Minister continued - 
The generous action of the Government in loaning these additional vessels to Australia means that this Government will he saved the capital expenditure in replacing our present destroyers when the time comes to scrap them. 
That completely answers the assertion of the Leader of the Opposition that there is an obligation upon Great Britain to do anything more for Australia in the way of supplying naval equipment. There are other points upon which I could comment, but I do not propose to do so. I did not, however, wish the debate to conclude without other honorable senators on this side of the chamber stating that they firmly disagree with what has been said by honorable senators opposite in respect of the fundamental subject of defence. If, unfortunately, war should occur, I do not wish any one to be able to toll me that I knew that the position in Australia was not as it shouldbe, and that although it was my duty to say what I thought should be done to ensure an adequate system of defence, I remained silent. So long as I am a member of this chamber I shall advocate a system of adequate defence for Australia as upon that the life of the nation depends. 
I should not have spoken on this subject but for certain utterances of honorable senators opposite that require a reply different from that given by previous speakers.I congratulate the Minister for Defence upon his thoughtful speech, which should impress intelligent people.From information obtained from reliable sources I know that our present defence system is inadequate. We have a duty, not only to Australia, but also to the Mother Country, and we would be recreant to our trust if we did not keep our defence system up to a proper standard. I have listened tosome extraordinary remarks to-night from  Senator Rae,  who professes to believe in an adequate defence policy for Australia. Is that also the belief of those with whom I understand that he is associated in a certain organization? If it is, how did it happen that a member of that body was detected in an attempt to distribute seditious literature on an Australian warship, evidently with the view to create disaffection among the ratings? If he and the members of the society of which I believe he is a member stand for an adequate defence policy, why are they trying by revolutionary processes to create disaffection in the navy? I know the facts, and I have to accept the honorable senator's statement with a good deal of doubt as to his earnestness. 
He is a member of the Friends of the Soviet Union, and boasts of it. He is the recognized representative of that body in a certain town in Tasmania. He distributes Soviet literature and never wearies of advocating Soviet doctrines and urging their acceptance by the Australian people. 
In view of the military preparations being made in Russia, its professions  of  belief in a disarmament policy go by the board. It is necessary to have adequate  defence in  Australia against not  Only  aggression from without but also internal foes. Why  is so  much energy being expended  to create  in Australia so many branches of the organization which calls itself the Youth Anti-War Movement? Who is behind it? 
The honorable senator has good reason to know both who is in it and who is behind it. He also knows that the same organization is creating, wherever possible, what it calls cells in every industry and using every possible means to capture the imagination, particularly of educated people who they think may become fanatics. An instance was recently brought to my notice  in  which those tactics succeeded. A broken-hearted mother told a friend of mine that her daughter, who had been  in a  State Education department for years - she was an accomplished girl - had been, owing to her peculiar temperament., so impressed with these teachings that she resigned from the Education  Department  in  order  to enter  a  factory  as a worker,  for the purpose of creating  a  communistic cell in it. That  was  in Melbourne. 
I am showing that the danger is not only external but internal, and necessitates the creation of an adequate defence force. 
I do not take my views from that paper. I am speaking  of what  I know and what the honorable senator knows. It  is  high time that this matter was  made more  prominent by public men who believe in protecting the best interests of the  people.  The sooner the public are warned of the danger  which  is not  only  apparent but  real,  and do  something  definite through their representatives  in  Parliament to eliminate it, the better it will be for the Commonwealth.  Senator Barnes  said " Let us make Australia a place worth fighting for ". My reply is that in no other country in the world are the conditions nearly so good as those existing in Australia. No other country has so many blessings to the square yard as we have to the square foot. Honorable senators opposite know and appreciate that fact, but they depend for their political existence on sowing the seeds of discord and discontent among the people of Australia. I know that economic conditions are not so good here as one would desire, but they are much better than in any other part of the world. I rose principally to say that I accept not at its face value, but at its real value, the statement I heard from  Senator Rae  to-night that he believes in adequate defence, in view of the experience I had in connection with a unit of the organization to which the honorable senator some time ago said that he was proud to belong. 
 I say distinctly that I accept  Senator Rae's  statement at what I believe to be its real value, and I cannot say more. There is nothing offensive in that remark. The honorable senator and I simply differ as to the value of his assurance. Others may take a different view of it. I sincerely hope that the policy of the Government will, as the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  suggested, be a continuous one, and that all future governments will carry out the programme, the beginning of which is laid down in this measure. 
I did not intend to speak to-night, but I could not sit silent after listening to the remarks of  Senator Payne. His  observations were utterly lacking in intelligence. I am surprised at a man of the honorable senator's calibre ' speaking in that manner. I have the greatest respect for him, but I am afraid that to-night he has slipped from the path of intelligent discussion and allowed his prejudices to overcome his judgment. He made unwarranted statements in regard to 
 Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that he did- not believe in crying " peace, peace " when there is no peace. I say that we should not cry " war, war " when there is no war. The world claims to  be  seeking peace;  but  on every hand we see evidence of the war spirit. Even in Australia that spirit is manifest in the existence of war museums, captured guns and other war relics. Unfortunately the spirit of  War,  instead of the virtue of peace, is being instilled into the minds of our young people to such an extent that one is inclined to think sometimes that the Prince of Peace lived and died in vain. Even many who claim to have espoused  Christianity  cry " war " not " peace ". Unhappily that tendency exists in every civilized country. People who believe in peace should not  be  afraid to proclaim their views, for -so long as nations talk war, and prepare for it, we cannot hope foi; peace. Before he is trained,  a  prizefighter might  be  a peaceful man-; but when his training has progressed far enough  for  him to know his own capabilities he develops combativeness ; having learned the art of fighting, he is keen to test his skill in combat. The same thing is true of nations. 
The Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  said that the Australian cordite factory was supplying New Zealand as well as Australia with munitions. In other countries the manufacture of munitions is in the hands of private enterprise, and so long as that continues there will be wars. The shareholders of armament firms look for dividends, and they do not care if, to that end, the world is plunged into war. Until total disarmament takes place, the nations of the world would do well to follow Australia's example, and have the manufacture of war materials confined to factories controlled by governments. The prohibition of private armament making would go a long way towards  restoring peace to this war-stricken world. 
I disagree with those who claim that the League of Nations is impotent and valueless, although I admit that the League lost a golden opportunity in failing to take decisive action when Japan declared war on China. Offenders against the civil and criminal code are punished; and, similarly, nations which offend against international peace should be firmly dealt with. 
It is just as important that we should manufacture in Australia engines for use in aeroplanes as that we should manufacture our own munitions. I do not think that there is at present any factory in Australia in which aeroplane engines are manufactured. That state of affairs should bo set right, for I agree with  Senator Barnes  regarding the value of aeroplanes in Australia's defence. 
Every gallon of petrol used in Australia has to be imported. The position is so serious that no effort should be spared to ensure supplies of oil fuel in Australia, so that we may be independent of outside sources. 
Ever since Australia demonstrated its ability to construct naval vessels, I have been opposed to cruisers or other vessels of war being purchased outside this country. I disagree with the statement of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that other countries have more skilled workmen than are to be found in Australia. 
The only inference possible from the honorable senator's remarks was that men in other countries are better fitted to build ships than are Australian workmen. 
And also that the trained men were to be found outside of Australia. Everything must have a beginning. If Australia does not possess men with the necessary skill - and I disagree with those who say Australia has not such men - we should bring to this country men of special ability to train Australian workmen, who can hold their own with the workers of any other country.We have proved that we have the men in Australia with the energy and the skill to construct vessels of war that will compare favorably with any that have been constructed in other parts of the world. All that our workmen require are opportunities to apply their skill.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  agreed that war vessels should be constructed in Australia but only if they can be constructed as cheaply or nearly as cheaply as they can he built overseas. 
The logic of that argument is that England should never build any of her own vessels of war because she can get thembuilt much more cheaply in Japan or some other country. 
I contend that if the new cruiser were built in Australia by day labour it would be as good as any built in England. Under the contract system, the tendency is to scamp the work. The contractor must push his men in order to secure as big a profit from the job as possible. 
Yes, but often there is a need for somebody to inspect the inspectors. I would much prefer to have a vessel constructed by daylabour than by contract. 
That might happen in any part of the world. Often a war vessel is obsolete before it is completed, and because of rapid improvements in design a vessel has been known to be obsolete almost as soon as its keel was laid. 
As  Senator DuncanHughes  contended, no doubt, the men were in need of some training in this class of work, and I feel sure that, having got that measure of training, their work would continuously improve with the construction of each subsequent vessel. Even if the cost of local building were greater it would be worth something to keep the money involved in the country. In connexion with the proposed purchase, we shall be sending overseas £3,000,000 in the form of goods, in return for which wc shall get a warship which could have been constructed in Australia. There has always been a tendency on the part of non-Labour governments to purchase overseas ships and almost everything else.  My  policy is "Australia first, second, and always ". Experts arc not agreed as to what are the best means of defending Australia. It would be foolish for  me  as a layman to argue on this point, but I have read the opinions of several men, who can speak authoritatively. Some of them are in Australia and others are overseas, but all of them agree as to the defensive value .of air forces. I am inclined to concur in that opinion.  Senator  Duncan-Hughes  says that we must have means to keep our trade routes clear, and I agree that that could not bc done with an air force only, but it is a great pity that one nation should be forced to expend millions of pounds upon armaments merely because another nation is doing so. It is deplorable that some reliable agreement cannot be reached between the nations of the world. Only when a universal treaty for the abolition of war has been made can the nations be regarded as truly Christian and civilized. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) [11.38]. - I suggest that  Senator Hoare  should read very carefully in  Hansard  the speech he delivered to-night; threefourths of it was an exhortation to peace, and one-fourth a belligerent declaration of war. Referring to the dispute between Japan and China the honorable senator contended that the League of Nations should have declared war on Japan. 
To stop the slaughter of China. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Does the honorable senator realize the full meaning of his suggestion? It would have meant another world-wide war. I remind him of the immense naval and military power of Japan and the remoteness of the other nations which would have had to act on behalf of the League of Nations, and invite him to visualize the conflagration that would have resulted had his suggestion been carried out. He also advocated disarmament. If the other nations were without armed forces, how could they possibly discipline Japan on behalf of the League of Nations? I do not know whether the honorable senator contemplated that Australia, as a member of the League, would take part in the adventure; if so, he opened up a prospect that offers little comfort to lovers of peace. I agree with  Senator Hoare  that it is desirable that Australia should manufacture aeroplane engines, but  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has rightly said that such production must be on an economic basis. I am pleased to be able to inform the Senate that, under the contract which we let recently in Great Britain for eighteen aeroplanes and 24 seaplanes, we are to receive copies of all the plans mid specifications, and are to have the right to manufacture the engines in Australia. 
Honorable senators of the Opposition spoke as though this Government were doing nothing to encourage the building of warships, in Australia. They have ignored the fact that two sloops are to be built at Cockatoo Island Dockyard at a cost of £500,000. The difference between the construction of sloops and cruisers is that the material for the former can be obtained in Australia. For instance, the plates for the sloops are obtainable here, because they are not nearly so heavy as those required for the cruiser. If we were to undertake the rolling of plates for cruisers, we would require to expend £300,000 in laying down the necessary plant, and it would tak? two years before a single plate could be rolled out. That possibility has been investigated through the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE. That is so. Thus, a quarter of the life of the  Brisbane  was lost to us because of the time occupied in its construction. The  Brisbane  was a more difficult ship to build than the sloops, but the new cruiser will represent the latest achievement in naval architecture, and will be much more difficult to build than wasthe  Brisbane.  Its great cost indicates that. The  Melbourne  cost £350,000, and, although there is a difference of only 2,000 tons in the size of the vessels, this new cruiser will cost £1,800,000. The higher cost is due to remarkable developments in recent years in internal construction features, engines, armaments, and all the paraphernalia required for the equipment of a modern war vessel. Great Britain is, and has been for some considerable time, the greatest ship-building nation in the world. The vast experience of the Mother Country in this business has resulted in the building up of a trained personnel unsurpassed in the world, and the establishment of a vast specialized plant and machinery. If we contemplated the building of a modern cruiser of this class in Australia, we should require to import practically one-half of the material, all the engines and all the armaments, as well as a very considerable proportion of the trained personnel. Then, having built one vessel, our activities would cease, and the whole of the skilled personnel would have to be discharged. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so, as regards this particular class of naval architecture. When I was in England in 1911, I saw the  Melbourne  and other naval vessels under construction for the Australian Navy, and, such is the reputation of British naval shipbuilders that side by side with them were battle ships and cruisers being built for Turkey, Spain, and Brazil. I thought it only right that these points should be made clear to honorable senators. 

<graphic href="144332193408012_51_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="144332193408012_51_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - (1.) For the purposes of this act there shall be a trust account which shall be known as the defence equipment trust account. 
.- I move- 
That after the word " account " the words. " such defence equipment to he built in Australia ", be inserted. 
In the second-reading debate, we heard many references to the need for loyalty to the Empire. This amendment will test the sincerity of the Government and its supporters to the Australian people, its unemployed, its manufacturers, its primary producers, and also its taxpayers, who will have to find the money to send overseas for the new cruiser which this Government has contracted to buy. " Australia will be There " is sung at luncheons and dinners attended by Ministers and their supporters. This amendmen t will give honorable senators a chance to show their loyalty to this country. 
In the debate on the Defence Equipment Bill, which has just been passed by the Senate, a good deal was said about expenditure on the other side of the world for the defence of Australia. I now invite the Senate to consider the advisability of spending money for defence purposes on the other side of Australia. The Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  this evening spoke of the need for a continuous defence policy, and expressed the wish that even if there was a change of government after the next election, the defence programme which he submitted should be continued. In that respect I entirely agree with the right honorable gentleman. Before I resume my seat, I intend to remind him of a continuous defence policy which, 21 years ago,  he  advocated in equally eloquent terms. I consider that it is about time that effect was given to the programme which he then submitted so convincingly and with the same mastery of the subject which he displayed to-night when moving the second reading of the Defence Equipment Bill. This is not the first occasion on which I have endeavoured to obtain information from the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  as to the assistance to be given to Western Australia in the matter of providing a dock at Fremantle or in resuming the work at the Henderson naval base on which £1,250,000 has been spent. Realizing the liberal way in which the Government assists projects in Eastern Australia, I have endeavoured to ascertain principles upon which it gives such assistance. Last week, Parliament voted a. balance of £600,000, making £3,000,000 to complete the River Murray waters scheme, and I also find that nearly £5,000,000 has been spent in constructing the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway. When I asked the Minister the principle upon which £3,000,000 had been allocated for irrigation works on the River Murray he said that it was for the good of Australia. He said that that is also the dominating factor in connexion with the Queensland sugar embargo, which can be regarded only as an incubus and not in the interests of the Australian people. Why was not that principle observed when a reply was made to a request recently submitted to the Commonwealth Government by the Government of Western Australia? A few weeks ago a deputation of Federal and State members, which included  Senator Collett,  asked the Government of Western Australia to proceed with the construction of a dock at Fremantle. The Premier,  Mr. Collier,  pointed out that the State Government could not finance the project, but that the Commonwealth Government had commenced a work of that nature near Fremantle some time previously upon which £1,250,000 had already been spent. He further stated that all that he could promise was that he would place the request before the Federal Government and ask it to contribute one-third of the cost. He said that as it was a defence measure the Imperial Government should also contribute one-third and that he had every hope, seeing that the good of Australia was involved, and that defence is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government, that therequest would, at least, receive the same consideration as is given to requests made by the more populous and wealthy States in the East. The request was placed before the Government in most, convincing terms by  Mr.  Collier. The  Daily News  of the 19th July last published the following report of the Premier's reply to  Mr. Sleeman,  member for Fremantle in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia : - 
The Premier's letter, which came to hand to-day, reads: -I desire to inform you that, in accordance witha request of the deputation which waited on me on January26th, representations have been made to the Prime Minister for assistance by the Commonwealth and Imperial Governments in the construction of a dock at Fremantle. The Prime Minister has advised me that from a naval defence point of view, either a dry or floating dock located at Fremantle, would, if of suitable dimensions, be of undoubted advantage to the Commonwealth in meeting the docking requirements of the ships of the Royal Australian Navy, but that the construction in recent times of a naval base at Singapore had greatly improved the docking facilities in the Indian Ocean. 
As usual, Western Australia received sympathy, but no assistance; sympathy without help is as useless as mustard without beef. 

 Thursday, 2 August 1934 

I shall have something to say about secession before I conclude. Surely  Senator Payne  does not suggest that because the people of Western Australia supported secession they should not be treated on the same basis as other States! 
If the honorable senator is reminding me of the threat made by the Prime Minister I can only say that I regret that such a statement was ever uttered. I hope that the Prime Minister is big enough to deal with a request of this kind on its merits. The report continues - 
The Prime Ministerstated that after careful consideration of representations made and reports which have been obtained in connexion with this question the Commonwealth Government is unable to see its way at the present time to make available for the project any of the funds which it is in a position to provide for defence purposes. 
To-night the Senate voted £4,160,000 for defence purposes, which includes £2,260,000 for a new cruiser which is to be purchased in Great Britain. Yet, in the western State there is not a dock in which the vessel to be purchased, or other ships of the Australian Navy, can be accommodated. The Minister for Defence has urged the adoption of a continuous defence policy. I have before me the report of a speech delivered by the right honorable gentleman in May, 1913, when work at the Henderson Naval Base at Cockburn Sound was commenced. The speech does the right honorable gentleman credit, and I can readily imagine him bring ing tears to the eyes of members of the audience as  he  submitted a policy which he urged should  be  continuous. That speech was on exactly the same lines as  the  speech he delivered this evening. At that time  the  Minister favoured a start being made with  the  Henderson Naval Base,  but  I am inclined to believe that he is responsible for the work having been discontinued. His speech to-night  was  very impressive, and I believe that  that  delivered 21 years ago  was  equally  impressive  to the thousands who heard  or  read it. In the  West Australian  of the  18th May, 1913, the following report appeared : - 
They were gathered there that day, the Minister said, to witness the opening ceremony in connexion with one of the two primary naval bases, which were part of the Commonwealth's scheme of naval defence. Before unfurling the Australianflag he wished to announce on behalf of the Commonwealth Government that it had decided out of respect to the naval officer who had selected that site as a primary base to name it the Henderson Fleet Base. 
What has become of the primary base  in  Western Australia? Although the great admiral recommended the construction of two primary bases of equal importance, one on each side of the Continent, and after spending £1,250,000 on  it  the  work  in Western Australia has been abandoned, and naval expenditure concentrated at Port Jackson and Sydney. The  report  continued - 
They were now met together to give effect to that report in starting the permanent works for the naval base. The latter he might inform them would, when completed - and it would takesome years to complete - comprise a complete dockyard with shipbuilding arrangements and docking facilities. In connexion with the plans they were taking into consideration complete slips for the laying down and building of battleships and cruisers as well as ship repairing sections. 
What do the members of the Labour party think of such a proposal, which, as they should know, embraced shipbuilding and repairing sections? It met the wishes  of  the West Australian community. It is interesting to notice the influence  which  the Minister for Defence exercised over his western constituency at that time. At the time I have mentioned he painted a beautiful picture of the work to be undertaken, but which, unfortunately, has since been abandoned by this Government. Persons visiting the locality to-day naturally think that the federal blight has fallen upon the site; it looks like federal territory, as all progress has ceased. 
I have asked for that information. 
I have asked the Minister numerous questions on the subject, and it is refreshing to obtain some information. 
This is quite incorrect. This is the first time that I have been informed that it was a government in which  Senator Pearce  was not Minister for Defence which was responsible. Even if the work was abandoned in the circumstances mentioned the right honorable gentleman has been Minister for Defence sufficiently long to have rectified the great mistake then made. What has he done to resume the works he promised? The Minister proceeded - 
A floating dock, capable of accommodating the largest warship afloat, would be provided, in addition to which there would be numerous workshops and foundries for carrying out those ship-building works. Accommodation for submarines and torpedo-boat destroyers in seabasins, fitted with special berthing, would also  be  provided. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.15 to 12.45 a.m. 

The expert knowledge that the right honorgentleman displayed then did him credit. Every word that he said was correct; the facilities which he outlined were necessary; and everything that has occurred since then has made them more necessary, particularly having regard to existing world conditions. I find myself unable to reconcile with his declaration of policy on that occasion the refusal of the Government only a fortnight ago to contribute one-third of the cost of the dock at Fremantle, as requested by the Government of Western Australia, although the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in communicating that refusal, admitted that the dock would be of great value for defence purposes.  Senator Pearce  continued - 
Then there would be coaling stations, oil fuel tanks, and oil stations, for supplying the fleet. They would also take into consideration the question of the establishment of a naval store department, from which would be supplied all the stores required by the fleet. 
It was also intended to provide inthe  scheme  for barrack buildings for the seamen when ashore. Provision would be made for a reading room, recreation rooms, kitchens and drill grounds for training purposes. In addition, provision would be made for hospitals for the sick, including sick and attendants' quarters, administrative blocks, hospital stores, surgeons' and workmen's quarters, and kitchen blocks. Consideration would also  be  given to the matter of constructing a naval arsenal, which, when the scheme was completed, would be provided with magazines, buildings, laboratories, and store houses for storing quick-firing ammunition, shells, and projectiles for the fleet requirements. This arsenal would be designed in  every  respect so as to safeguard the life of workmen and property. It was proposed to create one  large  danger zone, and in that zone arrangements would  be  made for the new State explosivedepot. In a large naval establishment, such as he had outlined, it would necessarily be required to have large quantities of  stores  in readiness. He might explain that the Director of Naval Works, and his department, would design, construct, and control the  immense  works under the Naval Board's administration. In following out Admiral Henderson's report, it had been decided to create a sub-base at Albany shortly. The Director of Naval Works would take up preliminary data in connexion with that subbase, which would come under the control of the Western Base. It would be admitted he thought, that the Federal Parliament was giving effect to Admiral Henderson's report and naval scheme. The Federal Government was now taking up the work in earnest, and he __ for their co-operation in thecarrying out of that immense scheme. He need hardly say that the works he had referred to would give employment to a large number of men forseveral years. 
When we consider this wonderful scheme, we must regret the circumstances which led to its abandonment and the fact that  Senator Pearce's  promises are unredeemed. In view of the unsettled state of the world, the resumption of the scheme is more than justified. From the point of view of employment, the time is opportune for the carrying on of the work, particularly as £4,000,000 is available for defence expenditure. The right honorable gentleman went on to say - 
From now onward, every effort would be made by the Naval Board and the Director of Naval Works, to push the scheme to its completion. In conclusion, he wanted to say that the State Government had been most considerate in its dealings with the Commonwealth Government in regard to the question of the lands at Cockburn Sound, and in the acquisition of the present explosive area. Their action, he thought, was a fine example of the spirit of co-operation. 
In spite of that declaration, when the State Government, which had set such a fine example of co-operation, sought the assistance of the Federal Government in the building of a dock at Fremantle, the Prime Minister was not able to agree to the request. 
Other speeches followed. Responding  %o  the toast of " The Minister for Defence,"  Senator Pearce  replied - 
He had had the honour of making the suggestion that the Australian Government should ask the Admiralty to send out an expert to advise them in its policy of defence. Admiral Henderson came to Australia, without any preconceived idea as to what nature his report would take.  His  recommendations had been influenced neither by anything he had heard in England nor by local considerations in Australia. He was given every assistance by the State governments of Australia, and they had placed in Iws hands all the documents at their disposal. He went right around the Commonwealth, visited all the important strategical points, and fathered that monumental scheme that would be associated with his name aa long as the history of Australia would endure. 
To-day that site is almost a deserted waste: Is the Commonwealth in such a sound financial, position that it can afford to waste the £1,130,000 expended on this site? 
I do not know exactly, but it would be better to complete the work and thus save the £1,130,000 expended on it. 
That would depend on whether the money was provided from loan or from revenue. If the former, it would be paid back; if the latter, it would not. The Minister's speech continued - 
As one of the chief primary bases of Australia, he had chosen Cockburn Sound. 
The other base was to be at Sydney. The two bases were to be equal in every way - 
From the description of the base, they might gather the extent of tho work that had to be thought out by .the Naval Board experts before operations were commenced. It would have been foolish and childish on the part of the Federal Government, if it had begun that work without looking to the developments that must come in a few years' time. He hoped the problem would broaden into something bigger than Australian naval defence. They were there as one of the young British nations of the Pacific, and they must contemplate a policy that had for its outlook the whole Pacific Ocean. They recognized 'that the interests of New Zealand, Canada, and South Africa were intimately associated with those nf Australia, and he hoped that the time was approaching when the dominions would shoulder their responsibilities, and keep the flag flying in those waters. Cockburn Sound would bo more than a base for the Austraiian Fleet. 
The more I read these noble sentiments, the more thoroughly do I agree with every word of them, and the more am I convinced that they apply with greater force to-day than when they were uttered. The right honorable gentleman proceeded - 
It would be a base which the British Fleet would make its- rendezvous. It must be taken into consideration that the work had to be thought out to its ultimate end, and was not a stop-gap policy for this year or next year, or the next ten years. The plans were now so far advanced that practical steps could be taken in the immediate future to begin the actual work of the naval base. 
In urging that it should be a policy for more than a decade, the Minister was treading similar ground to that which he so properly trod to-night, when he urged that the defence policy of the Commonwealth should be continuous, and not affected by changes of government or of ministers. The Minister who put forward this scheme in 1913 is still in charge of the department-. His speech proceeded - 
He waa glad to be able to say that in the next few weeks there would be before them a demonstration of what that statement meant. The question of defence was above party politics, because it was an association for national safety, which was of infinitely greater importance than the safety of a political party. That did not mean that the administration of the Defence Department should ever be above criticism. The department welcomed all Criticism of administration, but he hoped that that criticism would be directed towards getting good results and promoting a clear-cut naval and military defence scheme, which would never become the sport of party politics. 
That speech meets the conditions and requirements of to-day, so far as the naval defence of Australia i3 concerned. Its outlook is national, and its policy comprehensive. It covers not only the proposed naval base on the Western Australian coast below Fremantle, as recommended by Admiral Henderson, but also the sub-base at Albany, both of which are still non-existent. The Government is fortunate in having a big majority in both Houses, and in charge of the department a Minister who has shown enthusiasm in the past for this work. Including the £4,160,000 that wo voted to-night in another measure, we are spending well over £5,000,000 this year on defence. The State Government has asked the Commonwealth to join in seeking the assistance of the British Government to defray the cost of a dock for Fremantle - an undertaking which is entirely beyond the finances of the State. The Commonwealth could find £3,000,000 for the River Murray wafers scheme. 
I meant from the beginning. We voted £600,000 last week for that purpose. 
-That  was not  my intention. I was speaking of expenditure covering a period. The Commonwealth has found and is finding a total of £3,000,000 for Murray waters. lt actually agreed originally to find £3,750,000, but a reduction has since been made in the estimated cost. 
The people of Western Australia have to pay their share of the money which the Commonwealth finds for that purpose, but when we ask for assistance in respect of what is largely a defence work, and therefore a federal concern, it is refused to us. 
I do not know, but I am sure the total is small. In the pamphlet issued by the Government in opposition to the secession movement, the cost of defence is- charged to Western Australia on a  per capita  basis, but T. am one of those who believe that nothing like that proportion was spent in Western Australia, nor do we expect it to be. That is one reason why we prefer a system of government of our own. 
I have not made any such charge against  the right honorable gentleman. I complain that he has violated his promises in regard to the Henderson naval base. &lt;I have simply reminded' him of the policy that he put forward in regard to this naval work, and have asked him to induce the Government, in view of the large sums now being found for defence, and of the fact that £1,130,000 has been already spent on the Henderson base, to resume construction there as soon as possible. If the Government does that, it will perform a great national service, and show the people of Western Australia that they are not entirely forgotten, so far as their requests for docking facilities and a naval base at Fremantle are concerned. 
[1.5 a.m.]. - I know that  Senator E.  B.. Johnston is not concerned about the Henderson naval base.  His  real object is to show that  Senator E.  B. Johnston is a better friend of Western Australia than  Senator Pearce  is. 
Of course not, in the honorable senator's opinion. In view of the imminence of the election, we quite understand why this is being done. I suggest to the honorable senator that in his spare time he should read  The Case for Union,  in which he will find an authoritative story of the Henderson naval base. The account is compiled, not by me, but by the naval authorities. On page 117 of  The Case for Union,  commenting on statements being made in the  Case for Secession  in terms similar to those used by the honorable senator to-night, the following appears : - 
Dissatisfaction is expressed in the case for secession with the non-attainment of the strengths recommended in the Henderson and Jellicoe reports which would have enabled ships to be stationed in Western Australia after provision of the necessary base facilities  . . Changes in circumstances since the date of the Henderson report in particular are another factor to be allowed for. The occurrences of the Great War, with its added burdens of war debt and repatriation expenditure radically altered the budget position. There has also been the development of the Singapore Naval Base and the growth of importance of Darwin. The consequence of the financial aspect has been that the limited amount available for naval defence has been absorbed in maintaining the Royal Australian Navy Squadron at a much lesser strength than that envisaged by the reports...... 
It may be added that no development in the naval policy of the Commonwealth takes place without the advice of the authorities in Britain being sought, and it was they who recommended, in view of all the considerations referred to, that the development of Cockburn Sound as a repair port be abandoned. 
I specially commend the last statement to  Senator Johnston.  I may also say, for his information, that he could not have cited a better illustration of the necessity for adopting the policy which I suggested of continuity irrespective of party. It was the Fisher Labour Government that began the establishment of that base. It was the Liberal Government, led by  Mr. (afterwards Sir Joseph)  Cook, and including  Senator Millen,  that on taking office abandoned work on the base, after trying unsuccessfully to find a foundation for a graving dock. Owing to the limestone and cave nature of the country a foundation could not be obtained. The  State Government had already had a similar experience in Fremantle Harbour. The war then broke out, and, after peace was established, Australia had to face a great war debt; and the responsibilities of repatriation. The government of the day was therefore not prepared to undertake any new defence expenditure. In the meantime, strategy had altered, and the British Government had approved of the establishment of the Singapore naval base. It was the Admiralty which, after the decision to construct the Singapore base had been reached, recommended that the Henderson base should not be re-started on the lines originally put, forward by Admiral Henderson. It should be remembered that when the Admiral made his report, the Singapore base was not contemplated or even thought of. I trust that  Senator Johnston,  when he '--appeals to the electors of Fremantle, will tell them these facts also. 
I. have not bothered to do so. I have allowed  Senator Johnston  and other critics to gain all- the glory and credit or discredit arising from attacking me and saying to the electors of Fremantle that Codlin, and not Short, is their friend. For many years I have allowed the honorable senator and others to put all the blame for this policy on my shoulders, knowing all the time that I could have proved from the official documents, including the authorized history of the Commonwealth, that it was not the government of which I was a member, but. the Liberal Government in which  Senator Millen  was Minister for Defence, that stopped the work at the Henderson naval base. I could have shown, also, that the work was not resumed by a later government to which I belonged, on the advice of the Admiralty, because the Singapore base was being developed. Perhaps the honorable senator, when be is addressing the electors, or sending his speech to the Fremantle newspapers, will send them these facts at the same time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
SECOND Reading. 
[1.10 a.m.]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Supply has already been granted for tho first three months of the present financial year, that is, to the 30th September, 1934. This bill provides for expenditure for a further three months - up to the 31st December next - including provision for salaries due on the 21st December. The bill is based on the Estimates of expenditure for the present financial year. It is not possible to base this Supply Bill on last year's appropriations because certain proposals outlined in the budget provide for expenditure in the present year on a slightly higher scale than that of last year. The budget proposals involving increased expenditure have been, or are being, implemented under special bills, such as the Financial Belief Bill. By that bill, portion of the salaries and wages deductions made under the Financial Emergency Act is being restored. Therefore, it is necessary, in order that salaries and wages may be paid on the higher scale, that the present Supply Bill should be based on the Estimates for 1934-35. The Estimates for 1934-35 also include increased expenditure for carrying on the ordinary services of the various departments, and particularly the increased expenditure which tho Postmaster-General's Department must incur to deal with the greater volume of business. This also makes it necessary to base the present Supply Bill on the new Estimates. As all tho major policy proposals of the budget affecting expenditure have been, or are being,  deB.lt  with in special bills, they do not call for explanation or debate in the consideration of the Supply Bill now presented. 
The total amount to be appropriated for 1934-35, under Annual Votes, but exclusive of special appropriations, is £22,516,417. On this basis, the amount required for the-first six months of the year would be £11,258,209. Tho first Supply Bill for 1934-35 covered a total sf £6,079,175. The total of the present bill is £5,819,030. Taking the two Supply Bills together, the total is £11,898,205. Comparing this sum with half the amount to be appropriated for the year, it is found that the provision in the Supply Bills exceeds half the necessary annual appropriations by £639,996. This excess is chiefly accounted for by the fact that more than half the annual appropriation in respect of Treasurer's Advance was included in the first Supply Bill, so that there would be a margin for contingencies. The total provided in the Estimates for the year for Treasurer's Advance is £2,000,000, while the amount included in Supply Bill No. 1, in respect of Treasurer's Advance, was £1,500,000. It has also been necessary to provide in this bill the full amount required to cover the cost of the elections, namely, £111,000. Under refunds of revenue and certain other votes in relation to which periodical payments fall due, the provision in the Supply Bills for the first six months slightly exceeds half the amount required for the full year. The amounts shown in this bill may be summarized a* follows : - 

<graphic href="144332193408012_58_4.jpg"></graphic>

As the general position of the Commonwealth finances was placed before the Senate recently, I do not think that any further explanation regarding them, or the moneys included in the present bill, is necessary. I commend the measure to the Senate. Tt must he passed, and it is hoped that it will he given a speedy passage. There have been abundant opportunities for discussion on previous Supply Bills and other measures that have been submitted. 
I have no desire to' obstruct the passage of the bill, but it is fair to point out that the Government, after a recess of seven months, is springing many important measures upon Parliament. That may be quite satisfactory from the Government's point of view. But from the point of view of the people as  a whole, the Government has failed to achieve much. Now, e&lt;n the eve of a general election, the' Government  has  submitted a number of proposal*, which we shall have no opportunity adequately to consider. Honorable senators, apparently; are anxious to hurry back to their constituents. Tills Government is supposed to be the custodian of the destinies of this country, but 1 wonder whether Ministers are concerned with the welfare of Australia so much as they are concerned about themselves. At the moment, war is in the air. The Government wants to go to the country. So do we, and, for our part', the Government may bring forward any number of measures to bo rushed through in the last hours of the session. They ave the Government's responsibility; not ours. AVo shall offer no opposition to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from "committee without, requests or debate; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 by leave  - I desire  to announce  to the Senate that on the  12th  October,  1934,  certain changes were made in the composition of the Ministry, which is now constituted as follows :  - 
I have to inform the Senate that through His Excellency the Governor-General a reply had been received from Lady Novar expressing her grateful thanks and deep appreciation of the courtesy and kindness of the Senate in forwarding a message expressing its regret and sympathy in connexion with the death of Viscount Novar. 
DEATH OF  Mr. D.  C. McGRATH, M.H.R. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received from  Mrs. McGrath  an expression of appreciation of the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of her husband,  Mr. D.C.  McGrath, M.H.R. 
[3.44]. - At the risk of transgressing the Standing Orders,  Mr. President,  I take the opportunity to announce that Messrs. C. W. A. Scott and Campbell Black, the English aviators, arrived in Melbourne at 3.37 p.m. to-day, and thus won the Centenary Air Race from England to Australia. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear! 

 Sitting suspended from3.45 to4.30 p.m. 

 by leave  - I move - 
That the following Joint Address bc presented to  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester : - 
To His Royal Highness, The Duke of Gloucester, Knight of the Garter, Knight of the Thistle, Knight of St. Patrick, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Personal Aide-de-Camp to His Majesty the King. 
May it please Your Royal Highness - 
We, the Senate and the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, gladly accept this opportunity of conveying to Your Royal Highness an assurance of our attachment and loyalty to the Person and Crown of His Majesty the King. 
This is the first official visit of Your Royal Highness to  a  Dominion of the British Empire, and the people of Australia are proud that such a compliment should be paid to them and to their country. We regard your visit as  a  manifestation of the deep interest which His Gracious Majesty has always shown in the welfare of  his  subjects in the dominions. 
The warmth and spontaneity of the welcome given to you by the people of this country is an expression of deep affection for and loyalty to the Royal Family of which you are  a  member. 
In the course of your progress through Australia you will come into personal contact with large numbers of our citizens, and you will have an opportunity of measuring  the  material advancement which has been effected during the period which has elapsed since the original settlement of Australia. 
In recent years the Commonwealth of Australia ha.s attained the status of a nation within the Empire. This honorable achievement has been accompanied by an increasing devotion of our people to the British Commonwealth of Nations and to the ideals of free and democratic government with which the people of the British Empire  have  been associated  for  so many centuries. 
In the present time of world crisis many problems arise for the consideration of the governments and peoples of the Empire, the solution of which can be greatly assisted by a spirit of co-operation. It will be our earnest endeavour to approach these problems in that spirit, with the object of devising methods of mutual assistance and support which will advance the prosperity of all, and preserve and strengthen the ties between the members of the British Commonwealth. 
We express to Your Royal Highness the warmest and most cordial wishes of our people for an interesting and pleasant visit to our country, and we invite you to convey to His Majesty the King this message of loyalty and devotion to his Person. 
Very few words are needed to commend this address to honorable senators. It is indeed fitting that we should, on the occasion of the visit of an illustrious member of the Royal Family, unite with the members of the House of Representatives in expressing our feelings of attachment and loyalty to  His  Majesty the King. I am sure that it is the unanimous wish of all honorable senators that the Address be presented; accordingly, it is with great pleasure that I submit the motion to the Senate. 
.- I second the motion. Australia has already given a magnificent demonstration of its attachment to the Mother Country, and its high regard for British traditions. I hope that we in this far-flung portion of the British Empire will uphold and advance the principles for which our ancestors fought. Amongst those principles were freedom of speech, and recognition of the political equality of all men. Politically and industrially, we in Australia have advanced further and more rapidly than our forefathers would have thought possible. His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, upon his return to the United Kingdom, will be able to convey to its people a vivid firsthand impression of us and our country. A few days ago, I saw His Royal Highness presenting a cup to* a racehorse owner and congratulating the jockey, and I could not help thinking that Royalty, which makes contact with all classes of the community and promotes their mutual understanding, has its uses. So I join in welcoming a son of the King. God bless him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Arrangements are being made for the presentation of the address to  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester in the Senate chamber at 10.40 a.m. tomorrow. Just prior to 10.20 a.m., the bells will be rung for one minute, and honorable senators are requested to be in their places in the chamber not later than that time, and at the conclusion of the ceremony to remain here, where their wives will be invited to join them preparatory to being presented to  His  Royal Highness. 
I associate myself and my party with the sentiments that have been expressed by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce),  in connexion with the tragic death of King Alexander of Jugoslavia. I recall reading, not so long ago, a statement by a member of the Spanish Cortes that these tragic events were incidental to the occupation of kings, the reference on that occasion being, I believe, to a similar fate that befel an earlier Spanish monarch. Happily, such happenings are rare in the history of the British race. We believe that, no matter how widely our people may differ in their political opinions, the sacrifice of human life is not justified, because, under our system of government, other means of adjusting our differences are available to us. No matter how strongly our opinions may differ, we do not desire the death of our bitterest political enemy. I join with the Leader of the Senate in expressing, on behalf of my party, our great sorrow at the tragic death of King Alexander. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That an expression of deep sympathy from the Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia be conveyed to the Government and to the people of France on the death of M. Louis Barthou, Foreign Minister in the Government of France. 
Honorable senators will remember that M. Barthou met his death at the same time, and in the same tragic manner, as did  His  Majesty King Alexander of Jugoslavia. On that occasion, also, a message of sympathy was transmitted by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  to the Government of France. It will, I think, be admitted that the late statesman devoted his life to the cause of peace, and I am sure that all honorable senators will join in extending sympathy to the people of France in the great loss which they have sustained. 
I again associate myself and members of my party with the motion submitted by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  A great nation has lost a great man, who, as the right honorable gentleman has observed, played his part in furthering the cause of peace. Members of the party to which I belong have always been fighting for greater political freedom. The people of France have been animated by a similar desire, and on many historic occasions have led the world in political reforms. We all very deeply regret the tragic fate of M. Barthou, and I am sure that the people of Australia extend their sympathy to the people of France. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their  places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That an expression  of deep  sympathy from the Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia  be  conveyed  to  the people of France on the death of Monsieur Raymond Poincare, a former Prime Minister and Presi  dent  of  the  Republic of France. 
The death of M. Raymond Poincare, the great war-time President of France, has been announced. He was President from 1913 to 1920, and again from 1922 to 1924. Entering politics at an early age, he rose to occupy many important portfolios, and his political career was distinguished by his occupancy of the office of Prime Minister of France on three occasions. Those of us who were associated with activities connected with the conduct -of the Great War will remember his fearlessness, his endeavours to. cement alliances between France and other countries, and his statesmanship. A truly great man has died, and it is fitting that we mourn with his country in the profound loss which it has suffered. 
The Government felt that, in the death of Monsieur Poincare, not only had France lost a great statesman, but the British nation had lost a friend; accordingly, on the occasion of his funeral on Saturday last, flags were flown at halfmast on. government buildings throughout Australia. 
The members of the Labour party endorse the sentiments which have been expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator 
Pearce). What I said just now in relation to the passing of another great Frenchman applies with equal force to Monsieur Poincare, and I shall therefore say no more than that the Labour party sympathizes with France in the loss of one of its noble sons. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honorable Frederick William Bamford, a former member of the House of Representatives and Minister of State, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public services, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow in her bereavement. 
The late  Mr. Bamford  was a member of the first Parliament as representative for Herbert, and continued to represent that constituency until his retirement on the expiration of the ninth Parliament in 1925. He held the portfolio of Minister for Home Affairs from November, 1916, to February, 1917. He was a temporary  Chairman  of Committees from 1911 to 1922, and from February, 1923, until his retirement was  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker.  During his parliamentary career, he acted on several royal commissions and parliamentary committees.  Mr. Bamford  was held in high regard by all with whom he came in contact, and his many excellent personal qualities won for him the goodwill of all his associates. To his widow, I extend, on behalf of the Senate, our sincere sympathy. 
I associate myself and the party which I have, the honour to lead with the motion before the Chair. On occasions like the present memories are stirred. The late  Mr. Bamford,  who was known to many of us, radiated cheerfulness wherever he went. I loved him for his many endearing qualities, and join in expressing to his widow our deep sympathy at the passing of a great man. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Mr. James  Mathews, a former member of the House of Representatives, records its appreciation of his meritorious public services, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow in her bereavement. 

 Mr. James Mathews, a former member of the House of Representatives, who passed away on the 16th October last, represented Melbourne Ports from 1906 to 1931 - a period of a quarter of a century - and was on several occasions elected unopposed. He was  Chairman  of the Committee on Causes of Death and Invalidity in the Commonwealth in 1916 and 1917, and a member of the Standing Committee on Public Works from 1917 to 1925. In spite of ill health towards the end of his parliamentary career, he strove to attend 'the sittings of the Parliament and to do all that lay in his power to carry out his duties. The way in which he triumphed over his physical infirmities stamped him as a man of remarkable courage.  His  frank and fearless nature will be remembered; and, with his death, passes a citizen who gave of  his  best  in  the interests of Australia and the people he represented. I desire to extend to  bis  widow the sincere sympathy of the Senate in her bereavement. 
-On this motion I could speak at great length, because I was very fond of " Jimmy " Mathews. Apart from his personal charm, he won respect, by the fortitude he displayed when ill health overtook him late in life. No man could have shown greater courage than he did always; for years he struggled to this Parliament to record his vote, when his health was such that he should have been carried here on a float. He was loyal to his constituents, and to his party, and he was always in  hi3  place when he was needed. I regret that a man with so great a heart and such strength of character should be lost to Australia. Rut great men come and go: others take their places, and the work of the nation is carried on. After all, courage forms the character of  a  country, and carries it through its difficulties. I shall always revere the memory of my late lamented friend, and I would like to convey to his widow the deep sympathy of myself and my colleagues with her in her bereavement. 
Question resolved in  the  affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That this Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Sir  Tannatt  William Edgeworth David, K.B.E., C.M.G., D.S.O., D.Sc., F.R.S., records its appreciation of his notable services to Australia, and tenders its deep sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
It is somewhat unusual  for the  Federal Parliament to be asked to pass  a  motion of condolence or regret in connexion with the death of  a  citizen who had not been  a  member of this Parliament. But I think the Senate will agree with me that the passing of so distinguished a citizen as this leader of science should not pass without notice by the Parliament of the Commonwealth. A scientist and explorer of the highest rank, the work of the late  Sir Edgeworth  David was known, not only throughout Australia,  but  throughout the world. He was  a  man of indomitable courage and great character. I remember how, in the early stages of the war, although he was then an old man,  he  came to me, as the Minister for Defence, and offered to place his scientific knowledge and services at the disposal of the Commonwealth Government during the war.  Those  services were accepted, and, old as he was, he organized a mining unit, which was sent overseas and was usefully employed in some of the theatres of war. He was always willing to place his services at the disposal of the Government to advance the development of Australia. Many years ago, when we were considering the possibility of discovering oil in Australia, I, as the responsible Minister concerned, turned at once to  Sir Edgeworth  David, and without any hesitation he advised us of the steps to be taken in order to encourage prospecting for oil. He was an active worker in many fields. In him a delightful personality was combined with an exceptional intellect. It can be truly said that he devoted hia whole life to the betterment and development of the country of which he was a citizen, and it is fitting that this Senate should record its regret at the loss which Australia has sustained by his death. I am sure our sympathy goes out to his widow and the members of his family. 
Although a motion of this character, in relation to a private citizen, is unusual, I endorse the action taken by  Senator Pearce  to recognize the worth of one of our great countrymen, a man whose scholarly attainments and public service had won for him many degrees and decorations. From time to time I read with great interest of many of his achievements, and I gloried in them. So I submit that, even if this motion is without precedent, this Parliament is entitled to place on record its appreciation of great services rendered by a citizen of the Commonwealth. I express to Lady David and the members of her family our great regret at the loss of a man who was wonderfully valuable to Australia. 
-I desire to associate myself with this motion. Professor David was a man of great and outstanding ability, not only in scientific research, but also as an organizer in the teaching department of the Sydney University. He taught nearly all our leading scientists, especially in the realm of geology, and lifted that particular branch of knowledge in Australia to a notably high plane. By precept and example he did much to mould the minds and characters of the youths passing through the University of Sydney, and the noble sentiments he preached and practised are being lived by many of his former students. I regret the occasion for this motion; but I have pleasure in paying my tribute to the memory of  a  great worker and teacher. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
[5.11].  -  I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
The debate on the Address-in-Reply will commence on Wednesday next, and it is also possible that the Appropriation Bill may be received at an early date. Honorable senators are aware that the Government obtained Supply only sufficient for it to carry on until after the general election, and that the Estimates which are to be brought before the House of Representatives will be the same Estimates as were submitted to the last Parliament. Probably the Estimates will be passed at an early date, but, if not, another Supply Bill will have to he passed, probably next week. Legislation in connexion with the wheat industry also will be submitted, and although I cannot say when such legislation will reach this chamber, it should be passed in time to enable the necessary machinery to be set in motion before the next harvest. There is a good deal of important business to transact. 
I am not sure, but either the Appropriation Bill or a supply bill must be passed at an early date. 
.- The speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General to-day sounded all right, and I am glad that an early opportunity will be afforded honorable senators to discuss subjects of great importance to the Australian people. The Government is wise in asking the Parliament to adjourn until next week so that in the meantime we may join in the welcome to  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, but we cannot overlook the fact that matters of grave importance require our earnest and immediate  consideration. We do not know what is actually facing this country at present. There are many important problems awaiting solution, the gravest of which is the provision of employment for our people. We have to determine whether large numbers of the people are to remain on the verge of starvation or are to be given an opportunity to earn a decent living. 
In the speech which was read by His Excellency the GovernorGeneral in the Senate this afternoon, reference was made to our rural industries, and particularly to the wheat industry. I understand that it  is  the intention of the Government, during the present session, to give special consideration to the deplorable and unfortunate conditions which obtain in the Australian wheatgrowing industry. I direct the attention of the Government to an authoritative statement which appeared in the press about three weeks ago, and which has not been contradicted, to the effect that five firms which carry on the business of purchasing and dealing with wheat, three of which are represented in Australia and form the principal wheat buying agencies in the Commonwealth, have agreed among themselves to form a combine for the specific purpose of offering the lowest possible price to the wheat-growing countries which have wheat to sell. Such a statement deserves the serious consideration of the Government when it is formulating its policy to assist those engaged in the wheat-growing industry. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I remind the honorable senator that as the Address-in-Reply has been made an order of the day for the next day of sitting, he cannot discuss the Governor-General's speech at this stage, but he is quite entitled to debate in a general way, the production and marketing of wheat in Australia. 
That is what I am endeavouring to do. I am urging the Ministers to take these factors into consideration when they are working out the details of the policy which was submitted to the Senate this afternoon by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. There is another aspect of the situation, relating to the assistance for primary producers, which does not encroach upon the Government proposals outlined in  His  Excellency's speech. I refer to the legislation passed in November last for the payment of a bounty to wheat-growers. It was the intention of Parliament, that that assistance, which was made possible at the expense of the consumers of bread in the Commonwealth - the scheme was financed in the main from the proceeds of a tax on flour - should go direct to our wheat-farmers. Unfortunately, that has not been the result in every instance. In South Australia, we have the spectacle of Commonwealth assistance to wheat-growers being utilized for the benefit of farmers' creditors. I therefore contend that action should be taken this session to ensure that any assistance granted by this Parliament to wheat-farmers should be given direct to those sorely afflicted producers. My third point is this : In 1912, this Parliament passed an act for the payment of a maternity allowance in recognition of the claims of mothers. The intention was that it should be paid to all mothers irrespective of their financial position. Again the design of this Parliament is being thwarted, because, under legislation passed by the South Australian Parliament, a maternity allowance payable to the wife of a wheat-farmer has been garnisheed for the benefit of her husband's creditors. This ought to be  stopped. A provision of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act makes the receipt of a pension the inalienable right of the pensioner, and a similar safeguard should be inserted in the act relating to maternity allowances. 
I regret that I have to raise these points, but they are important, and require the early consideration of this Government. Despite the confidence apparently expressed in the Government at the recent election, unless the matters to which I referred are dealt with promptly and the necessary steps taken to rectify the anomalies, there will he a very great feeling of disappointment throughout Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have to inform the Senate that on the 24th October, on behalf of the Parliament,  Mr. Speaker  and I presented to  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, in the Senate Chamber, the joint Address agreed to by both Houses of the Parliament on the previous day. In making the presentation, I addressed his Royal Highness in the following terms: - 
Your Royal Highness - 
Beforethe Honorable  the  Speakerofthe House of Representatives addresses you,  and  I readto you the address of both Houses of Parliament, mayI, as the appointed mouthpiece of the Senate, express to you our profound pleasure at meeting you here this morning. 
We hope, sir, that your journeyings amongst us will yieldunmeasured satisfaction and enjoyment to yourself,  and  we are confident that they  are  bound to stimulate  the  devotion and loyaltyto your Royal Father, His Mos  t Gracious  Majesty, our King, which dwell deep in the hearts of our people. 
Your Royal Highness, I bid you a hearty welcome. 
In joining in the presentation,  Mr. Speaker  said - 
Your Royal Highness - 
On behalf of the members of the House of Representatives, I assure you of the deep sense of pleasure with which wc join in welcoming you to Parliament House, Canberra. We recall the happy occasion when Their Majesties the King and Queen opened the first meeting of the Commonwealth Parliament in . 1901, the visit of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales in 1920, and that of His Royal Highness the Duke of York and the Duchess of York in 1927 on the occasion of the inauguration of the meetings of the Parliamentat Canberra. It is now our privilege to extend to Your Royal Highness our most sincere greetings on your arrival amongst us. We earnestly hope that you will enjoy your tour throughout the Commonwealth, and that, on your departure, you will take away abiding memories of the loyalty and affection of the Australian people. 
HisRoyal Highness was graciously pleased to make the following reply: - 

 Mr. President of the Senate and  Mr. Speaker  of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia - 
I gratefully acknowledge your message of loyalty to the King, my father, which I shall have much pleasure in conveying to him. I am equally appreciative of the sentiments which you have expressed in referring to the satisfaction which my visit gives you. In carrying out this mission,  at  thebidding of His Majesty, I have set forth, like those of my family who have preceded me, in the hope that my visit will help to strengthen the bonds existing between the peoples of the Empire and to increase our perception of the advantages which  we  enjoy under a free system of government. The welcome whichI have received ever since I landed in Australia encourages me to think that my object is being achieved: and I need hardly say that I particularly value greetings from Australia's  representatives  in theheart of the Commonwealth. I ask you to express to the peoplemygratitude for the wonderfulreception which they have everywhereaccorded me and mysincere regrets that I amunable to see more of their country and of the conditions in whichthey live. Finally, gentlemen, inallthatyou undertake I wishyousuccess and prosperity. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 28 a, I hereby nominate SenatorsW. Carroll, J. B. Hayes, M. R. O'Halloran, M. Reid and B. Sampson a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees, when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees, or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 38, I hereby appoint the following senators to he the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications: Senators T. W. Crawford. J. B. Dooley, R. C. D. Elliott, . J. F. Guthrie, A. A. Hoare, M. R. O'Halloran, and H. , T. M. Payne. 
I have to report the receipt of the following letters: - 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister if it is the intention of the Government to submit to Parliament at an early date the necessary amendments of the Navigation Act to provide for the removal of the handicap at present suffered by Tasmania with regard to marine traffic with the mainLand. 
I move- 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to: - 

 ToHis Excellency the Governor-General - 

We, the Senate of the Commonwealth, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to Our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I am very sensible of the compliment paid to me in being allowed to move this motion, as I also am of the honour attached to the submission, on behalf of the Senate, of an expression of our continued loyalty to  His  Majesty the King. 
To those who have ears to hear, and eyes to see, it is obvious that the British people of to-day are beginning fully to appreciate, by comparison with other nations, the blessings that have accrued to them through the benevolence of the Crown and the merits of our inherited system of government. The Throne and Parliament as we know them, are great institutions peculiar to us, and are, indeed, the bases of a true democracy - perhaps not yet sufficiently recognized - that confers the freedom we all are sharing.Whilst that freedom is sometimes abused, events of the last few years have revealed that people throughout the Empire are not disposed to permit any encroachment upon it.Our race is sometimes accused of being phlegmatic; but, even if it is so that very quality has enabled it, by careful observation and cautious steps, to discriminate and evolve for itself the present system, which, although by no means ideal, is far above, in worth, that associated with other peoples of the earth. 
We have cause to be grateful for the visit we are enjoying of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester. The approval of this by our Sovereign is yet another proof of his interest in and concern for the welfare of his subjects overseas. The visit itself can bring nought but good. I am sure that our Royal guest rightly claims the affection of all of us, and his stay in our midst revives not only a sense of our responsibility for the people we legislate for, but also that love, inherent in all, for the Old Country which gave us our birth and to the institutions and traditions to which we owe so much. I offer no apology for that which I have so far uttered. It is a tribute that our allegiance demands, and is freely conceded, I am sure, by our fellow subjects. Besides, the creation and maintenance of a healthy national sentiment is a good thing and no small aid to the operation of the functions of government. 
I congratulate the Prime Minister and his colleagues upon the improved conditions noticeable in Australia to-day. The securing of these has demanded patient study and close work on the part of Cabinet, and has involved the people in continued sacrifice which they have borne with great courage. The position we occupy in the world to-day redounds to the credit of all. 
The recent elections disclosedthat, on broad lines, the people approved of the Government's past policy; but underlying or accompanying the renewal of the mandate to the Government has been the hope that the Parliament, whilst legislating for the needs of the present, will make some serious attempt to develop  a quality of statesmanship which, visualizing the future, will guide the nation's steps clear of a repetition of the mistakes and disasters of years gone by. 
My experience over the last few months, and my direct contact with many of the electors of the State I represent, revealed to me that there are constructive elements in each of the policies advocated by the three contending parties. There would be a welcome indeed for a man of determination and power for leadership who., discarding self-interest, could assemble and apply these constructive elements, having in mind only the benefits to be derived by our country. That " party " is not everything is a mere truism, and in that connexion it is a matter for regret that in the. reconstructed Ministry there are not apparently any direct representatives, or persons with first-hand knowledge, of rural interests. 
The press has reported the Prime Minister as having expressed some dissatisfaction with the existing method of electing members of this chamber. I trust that he will not act hastily. This is  a  house of reference or review designed by the Constitution to afford a check on hasty or ill-considered measures based merely on the demands or seeming needs expressed by a " popular " vote - mostly concentrated in the cities. With the people of a State voting as a whole a more deliberate or thoughtful decision is given and I would deprecate any interference with the present law in this respect. After all it can operate in any direction the people really desire. 
The Speech of His Excellency the GovernorGeneral discloses the laudable intention of the Government to give early effect to the greater part of its election policy. It is to be sincerely hoped that a very real effort will be made to cope effectively with the serious unemployment position. Public works undertaken should, I maintain, be developmental in character and likely, ultimately, to be reproductive. Conjointly with this, the Government might consider the renewal of active immigration; such a policy is inevitable and, I trust, will not bo long deferred. It is demanded alike by the needs of our own situation and the over-crowded condition of Great Britain. 
I suggest that success in the future must largely depend upon a sound plan in respect to Queensland and Western Australia. These two States have much latent wealth and large unsettled areas, and are capable of accommodating substantial additions ito the existing population. The hopes of our youth, and the morale of the nation, are both in jeopardy unless something be done to find openings for the boys and girls. Here our friends of the Labour party can help, if they will, in the direction of facilitating admission to the various trades and thus affording instruction in the crafts that must be in demand as development increases. If I understand the position correctly, the adjustment of unemployment is not,, primarily, a Commonwealth function. For that reason the Government is to beespecially commended on the course it isadopting. In order to alleviate conditions effectually, the closest and most cordial co-operation between all concerned will be required. 
Hand-in-hand with the scheme for finding work must go an endeavour to rehabilitate our rural industries. It seems that even a world-recovery in prices cannot undo the damage of the last five years. In Western Australia, wheatgrowing is a young industry, and the depression caught the farmer before he had time to build up reserves or even, in many cases, to pay for his plant. Unaided, he cannot hope to rid himself of the ever-increasing burden of debt. In that State the estimated wheat yield for this year is only  24,500,000  bushels, whereas in  1930-31  it was  53,500,000  bushels. This shrinkage is due partly to the restricted market, partly to a bad season, but chiefly to the inability of the farmer to finance his operations. With wise help, I am certain that those on the land can yet make good. I suggest wisdom in proffering assistance, because the last thing we should wish in this country is hand-fed or wholly State-aided production. 
The Government has announced its intention to consult the States as to the best methods fo adopt. As conditions in each State may vary, only by such consultation can the best results be achieved. In that connexion, provision should be made to protect the soldier settler and the  investments by the Commonwealth Treasury on his behalf. These men were placed on the land when values and prices were at a maximum. The very generosity of the repatriation scheme has resulted in the ex-service man finding himself in the worst plight of all. The advances on his holding were up to 100 per cent., and, therefore, he has little, if any, equity, but, instead, a most crushing burden of interest. I am aware that this Parliament has already made liberal concessions in this quarter, hut I have yet to be assured that the States concerned have not to some extent utilized those concessions as an offset to their own losses. Whatever is to be done for the farmer needs to be done quickly. The whole subject has been in a condition of flux for several years past. There is a lack of decision, despite cabinet committees, royal commissions, and conferences, in respect to the major scheme, marketing, and a guaranteed price. The consequent absence of anything in the nature of stability and sound prospect is engendering and disseminating a feeling of despair amongst those who, in the interest of the nation, are rightly due for every encouragement in their labours. Yesterday I received the following telegram from the Upper Chapman districts of Western Australia: - 
Mass meeting farmers Upper Chapman Districts to-day desire urgent representation immediate assistance. Conditions desperate, view almost total failure -wheat crop, rust and drought. Also advise unless payable price fixed for further crops, large number owners no inducement continue production. - Britton, Yuna. 
We all desire to see our secondary industries develop on sound and profitable lines, and no one can accuse the Government of withholding adequate protection from them. It is interesting to read in Hia Excellency's Speech that - 
The first service of the Tariff must still be the upholding of local primary and secondary industries, the fortunes of which are closely interwoven and cannot be properly considered apart. 
Contrast that statement with the position of the meat export trade of Western Australia which, as a result of the action sanctioned by this Parliament in respect to Belgian glass, has almost ceased. Nor need I stress the reaction to the increased cotton duties, and the threat to the mar- ket for our dairy produce, of which we have lately read so much. Possibly I could point out many other deficiencies in the balance of our current fiscal policy. 
Yes, under reasonable conditions. I suggest that a little more candour on the part of the Government in relation to its attitude towards the Tariff Board reports, and as to its real intentions in regard to the Ottawa agreement, would materially strengthen its position, and ease the mind of the primary producer. 
I cannot imagine support being withheld from the proposal to expand our markets, and increase trade by means of treaties with foreign countries. Our near neighbours offer valuable opportunities which should be exploited to the full. An American statesman has recently drawn attention to a tendency on the part of nations to approach discussions on reciprocal trade with an existing and almost prohibitive tariff as a weapon for bargaining. I trust that we shall avoid such methods, which can only prejudice severely any advances made on behalf of Australia. 
As a representative of one of the smaller States, I have gleaned some satisfaction from the proposal of the Government to revive the interstate commission. By such means only can some of the existing evils be removed or mitigated, and the balance between States preserved. In Western Australia charges of dumping, made against eastern manufacturers, are not unknown. They would bear investigation. There should also be some examination of the  system  of preferential railway rates in regard to certain classes of goods carried over some of our transport systems. No doubt that extraconstitutional unit - the Commonwealth Grants Commission - will now disappear. Although its first report has not met with universal approval, it nevertheless supplies a basis upon which the Government can deliberate and function as was originally, and still is, intended. Grants to States are, unfortunately, still necessary, and must be made so long as the present financial provisions of the Constitution are operative. 
In that respect it ie  a  matter for regretthat the Speech of  His Excellency  contains no reference to a convention on the Constitution. I do not think that I am wrong in affirming that all the States desire some revision of the law governing our internal relations. That desire must bo apparent to the Government itself, and some earnest attempt at improvement, based on the experience of 34 years, should be made. 
I am glad to say that the secession movement in "Western Australia exercised no serious influence during and upon the recent elections. It has progressed logically to the stage that petitions are shortly to be presented to His Majesty the King and  the  British Parliament. Meanwhile the people calmly await a decision, confident that it will be a just one. I hazard the suggestion that the manner in which the claims of the people I assist to represent have been viewed and commented upon in the Eastern States has not been characterized by a marked degree of tact or discretion. Apparently we have yat to develop the art of diplomacy. 
Although the economic position of Australia has undoubtedly improved, and is likely to improve further, there is no guarantee against a return of the conditions from which we are painfully but surely emerging. Although the "World Economic Congress is reported to have been a failure there still rests upon our leaders the grave responsibility of exploiting every means of establishing our monetary, banking, production, trade, and industrial systems upon bases that will protect the nation against retrogression, suffering, and loss in the future. This is not the work of a day. It can be accomplished only as part of an Empire-wide, or even world-wide, plan. 
There is an imperative demand also for legislation, to place our invalid and oldage pensions upon a better footing. The charge upon the nation is increasing at an alarming rate. Candidates at the lastelection were invited to bid for the support of the pensioners' vote, and it is possible that the future position will verge upon the scandalous. A scheme of national insurance, covering old-age, sickness and unemployment is urgently needed. 
I am confident that I need not impress upon the Government the necessity for closely pursuing its policy of defence as outlined last session. However greatly an increase of armaments may conflict with our own wishes, we cannot afford to disregard the trend of events in certain quarters of the world, or the painful and costly lessons of the Great War. In regard to the naval portion of the programme, I again draw attention to  a  weakness in that it fails to provide for  a  dock on the western coast of Australia. 
I put forward a plea for a more logical arrangement concerning the sittings of this Parliament.- If it were possible to meet in continuous session during  a  certain portion of each year there would, it seems to me, be some substantial benefit, not only in the quality of the legislation passed, but also in a reduction of the inconvenience to members. Western Australian representatives travel great distances to attend the sittings of Parliament, and the periodical and all too frequent short adjournments cause considerable dislocation of their plans and comfort and entail much additional expenditure to the individual as well as to the Treasury. I commend this appeal to the kindly and serious consideration of the Government 
I again congratulate the Government on what it has achieved for Australia during the past three years, and also on that part of its programme outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I am confident that there is not a member of this chamber who is not gratified with the relief, small though it may be, that has come to our fellow countrymen. As for the further work immediately at hand, to which our earnest and close attention is demanded, we can all sincerely join in the hope expressed in the concluding paragraph of the Speech. 
Before I resume my seat, I desire to congratulate those honorable senators who have successfully survived the recent electoral contests. If I may say so, without seeming impertinence, I have learned, or am learning, to appreciate my environment and fellow senators, and shall genuinely miss those who will not continue with us after the 30th June next. 
.- In seconding the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, I associate myself with  Senator Collett  in expressing the delight that the visit to Canberra of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester gave to both Houses of the Parliament. We venture to hope that his tour throughout the Commonwealth will be a very happy and enjoyable one, and that he will take back to England pleasant remembrances of his sojourn here. The visit certainly will have given  His  Royal Highness a useful knowledge of conditions in this part of the Empire and a full appreciation of the deep affection entertained by the people of Australia for  His  Majesty the King and all members of the Royal Family. 
The subject of unemployment is very properly placed in the very forefront of the Governor-General's Speech. Although the position is still by no means satisfactory, it is gratifying to learn that the percentage of unemployment has steadily fallen during the last year or two. 
Something like 10 per cent. Although it is not nearly so large as we should like it to be, it is certainly reassuring to find that the percentage is falling. During the regime of the previous Administration it steadily increased. That statement cannot be challenged, since it is borne out by the figures supplied by the reporting unions. The present Government has a much better case to put up than its predecessors, so far as the solving of the problem of unemployment is concerned. 
The honorable senator is deceiving himself. 
The Commonwealth Government has not yet brought forward a scheme. 
In this connexion, the outstanding problem, to my mind, is that of finding employment for boys and girls on leaving school. The position of our youth is getting .worse and worse. It is appalling that many boys and girls who left school four or five years ago are still unable to find employment. Surely it should be possible to alleviate their sorry plight! It would be unreasonable to expect the Commonwealth to do everything, but it should be able to assist the States to put our boys and girls into- profitable employment when they leave school. 
According to press reports to-day, the Government seems to be inclined to dillydally with the subject of the relief of rural industries. Relief should be provided promptly; but, according to press reports, no  action  is to be taken till next year. I certainly expected that the Government would be in a position to place before Parliament before Christmas some concrete schemes for the rehabilitation of our rural industries which would apply to the forthcoming harvest. If no act1011 is to be taken until some time next year, the position of our rural industries in the meantime will have become steadily worse. We do not hear of any delay on the part of the Government in dealing with secondary industries. When complaint is made in regard to any secondary industry, a prompt demand is made for a report from the Tariff Board. Both Houses have been asking for the presentation of various reports of the Tariff Board which are already in the hands of the Government. I understand that some 59 reports have been received; but Parliament itself has not been allowed to- peruse them, nor has it been advised of their contents. 
It is time that they were made available to us. 
The implementing of the Ottawa agreement is of vital concern to the Parliament, but very little information on the subject is forthcoming from the Government. I should like the Government to take both Houses into its confidence. 
I am pleased that the Government intends to re-establish the Interstate Commission. Section 101 of the Constitution is mandatory on the point that there shall be an Interstate Commission; yet for 34 years, we have practically been without such a commission. Doubtless successive governments have thought that its appointment would take from the Parliament powers which they considered the Parliament alone should exercise. 
The Government is to be commended, for its determination to improve the defences of Australia, which at present are wholly inadequate. A substantial sum is to be devoted to this purpose; but a still larger expenditure will be necessary. No one can contemplate without apprehension the situation that Australia would have to face in the event of Britain becoming involved in another great war. We should not be able to depend entirely on the Old Country for our safety. To a large extent we should have to depend on our own efforts; and, with our defences in their present state, would have no chance of combating the superior forces of larger nations that have been casting longing eyes on our continent. Both our naval and military defences are entirely inadequate to cope with forces such as any of the major nations might pit against us. 
I think that  the  Prime Minister rather erred in his declaration regarding an alteration of the method of voting at elections for the Senate. The recent election resulted in the return of an overwhelming majority in . favour of the present administration, and that was the deliberate will of the people as expressed through the ballot box. I do not agree, however, with  Senator Collett  that no alteration of the Electoral Act is required. It needs in many respects to be amended. For instance, the complete returns for Senate elections should be available much sooner than they are under the law as it stands. The delay that takes place is quite indefensible  The completion of the Senate returns for Tasmania was held up for a fortnight pending the arrival, of absentee votes from Western Australia and the Northern Territory. It should be possible in such cases for the returning officer to telegraph the effect oi- the votes to the State in respect of which they had been cast. All postal votes should be in the hands of the returning officer for the State before the poll closes. I also contend that the provision requiring electors to vote for the whole of the candidates whose names appear on the ballot-paper is ridiculous. Consider what the position would be if there were 40 or 50 candidates; indeed, there might be even 100 candidates. There is no limit to the number who may stand. 
The Governor-General's Speech was so barren thai few features "of it call for comment. However, I express my agreement with the reference to the need for making reciprocal trade treaties. We cannot hope to have one-way trading between the various countries of ihe world. At the present time one country is protesting that it will not take our primary produce unless we take a certain quantity of its manufactured goods. That is a reasonable demand. Australia must export a large proportion of its primary produce. The GovernorGeneral said - 
My advisers are ... of the opinion that Australia's richest overseas market lies within the Empire and  especially  within the United Kingdom. But they are fully  aware  that in some (Treat lines of primary commodities Australia and other dominions, taken together, yield a total production far in excess of the consumption demands of the Empire. Confronted by these conditions my Ministers will make every endeavour to trade on the friendliest terms obtainable with all nations which are faced with similar problems. 
We all must agree with those remarks. We have to look outside the British Empire for customers for a proportion of our primary produce. Therefore we have to be prepared to accept a certain quantity of goods from those countries. Australia is not in a position to insist upon one-way trading. We have to give as well as take; otherwise our primary produce will become a drug in the market and much of it will be unsaleable. Why should Parliament legislate for only one class ? If the big rural industries cannot find profitable markets abroad their produce will be left on their  hands, and they will have to he supported by grants or bounties from the rest of the people. I am glad to see that the Government is alive to the need for making further reciprocal trade treaties, and [ hope that its efforts will be crowned with success. 
I propose to deal briefly with some of Tasmania's problems. Tasmania is only a small State and its representatives have often to fight to get a fair and reasonable deal for it in this Parliament. This afternoon  Senator Payne  asked the Leader of the Senate for a statement of the Government's intentions in regard to amending the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act in order tq permit of more equitable treatment of Tasmania. The reply given to him was that this was a matter of policy, statements as to which are not made by answers to questions. But I find in the Hobart  Mercury  of the 26th October, the following definite statement on this matter, attributed to the Prime Minister - 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  announced to-night that in consequence of the support accorded the Labour party in Tasmania at the federal election, the Federal Ministry would review the decision announced at the end of the last session of the last Parliament to introduce legislation before Christmas to vary tlie Navigation Act to enable overseas ships to carry interstate passengers between Tasmania and the mainland. 
Citizens are greatly perturbed and amazed at the announcement that your Government, because of Labour gains in Tasmania at the recent election, proposes not to proceed with the definitely promised amendment of the Navigation Act to give Tasmania permanent relief. May we remind you that your Ministers supplemented your promise in Tasmania? Failure to give such relief may possibly cut across our work for the resumption of the New  Zealand  service  Your announcement  is very disheartening and discouraging after the  years  of work to get this harassing measure repealed, especially in view of the tremendous impetus given to travel through the granting of the recent concessions on behalf of the citizens. May I respectfully ask your Government to redeem its very definite promise in its policy speech? The result of the Senate election is a definite indication of the feeling of the people of Tasmania on the subject. 
The suggestion has been made that neither the Labour Government in Tasmania nor the successful Labour candidates in the federal election were in favour of the amendment of the Navigation Act. One of those successful candidates told me definitely that he was in favour of the proposed amendments. Probatory his colleagues hold the same view. I think it can be fairly claimed that every Tasmanian candidate in the recent elections, irrespective, of party, was in favour of an alteration of the Navigation Act. So far as the Labour Premier of Tasmania  (Mr. A. G. Oglivie)  is concerned. The  Mercury  reports him as having stated that the Prime Minister had given a pledge that if he were returned to power he would again submit this matter to Parliament, and that the Prime Minister should carry out that pledge. Thus it appears that, notwithstanding what has been -said to the contrary, the representatives of Tasmania are united in their request to the Government to carry out its pledge to amend the Navigation Act early in the first session of this Parliament. On Thursday last,  a  large meeting of citizens was held in Hobart at which the following motion was carried : - 
This meeting of the Tasmanian Tourist Association views with dismay the announcement that the Commonwealth Government does not propose to go on with the amendment to the Navigation Act, which was definitely promised before the election, and desires to point out that the reason given, the non-return of certain members of the Nationalist party, has no bearing on the matter. The necessity for the alteration having been recognized, the Commonwealth Government should be pressed to carry out its pledge, and to that end the Lord Mayor be requested to convene a public meeting at the Town Hall, and the co-operation of the Chamber of Commerce and other interested bodies in making the necessary representations. 
Mi. Lyons suggests that the Labour vote in Tasmania at the federal election may be construed as popular antagonism to an amendment of the Navigation Act which would permit overseas ships to carry interstate passengers between Tasmania and the mainland; yet he says, in effect, that the policy of the Ministry will he to preserve the present concessions without introducing a bill to mal(t them permanent. In other words,  Mr. Lyons  is prepared .to admit that there is a case for amendment, but he is reluctant to implement it in law. There is no justification for  such ambiguity. The effect of the Prime Minister's decision should not bc to penalize the people of Tasmania for having returned three Labour members to the Federal Parliament. When one considers the issues raised during the election campaign it is difficult to read thb Tasmanian vote as an expression of hostility to an amendment of the Navigation Act. There is no question of the merits of the case for amendment. It should bc acted upon without delay. 
I would also like to know what the Government is going to do with reference to  the removal of the rifle range from Sandy Bay. This matter has been under consideration by the Commonwealth Government for the last fourteen years, but finality has not .been reached. The Government took certain steps in connexion with this matter and then stopped; nothing further has been done. "We all deeply regret the loss of the air liner,  Miss Hobart,  and offer our sincere sympathy to the relatives of those lost in the disaster. I know that the Commonwealth Government will hold a searching inquiry into the cause of that disaster. 

 I regret that in the re-arrangement of the Cabinet no representation has been given to country electorates at all ; all four vacancies have been filled by representa tives from the two largest cities of Australia. There are plenty of country members in the Government's ranks who are worthy of cabinet rank. 
.- I congratulate the mover and the seconder of the motion upon the great restraint which they exercised in expressing their views of the Government's policy as outlined in the Speech of the GovernorGeneral. It was evident that neither honorable gentleman was quite satisfied, and that both experienced difficulty in displaying enthusiasm about the whole business. As a matter of fact,  Senator Grant  appeared to be pronouncedly opposed to certain phases of the Government's policy. It would, I think, be difficult for any honorable gentleman to work up enthusiasm about the Speech, which I regard as the most spineless that has even been put before this Parliament. It was remarkable more for what was left out of it than for what it contained. Perhaps one cannot wonder that this should be so in view of the fact that the Government is dependent for its very existence upon a party whose guns, at the moment, are masked. No one can say definitely when the Country party's battery will be unmasked to open fire upon the Ministry. This being so, how could Ministers be expected to present to this Parliament a programme that would contain even a ray of hope or promise of lasting benefit to the people? With a view to putting some backbone into this spineless thing which the Government has presented to this Parliament, I move - 
That the following words bo added to the motion: - and this Senate is of the opinion that, to provide for relief of unemployment, immediate action should be taken - 
1 ) To extend the functions and activities of the Commonwealth Bank, increasing its power to make bank credit available, and utilizing such credit to finance publicworks; 
To amend the Arbitration Act to ensure that full and favorable consideration be given to progressive reductions in the working hours and increases in living standards commensurate with increased powers of production, due to mechanization and speeding-up of industry. 
To restore in full pensions and social services and to repeal clauses imposing charges upon pensioners' property and relatives, thus increasing purchasing power and stimulating industry; and 
To establish a national scheme for organized marketing, including the setting up of Australian-wide pools. 
If my amendment is carried, the people of Australia can expect the adoption of proposals calculated to confer substantial benefit upon them. 
The first clause seeks to extend the functions and activities of the Commonwealth Bank with a view to making credit available for the financing of public works. It is well known that the election was fought, with results somewhat disastrous to my party, upon this issue. The results were unfavorable to us simply because the facts have been distorted and the minds of the people disturbed concerning the possible result of Labour's (banking policy. An immense amount of misleading literature was issued by the United Australia party and Country party organizations which, for all practical purposes, are one party because when any proposal is brought forward for the benefit of the people, representatives of both are to be found in opposition to it. Much of this election literature was, I repeat, misleading and malicious. Those responsible for it must have known that the statements made were untrue. I have in my hand several circulars and other documents issued by our opponents during the campaign. One, in particular, had reference to recent happenings in connexion with the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales. It depicted a woman with her two children standing before the door of the bank upon which appeared the notice " bank closed until further notice." 
Yes, but what I complain about is the misrepresentation of the events which led up to the closing of that bank. Prominent advertisements appeared in the principal newspapers - they must have been paid for by some persons or organizations vitally interested in suppressing the truth - and vast quantities of election literature were distributed throughout Australia during the election. Much of it found its way into my letter box. It is true that the bank was closed a year or two ago, but not for the reasons alleged by the United Australia party and Country party organizations. If the truth had been told at the  time the bank would not have been compelled to close its doors. It is said that dead men tell no tales. It is also true that some dead men leave behind them records which completely disprove what has been said by public men and sections of the press. I have in mind particularly certain allegations made with regard to the closing of the Government Savings Bank of New South "Wales, and I intend to quote briefly from the highest authority I know - the late  Sir Robert  Gibson. The Labour party has always declared that the closing of that institution was engineered in order to defeat Labour's financial proposals. This view was supported by the late  Sir Robert  Gibson, who, in the course of a broadcast speech to the people during the crisis, said - 
They were all aware that the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales was forced to close its doors. That was because the people who had deposited their money were led to believe by the foolish statements of those who  should  know better, and the statements of those who desired disaster, that the bank was not in a safe position. 
The fact of the matter was the Government Savings Bank in New South Wales was and is in a perfectly sound position. 
There was no good reason founded on account of its soundness why it was compelled to close its doors. 

 Sir Robert Gibson concluded his remarks by declaring - 
The Commonwealth Bank can meet any demand which is placed upon it. by its customers. The bank will never close its doors as long as the nation itself stands. 
This definite statement by the When Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank Board was in direct contradiction to the lying and poisonous propaganda that was issued by Labour's opponents during the election campaign. The adoption of my amendment will make possible the extension of the bank's functions so as to ensure ample credit for the financing of important public works. This Government has been in power for three years. Prior to its accession to office  unemployment in this country was rife. It is true that shortly after it came into power the situation improved slightly, but not nearly to the extent for which the Government claimed credit, because vast numbers of those who were returned as being in employment were really engaged on relief work, some on half time, and others at sustenance rates. Comparatively few were working full time and in receipt of the adult wage. Our purpose is to see that the Commonwealth Bank is allowed to do what it was supposed to do when it was established, and what it did during the war years . when 4 we had as Prime Minister a man with sufficient backbone and brains to use it in the interests of the people. When Great Britain and Australia were in great trouble - the people of the Mother Country were on the brink of starvation and Australia was teeming with food stuffs which, owing to lack of ships, could not  be  transported to the other side of the world - the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, utilizing the resources, of the Commonwealth Bank, purchased fifteen ships in various ports of the world and used them for the transport of food stuffs in Australia to feed the people of Great Britain. The record of that episode in our history is to be found at page 201 of the official  History of the Commonwealth Bank.  The fifteen ships which  Mr. Hughes  bought in 1916 cost the Commonwealth £2,052,654. The first year's trading resulted in a profit of £327,335 ; the second year gave a profit of £576,164; the third year a profit of £1,160,055, and the fourth year a profit of £137,959. The total profit for four years amounted to £2,201,513, and the surplus after paying for the ships, was £148,859. This splendid result was achieved by a man who did not hesitate, when occasion demanded, to use the Commonwealth Bank in the interests of the nation. Although two of the vessels were torpedoed, the remaining thirteen were able to show a substantial profit. 
That is so. The vessels of the Australian Commonwealth Line also were disposed of to the Kylsant Group, although they could still be rendering a great service to the Australian people, and particularly to the primary producers. 
During the war, the Commonwealth Bank was utilized in the interests of the Australian people. On page 105 of the  History  of the CommonwealthBank,  it is pointed out that prior to the establishment of the bank the raising of loans for Commonwealth purposes cost £3 for each £100, whereas those raised through the Commonwealth Bank cost only 5s. 7d. for each £100. At the last general election the Labour party sought to empower the Commonwealth Bank to function as it did during the period to which I have referred. That  bank  should be used in the interests of the Commonwealth and not, as it is to-day, as an instrument to support the financial transactions of private banking institutions. I have not the figures to the end of 1933, but up to the end of 1932 the total savings effected by the ordinary trading operations of the Commonwealth Bank, the Savings Bank and the Note Issue Department amounted to £31,941,271, whilst those  effected  in respect of loans amounted to £5,000,000, making a total of £30,941,271. I understand that the figures up to the mid of last year show that a saving of £38,000,000 has been effected by that institution. That satisfactory result has been achieved, apart from the assistance rendered in financing public works such a3 I should like this Government to undertake. Moreover, the primary producers of Australia have received substantial benefit as a result of the bank's activities, particularly during the war period. On page 162 of the  History of -the Commonwealth Bank,  it is stated that the following pools were assisted to the amounts shown : - 

<graphic href="145332193410316_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

If such substantial assistance could be given chu ing a period of national emergency, why cannot similar financial help be given to-day? Why should the Commonwealth Bank  be  ham-strung, and the private banking institutions allowed to operate untrammelled to the detriment of the Australian people? I do not blame the private banks. If I were engaged in a successful business, I would naturally exert all my efforts to retain it. That is what those in control of private banks are doing. 
I do not bother ray head about other banks. I maintain that the  Commonwealth  Bank should function in the interests of the people as it did during the war period; probably as a result of competition, the private trading banks would eventually be wiped out of existence. They have been doing a very good job, but the Commonwealth Bank can more efficiently and more economically perform the work which the private banks are now doing. 
An instrument which could provide a better service should be employed. The Commonwealth Bank should still be engaged on work which it has already successfully performed. 
There are many reproductive public works which should be undertaken. During the last election campaign, I passed through a number of large Victorian towns which are not yet sewered, and when I asked why a proper system of sanitation had not been installed when men were anxiously seeking work, I was informed that the rate at  which  money could be borrowed was too high. Why should men be hanging around street corners when important reproductive works could be undertaken? Men who have been out of work for months, or in some cases years, become despondent, feel that they are useless units in the community, and lose their independence. A further paragraph of my amendment reads - 
To amend the Arbitration Act to ensure that full and favorable consideration be given to progressive reductions in the working hours and increases in living standards commensurate with increased powers of production, duc to mechanization and speeding up of industry. 
Even the mover and seconder of the motion were rightly concerned as to the present industrial situation in Australia. Some are more perturbed than others concerning the position with which we art; now faced. Men who are unemployed are confronted, not only with the problem of providing food for their wives and their children, but also with the almost impossible task of finding employment for their sons when their schooling is completed. After leaving school these youths are compelled to hang around the street corners, and the position becomes so desperate that they lose all sense of responsibility, and eventually become a charge upon the State. It is not their fault, but that of the system under which we live. If these young men were engaged on remunerative work they would be able to marry, and rear healthy, happy children. Although the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court is restricted in many ways, I believe that it is possible for it to render a service to the community. I have always contended that industrial disputes should be settled by arbitration rather than that employers and employees should endeavour to settle their differences by grasping at each other's" throats. I give credit to the Commonwealth Arbitration Court for the magnificent work it has already done, but it can render a still greater service to the Australian people. Even were prosperity to return, I doubt whether work could be found for every able-bodied man seeking it. During recent years, particularly as a result of the mechanization of industry, conditions have changed to such an extent that it is doubtful whether employment could now be found for all. Youths who have become qualified engineers invent machines which may throw their own fathers and thousands of other men out of work. What is the good of such inventions, if the country does not benefit? Modern inventions should have the effect of giving men and women greater opportunities for leisure and additional comfort. 
Another paragraph in my amendment refers to the restoration of full invalid and old-age pension rates and social services, and the repeal of certain sections imposing charges upon pensioners' property and relatives, in order to increase the purchasing power of the people and stimulate industry. The increase in the purchasing power in that respect would not be great, but it would be of some benefit. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber contend that, prior to the last general election, the supporters of the Government spoke with their tongues iu their cheeks. They made many promises, but those things which they promised to do are not mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. There is no reference in the Speech to the restoration of invalid and old-age pensions and Public Service salaries. Some honorable senators do not realize the conditions under which some people are living and the indignities to which persons have to submit in endeavouring to secure a pension. Some time ago, legislation was passed providing that relatives should contribute towards the maintenance of pensioners, but it was found that 50 clerks were required to collect about £2,000. In order to avoid being buried as paupers, many pensioners set aside a small portion of their pensions in order to pay the premiums on insurance policies sufficient to meet their funeral expenses. It is not generally known that the present Government introduced legislation to amend the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act so that, at the death of a pensioner, the amount of his insurance policy may be claimed by the Government. That was done in spite of the existence of a law which provides that, if a person dies leaving a life insurance policy of £5,000, his widow or other dependants are entitled to £1,000, and no creditor can rob them of it. The amending legislation in regard to pensions constitutes the greatest blot ever placed on the statute-book of this country. 
The last point covered by the amendment is the establishment of a national scheme for organized marketing, including the setting up of an Australian-wide wheat pool. I have already shown how, on a previous occasion, the Commonwealth Bank financed the rural industries to the amount of £437 000,000. I should like to see some backbone put into the Speech, and the people informed that what was done in the war  years  we are prepared to do again. The Government has been tinkering with the problem of primary production; it has, as it were, enticed the primary producer up a tree for safety, and then, proceeded to chop down the tree. The policy of the Government in regard  to primary industries, as expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  may be summarized as follows: - 
Foster exports, continue protection and subsidies; £4,000,000 to guarantee growers 3s. for; recovery loan for debt relief. 
The Country party, through its leader,  Dr. Earle  Page, declared its policy to be - 
Develop exports; reduce tariffs and freights; abolish landtax; rural debt relief with £12,000,000 loan. 
The policy of the Labour party in regard to primary industries, as expounded by its leader.  Mr. Scullin,  may be summarized thus - 
Three years' stabilization plan, pool controlled by growers, government guarantee of 3s. 9d. f.o.b., and home consumption price 4s.; restriction tobacco imports. 
The only policy whichpromisesanything of value to Australia  is  that of the Labour party. 
I sympathize with the Government in that it finds itself in difficulties in relation to its banking policy. Summarized, that policy, as stated by the Prime Minister, is - 
No political interference with currency, banking and savings. " Let well alone." 

 Dr. Earle Page set forth the policy of the Country party in a speech which may be epitomized as follows :  - 
Expert inquiry into exchange, banking, currency, credit reform and expansion. 

 Dr. Earle Page realizes that there is something wrong with the banking and financial system in operation in this country, and is prepared to fro so far as to have an expert inquiry into it. The policy of the Labour party would place the Commonwealth Bank where it was when it made history for Australia some years back. That policy is - 
Nationalization by expanding the Commonwealth Bank under a Governor appointed by Parliament. 
The present Government has done little to remedy the pressing problem of unemployment. Its policy, as announced by the Prime Minister, is - 
Vigorous works policy; special unemployment Minister to co-operate with States; help for workless youths. 
What has the Government done for the workless youths of this country during the past three years, and what is it likely to do in the future? Contrasted with the declaration of the Prime Minister, the policy speech of the leader of the Country party is an improvement. Summarized, it can be expressed thus - 
National insurance, with retirement of workers at60; develop rural exporting industries under Agricultural Council. " Countryside is starting point for all employment." 
The leader of the Labour party said that a Labour government would adopt a bold policy in order to provide work; the financial policy of that party showed how effect would be given to that intention. The Prime Minister speaks of unifying the railway gauges of this country - something which we all agree is desirable - but he does not tell the people that the Commonwealth is powerless in this connexion unless it has the co-operation of the States. It is true that the Commonwealth could apply pressure to the States  to make them fall into line with  any policy which it thought would he in the best interests of the people of Australia, and a Labour government would make legitimate use of that power, as was done in Great Britain during the war, when the government there commandeered the railways. It is interesting to notice how the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Country party are trying to hold each other up; they remind me of two drunken men leaning on each other for support. 
In regard to the tariff the policy of the Prime Minister and his party is - 
Continued protection to sound industries, with relief to farmer. Follow Tariff Board recommendations. 
This afternoon  Senator Grant  told us that  59  reports by the Tariff Board had been deliberately withheld from the public because the Government was afraid to announce their contents before the election. I ask honorable senators to compare the policy of the United Australia party and thatof the Country party- 
Full  tariff investigation, downward  revision  of duties;  abolish  primage on British goods; greater  Empire  preference-  with the following clear-cut statement of policy by the Leader of the Labour party :  - 
Adequate protection for Australian industries to develop manufacturing and local markets. 
The Labour party realizes that the home market is best for the Australian producer. A recent quotation for butter gave the price as 140s. acwt. in Australia and 70s. a cwt in London. Is that not conclusive evidenceofthe value of the home market to the Australian dairy-farmer? What is true of dairy produce is true also of other primary products. The Labour party claimsthatthe first duty of this country is to find employment for its idle workers so that they may have money to spend. It is idle to speak of a return of prosperity when thousands of men and women arc living on "hand-outs" and doles. It wouldbe far better if our idle men wore placed in employment, so that each weekthey could take home their earnings for theirwives to spend in procuring the necessaries of life and some comforts for themselves and their child ren. The Labour party believes that the only way to res tore prosperity is to increase the purchasing power of the people. 
I hope that the Senate will carry the amendment, thereby putting some backbone into the spineless Speech of the GovernorGeneral. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Sir George  Pearce) adjourned. 
[4.57].  -  I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Wednesday,14th November, at 3 p.m. 
As it may appear to honorable senators that a long adjournment is proposed,I explain that in the House of Representatives a motion, which the Government has accepted as one of no-confidence, has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. Judging by what has taken place in connexion with similar motions in the past, we may expect the debate to extend over next week, in which case it would obviously be unwise to ask the Senate to meet earlier. Parliament was called together soon after the elections for two reasons : first, to enable members of the House ofRepresentatives to be sworn, and secondly that the Government may give effect to its promise to deal with the prob-  lemsconnected  with the wheat industry before the forthcoming harvest. The legislation necessary to give effect to the Government's policy inthat connexion will have to bo introduced in the House of Representative, so that, even if the debate on the motion of no-confidence terminated before the end of next week, there would be no businessof major importance for the Senate to consider until the date mentioned in this motion. A number of minor measures, some of which were left over last session, could, of course, be brought before the Senate; but I do not think thatthey are of sufficient importance to justify calling the Senate together to deal with them alone. In all thecircumstances, it would not be safe to call the Senate together before the 14th November, and I therefore confidently submit the motion to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[3.3]. -  by leave  - I desire to announce to the Senate that, on the 9th November, 1934, certain additional changes were madein the composition of the Ministry, which is now constituted as follows: - 
 by leave  - After giving full consideration to the report of the Newnes Investigation Committee, which was appointed by the Governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales, both Governments decided, on the 12th July, 1934, that they would be prepared to assist financially in the development of the shale oil industry in the Newnes-Capertee area, provided that a company or persons possessing the necessary standing and technical and engineering qualifications could be induced to operate the undertaking. 
In reaching this decision, both Governments were actuated by a desire to see the industry developed along the lines recommended by the Newnes Investigation Committee, bearing in mind the importance qf the production of oil fuel from indigenous sources, and the effect which the development of the industry would have upon employment, particularly in connexion with miners. 
In the view of both Governments, however, it is essential that the development of Newnes should be undertaken by persons possessing technical, engineering, and other qualifications, which are regarded as prerequisites of success and stability. The Governments felt that another failure in the Newnes area would be a serious retrograde step, and that if they sponsored the formation of a company on haphazard and ill-considered lines for the purpose of operating the deposits, they would be failing in their duty. Another failure in the Newnes area would also have serious repercussions so far as other fields are concerned, including Baerami, in New South Wales, and Latrobe, in Tasmania. 
Following on this decision, the High Commissioner in London was asked to approach Imperial Chemical Industries Limited and  Sir John  Cadman, the  chairman  of directors of the AngloPersian Oil Company Limited, which is a partner with the Commonwealth Government in Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited. Imperial Chemical Industries Limited stated that it had no actual experience in the production of oil from shale, and would not be prepared to become associated with the proposal, although it would render any assistance possible without accepting financial commitments.  Sir John  Cadman intimated that he would visit Australia during October, and would discuss the matter with representatives of the Governments on his arrival. 
At the invitation of the Governments of the Commonwealth and New South Wales,  Sir John  Cadman visited Newnes on the 22nd and 23rd October, for the purpose of enabling him to express views as to the possibilities of developing the shale oil industry in that locality. The visit was followed by discussions which took place in Canberra on the 25th October, at which were present the Prime Minister, the Minister for Mines of New South Wales,  Sir John  Cadman, and myself. 

 Sir John Cadman said that, in his opinion, the estimates of the Newnes Investigation Committee in regard to the CostS of mining would not be realized. He thought that the figures would be exceeded. He also expressed apprehension as to whether the Pumpherston  adapted retorts, more commonly known as the Fell retorts, which are installed at Newnes, would be capable of efficiently treating the rich shale which is available in that locality. 
In connexion with both these matters,  Sir Herbert  Gepp and I advised  Sir John  Cadman that - 
Alining costs were based upon the figures supplied by the highest authorites available, and that the Newnes Investigation Committee had adopted a conservative view by taking for the purpose of its report the highest figures quoted : and 
The retorts have been operated over considerable periods and have been proved by results to be reasonably suitable. However, we both felt that, as a result of research, greater  efficiency  may be obtained, but we were convinced that the retorts are the best which have been evolved up to date; moreover, the financial results which were placed before  Sir John  Cadman were based upon yields obtained from the retorts. 

 Sir John Cadman intimated that, while he was not greatly impressed with the possibilities of developing the shale oil industry in the Newnes area, he would arrange for expert officers of his company to visit Australia at an early date to investigate the possibilities of the industry. 
Since that discussion took place, the Governmenthas received a letter from  Sir John  Cadman, in which the following passages occur: - 
AsI have previously assured you, my desire is to assist the Commonwealth Government in any way within my power, and it was with this object that I placed my technical experience at your disposal. 
The Anglo-Persian Oil Company, of which I am  chairman,  and which is a partner of the Commonwealth Government in the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, can only have the same objective as the Commonwealth Government in desiring to sec developed in Australia any petroleum resources which can render Australia internally secure in respect of oil supplies on terms and conditions which are practicable and economically sound. 
My company are in full sympathy with the policy of the Commonwealth Government, and, in order to assist them, I have arranged for two of the men at our disposal who arc most experienced in the mining, retorting, and refining of shale, to visit Australia.  Mr. Robert  Crichton, a director and the general manager of Scottish Oils (Shale) Limited, and  Mr. H.  R. J. Conacher, the manager, will leave England in time to intercept me at a convenient port on my return journey on their outward voyage to Melbourne. 
I trust that their advice, after a careful survey of the situation, will contribute a substantial and authoritative addition to the knowledge of this difficult problem, and that the Commonwealth Government will, with such assistance, be the better able to determine the future policy- it should follow in this matter. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that owing to a serious plague of rats in Northern Queensland there has been an outbreak of Weil's disease which is causing a considerable amount of sickness amongst cane-cutters, and that in order to eradicate the pest it has become necessary to use large quantities of rat poison? Is the Minister aware also that sales tax is imposed on rat poison, whereas no such tax is imposed on a similar poison used for the destruction of rabbits? Will the Minister arrange for rat poison to be placed on the exempt list at the earliest possible moment? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I shall bring the honorable senator's question under the notice of the Treasurer, who, I think, is the appropriate Minister to deal with the subject. 
I ask the Minister for Development and Scientific and IndustrialResearch, if Queensland is to be considered in the scheme of investigation by the coal oil committee? If not, has the fact been taken into account that there are large deposits of brown coal at Port Clinton, near fresh and salt water, bituminous coal of the Styx field, black lignite of Blair Athol, anthracite coal similar to Welsh coal, in the Mackenzie Valley, and semianthracite coal in the Dawson Valley, of which a government geologist once said the quantity was immeasurable, and that for oil production the central Queensland coals are regarded as amongst the best offering ? 
I am aware of all those things, and a great many others, in relation to the production of coal in the various States. After examining the report, which I have just tabled, the honorable senator will realize that the claims of all the States having deposits such as those mentioned by him will receive consideration. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs seen inthe Adelaide  News  of the 12th instant, a cablegram which reads - 
The South Australian Agent-General,  Mr. McCann,  after his return from a visit to the Continent, said that a most favorable opportunity was now offering for South Australia to sell barley to Belgium. Poland, one of Belgium's biggest suppliers, had produced only a small percentage of good malting barley this year. Belgian merchants, however, wore experiencing difficulty in making forward contracts to buy South Australian barley, because of the delay in settling the trade dispute between Belgium and Australia. 
If the Minister has seen the cable, or, indeed, if he has not seen it, is he in the position to make a statement in regard to any trade treaty which may be made between Australia and Belgium? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs is, I am sure, fully seised of the importance of the matter raised by the honorable senator. Negotiations are almost complete, and it  is hoped that a statement will be made shortly both in the Senate and in the House ofRepresentatives on the subject. For obvious reasons, I cannot carry the matter further at this stage. 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General any information to give to the Senate concerning Herr Kisch? Can he state the reason why he has not been allowed to land in Australia? 
The AttorneyGeneral has a good deal of information on the subject, some of which, I understand, will be made available to the Senate to-day by the Minister for External Affairs  (Senator Pearce). 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has the compilation of the census figures  on  unemployment been completed? 
If so, when will they be made available? 
If not, will the Minister say definitely when they will be made available? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
In view of the replies furnished to questions by  Senator Col lings  on the 4th July and 25th July last, relative to the importation of peanuts, will the Minister give the Senate the reasons for allowing peanuts to the value of £13,967 to be brought into Australia during the years 1930 to 1933 inclusive? 
The peanuts in question were imported solely for the reason that local production was insufficient to meet Australia's requirements, and the imports were necessary in order to supply the shortage. These peanuts were admitted with the concurrence of the Queensland Peanut Board. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  1, Is it a fact - 
that the Barnardo Homes Society of London is despatching a contingent of British youths to Australia; 
) that the first arrivals, both boys and. girls, are now in Sydney? 
If so, does he consider that this immigration should be allowed to continue in view of the fact that tens of thousands of young Australians are reported to be unable to secure employment of any kind? 
When the then Commonwealth Government decided in 1930 to restrict assisted migration the British Government agreed to waive certain contractual rights on the understanding that assisted migration would be continued in a limited form in so far as it related to the admission to Australia of persons involved in the re-union of families. Children also have continued to be admitted. The children referred to in (1.) have come to Australia without any assistance from the Commonwealth Government. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Has any correspondence been received from the Queensland Government concerning the depredations by certain foreign crews of sampans off the north coast of Queensland. 
Has a request been made for the Federal Government to take concerted action regarding these depredations ? 
If so, what is the intention of the Government concerning this matter? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Premier of Queensland has been informed that the Commonwealth Govern men t has approved of the principle of the provision of a patrol service and that it has decided that prices and particulars of suitable vessels bo obtained. The matter is now engaging the attention of the Commonwealth department concerned. 
[3.25]. - I congratulate Senators Collett and Grant on the speeches which they delivered in moving and seconding respectively the Address-in-Reply. I was, however, somewhat pained that  Senator Grant  did not see all the virtues of the then Government; he seemed to think that there were some spots on the ministerial sun. In my opinion, some of his remarks were a little unfair as, for instance, when he said that that Government was quick to deal with tariff matters when secondary industries were affected, but was slow to come to the relief of primary industries. In order to show that that statement was not quite just, I remind the honorable senator of the action taken by the Government in respect of butter, hops, fruit, potatoes and timber, which he will admit are the products of primary industries. Moreover, if he will study the programme of the Commonwealth Government for the last two and a half years he will see that 75 per cent. of it affected primary industries. The honorable senator seems to have forgotten that the remissions of sales tax, primage duty, and other forms of taxation affected directly a number of primary industries. Those remissions of taxation were made by the Government with the special object of assisting primary producers. I remind him also of the legislation introduced in relation to wheat and butter. In the light of these facts, the late Government can scarcely be charged with having neglected the primary industries of the Commonwealth. 
The honorable senator also asked what the Government intended to do in regard to the Navigation Act, and referred to a statement made by the Prime Minister just after the election. I have read that statement which was that, in the light of the result of the election in Tasmania, the Government would review its decision regarding the Navigation Act. That means, not necessarily that the Government will not carry out the promise made, but only that the matter will be reviewed. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The electors of Tasmania returned to the House of Representatives a number of members who, as members of the Labour party, will be bound to vote against any amendment of the Navigation Act, if the majority in Caucus so decides, irrespective of any promise they might have made to the electors. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister saw in the election results what appeared to him to be an indication that a majority of the electors in certain parts of Tasmania, particularly Hobart, did not desire any alteration of the Navigation Act. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is not so. He merely referred to what, we must admit, is an anomaly, in view of the fact that the electors of Tasmania as a whole returned to the Senate men pledged to amend the Navigation Act. 
I regret that  Senator Grant  should have criticized the Prime Minister as he did in regard to the new Ministry, and I do not propose to allow to pass unheeded bis statement that the right honorable gentleman acted at the dictation of the party organization, because I know that charge to be absolutely unfounded. There was no attempt on the part of the party organization to dictate to the Prime Minister in regard to Cabinet changes; and even had such an attempt been made, I am sure that he would not have accepted such dictation. I think that it is only fair to the Prime. Minister that I should say that. 
As might have been expected, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  saw many defects in the Government and in its policy. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That depends on the point of view from which one regards the honorable senator's speech. I am unable to congratulate him on the amendment which he submitted. In the first place, it is delightfully vague. It contains a number of high sounding phrases which, on analysis, are difficult to understand. For instance, it is urged that immediate steps should be taken - 
To extend the functions and activities of the Commonwealth Bank, increasing its power to make bank credit available and utilizing such credit to finance public works. 
The honorable senator did not enlighten us as to the nature of the suggested extension. The Commonwealth Bank is able now to make credit available to governments and private individuals and it does so ; but when the honorable senator speaks of extending its power to make credit available and utilizing such credit to finance public works, it is difficult to understand what is intended. Is it his contention that the Commonwealth Bank itself should not only find the money, but actually directly finance the particular work to be carried out ? And how is the money to be found ? Is it to be secured by way of loan ? When loan moneys are required the ordinary procedure is to invite public subscriptions, but this paragraph in the honorable senator's amendment seems to suggest that this practice is to' be departed from and that the Commonwealth Bank itself is to find the money. One might ask also on what terms the money is to be raised, and in what way are those terms to be fixed. 
How did the Bank find £470,000,000 for wheat pools, &amp;c. ? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.There the honorable senator errs as nearly all his followers did during the election campaign. The Commonwealth Bank did not find £470,000,000. I read a statement by a member of another place that the Commonwealth Bank found the money to finance Australia's part in the war. That is absolutely incorrect. The money was raised in the ordinary way, by public subscriptions, to the war loans. The Commonwealth Bank and other banks subscribed to those loans, but subscriptions were also forthcoming from thousands of people, whom no one could, by any stretch of the imagination term capitalists or money-lenders. The money was found by the people, by insurance societies, and various other institutions; yet honorable senators went up and down the country telling the electors that the whole of the money required to finance Australia's part in the war was found by the Commonwealth Bank. 
We comenow to the next paragraph of the honorable senator's amendment - 
To amend the Arbitration Act, to ensure that full and favourable consideration be given to progressive reductions in the working hours and increases in living standards commensurate with increased powers of production, due to mechanization and speeding up of industry. 

 Senator Sir. GEORGE PEARCE.On the contrary it is very vague. In every dispute that comes before the Arbitration Court the court itself has to give consideration to those factors, but they are all conditioned by the capacity of the country to pay. It is all very well to talk about increased powers of production, but that does not carry us more than half way to a solution of the problem. When wehave produced, we have still to sell, and while it is truethat mechanization has increased the power of production it is also true that, owing 'to other economic causes, produce in many cases does not realize the cost of production. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The question involves too long a story for me totell at this stage. I venture to say, however, that before this debate is over, we shall have learned dissertations on the subject from Senators Brown and Collings. I could answer the honorable senator's question., "Why not?", but it would take too long to do so. It is idle to talk about " increased powers of production," and to assume that that is the only factor to be considered when dealing with a proposal to reduce hours of labour or to increase wages. It is only halfthe problem. 
Then we come to the third paragraph of the amendment - 
To restore in full pensions and social services, and to repeal clauses imposing charges upon pensioners' property and relatives, thus increasing purchasing power and stimulating industry. 
Let us analyse the affirmation that., by increasing payments for social services, we should increase the purchasing power of the people and stimulate industry. It must be borne in mind that every pound we spend on social services has to be taken from the pockets of the people. The money does not come from some magic source - it does not come from the clouds. It comes, as we all know, from taxation ; so that every increase in the payments for social services means that more has to be taken by way of taxation out of the pockets of the people. How can it be said, then, that in that way we should increase purchasing power and stimulate industry? 
The speech of  Senator Barnes  was a repetition of the views expressed by him and his supporters during the recent election campaign, particularly with respect to the subject of credit. On this matter. I cannot do better than quote an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of yesterday. The article which i9 headed, " Finance - Purchasing Power - Fallacies of the Inflationist", contains this passage: - 
There could be no better example of the fallacy of the idea that then, is not enough money with which to transact business than that of the United States. Figures published on Saturday from the League of Nations World Economic Survey for 1933-34 showed that a phenomenal accumulation of credit resources in the hands of the federal reserve banks and the federal treasury has been accompanied by a drying-up of the demand for commercial credit. ]n other words, business has been given almost unprecedented opportunities for using bank credit, and yet fails to take them. 
This survey, as honorable senators aTe well aware, is based on official figures submitted by every country, not only by those countries which are member « of the League of Nations, but also by  nonmember  countries, including Japan, Germany, and the United States of America. Thus  this  survey is world-wide. The article continues - 
Vet the idea persists, and is constantly voiced, that some vast river of credit and currency is being dammed  Hp,  and that only its release is required to restore prosperity. The victory of supporters of the New Deal in Hit United States elections has been hailed in some quarters as the forerunner of further inflation or devaluation, apparently because President Roosevelt was given power by tho last Congress to bring about cither of these things. . . The National City Bank of New York, in the October issue of its circular,  lias  tome interesting comments on the plan to create purchasing power by inflating the currency. Thora who support the idea, it states, disregard the obvious truth that commodities  and  services are purchasing power in themselves, and that more than 90 per cent, of the trade of the country settles itself in tho busiest times without the USe of money. They also disregard the obvious disruption of trade relations between tho several sections of the productive system which fully accounts for iiic appearance of surpluses and the foll of prices, loss of purchasing power, and increase of unemployment 
Moreover, the bank continues, the injection of more money or government credit into such  a  situation on a large scale introduces a new unbalancing influence. The basic principle of the economic system is the exchange of services. The trade of the country, left to itself, practically settles itself daily through more than 400 clearing houses. Each section ships out its own products, and receives practically corresponding values from  the Test  of the country or world. If now the Government enters the construction field with great  expenditures for projects which are prompted largely by the motive to provide employment, and from which any other possible return must be delayed for many years, where is the compensating flow to the taxpayers, who must currently pay the cost, or, if that is covered by loans, must keep up the interest payments? The national economy must balance, as it normally does, in the exchanges between the different groups and sections of the industrial system; but to take capital from thebody of the people by taxation or loans for investment in works which will produce noincome in the near future must tend to aggravate rather than remedy the disorders of an unbalanced economy. It is evident that the temporary stimulus given to general business by the disbursement of capital funds would not compensate for sinking the funds per- 'manently, with no expectation of return"; and so it is a fair question in each case whether the prospect of a return justifies the taxation or borrowing which supplies the funds. The emergency investments cannot go on indefinitely without producing returns, and the direct stimulus of disbursements will cease when they cease. 
I propose to refer to the remarks made by  Senator Barnes  on the subjects of unemployment and pensions, and to that part of the amendment to the AddressinReply which deals with those matters. In regard to unemployment, I have had supplied to me officially by the department figures which show that at the peak period of 1932 unemployment in Australia stood at 30 per cent., whereas in September, 1934, it had dropped to 20.4 per cent. This decrease, when analyzed, reveals some very interesting facts. The figures show that in June; 1933, throughout Australia there were 394,453 persons in receipt of sustenance. Unquestionably, those persons were unemployed. In June, 1934, there were in the Commonwealth 131,074 people employed on relief work, and 89,755 people drawing sustenance. Adding together those two numbers, we get a total of 220,829, as compared with 394,453 in June, 1933. The figures disclose a very encouraging improvement of the unemployment position, showing, as they do, that, apart from relief workers, 173,b'24 persons who were drawing sustenance in 1933 have found employment, presumably in industry. These statistics refute the allegation that the decrease in unemployment has mainly been caused by placing men on relief work, and counting them as in employment. After allowing for those engaged on relief -work, there remains an actual reduction of 173,624 in the number of persons unemployed. 
I propose now to tell the Senate why the Government is taking action with regard to two persons who have recently sought admission to the Commonwealth. The facts are that two men - Egon Kisch and Gerald, or B. I, Griffin - have been prohibited from landing in Australia at Fremantle and Sydney respectively, under various  sub-sections  of section 3 of the Immigration Act. Section 3 provides that - 
The immigration into the Commonwealth of tho persons described in any of the following paragraphs of this section (hereinafter called "prohibited immigrants ") is prohibited, namely : - 
There follow a dozen or so classes of persons. The first,  a,  is - 
Any person who fails to pass the dictation test- a proceeding of very obvious convenience for excluding persons whose entry is not desired. 
Another,  gd, is - 
Any person who advocates the overthrow by force or violence of the established government of the Commonwealth or of any State or of any other civilized country, or of all forms of law, or who advocates the abolition of organized government or who advocates the assassination of public officials or who advocates or teaches the unlawful destruction of property, or who is a member of or affiliated with any organization which entertains and teaches any of the doctrines and practices specified in this paragraph. 
A third,  gh,  is - 
Any person declared by the Minister to be in his opinion, from information received from the Government of the United Kingdom or of any other part of the British dominions or from any foreign government, through official or diplomatic channels, undesirable as an inhabitant of, or visitor to, the Commonwealth. 
Griffin was excluded by reason of his failure to pass the dictation test. His exclusion i3 a matter of ordinary national security. He is a man who came to the Commonwealth from New Zealand, but he has spent a considerable period of time in Russia. He is known to be an extremely vigorous communist propagandist, and no further explanation of his exclusion should be needed. Nor do I think it is seriously asked for. 
Most of the interest aroused is directed, not to the New Zealander. but to Kisch, who has what is apparently the added attraction of a cosmopolitan origin, though it is doubtful what country claims him. Kisch has been excluded under paragraph  gh  of section 3. This paragraph was added to the act in 1925.  Mr. Bruce,  in a speech in the House of Representatives, set out two reasons for its addition - 
Cases where an undesirable leaves Great Britain at a time when the British Government has little information about him, but gets information to his detriment before he reaches Australia; and 
When the British Government, through its diplomatic or consular service, gets information that an undesirable is sailing for Australia from any part of the world. 
The crux of the whole matter is not merely information from the British Government, but the fact that the British Government has itself excluded Kisch from landing in Great Britain. Great Britain is, and always has been, famous for its high degree of tolerance towards persons associated with continental political movements, even when they are of a revolutionary character. There probably is in England a very much stronger tradition of tolerance than we have here in Australia, so that, when Britain excludes Kisch, it must needs be for some strong reason. What is more, the Government of the United Kingdom excluded him after he had been allowed to land, and had spoken in England. 
It is to me a curious thing that a considerable number of people immediately choose to impute wrong motives to those in authority in their own country, who obviously have sources of information not available to others. They are prepared to assume the worst against them, in favour of an unknown man from a foreign country. 
Kisch waa, until the last few days, practically unknown. True, if one went to the trouble of examining the European  Who's Who,  one would find the name of Egon Erwin Kisch, a German writer and journalist, whose address was in a Berlin suburb. But of the various people who have discussed the matter with the AttorneyGeneral, even some who were inclined to champion Kisch, every one, when pressed, had admitted that he, or she, had never heard of Kisch before. He has, as honorable senators know, received a  great  deal of publicity; but the descriptions of him have been of a vague kind - " the Jewish writer," " the 
Czechoslovakian journalist," " the German novelist. " The Attorney-General has been spoken to about Kisch by many keen students of international affairs, and many pressmen; but not one had ever before heard of him, either to his credit or discredit. Many of the champions of Kisch are persons genuinely interested in international peace and goodwill and genuine lovers of liberty and freedom of speech. 
I state quite definitely that the Government does not yield to the most ardent of them in its desire for peace in the world, without which there can be no secure peace in this country. It does not yield to the mo3t ardent of them in its love of liberty and freedom of speech. It stands for the complete freedom of opinion. But there are certain limits which must be fixed. The fact that a line has to be drawn somewhere will be admitted by members of all parties. In many cases a committee drawn from all parties would have no difficulty in saying unanimously : " This man shall not enter, " or " This man shall enter." Any one who advocates a peaceful change of government is free to say what he likes, but speech and writing calculated violently to overthrow the existing order cannot be tolerated in any community which claims to be democratic. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.We shall see. It may be urged that Kisch was in possession of a passport with the visa of a British consular officer. Even assuming this to be so, permission to land still rests only with the Commonwealth authorities, who are the sole judges of whether he should be allowed to enter Australia. For very obvious reasons the grant of a visa can bc no guarantee of entry to another country, particularly to a country thousands of miles away. 
Among their activities both Griffin and Kisch were to attend the conference at present sitting in Melbourne of what is known as the Anti-War Movement. This movement has a history which needs notice. In August of 1932 "an International Congress against war was held at Amsterdam. Previously it had been intended to hold it at Geneva, but tha 
Cantonal authorities refused to allow it. This congress was organized to a large extent by Communists. It set up a permanent international committee consisting of representatives of most countries. Instructions quickly reached Australia, and the movement was launched here at the beginning of last year, 1933, not directly by the Communist party, but sponsored by bodies in close sympathy with that party. It also attracted to it at the outset many persons, sincere believers in peace, who had no  connection or sympathy with Communism. Conferences were called in several of the State capitals for April 1933 and leaflets issued made much of the support of trade unions, professional men and returned soldiers. Several ministers of religion were connected with the movement. This is a good instance of Communist activity, an anti-religious society cloaking its works under the cover of religion. Shortly after this a delegation was announced as setting out from Europe to anti-war conferences to be held in Shanghai and Yokohama. These conferences were forbidden by the Chinese and Japanese authorities. A committee was to have been set up in Japan to direct the campaign in Australia and New Zealand. 
The next step in Australia was the . holding of an anti-war conference in Sydney in June of last year. There were about 600 present, the majority of them being Communists. In May of this year an interesting letter from Sydney -reporting on the success of the movement in Australia appeared in the organ of the World Committee against War. This publication reported, among other things, that the Australian fleet was in revolutionary mutiny. The letter from Sydney showed quite clearly that the Australian committee was trying to carry out the directions of the World Committee. It reported having most difficulty in Victoria, where, it stated, the movement was directed principally towards pacifist bodies and the middle classes, and in particular the youth of the community, at the expense of the fighting character of the movement. " In Victoria, " it said, " particular efforts are made to attract youth. " It stated that the Australian rulers, and with them the Australian Labour party, were making  use  of the Victorian centenary in order to organize a defence week. I am sure that will be news to  Senator Barnes.  Elsewhere, it stated, attention was being directed principally to the industrial workers, the Labour party and trade unions. 
Thus we come to the present Anti-War Conference in Melbourne, which Kisch and Griffin were to attend. Honorable senators will note that it is not sponsored by any reputable, constitutional body. Tho Government is genuinely anxious to assist any bona fide peace movement, but that term cannot be applied to what is a thinly veiled Communist demonstration. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It certainly can claim to have done that. The Commonwealth is represented at. assemblies of the League of Nations, and on the Disarmament Conference, and the Government is opposed to the class war which is so diligently advocated by certain persons in Australia. But I wish to trace the connexion between this movement and Communism. The leaders of Soviet Russia perceived the use to which such a movement to further their general purpose could be put. Instructions were accordingly issued by the Comintern, head of the propagandist section of -the Soviet, and the Communist party of Australia in. due course received a document entitled " The Attitude of the Proletariat towards War. " The first All Australian Congress Against War was held in Sydney at the end of September, 1933. It was the culmination of the strenuous efforts on the part of the Communist party. In this connexion it may be noted - 
The national secretary of the AntiWar Movement is a well known Communist and was previously the national secretary of the League Against Imperialism. 
The League Against Imperialism ceased the publication of its journal  World Survey,  in favour of  War,  What  For?,  the journal of the Anti-Wax Movement. 
The Anti-War Movement chose as its clay the 1st August, which has been the Communist Anti-imperialistic War day for many years. The leaflets inviting attendance at the Anti-War procession meeting in Melbourne on the 1st August, 1934, were issued by the No. 4 district Communist party of Australia, and incidentally outlined Communist policy for the federal election for the establishment of a Soviet Australia. 
New South Wales.- The office  of  tho Anti-War Movement is at the same address as several Communist organizations. 
The Government has literature indicating that the various slogans, propaganda, and lines of attack used by the Anti-War Movement are those of the Communist party and its manifesto, " Tho Attitude of the Proletariat towards War, " and are included, word for word, in the literature now being distributed throughout Australia. The movement condemns everything in the way of defence measures, issues vile slanders about mutinous conduct and disloyalty of our naval forces, attacks the boy scouts and girl guide movements, and, in fact, uses every means to undermine any measures taken for our legitimate defence. Its aim is to assist in paving the way for revolution by white-anting all defence measures. The ultimate object is to ensure that our defence forces shall be so weak and unreliable as to be unable to preserve peace, order and good government when the attempt is made to overthrow our existing form of government and substitute a Soviet system. 
It is passing strange that the supporters of Kisch and the defenders of this movement belong to a party which clearly realizes that this Anti-War Movement is a Communist auxiliary. Its success has caused dissension in the New South Wales Labour party and the Sydney Trades and Labour Council, Well aware of its origin and real objects, has prohibited its followers from taking part in the Anti-War Movement. 
It might be noted that Australia is not the only country which prevents foreigners connected with this movement from landing in their country. Prohibitions have been made in several countries and I would remind honorable sena tors that delegates were prevented from landing recently at Shanghai and Yokohama to attend the Anti-War Conference proposed to be held there. 
The information at the disposal of the Government, which comes from an undoubted source, discloses that Kisch is a member of a recognized Communist organ, and he is, and has been for a long time, associated with its propaganda branch. 
Despite the criticism which ons hears from time to time that a debate on an Address-in-Reply involves a waste of time, I contend that it has its uses. It is easy to criticize many customs, as honorable senators on this side of the chamber have done from time to time, and our criticisms have often been justified. There is little in the world that does not possess some satisfactory features, and the debate on the AddressinReply provides honorable senators with an 'opportunity to give their views on various public matters. I should be sorry wore we deprived of this opportunity, because there are occasions, particularly when the administration is conducted on conservative lines, when we should have full scope to express our individual opinions, even if at times they may conflict with those with whom we sit cheek by jowl. Coming back from a general election honorable senators on this side could have a good deal to  say  concerning the manner. in which the campaign was conducted, but I shall defer any comments in that respect until later. The AddressinReply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General should be treated seriously. Having heard a number of similar speeches I must say that that with which the present Parliament was opened was one of the shortest and also one of the most ridiculous I have ever heard. The fact that the personnel of the Government has been changed within a few weeks after the speech was delivered makes its basis ridiculous, and no doubt those responsible for its preparation now regret that His Excellency was asked to deliver such utterances, lt is amusing to notice that the Country party, which was once a strong opponent of the United Australia party, has now fairly strong representation in a Coalition Cabinet. One of the first paragraphs in the speech reads - 
My Ministers will adhere to the national policy of protection and will, in tar itf matters, follow the course which proved so successful during the life of the last Parliament. 
Within a few weeks of that striking pronouncement, the right honorable member for Cowper  (Dr. Earle Page)  and the honorable member for Gippsland  (Mr. Paterson),  who, throughout the life of the last Parliament, we're opposed to the Government on fiscal matters, have become members of the Cabinet. It has been stated from time to time that certain honorable senators on this side, including  Senator Dunn  and  Senator Rae,  actually saved the last Government from defeat by supporting its tariff proposals. It is said that governments can be made and unmade only in the House of Representatives; but, when the tariff was under discussion in this chamber, the Government had to submit to so many defeats that it became a question whether or not the Government would have to put up test bills to determine whether the majority of the Senate intended to support its tariff policy, or whether that majority proposed to proceed with a policy of obstruction, in which event there would have , been every possibility of a double dissolution. An adverse vote in the Senate could, in effect, bring about the defeat of a government, and, during the period of which I- speak, the votes of seven or eight honorable senators on this side of the chamber actually saved the Government from defeat. When the tariff was before this chamber, I supported the Government on so many occasions that I felt that my reputation as a Labour man was at stake. 
The tariff would not have been passed by this chamber in the form desired by the Government, but for the support it received from this side. We were invited by certain members of the Country party in this chamber to join with them in defeating the Government. 
 I do not know by whom, but you will always get denials. It was the truth all the same. 
 On that occasion we assisted the Government to do what was right. I should like to have seen even higher duties imposed. 
There was more than that. 
 It is .better to have straight-out freetraders than halfhearted protectionists, who, when an appeal is made to the people, can ride on two horses. There was so much opposition to the Government's tariff proposals by certain government supporters that it amounted to obstruction. Prior to the general elections, the candidates of the Country party visited country electorates as representatives of the primary producers, and by so doing secured a substantial country vote; but, by winking the other eye, they also secured the votes of the United Australia party supporters. That is why the Labour party has been unable to win certain country seats. After the election campaign, during which the members of the Country party strongly criticized the United Australia party, the members of both parties are all in the one camp. 
 It shows how hard the Government supporters have  worked for political peace; but internationally the  shades  of war are lengthening, and all the talk is of armaments. Moreover,  ia  man who came to this country to preach peace was not allowed to land. The Government has not only treated Herr Kisch in this way, but has also meted out similar treatment to British subjects. Under a bill presented to this Parliament some years ago, the government of the day sought power to deport persons not born in this country. Under that legislation, I might have been deported from this country because I am not a native of Australia. Not having studied the European  Who's Who,  I do not know much about Herr Kisch, but I am concerned at his exclusion because of the possible consequences. 
No. We must not forget that there is, or should be, such  a  thing as the liberty of tho individual. To-day, the liberty of Herr Kisch is involved; to-morrow it might be the liberty of  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  Indeed, if the disciples of Lenin or Trotsky were to attain power in the Commonwealth to-morrow,  Senator DuncanHughes  would probably be one of the first persons in the community to receive attention at their hands. In that event,  Senator Collings  and myself, knowing that the honorable senator would not deserve tho harsh treatment which might be meted out to him, would feel called upon to defend him. There being no likelihood of war in the near future, there is no need to keep out men like Herr Kisch. It would be far safer to let him, and others like him, into this country than to drive them under-ground by illconsidered action. Every week on the Yarra bank, Melbourne, or in the Sydney domain, wild theories in regard to many subjects are propounded by people who generally arc regarded merely as foolish, and it is well known that Hyde Park, London, provides persons having all kinds of strange ideas with an outlet for their emotions. The freedom of speech allowed to those who teach strange doctrines has the effect of drawing tho rest of the community closer together. 
The fusion of the United Australia and Country parties has made the GovernorGeneral's Speech utterly ridiculous. 
Dealing with unemployment, the GovernorGeneral said that a complete survey of the problem was proposed. Nearly six years ago, a Labour Government was prepared to grapple with the problem in a way which would have solved it, but, unfortunately, it did not have a majority in both Houses of the Parliament, and, consequently, was unable to give effect to its policy. The Labour party's policy for the re-adjustment of the financial structure would, if put into operation, solve this and many other problems now confronting us. It may be news to some honorable senators that some time ago the Forbes-Coates Coalition Government of New Zealand appointed a committee to consider monetary and banking reform. The majority of the members of that committee were men with conservative views, but its report reads like a speech by a Labour leader. It supports all that I said during the election campaign - and I said some strong things. I am reported in the Brisbane  Courier  as having said that Australia would not be injured if all the private banking institutions were eliminated. I did not advocate stealing their funds, or confiscating the savings of the people, as my remarks might be construed to mean. I am reminded of what took place in New Zealand in 1896 when the government of the day, headed by the late Richard Seddon, came to the rescue of the Bank of New Zealand, proving what we on this side have contended all along - that, in the final analysis, the security behind any bank is the productive capacity of the people  and a common honesty and desire to pay. The Government of New Zealand appointed to the directorate of the Bank of New Zealand a number of men who, it expected, would follow a course of action dictated by the Government, but, instead, they decided that the first function of the bank was to make profits for its shareholders. In view of the claim of the Labour party that the first duty of a bank is to serve the people and help industry, it is interesting to note that the committee to which I have referred reported that the private banks of New Zealand should be utilized for the benefit of the people, whereas they existed only to make profits for their shareholders. It pointed out  also that as many of those shareholders resided in Australia the profits made by the bank were not retained in the dominion. What that New Zealand committee said regarding the Australian banks operating in that dominion, the Labour party says of a number of banks in Australia, the profits of which are paid to shareholders in England and elsewhere. The committee urged that the control of the banking institutions operating in the sister dominion should be in the hands of New Zealanders, and we of that Labour party claim that the control of banking in Australia should be centred in thi a country, and not in London or New York. Instead of prohibiting the entry into this country of men like Herr Kisch, action should have been taken to keep out men like  Sir Otto  Niemeyer. As I have said, the conclusions of the committee appointed to investigate the monetary and banking systems of New Zealand could not have been more condemnatory of the present system had they been written by Labour men. 
A responsible, cautious Labour leader like  Senator Barnes  would certainly not go any farther than the New Zealand Monetary Committee of conservative members of Parliament did. I would advise every honorable senator who desires to obtain an accurate view of national finance to read this report. 
The Labour party was beaten in the federal campaign because of its bold, uncompromising monetary policy- 
 It can be said to the credit of the Labour party that it has suffered defeat more than once because of the boldness of the policy which it has submitted, although that policy ultimately has been adopted. During the last election campaign in Queensland, I spent two or three weeks in supporting a Labour candidate who  was a  graduate  of  the Melbourne  University - a  barrister about 45 years of  age,  who had served as a journalist and also as  a  minister of the Methodist Church. Because of his experience and academic distinctions, I naturally expected to hear from him a very excellent  speech when he  addressed the electors  in one of the principal towns of a  semi-rural constituency. I anticipated that he would give a great deal of attention to the desperate plight of (he farmers, and that any reference that he might make to the need for banking reform would be kept in the background by the conservative newspapers, as is the case with paragraph* about Labour matters. As a rule, a Labour candidate's speech . is dismissed in a paragraph by other than the Labour journals. The candidate whom I supported spoke for an hour on what he picturesquely described as " The international Jew and the need for banking reform in Aus. tralia ". In the speech with which I followed I thought it wise to emphasize the sins and omissions of our opponents by referring to the neglect of tropical industries by the Lyons Government and its lamentable tinkering with the oldage pensions system, particularly in regard to the property provisions of the amended act. I pointed out also that, whilst the Lyons Government had remitted millions by way of land taxation to the rich class, it had failed to make any adequate provision to cope with unemployment. I spoke for half an hour on these and other matters to which the candidate had not referred. Next morning the local daily, to whom the candidate had supplied a typewritten copy of his speech, devoted two and a half columns to his address, and about three-quarters of a column to my remarks, although I had not supplied it with a copy of them. But the report of the candidate's speech covered only that part of it in which he dealt with banking and monetary reform. All other subjects were ignored. On the same page appeared a cartoon showing " Jimmy " Scullin and " Jack " Lang standing on a huge building bearing the words, " Savings Bank," and stretching clutching hands over it. At the side stood  Mr. Lyons,  who could not be better caricatured than as a koala or native bear. Instead of caricaturing him, however, the artist showed the Prime Minister as a commanding figure, standing four-square to the bank, with a warning finger pointing to these gentlemen and saying of them, "It is your money they will take ". That was only one of many attempts to make the people  believe that the Labour party are thieves. I do not know  Mr. Kisch,  but I should say that he would be a more estimable citizen than the man who drew and the mon who authorized that cartoon. The Labour party does not stand for confiscation. It3 policy, extending now over a period of 40 years, has always been one of sound progress along just and fair lines. 
It was by means of propaganda of this kind, however, that the Labour party was defeated. Our boldness in attempting to get into the heads of the people the fact that, as exemplified by tho depression, the time had come when we should curb the efforts of the money profiteers - the people who use the banks only to secure fat dividends for themselves - was responsible for our defeat. 
The report of the conservative mcmbers of the New Zealand banking commission - I do not ask honorable senators to look at the minority report by Labour members- - urges that the banks should serve the people rather than be used merely to produce dividends for a few shareholders. That, too, is the view of the Labour party, and when next we fight this issue I hope we shall resort to the very best propaganda to convince the people that the time has come for the nationalization or socialization of banking, or Some such "  ization  " as will take out of the hands of the moneyed few the power to exploit banking and to extend credit for their own particular interests. The calling in of overdrafts, among other things; prevents the expansion of industry.  Senator Pearce  told us this afternoon that there is plenty of money available - that the banks are ready to advance as much money as is required. But on what terms? The banking institutions control the industrial situation. International finance rules the world. The conservative members of the New Zealand Monetary Committee  support our view in that regard. They consider that the Dominion should be free from the control of the Niemeyers,  Guggenheimers  and other financiers in London and New York who control the dominions. We have the power to control our own financial economy, and the people should have the courage to use it. 
T wish now to speak to some of the remarks made by Senators Collett and 
Grant with regard to the basis of representation in the Senate. I agree with  Senator Grant  that the Electoral Act should bo amended insofar as it applies to the Senate. As a matter of fact, I pointed out before the election that such a reform was necessary. It is ridiculous to find that there is a growing opinion that the party that is able to put up a list of candidates headed by a man whose surname starts with " A " should be considered able to control an election. So advantageous is it held by a number of people under the group system to have some one with .a surname commencing with " A " to head the list on the ballotpaper that it would not be surprising to find such a man offering himself for sale. If he. were an Abbott or an Adams- 
Or an Aaron. 
Does the honorable senator think the advantage of having a candidate whose name commences with " A " is as great as some people would have us believe? 
As an alternative' to the present method, the position of the names of the party groups on the ballot-paper should be decided by lot after the names of the candidates have appeared.  Senator Brennan,  a lawyer, will agree that the casting of lots for such a purpose would not be illegal. That would be a. fairer way of allocating positions on the ballot-paper, and I would support any amendment to effect such an alteration, together with some others which I have suggested in previous speeches on the subject. The present basis of representation in this chamber is certainly unfair. At the next election, the Government parties will have the advantage of going to the polls with 33 senators to the Labour party's three That is unfair, and the only way in which we could make the system fair would be to confine the candidates to the two largest parties. There is much to be said in favour of a system of proportional representation, but does any one want this Parliament to be cursed with seven or eight different parties? "With triennial elections, the people should be quite satisfied to choose between two parties; the average man does not want to be bothered with the intricacies of having to vote for more than two. It is not exaggerating the position to say that at the present time there is a great distaste on the part of the public for the parliamentary system. This revulsion of feeling has been accentuated by the many jibes and criticisms aimed at politicians by the so-called popular newspapers. An occasional deportation of journalistic  iconoclasts would do no harm to the parliamentary system, and probably would be more advantageous than the preventing of men like Kisch and Griffin from landing in Australia. An improvement of the existing electoral system would be to allow in each State one senator out of three to represent the minority at the polls. 
At present there is a third large party in the field - the Country party - which claims to receive a big vote, but the large number of votes recorded for  Senator Elliott  in Victoria was the result of a split in the parties, and was cast against the three Labour condidates,  rather than for the political organization he was supposed to represent. The only fair way of approaching this problem would be to confine the candidates to the six representatives of the two main parties. One probable result of this would be to insure the election of a healthy opposition. A government cannot render the greatest service to the community, nor can it be wisely entrusted with the job of governing, without the aid of an active opposition. Democracy demands such an opposition, and this is the only way I can see whereby we can ensure such a check. There is a danger that if we start tinkering with the present system we shall have foisted upon us a wretched abortion of an Upper House, like the Legislative Council in New South Wales. The Lang Government must be held partly responsible for the bringing into being of a second chamber, whose constitution is a murder of democracy. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator not to speak disrespectfully of a State Parliament. 
I desire now to deal with  Senator Grant's  remarks concerning the proposed amendment of the Navigation Act.  Senator Grant  said that the Prime Minister in his policy speech definitely promised an amendment of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act, and he quoted from the Melbourne  Argus  which reported  Mr. Lyons  as having said that the Labour vote in Tasmania at the federal elections could be construed as popular antagonism to an amendment of the Navigation Act which would permit overseas ships to carry passengers between Tasmania and the mainland. The  Argus  suggested that the Government should take action without delay to amend the act in accordance with its promise.  Senator Grant  relied on that quotation, as though the Melbourne  Argus  were a great aid to him. I cannot understand a conservative member, like the honorable senator when called upon to protect the country's interests, quoting the opinion of a journal that stands for free trade and black labour. As I understand it, the proposed amendment is intended to allow ships manned with cheap, coloured labour to engage in the Australian coastal trade. The Navigation Act requires that ships engaging in this trade shall pay Australian rates of wages and conform to prescribed conditions of employment. One of the essential conditions is the employment of white labour. If that requirement is broken down what will become of the White Australia ideal? The rich overseas owners of ships trading to Australia choose to employ coloured labour, aud to pay rates of wages which are much below those paid to Australian seamen. If such ships using cheap coloured labour of an inferior type are allowed to participate in our coastal trade, what will be the fate of our coastal marine? Honorable senators have received much correspondence on this subject. I have received a copy of the speech made by an English shipping magnate,  Mr. Shaw,  who has fairly argued that Australia should watch very carefully any attempt  that might be made by the Matson line of steamers, which is subsidized by the Government of the United States of America, to cut into our coastal trade, this company is not competing fairly but is seeking to obtain business from Australian companies which are being carried on under Australian conditions. I think that  Mr. Shaw  made out a very fair case, and I agree with much of what he said, but I should not like to see the shipping trade between Australia and New Zealand and between Australia aud the islands under its control fall into the hands of a monopoly. This is the basis of the Labour party's opposition to shipping combines. It is well known that although the various shipping companies throughout the world are apparently in active competition with one another, there is agreement as to freights and fares. Although a traveller from Australia to Great Britain might have the choice of vessels belonging to three or four different companies, the fares charged on all of them are approximately the same. Therefore, so far as the subsidized Matson line is concerned, while I sympathize with those who object to its unfair competition with the Australian shipping interests, I should be sorry to think that, as a result of representations that have been made to the Government, the travelling public were exploited and victimized by a shipping monopoly. 
In conclusion I express the hope that when next we face the electors there will not be the same misrepresentation by our opponents of the Labour party's financial and monetary proposals. There is not the slightest doubt that Labour owed its de- feat nt the recent election to this gross misrepresentation. The party was deliberately maligned and the electors were deceived about its objective by those people who now desire to prevent Kisch from gaining entry to Australia because they fear, perhaps, what he might say offensively about the Women's National or Electoral League. There was a time when I had some respect for the Eight Honorable W. M. Hughes. Some years ago he was a good Labour man.  His  more recent achievements have somewhat revived my wavering belief in the idea of a resurrection. In the short time occupied by Captain Scott and his companion in the flight to Australia in the centenary air race, the Lyons Ministry was reconstructed and the right honorable gentleman succeded in staying in it, as did also  Sir Henry  Gullett, who it will be remembered, some years ago described  Dr. Earle  Page, now his colleague in the new Government, as the most tragic Treasurer in the history of the Commonwealth. 
Something has been said this afternoon about the unwisdom and danger of belittling our parliamentary institutions. I can think of nothing more regrettable or more likely to weaken the people's faith in our system of Parliamentary Government than the small attendance of senators at this moment. It is obvious that Government supporters are not interested in the business of the country, or else their minds have become so obfuscated that they have no desire to be enlightened by anything that might be said in opposition to their crusted conservative ideas. For the last hour there has not been a quorum present.  [Quorum formed.]  The Leader of the Senate this afternoon, defending the Government's action in refusing to allow Kisch to land in Australia, read a long document in which were set out the reasons for his exclusion ; but the right honorable gentleman did not quote his authority for the statements contained in it. Consequently I am not sure whether the official statement was the result of inquiries made by him or by the Attorney-General. I also resent his attempt to associate the Australian 
Labour party with the Communist party. It was quite unworthy of.the right honorable gentleman. 
I accept for the present the right honorable gentleman's correction and denial of the charge, but I hope to have an opportunity to peruse the statement which he read. 
-The honorable senator must withdraw without qualification, the statement to which objection has been taken. 
We on this side of the chamber take, second place to none in a desire for liberty and freedom, but we have no intention of interpreting liberty and freedom to mean licence. We have some conception of what the freedom of the subject, and of the press should mean to every decent Australian. The Leader of the Government did not attempt to link up this man Kisch with any one of the activities of the organizations to which ho referred, and with which, as bo knows, members of my party have no sympathy. He gave no semblance of a reason why Kisch has been prevented from landing in this country. Kisch should have been allowed to say whatever he desired to say and then, if necessary, the Government could have dealt with him under the existing law, which surely provides it with ample power. 
I regret that I cannot congratulate the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply upon the manner in which they performed their tasks. I am sure that they were perfectly honest and sincere in all they said, but I am unable to compliment them on their logic or their ability to dissect the document which is compiled in language that can readily be understood.  Senator Collett  commenced by saying that he was sure that we all are pleased with the improved conditions existing in Australia as compared with those which prevailed until a government similar to that now in office assumed control. I felt at the moment that it would have been most pertinent to have inquired from  Senator Collett  - " Who are enjoying the improved conditions? ". Certainly the 800 unemployed in Canberra, and the tens of thousands of unemployed in the other capital cities are not. This afternoon the Leader of the Government quoted certain figures and we were told that the percentage of unemployed has decreased from 30 to 20.4. No one knows better than the honorable gentleman that those figures do not fairly represent the percentage of unemployment in Australia. We all know they are based on the returns supplied by registered industrial organizations in Australia, and that they do not adequately portray the degree of unemployment in this country at the time when they were compiled. The Minister knows that they do not take into account those only partially employed or the thousands of youths between the ages of 19 and 21 years who have never had a day's work since they left school and whose prospects of obtaining employment under existing conditions are extremely remote. Consequently when the Minister attempts to persuade the unfortunate people still submerged in this economic pit of unemployment that their position has improved by 10 per cent., it is an insult not only to the intelligence of those whom he was addressing, but also to those who have not enjoyed any of the alleged improved conditions to which he referred, and who, in consequence of the inactivity of this Government, will be grey-headed before they receive any benefit. 
The Governor-General's Speech is a most indefinite document. I admit that it is a clever production, because it does not pin the Government down to any particular policy. We were told for instance that " with this object in view employment and its associated questions ha ve been allotted as a special ministerial task to the Minister for Commerce ". Although the Speech was prepared only a short time ago that is not now a fact, as those duties have been delegated to a gentleman who is no longer a member of the Cabinet, but who has graciously undertaken the work in question without any ministerial allowance. We have to debate an Address-in-Reply to a Speech which, owing to political changes, is now inaccurate. We have also been informed that the Government proposes to make a complete survey of the unemployment problem in order to determine whether its root causes can be dealt with by direct Commonwealth action. If the Government responsible for the production of this document has still to go searching for the root causes of unemployment the position is pitiable, to say the least of it. The man in the street, who has not the same opportunities as members of this Parliament, can disclose the root causes of  unemployment.  He could explain what we on this side of the chamber have tried to submit as a remedy. For instance,  Senator Pearce  said that if the pensioners were given more money to spend the purchasing power of the community would be reduced. I suppose that I would be called to order if I said that the right honorable gentleman knew better than that when he uttered those words, but, I know, and I am sure the right honorable gentleman also knows, that his statement was most illogical. Let us examine his simple statement. A certain amount of money is being expended to provide invalid and old-age pensions. Our suggestion is that that amount shall be increased by 2s. 6d. a week, that some of the irksome regular  tions made by this Government should be withdrawn so that a larger number of persons could become eligible for pensions, and that a number, who because of the conditions which prevail are refusing to claim a. pension should participate in this aid. If these objectionable conditions were removed the extra payments made to pensioners would increase, not decrease, the purchasing power of the community. It is an excuse or a subterfuge to say that the additional amount of revenue required to restore pensions to the original rate can be obtained only by increased taxation, and that if money is taken from the pockets of the people by means of taxation the amount available for spending must be decreased. That statement is not only illogical,  but  is also obviously untrue, because if 2s. 6d. is taken by means of taxation from those who have a surplus and given to pensioners the purchasing power of the people would not be decreased. Money collected by means of increased taxation would not be taken from those who spend all that they have, but when collected would be paid to those who because of dire necessity must spend every fraction they receive. In that way the purchasing power of the community would be increased. It has been contended that honorable senators on this side have said that this Government has no sympathy with the pensioners. I have never  said  anything of the sort. "We have said that this Government is bubbling over with sympathy for those who are powerless to help themselves, but it never goes beyond professions of sympathy. It is time that this sympathy developed into something concrete, and the Government made some attempt to assist to provide food, clothing and shelter for those so sadly circumstanced. 
My Government wishes to express to all primary producers the indebtedness of the nation for the manner in which they have, despite low price levels, continued to maintain, and in many industries, substantially increase the measure of their production and export. 
The Government knows that the primary producers of Australia have not grown wheat, w.ool or sugar from a sense of patriotism, but because the growing of these things is their means of livelihood. Having put their hands to the plough, they cannot afford to turn back. The Governor-General's Speech does not contain one crumb of comfort for the unemployed or those worse than unemployed who to-day are engaged in various forms of primary production with price levels falling, seasonal failures and other difficulties always facing them. 
Were it not tragic, the paragraphs in the Speech relating to secondary industries and trade treaties would be amusing. The document before us is the best evidence imaginable that the Government is deplorably ill-informed - I would say, ignorant were it not for the Standing Orders - regarding the relative value of primary and secondary industries. The Prime Minister and his colleagues of the United Australia party have just taken into partnership members of a party which during recent years has constantly twitted the Government with having been saved time after time by the Labour party when its tariff policy has been under review. The Governor-General's Speech is again unreliable - and here again parliamentary procedure prevents the use of a stronger term - when it states - 
My Ministers will adhere to the national policy of protection and will, in tariff matters, follow the course which proved so successful during the life of the last Parliament. 
The man in the street knows that that is not so, but that, instead, a hybrid policy, of no value whatever to the man on the land, or to the employees in secondary industries, will be followed by the present composite Government. I suggest that the Government ask its statisticians to take out figures showing the relative importance to the Australian nation of primary and secondary production, and that those figures should recognize that, although the production of milk and cream on the farm is primary production, the manufacture of that milk and cream into butter is a manufacturing process, as is also the conversion of tobacco leaf into cigars and cigarettes. I do not suggest that there should be discrimination between primary and secondary industries, although I submit that there is discrimination now in favour of primary production. We on thi3 side contend that the interests of the producers in the country cannot be separated from those of the dwellers in our cities; economically, the people of Australia are one and indissoluble, and anything which affects one section adversely must have a similar effect on other sections. In its proposals for the benefit of the primary producers, -I hope that the Government will have in mind the men who are struggling to produce in face of great difficulties, not those belonging to the creditor class, who impose on the real producers a heavy burden because of high interest rates.  Senator Guthrie  knows of the unfair burden which high interest rates place on the wool-growing industry of the Commonwealth. 
I agree with the honorable senator. 
This .afternoon the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  ridiculed the proposal to* issue bank credits, which the Labour party had put forward during the election campaign. He said that the suggestion was vague and indefinite, and claimed that the banks not only had the power to issue credit, but were, in fact, issuing credit where it was needed. The right honorable gentleman showed that he utterly failed to understand the Labour party's sane policy of nationalization of banking and credit. He went on to say that real money, not credit, was provided to finance the war. There never was, there is not to-day, nor  la  there ever likely to be so much real money in Australia as the amount of credit made available by the Commonwealth Bank alone for the prosecution of the war. In this connexion, I refer honorable senators to an article by H. C. Brierley, F.I.C.A., F.F.I.A., dealing with a statement by  Mr. Stevens,  tho Premier of New South Wales, published in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  that the rate for the new loan of £15,000,000, although not finally fixed, " would not exceed 3 per cent, at £99, equal to £3 ls. lOd. per cent, including redemption over fourteen years." I now ask  Senator Pearce  the question asked by  Mr. Brierley,  "Where is this £15,000,000 to come from?" This afternoon the right honorable gentleman said that loans represented money provided by people in Australia. Nothing could be further from the fact. No £15,000,000 will be found. There will merely be a further credit structure erected to that extent.  Mr. Brierley  says - 
Having examined the balance-sheets of the Bank of England, the Commonwealth Bank nf Australia, the Australian trading banks, the insurance companies, many of the trading companies and firms in Australia and .abroad, I am prepared to show definitely that such a feat as raising a genuine £15,000,000 loan in Australia is impossible. 
I agree with the view expressed by this accountant, and am prepared to show honorable members opposite, and particularly the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  that it is impossible to raise a loan of £15,000,000 in Australia. All that can be done is to erect another credit structure.  Mr. Brierley  continues - 
Yet we shall be told in bold newspaper headlines that the loan has been oversubscribed! 
Lord  Cunliffe's  post-war " Committee on Currency and Foreign Exchanges," consisted of Lord Cunliffe, G.B.E. (Governor of the Bank of England),  Sir Charles  Addis (Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation), the  Hon.  Rupert Beckett (Beckett and Company),  Sir John  Bradbury, K..C.B. (Secretary of the Treasury), G. C. Cassels (Bank of Montreal), Gaspard Farrer (Baring and Company), the  Hon.  Herbert Gibbs (Antony Gibbs and Sons),  Mr. H.  NT. Gaschen  (Chairman of the Clearing Bankers Committee), Lord Inchcape of  Strathnavar,  G.C.M.G., K.C.S.I., K.C.I.E, R. W. Jeans (Bank of Australasia), A. C. Pigou, M.A. (Professor of Political Economy, Cambridge University), G. F. Stewart, R.L.. F.S.I. (ex-Governor of the Bank of Ireland), William Wallace (Royal Bank of Scotland), with G. C.  Upcott,  of the Treasury and Ministry of Reconstruction as Secretary. 
It will thus be seen that these axe not the meanderings of a Labour man or even of a Kisch - 
In order that there shall be no question at to the possibility of any misunderstanding of the effect of their statements, I have given the complete list of the committee. 
This committee was appointed in January, 1918, and issued its first interim report on the 15th August, 1918. In that report it was definitely stated that the only way in which the war could bo, and was, financed, was by a series of " boo*k entries ". 
It is to be regretted that  Senator Pearce  is not present to hear what the Labour party really stands for in connexion with this question of finance and credit.  Mr. Brierley  goes on to say - 
And I challenge  Mr. Stevens,  both as Premier and an accountant, to deny my statement that it will be only by " book entries " that  Mr. Lyons's  £15,000,000 will be subscribed. 
And in view of the fact that the Commonwealth Bank can make these "book entries" with no cost to the community, I ask why should the community be taxed for the benefit of what  Mr. J.  F. Darling, G.B.E. (a director of tho Midland Bank, England) calls "th« moneyed interests ". 
There is no " money " to be subscribed to the £15,000,000 loan. Why should the Shylock, be paid even £3 ls. lOd. per cent, per annum for book entries which can be made by th« Commonwealth Bank without cost? 
We are asked by honorable senators opposite what we mean by " the issue of credit ". They know perfectly well what we have in mind. We mean the mere  book entry which is always made by the banking institutions of this and every other country when a business man asks for an overdraft. Most honorable senators, like myself, probably have had some experience of banking business. There is no gamut to the fraud known as banking procedure of which I have not been an unfortunate victim during my commercial experience of 26 years - 22 years as an employee, and 4 years as an employer. No one can tell me more than I already know as to what the banks are capable of doing, because I have had experience of it all. Every one knows that when a man goes to a banking institution to arrange an overdraft he does not get a solitary coin from it. He gets nothing but an entry in a bank ledger. That is all that is ever done. A man arranges for an overdraft of, say, £10,000, but he gets nothing more than an entry of those figures in the bank ledger. 

 Senator Pearce, in his superior manner, charged us with indefiniteness - charged my leader with having been altogether too vague in the wording of his amendment, and went on to say in his super cilious style that he should like to know what we meant by " the issue of credit ". It is either a tribute to his ignorance or to our incapacity to make ourselves understood that he should ask such  a  question. We know what we mean. There is no difficulty whatever in that regard. Without any desireto be unkind in my criticism of those who do not agree with the views of the Labour party on these various matters, let me say that we can never regard public opinion as a criterion of the wisdom or otherwise of any particular policy. I am very much afraid, having regardto statements made by  Senator Collett,  to some of those made by  Senator Grant,  and to most of those made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, that honorable senators opposite base the theories which they so glibly express in this chamber on what they read in the public press. I saw the other day a statement to the effect that a newspaper editor was one who was guilty of the tragedy of besmirching with black lies nice white paper made from clean white rags. 
The public buys its opinions as it buys its meat or takes in its milk, on the principle that it is cheaper to do this than it is to keep a cow. So it is, but the milk is more likely to be wa tered. 
That, perhaps, is why honorable senators opposite so often give expression to wellwatered political sentiments. 
In almost every one, if not in every one, of the greatest political controversies of the last 50 years, whether they affected the franchise, whether they affected commerce, whether they affected religion, whether they affected the bad and abominable institution of slavery, or what subject they touched, the leisured classes, these educated classes, these titled classes, have been in the wrong. 
I submit that to the Government as a fair measure of the leisured and titled classes who promote its policy. 
The Leader of the Government declared this afternoon that we were merely trifling with, the subject when we proposed in our amendment that it would be a wise Australian policy to progressively reduce hour3 of labour and progressively increase wages commensurate with the increased productivity of the  nation.  Such a declaration he said waa vague and indefinite. He went on to assert that these considerations were taken into account by the Arbitration Court whenever the claims of the workers in any industry were before it. I would remind him. that there has just come before the Commonwealth Arbitration Court a case which has taken seven years to reach it. Yet we are told that there is no occasion for the amendment moved by the Labour party  since  these matters of increasing wages and decreasing hours commensurate with increased productivity and national wealth can always be adjusted by the Arbitration Court. That statement was made in cold blood this afternoon by  Senator Pearce,  although he represents in this chamber a Government which only a few short years ago went to the electors with a proposal to remove the Arbitration power altogether from the Commonwealth Parliament. The sooner the Government, in the interests of the Australian" people and with proper regard to the progress of this great Commonwealth, realizes that the policy of shorter hours and higher wages is an economic necessity which must be attended to if national disaster is to be avoided, the better. The sooner the Government realizes that, instead of having a minister for labour, it would be  good policy to establish a ministry for leisure, the better for all concerned. Thirty or 40 years ago, it was true that the only way to national salvation was to earn one's living by the sweat of one's brow, although a number of wealthy people earned their living by exploiting the sweat of the other fellow's brow. But the Government must be brought to a realization of the fact that the greater the volume of work carried out, the greater the wealth produced in this country, the greater must be the number of unemployed, unless we perfect our distributing machinery to the same extent as we have improved our productive machinery. We have to realize as a writer has said, that - 
Wo, the people of the present, are standing between two epochs, the grave of one world, and the cradle of another. What we have to do is  to  keep our eyes  on the  future while we break the last links that bind us to the present,  a7id  steadily advance. 
In the words of  Sir Harold  Bowden, speaking at the annual banquet of the British Olympic Association, held at the Dorchester Hotel, London - 
With more than 2,000,000 unemployed in the country- 
Great Britain - and with the reduction of working' hours- 
I regret that  Senator Pearce  is not present - which must be the inevitable outcome of th« progress of machinery, the proper use of leisure is becoming one of our major national problems. Unemployment was not merely a problem of money; it was also a problem of idleness, and idleness in the mass was a danger to any nation. 
There are 800 compulsorily idle men in Canberra, and there are 300,000 compulsorily idle men in Australia; with their dependants they represent 1,000,000 people in Australia who are always on, or below, the bread line. This cannot go on without presaging in the minds of all intelligent thinkers, in and out of this chamber, national disaster,  unless  something on a  national basis is attempted in the direction of decreasing hours and increasing wages, commensurate with the increase of the productivity of the nation. When our opponents tell us that we cannot create more employment by the nationalizing of bank credit, they know that what they are saying is incorrect. They know that this nation has the most acceptable security that any debtor can give to a credit-issuing authority; and that on the strength of that security the Commonwealth Bank Board could do as the Labour party desires. We do not propose to alter the personnel of the board any more than we would propose to alter the personnel of any Commonwealth government department after a change of government. All we propose to do is to lay down a new policy for the bank to follow. And that policy would be followed by the bank board if a government were in power that was prepared to accept the responsibility for it. 
Banks create money and trade depression arises from faults in the banking system in the discharge of that vital function. 
That is all that we say. It is entirely due to the fact that private profit-making financial institutions of this country can,  and do, create credit, and restrict or expand credit when it suits them, that there are ever-recurring periods of " boom " and their inevitable corollary, ensuing periods of "bust". And the Labour party, backed up by the views of these financial authorities claims that the power now vested in these institutions should be vested in the nation through its representatives in Parliament. The Government should exercise that power to restrict and expand credit, not for the purpose of creating booms and depressions, but for the purpose of bringing about a planned economy. With increased productivity there should be a progressive decrease of hours and an increase of wages in order that this paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty should be removed from the nation's life. Another authority whom I quote is the Right Honorable R. McKenna,  chairman  of the Midland Bank, the largest trading bank in the British Empire - 
I am afraid the ordinary citizens will not like to be told that the banks can, and do, create and destroy money. The amount of money in existence varies only with the action of the banks in increasing or decreasing deposits and bank purchases. 
Later in his address the same authority made this significant remark: - 
Those who control the credit of the nation direct the policy of governments and hold in the hollow of their hands the destiny of the people. 
We suggest that these things are so, and propose to remedy them by taking that power out of the hands of the private institutions and vesting it in the people to be operated through the Government for the benefit of the whole of the people and not for the private shareholders of any institution, however great. We have been told by this Government that the only way we can relieve unemployment is by making concessions to private enterprise. We were told this afternoon that if we gave the old-age pensioners another 2s. 6d. a week we would have to take it out of the pockets of the people by taxation, and that, therefore, the purchasing power of the community would be decreased rather than increased. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

I hold that the deplorable conditions are due in the main to the fall in price of staple commodities. This fall has been brought about by the scarcity of means of payment. 
He definitely asserted that all the accumulated evidence went to show that the cause of the trouble was of a monetary nature, and that the only remedy would be found in monetary reform. He went on to say- 
What has really occurred is a hold-up in currency. Failure to restore prices to an adequate level; to supply means of payment in sufficient quantity will involve the world in the necessity of such re-adjustment as must cause grave political and social danger. To realize the importance of these statements, a full understanding is necessary as to what is meant by a fall in price levels. Every branch of trade and industry becomes dislocated causing reduced purchasing power, consumption and production. It causes a disequilibrium between wholesale and retail prices and between prices of primary and secondary industries. 
I hope that the alleged farming representatives in this chamber are taking notice------ 
It increases the real size of our debts, ruining many debtors and embarrassing all. Confidence is diminished. Credit is contracted. Work and employment decrease. The poor become poorer and many of those with moderate means are' impoverished. Wealth becomes unequally distributed with great wealth for a few and extreme poverty for many. 
This contraction of money supplies is undoubtedly the main cause of any economic troubles of to-day. 
Yet when we on this side submit an amendment to the Governor-General's Speech pointing to the facts of the situation, and showing a way out of our difficulties, we are told that wo do not know what we are talking about, and that our proposal will not get this country out of its troubles! I quote now from the Melbourne  Age  of the 18th August, 1934, the following excerpts from the report of the Rotary Social Research Committee No. 
The money system is a social mechanism ostensibly to facilitate the production of goods and services - a system of " tickets " which entitle the holders to. demand what they desire. The function of money may be attached to a commodity having an intrinsic value, as in the ease of a sovereign, or it may be attached to a practically worthless piece of paper as in the case' of a bank note; or it may be attached to such a nebulous conception as " bank credit " which has no separate, tangible existence, but is merely represented by ledger entries in the books of a bank. 
There also appear in the  Age  of the same date, the following excerpts from a publication of the Southampton Chamber of Commerce :  - 
Money supply should be governed by the real credit of the community as represented by its productive capacity. This appears to involve the abandonment of any arbitrary restriction of the quantity of money, and the limitation of internal money supply by any such instrument as the international gold standard. 2. In order to ensure that, money performs its true function of operating as a means of exchange and distribution, it is desirable that it should cease to be treated as a commodity. 3. Money being merely a vehicle for the credit of the community, and the power which the control of money carries with it being nothing less than the control of the entire economic life of the nation, it is desirable that the administration of financial policy should bo vested in a national authority directly responsible to the Sovereign and his people. 
These are statements, not by irresponsible Labour representatives, but by authorities whom it would be very difficult to discredit. We, on this side, say that credit controlled in the way which I have indicated this afternoon, and as outlined in the amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  namely, for the carrying out of public works, is the right way out of our difficulties. It would lead to increased employment, the works carried out would be of benefit to the community, and effect a saving in sustenance amounts which the State governments have to provide today, thus assisting them tobalance their budgets. It would also increase the spending power of the community, and that would, in turn, have the effect of (a) assisting our primary producers; (b) setting the wheels of our secondary industries moving and bringing more money now lying idle in the banks into the industrial field; and (c) raising price levels. Yet, in the face of these facts, we are told that we have no practical plan, and do not know what we are talking about ! 
That policy might raise the price level of primary products which we consume in Australia, but not of primary products exported. 
A policy of a further general reduction in money wages would be a double-edged weapon. It would tend to curtail purchasing power and consequently aggravate rather than assist the problem of the budget. 
We say, in our amendment, exactly what he affirms in other words, namely, that an increase of purchasing power would solve our troubles and help to balance national and domestic budgets.  Mr. Keynes,  dealing with this aspect of the position, said further - 
There' is more chance of improving the profitableness of business by fostering enterprise, and by such measures as public works than by further pressure on money wages . . . 
The substitution of wages for doles needs more credit, but not necessarily more currency. 
I turn now to a statement by the late  Sir Denison  Miller, the first Governor of the Commonwealth Bank. On the 7th July, 1921, a deputation of unemployed workers asked  Sir Denison  Miller if he would make arrangements to provide work for the unemployed.  Mr. Scott,  a member of the deputation, addressing  Sir Denison,  said - 
In your address in London,  Sir Denison,  you stated that to meet the necessities of war, certain things had been done by you- 
I invite honorable senators to note the significance of the words, " by you ". The action spoken of was not action by the financial institutions, as suggested by  Senator Pearce  this afternoon, but by  Sir Denison  Miller, the then Governor of the Commonwealth Bank - which before the war would not have been dreamt of. You financed Australia for £350,000,000 for war purposes, and had the war continued, you could have financed another £350,000,000. Are you now prepared to finance Australia £350,000,000 for productive purposes ? 

 Sir Denison Miller's answer was, "Yes, I shall do my best ". It is, however, a matter of common knowledge that he was not allowed to take any action along the lines suggested, because his policy was inimical to the interests of the profittaking associated banks. 
I think that I have refuted the statements made by the Leader of the Senate in reply to the address made:by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  some days ago. I have shown that the GovernorGeneral's Speech contains nothing whatever of any value to the people ; that it exposes the inability of the Government to understand the root causes of a problem, which, if we are to be saved from national disaster, must be solved. I further claim that our amendment outlines a plan, which, if put into operation, would attack this problem at the root and lead this country out of its difficulties. I give the Government full credit for trying to understand the problem with which we are confronted, but I repeat that to continue along the lines indicated in the Governor-General's Speech is merely to tinker with it. It is idle to wait for some world-wide miracle to happen; idle also to talk about prosperity being restored, and to quote, as an evidence of restored confidence, prices which Australian bonds are realizing in London. The high price of gilt-edged securities is no evidence of returning confidence. Bather is it evidence of increasing fear on the part of investors to put their capital into other channels. Any allusion to figures showing a decrease of unemployment percentages does not affect the breakfast table of people with no employment, and the continued reiteration in this chamber of the very serious plight of a large proportion of our primary producers will not solve their problem. Neither in the GovernorGeneral's Speech nor in the speeches of the mover and seconder of the AddressinReply is there to be found the slightest evidence that the Government and its supporters understand the causes which are at work, or the means whereby the evils which are now so painfully and tragically apparent may be removed.  
That the document, " General Outline of Fascist Activities in Queensland ", quoted from by  Senator Collings  during his speech, be laid on the table. 
I second the motion. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - Is  Senator Collings  prepared to table the document mentioned ? 
Motion agreed to. 
I regret that honorable senators opposite have not taken advantage of this motion to discuss matters of great importance to Australia, and by so doing give to honorable senators on this side of the chamber an opportunity to learn where they are wrong in regard to many of the views which they hold on pressing public questions. The Senate meets »o infrequently, and for such short periods, that honorable senators should take every opportunity to analyse the various problems confronting Australia at this juncture. Those honorable senators who do not visit Canberra regularly, or who absent themselves from the chamber, except when the division bells are rung, show a striking lack of interest in the subjects with which this Parliament has to deal. It is a sad commentary upon our bicameral system that honorable senators opposite will not utilize the opportunities provided for enlightening other honorable senators, and the community generally. I believe that much good could be achieved by a freer and fuller discussion of public questions. I have not reached such a stage of senility as to be incapable of absorbing new ideas, and it is regrettable that some should fail to utilize the opportunities provided for educating others. In the heat of an election campaign we cannot calmly debate subjects which affect directly the electorates concerned, and indirectly the whole Commonwealth, in the way that we are able deliberately to discuss and analyse them in the quietude of this chamber. During an election campaign all sorts of lies are put over the other fellow, and the last election campaign was no exception. It reminded me of a book I read in my early  day3  dealing with Baron Munchausen, who was the biggest liar the world ever knew. He was a wonderful gentleman, and a very interesting character. I do not know if honorable senators opposite have read of this man, who in his own estimation was an outstanding individual. On one occasion he said that he went to shoot some birds, but as he had not a supply of bullets he filled his gun with nails and tacks, which penetrated the birds, nailing them to the trees and the birds eventually flew away with the trees attached. I recall reading Bangs's  The  House  Boat on the Styx.  The boat was occupied by shades who had departed from this world, and included in these were such notable personages as Socrates, Queen Elizabeth, Shakespeare, Bacon. 
Yes; and many others. These notables were engaged in argument as to who wrote Shakespeare. Shakespeare said that he wrote it; but Bacon said, "I wrote it myself." Munchausen then appeared, and he was asked the same question, to which he immediately replied, "I did." He was a great liar, and a ready wit capable of meeting any situation. Many of those who attacked the policy of the Labour party prior to the last general election were deliberately lying, and deserve to be told that they were lying. I shall go so far as to say that some of our knights of the realm deliberately used the public platform to mislead the people. For instance,  Sir Henry  Gullett went out of his way to tell the people what, in his opinion, would happen if Labour were returned to power. It is grossly wrong and unfair for any person, whether a knight or an ordinary individual, to use the public platform to lie to the people.  Sir Henry  Gullett is reported to have said- 
A Labour victory on September 15th would be followed immediately by a return to the lowest depths of the depression and its anxieties and punishments. All values for Government bonds and all shares in the great employing industrial and business companies would suffer an immediate and severe slump on the Monday following the elections. 
A vote to  Mr. Scullin,  who is determined to change that system, would immediately reduce all spending disposition to the amount necessary for day to day existence. Vast sums of money would flow in panic out of the Commonwealth. 
Certainly  Sir Henry  Gullett is not an economist, but he should know that such a statement was utterly absurd. He went on to say - 
Every sort of employment would instantly shrink, and unemployment figures would probably reach dimensions which ' would make relief work or sustenance very  difficult.  Loan money from within Australia would be extremely improbable, if not impossible. Wo could not borrow abroad. 
Now I come to the statement made by a knight in this chamber -  Sir George  Pearce - who undoubtedly rendered great service to the United Australia party and Country party in Queensland. The speeches of  Sir George  Pearce were, to a large extent, responsible for the return of  Senator Foll, Senator Crawford  and  Mr. Cooper.  I regret that  Senator Pearce  should have handled the truth so carelessly for the sole purpose of defeating Labour. When  Sir George  Pearce came to Queensland, he, like  Sir Henry  Gullett, told some fearful stories concerning the Agricultural Bank of Western Australia. He said - 
This bank rendered highly valuable service to land settlement. It was managed by a board of trustees, but political influence was allowed to creep in, and members of Parliament, even Cabinet Ministers, pressed claims for advances to clients. 
That statement was broadcast to thousands of eager listeners who would regard it as truthful, coming as it did from a knight of the realm. The inference was that if the Labour Government were returned the Commonwealth Bank would be subject to political control, and that the savings of the people would be dissipated by a profligate Government. Is it fair that gentlemen such as  Sir George  Pearce and  Sir Henry  Gullett should go to the fair State of Queensland and discredit the Labour party by making statements such as I have quoted? It was good propaganda for the United Australia party and the Country party, and it served its purpose. It gave the electors the impression that Parliament was slipping and that politicians were becoming more degraded every day. Although such stories are told the people ascertain later that they are lies and that some politicians are only what newspapers which attack them say that they are. When acute problems have to be dealt with by the Commonwealth Parliament and the State Parliaments it behoves everyone who speaks on behalf of the people to deal honestly with such problems in a reasonable and scientific way as I shall endeavour to do. The speech which was read by the Governor-General was, of course, prepared by some members of a government which would have been defeated had it not made uri  arrangement with a party to which it had previously been opposed. I do not say that the Speech contains statements made with the deliberate object of misleading the people, but I do say that the results hoped for by the Government are not likely to be achieved. I make that prediction because of my study of world conditions. That the authors of the speech were unaware of the trend of world affairs the following paragraph shows: - 
My advisers are engaged in the negotiation of prospective trade treaties with a number of foreign countries. They are of the opinion that Australia's richest overseas market Hee within the Empire and especially within the United Kingdom. But they are fully aware that in some great lines of primary commodities Australia and other dominions, taken together, yield a total production far in excess of the consumption demands of the Empire. Confronted by these conditions my Ministers will make every endeavour to trade on the friendliest terms. obtainable with all nations which are faced with similar problems. 
That may sound all right, but the inference is that merely by expanding trade and finding markets we shall solve our economic problems. The Labour party advocates reforms because the development of economic nationalism tends to close the channels for investment, making necessary something more than an expansion of our markets. Men like  Senator Elliott  believe that our economic problems will be solved by a development of intra-Empire trade, and although we on this side prefer to develop trade between Australia and other portions of the Empire rather than to expand our trade with foreign countries, we realize that merely by exchanging one commodity for another we shall not solve the economic problems confronting the world. There is a general belief among the people that our economic difficulties will be solved by an expansion of trade, but if trade is merely the exchange of this commodity for that commodity we shall not find work for all our people in that way, and therefore we shall not solve the greatest economic problem - that of unemployment. Realizing  the difficulties, the Labour party advocates a change of the monetary system so that we shall be able .to utilize the credit, of the country in such a way that labour will be organized not merely for trade, but also for the development of Australia as an economic unit, thereby improving the position of the country generally. The modern capitalistic system is one of growth and development. So long as development is taking place, and money is being invested in that development, there is work to be done and the unemployment problem is not acute.  Sir Josiah  Stamp is reported to have said that between 1873 and 1923 Great Britain invested abroad £8,000,000,000 of which £5,000,000,000 was lost. That is to say, Britain exported commodities to the value of the first mentioned sum and lost more than half their value. My point is that while Great Britain was exporting that huge surplus of goode, the workers of that country were employed in producing them, and for that Treason unemployment was not an acute problem. Although Great Britain is. drawing from other countries millions of pounds in interest each year - and Australia is being bled by the Old Country in the matter of interest - it is returning in loans, represented by goods, more than it receives in interest, and to that extent its workers are being employed. In Australia the position is that, so long as an intensive developmental policy is in operation, our workers are employed, but with a diminution of the borrowing policy, and a consequent reduction of the labour used in the production of capital goods, there is, as  Mr. Davidson,  of the Bank of New South "Wales, has told us, a general closing up of the avenues for investment, with the result that labour difficulties are intensified and unemployment becomes more general. The Leader of the Senate quoted certain statistics in an attempt to disabuse our minds of what he described as the false impression that there was a plethora of credit. Private individual capitalism cannot absorb the workers because of the existing worldwide depression, and also because capital development has not progressed in the same ratio as in the past. We on this side admit that bank credit can be created by the private banks when required, and that that credit can be utilized to employ labour; but even though the bank credit is there, it is not utilized to the full because the system of capitalism is not able to employ it in the development of capitalism. When private individuals, firms, and companies cannot utilize the credit of the country, or of the banks, for the development of the country and the production of capital goods, as well as for the employment of labour, there is need for governments to exercise their powers to open up channels in which the spare labour of the community can be employed. The Labour party told the electors that, if returned to power,- it would so utilize this country's credit that conditions generally would improve and the standard of living of its people would be raised. As a sheep-owner,  Senator Guthrie  knows the need for water conservation, and of the desirability of constructing a railway from north to south to connect three existing east to west railway systems in Queensland, thereby making possible the quick transport of sheep from place to place. Had the surplus labour of this country been used for purposes such as this in the past, Australia to-day would be in a much higher position as a productive unit.  Senator Pearce  said that by expending money on non-productive works we eventually make the position worse instead of better. I agree that that has been the case in the past in some instances. During the war the credit of the community was handed over to private institutions, which, in turn, issued credits that enabled goods to be produced and the war to be prosecuted. Ex-Senator Colebatch told us that during the war both Great Britain and Australia had deliberately inflated the currency, with the result that they were able to finance the war and prosecute it to a successful end. But the war over, this accumulated paper debt, behind which there were no assets whatever, continued to involve the payment of enormous sums by way of interest.  Mr. Frank  Anstey, in his pamphlet,  The Kingdom of Shylock,  states that war loans would have been unobtainable here but for the fact that the credit of Australia was utilized by the private banks so that, on the security of a bond for £1,000, approved clients were able to obtain up to £5,000, and even larger sums, and to draw interest in respect of those bonds, although there was nothing behind them but the productive power of the nation.  Dr. Earle  Page, speaking on the Commonwealth Bank Bill, in 1924, said that the Commonwealth had during the war issued notes to private banks at 3 per'' cent. The banks in turn issued credit to approved clients at 4 per cent, to purchase war bonds, on which the holders drew 5 per cent, from the Government. The right honorable gentleman said that the whole matter had never been explained and it was useless now to attempt to explain it. The fact is, however, that there were no private assets behind the issue of that credit by the private banks. In that way the country was able to feed, and clothe and equip its soldiers as well as to provide for the women and children who were left behind. I feel deeply on this question. If it is possible to utilize the private banks of this country in this way in order to carry on a war, it should be possible for Australia, through the Commonwealth Bank, to issue the credit necessary to improve Australia as an economic organization, and to raise the standard of living not only of the workers, but of the producers and the community as a whole. I should be glad if, at the close of my speech, an honorable senator opposite who has studied this question would endeavour to show in what respect we have erred on this question of finance. "We are ready to learn, and if it can be shown that our policy is wrong, then we shall no longer advocate it. 
Great hopes are entertained in regard to the extension of our trade with other countries, and particularly with the East. The Prime Minister himself has admitted that the markets of Great Britain are becoming saturated, and that we shall have to .look elsewhere for markets for our produce and commodities. I have every respect for those who think that the opening up of new markets will solve our economic problem, but I point out that there are difficulties in the way. Recently a delegation consisting of  Mr. W,  H. Austin, Under-Secretary to the Department of Labour and Industry, and  Mr. Thomas,  secretary to the Queensland Colliery Proprietors Council, was sent to the East by the Queensland Government to investigate market possibilities there. 
The delegation visited the Netherland East Indies, British Malaya, China, and the Philippine Islands, and its investigations do not support the views of those who say that the future in this direction is bright; that the depression has been overcome; that unemployment is being reduced, and that we' have set an example to the rest of the worM by overcoming our difficulties through the instrumentality of the Premiers plan. I am not a Jeremiah; I do not wish to throw cold water on any attempt to develop trade with other countries, but I feel that to find a solution of our economic problem we have to f*«» the facts. 
Here are the facts, as stated by this delegation - 
The market of the future (in the East) will consist more of capital goods and raw materials and less of consumable goods and foodstuffs. As we cannot compete with  Japan  in the manufacture of capital goods, such as railways and public utility equipment, machinery, iron and steel, motor cars, &amp;c. ; nor in textiles, our trade will be restricted to new or extended trade in raw materials, and, to some degree, trade in foodstuffs. 
They went on to say - 
The preponderance of Chinese and Japanese dealers and retailers throughout these countries docs not tend to encourage imports from Australia and other British countries. 
Further - 
As the basis of our investigations - whether into coal, timber, or other commodities - was really " unemployment in Queensland ", we regret to advise that, in our opinion, there will be comparatively little relief to unemployment as a result of any new or extended business that can be secured in these countries at least during the next few years. 
There we have -an illustration of the intense and bitter competition among Asiatics themselves. The Chinese and Japanese can outbid us in their own markets for commodities, and I would therefore impress upon honorable senators the fact that we cannot expect much help from that quarter. We must, of course, give our traders every encouragement 
Quite so. The delegation admitted that there were possibilities of new or extended trade in the following articles:---- 
Hardwood timber, leather raw cotton, coal, fresh fruit, dried meat, dried and other fish products and wool, although at present to a limited extent----- 
And this is the point - 
But such trade must at present face keen competition and comparatively low prices. 
If we must face keen competition at the present time, what is going to happen within the next few years? Will our trade with the East improve or decrease?  Senator Guthrie,  who is interested in the wool trade, probably knows that Japan is subsidizing the production of wool. Because of our climatic and other conditions, we are able to produce the finest merino wool in the world. 
Men of standing who have visited Japan say that the Government of that country is utilizing to the full the brains of its scientists in the hope that within a few years it will be able to produce a commodity that will make its people quite independent of Australia in this regard. World development is growing apace. We have had quite recently, in the glorious aviation feats of Scott, Black, Parmentier, Mollison, and others, a striking illustration of how space can be annihilated. 
Good luck to every one of them. I am endeavouring to point out, however, that while I hope, as a good Australian, that we shall be able to hold our markets for wool, I am fearful of what may result from the application of the brain power of Japan to the problem that confronts its people. Having regard to Japan's desire to develop Manchuria, I fear that within a few years it will be producing wool to such an extent as to very seriously affect our trade. The development of economic nationalism, not only in Asia, but throughout Europe, is such that it appears to me that the Government of Australia must follow other lines than those set out by it in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I am speaking in all earnestness.  Senator Pearce  has told us that the position is better than it was. I do not deny that statement, but although there has been a slight diminution of unemployment, we cannot ignore the fact that a policy different from that placed before us by the Government must be pursued if we are to overcome our difficulties. 
In a time of national emergency - whether in peace or in war - it is necessary that the Government of the country should utilize to the full the brains of the community to discover a means of meeting that emergency. Experiments may be justified in the light of the problem that confronts us. 
I do not, but I say that in time of national emergency experiments are justifiable. The scheme we have propounded, however, would not be an experiment in the sense that it had never been tried. I repeat, that in war time what we now propose should be done for the benefit of the whole community was done for the benefit not of the people as a whole, but of a few clients of private banking companies.For years hence, the community will be bled for the payment of interest under the present system of finance. Britain to-day is paying interest in respect of money raised in connexion with the Napoleonic wars, and if the present system of finance continues, we shall be paying interest for another thousand years. 
I admit that, if credit is issued as it was issued in war time, as a debt on which interest has to foe paid, we could not continue increasing the debt indefinitely. Let me clarify the expression, "credit of the community." The Labour party has an ideal, which it hopes to put into practice, for the solution of the monetary problem. I agree with the honorable gentleman that, if credit continued to be issued as an interest-bearing debt, we could not go on adding to the burden indefinitely; but 
I submit that, if the community utilizes all the credit forces at its command, sufficient comfort will be ours. Since the people are not imbeciles, why can we not adopt a policy of national accountancy, a monetary system that will reflect the real credit of the community? I have here a publication issued by those so-called "mad men," the supporters of tho Douglas credit proposal. I am not a supporter of the Douglas credit system, but when a paper that rings true comes into my hand' I endeavour to assimilate its contents. This article was written by Hilaire Belloc, a prominent figure in English literature, whose name, no doubt, is well known to honorable senators. In this paper he explains how the national debt of Great Britain was created. He says - 
At the end of the year 1.692 a group of rich men, who made the politician Montague their agent, proposed to follow the method of state finance which the Dutch had founded long before, and to mortgage to their advantage the powers of government. 
Montague's first proposal was put forward on Dec. IS, 1092. On January 20, 1G93, came the first regular inception of the plan, which was matured in the course of the next few months. 
Money was needed for William's policy of Continental war, and this group of rich men proposed to lend the Government £1,200,000 upon terms which, including commissions and perquisites, came to between 8 and 9 per cent. 
This was the beginning of what later came to be called tho National Debt, for its special character was not merely the lending of the money to the Government, a transaction as old as history, but the novel proposal that the interest should be strictly guaranteed on the security of the national taxes, while immediately afterwards a privileged institution was called into existence, a central bank, which should have the handling of the loan and the interest, and the right to issue notes of credit  on  the security of the Government. 
From this we see the special character of the national debt. It was not money merely lent to the Government, but involved also a proposal that the interest on the debt should be strictly guaranteed on the security of the nation's taxes. That is the point I wish to stress. Why should private banks have the monopoly of such a loan and the interest on it, and the right to issue notes and credit on the security of the Government? We know that Great Britain's national debt has grown from a paltry £1,200,000 to approximately £7,800,000,000 to-day. Australia's national debt amounts to over £1,000,000,000; but behind it, as behind the national debt of every country, is the security of the nation itself. No country can pay ofl its national debt. Such a debt is only on paper; but every year thousands of millions of pounds are extracted from the pockets of the people in order to pay those who own this paper debt. One of the great troubles of the world to-day is a wrong conception of wealth. 
If I owe a certain amount of money, the security behind it is merely my income and my assets; but behind the national debt is the security of the Commonwealth and the power of the Parliament to tax the community. The government does not tax the community in order to pay my private debts. 
All money is a debt. Money gives the possessor the right and the power to draw services and commodities from the community to the value of such money; the community is in debt to him to the amount of the money he holds. There is a big difference between what is known as bank credit and coins of the realm, the larger denominations of which are practically out of circulation. The gold currency in circulation years ago was real wealth. A .certain amount of energy had been required to produce the coins, which were bartered for other wealth in the form of services or commodities. To-day we have paper money, and bank credit, the power to issue which has been given to private corporations.  Senator Collings  has demonstrated clearly that private banks issue credit in excess of the real wealth they control. The Macmillan report showed convincingly that, under our modern banking system, it is possible for a bank possessing £1,000,000 of national money to issue credit to the amount of £10,000,000. That is to say, private banks have the power to monetize the frozen assets of the country, and, issuing credit to ten times the value of the real money they hold, they draw interest on that inflated or imaginary capital. If private banking institutions can and do issue credits in this way, it should be possible for a national bank to monetize the assets of the nation, and expand credit, charging for interest a mere modicum of what is being charged to-day. But the right of issuing money has practically been taken from the King and the Government, and handed over to the private banking machine. This machine has done its work very capably, making large profits for its shareholders. I am not cavilling at that, nor would any sensible man do so; but, unfortunately, the need of private banks to make money for their shareholders, has caused them to adopt a policy which has been to the detriment of the people as a whole. 
A glance at the banking statistics, particularly the rates of interest from 1914- to 1934, will show that the big banks of this country and of the United Kingdom have paid handsome dividends to their shareholders; in addition, huge sums have been placed to reserve, whilst in Australia, all of the banks have been able to erect palatial buildings for their head-quarters. The costly bank premises in Queen-street, Brisbane, suggest that the activities of the banks in creating credit and taking money from the community have been highly profitable. Because of such success in business, they have been able to call in the builders, contractors and architects, and say to them, " Get busy and build us a palatial building." I have not seen a better building than the headquarters of the Commonwealth Bank in Sydney, whilst the State Savings Bank and all other banks in that city own magnificent. structures. Roughly, I would calculate that £1,000,000 has been devoted to the building pf the banking premises in Queen-street, Brisbane. The modern banking system has allowed the private institutions to secure control of the supply of credit and the issue of money, which, we contend, should be the prerogative of the King and the Government. If the Government had the power to issue and control money, it would be able to employ all our people on necessary work. I am not advocating communism or socialism or any other idealistic system, but I say that if this country utilized the forces of credit through the medium of a central control, such as a Commonwealth Bank, we could employ every employable citizen in Australia, and give him a fair return for his labour. Honorable senators opposite imagine that to-day they have overcome the depression; that the world has turned a corner, and that shortly all in the economic sphere will be well. But just as we turn the corner, lo and behold, there is a shindy over the export of meat. There is a lesson to be learned from this experience. We know that  Major Elliot,  Minister for Agriculture in the British Government, has stated that he intends to give every encouragement to the development of primary producing industries in Great Britain. Further, I know that organizations in the United Kingdom are battling hard for the restriction of meat imports from Australia. During the recent federal elections this matter was kept very quiet indeed. Next year, probably, we shall have a similar dispute over butter. We know that under the Ottawa agreement Great Britain will be able after June next to demand the restriction of the export of Australian butter to the United Kingdom. 
These developments will compel a re-orientation of the Government's attitude to these matters. If these things are taking place or are to take place, the Government should exercise its brain in an endeavour to find a new solution of 'the problem. The economic problem will not be solved by restricting our exports of primary produce. We hear much said of the bonds of Empire, and the crimson thread of kinship, but we know that Great Britain has made agreements with the Argentine Republic and Denmark to purchase from them agreed quantities of meat, butter and other commodities. It follows, therefore, that if the policy of economic nationalism, as laid down by  Major Elliot,  is adopted in full by Great Britain, its effect will be felt by Australia. The same influences are at work in all countries. 
I do not suggest that. They are being made because British capitalists have heavy investments in Denmark and Argentina, and have taken action to combat any proposals which may have the effect of diminishing the volume of trade from those countries to Great Britain. 
The trade agreements are being made for the purpose of safeguarding British investors. That I think is plain enough to most honorable senators. It should also be clear that if similar agreements are made with other countries, we shall soon reach the stage when one country will know exactly how many million pounds of wool, how many million pounds of butter, and what quantities of other primary or other products it can dispose of in return for trade concessions to customer countries. Since this policy must, of necessity, adversely affect the expansion of primary production in Australia, we should seek some other method to overcome our unemployment difficulties. The Labour party suggests a review of our monetary and financial policy. We contend tha't the- banking facilities of this country should be so altered as to make it possible for us to utilize the man power of Australia. 
The Minister has asked a very pertinent question. We on this side of the Senate realize the stupidity of producing more beef or, for that matter, more of any other commodity than is required, so we suggest that the surplus man power engaged in the meat industry or any other should be diverted to other avenues of production for the benefit of the community. 
I understand the honorable senator's difficulty. It is due to the fact that he and his friends view our present economic problem from the narrow stand-point of modern capitalism. I am endeavouring to show that because of the trend of modern capitalism this Government should bring forward proposals for the re-organization of the banking and credit resources of the nation. 
The London  Times  dealing with this problem offers this solution - 
Is it not a fact- that increased prosperity in Japan will mean greater markets for our producers? 
The honorable senator must know that, although Japan is expanding industrially with great rapidity, and a similar movement is taking place in Manchukuo, the latter country is practically a protectorate of J apan, and both nations are catering for their own requirements. Japan, as I pointed out previously, is malting a special effort to overcome its difficulties as regards primary production, and is talcing effective measures to safeguard the interests of its primary and secondary producers in both Manchukuo and the islands which it is administering under the League of Nations mandate. 
I am endeavouring to show that the tendency in all countries is to become economically selfsufficient. Whilst capitalism was developing and countries like England and the United States of America were exporting capital to other countries, the world was able to absorb its workers in various primary and secondary industries. But since practically all countries are now becoming competitors, there is urgent need for an overhaul of our financial machinery in order to fit in with the altered economic circumstances. In many directions Australia is now becoming a competitor of other countries. We are rapidly developing our secondary industries, and the  Governor-General's  Speech indicates that the Government intends to give full support to both primary and secondary industries. Leaders of thought in the Mother Country do not cavil at the development of our secondary industries, but I suggest -that if Australia, South Africa, Canada, and other primary producing countries which formerly were customers of the older industrial nations are now catering for their own requirements in the field of secondary production, there is definite need for a policy somewhat different from that outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. Unless the Government makes provision to meet the new situation, Australia must suffer in the near future. I, therefore, appeal to the Ministry to take full cognizance of world events, and so shape its policy as to enable us to meet, with a certain degree of confidence, the difficulties that confront us. It is not  sufficient  to resort to such palliatives as providing men with a few days' work weekly and making arrangements for the expenditure of a paltry £1,000,000 or so as a Christmas dole. We cannot expect Australia to progress under such a policy. The problem of unemployment should be dealt with in a comprehensive way, by employing people on reproductive works of national importance. I trust that as a result of the efforts which the Government proposes to make, some scheme will be placed before the Senate which will afford immediate relief to those who are so sadly in need of it. The time is rapidly approaching when the present financial system must fall to the ground. Interest can be paid to the interest mongers only so long as we continue to increase our overseas trade. Unless we can do so our load of debt and interest will become so terrific that it will be impossible for Australia to meet its liabilities. After the Great War various countries, including Great Britain, defaulted in their payments. A study of the figures shows that our national debt is sti.l increasing and that if we continue to create paper debts and issue paper credits, it will not be many years before we shall be faced with a financial cataclysm. If we attack this problem from a national standpoint we must realize that our problems cannot be solved under the present financial system. We are increasing our national debt and facing an ever increasing burden of interest. The financial system must be altered. Success cannot be achieved by intensive competition with the rest of the world, involving a further exploitation of the workers. The economic machine should be organized in the interests of the whole of the Australian people. We have already demonstrated that there is need for a change, and unless this Parliament adopts a policy in keeping with the altered conditions we shall find that the Australian people will have to submit to even greater hardships than they have experienced up to the present, and that their condition may be even worse than that of the peoples of other countries. 
.- Until to-day I had no intention of speaking on this motion, but as the debate has proceeded, various views have been expressed upon which I should like to comment, more particularly as, with the exception of the mover and seconder of the motion, there have been very few speakers on this side of the chamber, and it may be thought that the views expressed by honorable senators opposite truly represent the general feeling of the Senate. In the first place, I  should  like to refer to some of the remarks made this afternoon.  Senator Brown  said that the great problem we have to solve is that of unemployment. It is not, The real economic problem which we have to solve is not unemployment - although that is included in it - but how to produce at a payable price. Until we can do that production and trade must decrease, and unemployment increase. It is incorrect to say that the main problem is unemployment; that is only one phase of it. Un' ess we can sell our produce overseas at a profitable price unemployment must increase. 
I remind  Senator Brown,  who was very critical concerning the operations of the trading banks, that Australia has been settled for over 150 years, and that for the greater part of that period its development has been assisted by the private banks. The Commonwealth Bank was not established until 1911. At the commencement of this century some  private banking institutions had been in existence for nearly 100 years. For instance, the Bank of New South Wales was founded in 1817. All through the nineteenth century, and long before  Senator Brown  and I were born, these private banking institutions were assisting the people by a sane and sound policy which has enabled Australia to be developed as it has been. 
They have not fleeced the people; statistics prove the contrary. The rise in the value of bank shares has not been such that any one could say that the rise was due to a fleecing policy, as the honorable senator suggests, or that they had made undue profits. For about 100 years before the Commonwealth Bank came into existence the private banks assisted the trade and commerce of this country. Instead of these institutions becoming stronger during this century, their operations have been severely restricted. During the latter part of the last century there were a number of amalgamations. J can also vaguely recall the bank smashes in the early 'nineties. If we are to study this problem intelligently, we should give credit where it is due. We all know that the Commonwealth Bank has done good work, but it should not be used as a weapon to bludgeon out of existence those private concerns which should have the same right to operate in .a free country as have other industries or undertakings.  Senator Brown  also said that money is thicker than blood, but I remind him that there is only one country that would introduce sentiment into business and that is that great country from which we sprang. Does any one imagine that a foreign country would treat us in any other way than from the view-point of business? Great Britain is the only country from which we can expect any sentimental consideration. 
HUGHES. - I thought that the honorable senator's argument was that we could not look for anything from Great Britain but a money-grasping attitude, which would he entirely divorced from all sentiment. 
HUGHES. - Great Britain is the only country which is likely to allow sentiment to weigh with it in its dealings with us. 
I now pass on to the remarks of  Senator Collings,  who is always able to introduce some electricity into a debate which happens to be a bit thin or is becoming rather dull. I do not pretend to agree with him on many points. That is not surprising because I do not imagine that I would ever be acceptable in a Labour constituency. One of his arguments is that we should be able to get credits for national purposes on the security of the country's production. That security has a varying value. We are able to offer as a security only such goods as are within the power of the country to produce and sell at a profit. Some persons loosely say "we produce wool, wheat, sugar, butter, and other produce ". Such statements are sometimes made by those who do not produce anything. I presume  Senator Collings  means that the country as a whole produces wool and wheat and other primary products; but what is the value of such commodities as a security when they cannot be produced at a profit? Will any one lend money on commodities produced at a loss? Generally speaking, that is our difficulty at present.  Senator Collings  quoted the late  Mr. Gladstone  who, of course, made many speeches, but I do not think the honorable senator was wise in the quotation he selected. It was to the effect that the leisured class had never taken an honorable step for the benefit of the general community, but always in an effort to retard its progress. A good many of the leisured class were whigs, and therefore  Mr. Gladstone's  suppotters. If he said what has been attributed to him, he must have said it in a moment of extreme enthusiasm. I should like the honorable senator to let me know at what stage of  Mr. Gladstone's  career he made the statement referred to. It could not have been made in his early days, when he was a conservative; and it must be remembered that he himself was of the leisured class. As I listened to the honorable senator, I though of Lord Shaftesbury, who, although the seventh earl of an old and rich family, was yet the greatest Englishman in striving to ameliorate the conditions of all who worked in factories. There is no name comparable with that of Shaftesbury - a member of the leisured class - as a benefactor of the poor, especially the poor who work in factories. Is Lord Shaftesbury an instance of the soundness of the statement attributed to  Mr. Gladstone?  I thought also of the great protagonists of the movement for the emancipation of the slaves ; of Wilberforce, and of Buxton - the latter the grandfather of  Sir Thomas  Fowell Buxton, a former Governor of South Australia. Both these men came from the leisured class. The Wilberforce family held the same property in Yorkshire from the 12th to the 18th century, a fact which in itself denotes that they were people of some strength and tenacity. Are these leaders of the anti-slavery movement further illustrations of the soundness of the argument that the leisured class has never been anything but a drag on the wheel of progress ? 
Even  Senator Collings  himself would find it difficult to point to two subjects of more importance from his point of view than the abolition of slavery and the improvement of the conditions of factory workers. In the two direction which I have mentioned, the names which stand out above all others are those of men belonging to the leisured class. 
The honorable senator also mentioned  Sir Harold  Bowden. I know of him; he comes from the leisured class. The honorable senator almost pleaded for the creation of a ministry of leisure. What would he the use of it, if the leisured class is only a drag on the wheel? The truth is, as the Bible says, that the spirit of 
God  bloweth  where it  listeth.  We cannot prevent it from occasionally blowing on the leisured class. 
I have no desire to exult unduly over the result of the recent election, but it seems to me that some of the speeches made to-day were somewhat belated. Being in opposition, the Labour party "was able to choose the weapons of attack, which is a great advantage in an election campaign. But it was worsted with its own weapons. The Labour party had the further advantage that the Government had been in office for three years in a time which all admit was somewhat difficult. The Government was subject to criticism by all sections of the community; among others I criticized it. Nevertheless, the public of Australia came to an overwhelming decision in favour of a continuation of a non-Labour Government. 
The decision of the electors was overwhelming in that every Senate seat was won by a Government supporter. 
I shall leave my remarks on that subject until a bill to alter the method of selecting senators is before us. Without committing myself to support any amending legislation, I can say that I would much prefer an amending proposal of the Prime Minister to the policy of the Labour party, which aims at abolishing the Senate. While in Adelaide during the elections, the Leader of the Labour party in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Scullin)  said that the Labour party advocated the abolition of the Senate. Whether or not the general public had that policy in mind on the 15th September, I do not know; it may be that they cast their votes that day for the abolition, temporarily, of the Labour party, rather than for the abolition of the Senate. I suggest that it is useless for  Senator Collings  to attack the Government at the present time. No doubt the honorable senator fought gal lantly during the election campaign, but he was worsted by  Senator Poll,  who, he had predicted had not a ghost of a chance of being re-elected; The honorable senator is really criticizing the decision of the people democratically expressed. 
During the election campaign some awkward questions were asked. I was not a candidate, but I took an active part in the campaign, and at one meeting I was asked whether it was a fact that the Labour party offered a larger measure of assistance to the wheat industry for this year than was offered by the Government. I was forced to reply in the affirmative, hut I added words to this effect, " Supposing that the actual amount of £ s. d. which you will get is the only factor by which the matter should be determined - and I do not think that it is, or should be - would you prefer to have the smaller sum in what might be called Lyons currency, or the larger sum in Scullin currency?" 
The answer is in the difference between the economic position to-day and what it was three years ago. The people realized that, although on the surface the Labour party might appear to offer more, in reality it offered less. Throughout South Australia the primary producers., who had been having a bad time, voted overwhelmingly in favour of supporters of the Government. 
I do not think that any posters were produced in South Australia. Those used in that State came from .New South Wales. I thought that they were of rather poor quality, although that which depicted a woman with two children outside a bank, was, in my opinion, a perfectly legitimate expression of a situation which actually had arisen. Even that poster was, in my opinion, badly drawn ; at least, I was not carried away by it. There was, how* ever, nothing untruthful about it. 
I have said all that I need to say about the elections and their result. Before passing on to other subjects, I should like to say a word about Herr Kisch, who appears anxious to become a member of this community, but now, apparently, is about to depart from our shores. I did not know anything about this man until about a fortnight ago, and I have no accurate details of the circumstances of his upbringing. 
Of what nation? It has been suggested at various times that he is a German, a Czechoslovak, or a Pole. 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. This man has been in Great Britain - a country which is more lenient to foreigners than is any other. One could give a fairly long list of kings and rulers, and other prominent men, who, having lost their territories, have gone to live in England - Metternich, Napoleon the Third. King Manoel of Portugal, King Alfonso of Spain, and others. At Hyde Park each week one can listen, as I have done, to a variety of speeches on almost every subject under the sun - politics, religion, sociology, and so on - couched sometimes in language compared with which that of the honorable senator is so mild as to justify the' description " milk and water ". Although these advocates of various theories speak with great vigour, the police seldom interfere with them. If the honorable senator wants an illustration of the British attitude towards oppressed peoples, he can find it in the treatment meted out during recent months to members of the Jewish race who have left Germany for England. Karl Marx, Lenin, and Trotski took refuge in England when expelled from their own countries. They requited such hospitality ill, because while accepting sanctuary in England, they plotted for the overthrow of the system under which they sheltered. 
If that is an honest return for hospitality it is one which I certainly do not care for. And, therefore, I say that if Great Britain has decided as the result of her experience of this  Mr. Kisch  that he is a person it does not want to have; that it has had him once and does not want to have him again - if it practically puts him in the same position aa Trotsky has been placed by almost every country in Europe: he can hardly go anywhere - then I am fully prepared to follow the lead which Great Britain has given us, and to say that we do not want him here. If there is one thing which has shown quite clearly that he is not a desirable person to have in Australia, it is the action that he took yesterday when, the Chief Justice of Victoria having decided that he should not be allowed to land, he actually broke the law by leaping ashore when he had been ordered not to do so. A law-breaker in seeking to enter Australia! He proved himself to be a law-breaker, and that is sufficient to justify us in saying, " You cannot come here, and if you can get an advertisement from the performance you have put up, you are welcome to it. It is, after all, a very poor thing to be like Trotsky, unwanted anywhere." I do not think we need worry unduly about Kisch. What was done was obviously in accordance with the law. He is obviously not a person that we require or desire here, and the sooner he gets back to his own country the better. There he will be able to write his book, to have it translated into English, and, if he is lucky, the Trade and Customs Department may allow it to be brought in here so that those interested may read what he has to say. So far as I am concerned, I shall waste no time on it. 
It was impossible to hear the AttorneyGeneral in another place, and at the same time to listen to the honorable senator. I preferred to listen to the honorable senator rather than to a speech in another place where my duty does not lie. 
It has been said that the GovernorGeneral's Speech is rather vague, and  that there is not a very great deal that is concrete in it. That is usually said of most policy speeches. 
The Governor-General's Speech indicates sufficient legislation to keep us going until the end of the year, and for a good while later on. It deals in general terms with unemployment, and the position of the primary and secondary industries, and it refers to a long series of Tariff Board reports, and the reappointment of the Interstate Commission. These matters in themselves are likely to keep us steadily at work, for at any rate a year, if not more. This policy speech was brought before us after the Government had been in office for only about a fortnight, so that there was not much time for its preparation. Since then, there has been an alteration of the personnel of the Ministry, and it has been suggested that a new policy speech, therefore, should have been introduced. 
I welcome the change which has been made in the Ministry. I am pleased that it has been possible to form a composite Ministry, including both members of the United Australia party and the Country party. If any one has any doubt, I make perfectly clear what my attitude is, and has been during the last few years, on that particular subject. I want to congratulate, as every one will want to congratulate,  Senator Brennan  on being our new Minister, We have worked alongside him, and I am certain that the advice he will bring to the Ministry will be in general accord with the views which I, at any rate, hold. There is only one pointI should like to mention regarding this change of personnel. I trust that the fact that  Senator Pearce  is leaving the Defence Department does not indicate that the policy of wider defence, which has been laid down during the last year, is going to be in any way reduced or scrapped. 
And that there is not to be a reduction in the scheme laid down? 
I am glad to hear that, because  Senator Pearce  was in charge of the department when the scheme was worked out, and one wondered whether the fact that he had goneto another department indicated some change in the general defence policy. 
As regards the general terms of this document, I do not think that there is very much in it which "was suitable to the original Ministry of a fortnight ago that is unsuitable to the Ministry of to-day. It is in very general terms. 
That is our complaint. 
On the general question of the primary and secondary industries, I do not propose to say a great deal. In this connexion I should like to congratulate  Senator Collett  on the speech which he made in moving the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I do not agree at all with what was said to-day as to there being no cause for congratulation. It seemed to me, speaking as quite .a junior member of the chamber, as being an admirable speech to come from a member of the Senate. It was thoroughly independent, and obviously based on his own judgment, after having listened carefully to what the various sides had to say. That is the proper approach to be made to public questions in this chamber. ' Although I am a party man, I think this chamber should be less partisan than" the other. That appears to be its chief justification. 
After a year of rather unexpected prosperity in wool, we have virtually gone back, as the graph of the position will show, to the depression level of wool, which lasted for about three years before the recent pick-up. The attitude of the representatives of the Wool Council and the Growers' Council which met here a fortnight ago was really that they wanted to know what the Government was going to do. They had advocated for some time a reduction in taxation as a means of assisting the industry. They had advocated tariff reductions as another means, and while there had been remissions in both these ways, they had not been as great as they should have been. They were here, in effect, to say to the Government, " We are more or less up against it. We have never come to the Government for assistance ; but we cannot go on for an unlimited time under the conditions at present operating and with the prices that we are at present receiving. What is the Government going to do ? The Government says that it is going to make trade treaties. What treaties have been made and what treaties are going to be made ?" 
And what does the Government hope to get from them ? 
I agree entirely with this paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech - 
The satisfactory sale of our surplus primary produce is the index of the prosperity of every Australian industry and business and of all sources of employment. 
I assume that by the words " surplus primary produce " is meant the surplus which we send overseas. That sentence is extraordinarily true; it confirms what I said earlier in my speech. Unless we can sell our surplus primary products overseas, we are not going to have prosperity in any industry - primary or secondary - or in business, and we are not going to have anything but a decrease of the number of people employed. I commend that sentence to the attention of honorable senators. It seems to sum up our industrial and trade position most clearly and soundly. 
In regard to trade treaties, I have no inside knowledge of the difficulties with respect to the negotiations of these arrangements, but, speaking as an outsider, and following up the general ideas that I have held on this subject  for  years past, I think the Government is going to face the gravest difficulties in negotiating new agreements. That is obvious from the fact that the Belgian treaty, about which I inquired this afternoon, has been the subject of negotiations for from twelve to fifteen mouths, and finality has not yet been announced. A little while ago, I was urging that the Government should come to decisions more rapidly, and I repeat that suggestion in regard to the negotiation of treaties. If every trade treaty is to take from a year to two years to complete, our trade will in the meantime fall away in an alarming manner. I do not say that for the purpose of embarrassing the Government, but, speaking as an ordinary, and I hope, sensible, individual, I feel convinced that the Government will have the gravest difficulty with regard to these treaties; that in their negotiations Ministers will probably require all the assistance that can be afforded them ; that delay in dealing with them will do nothing but harm; and that it will be perfectly impossible for us to get everything, and give nothing. A stage has now been reached at which the subject of tariffs has passed altogether outside the sole decision of Australian public men and parties. "We are now faced by the pressure of the world. As we have predicted for at least three years, demands  are coming to us from every side; to-day we have to face the massed determination of the peoples of the world that they will not buy from us unless we buy from them. We have to face that fact, and no amount of delay or procrastination or shirking of the issue will enable us to avoid it, and delay will probably result in out losing trade which we shall not be able to recover. I hope the Government will surmount these difficulties, because I feel that some members of it, at least, realize that we must have two-way trade. 
We are very often told that the Ottawa agreement has never been anything but a drawback .to this country; that we have never got anything out of it ; that we gave everything and got nothing but generalities in return. Undoubtedly the reverse is the case. The advantages we gained were concrete and substantial; the concessions we promised were general, and, in some respects, have not been completed. I was particularly interested to find that even the Premier of Queensland  (Mr. W. Forgan Smith)  holds the opinion that the Ottawa agreement was of some benefit to his State; because, at the opening of the Queensland Parliament on the 28th August last, reference was made to this matter in the Governor's speech, an extract from which I shall place on record - 
World recovery, unfortunately, is being retarded by various countries adopting the policy generally known as " economic nationalism" or restricted output. 
During the recess, my advisers considered it desirable that the Leader of the Government should proceed to Great Britain for the purpose of investigating the nature and the trend of this phase of economy. 
The suggestions that had emanated from various authoritative quarters indicated that the public anxiety in Queensland and Australia on this aspect was not without foundation. 
Proposals for the quantitative regulation of our exports to the United Kingdom market in particular aroused considerable misgivings, aud my advisers felt that the economic position of Queensland should be clearly stated and explained through the appropriate channels. 
The Premier's mission was productive of good results, and, in London, he received assurances from responsible Ministers that the British Government had no intention of arbitrarily imposing such a policy, and that the agreements made with the dominions at Ottawa would be continued in their entirety. 
After all I have heard from Queensland senators and other members of the Labour party concerning the evils of the Ottawa agreement, it is very refreshing to find that the Premier of Queensland thinks it of sufficient importance to be emphasized in the Government's policy speech at the opening of the Queensland Parliament. 
He did not say anything in commendation of the Ottawa agreement; he went to the other side of the world because of his fear of it. 
 He  did  not; he said that he was hopeful that Queensland would not be punished under the agreement. I heard the speech. 
Yes. 
 I did not mean anything of the kind. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guthrie)  adjourned. 
I desire  to make a  few  remarks on the festivities held in Canberra in connexion with the recent visit of  His  Royal High ness the Duke of Gloucester. It may be safely said that, generally speaking, those festivities were successful, and I congratulate all those who were responsible for the arrangements, including the decorations, and the excellent State dinner. However, there were a few defects to which attention should be directed, in the hope that on similar occasions in future more attention will be given to certain details of hospitality. The consular representatives of foreign countries and other important guests were instructed, or invited, to assemble in the dining-room of Parliament House at 6.10 on the evening of the State dinner. They did so, but nobody was there to receive them; after standing about for nearly an hour, during which they were not offered any refreshment, they were herded together at tables in what is practically an annexe of the main dining-room. From this position it was impossible for at least half of them to see his Royal Highness or those people sitting at the top table, or to hear any of the speeches made on that occasion. That was very regrettable. At the top table, where there was a great deal of room, there were seated all the junior Ministers, some of whom had been in Parliament for only a short time, and in the Ministry for about a day, and remained Ministers for not very much longer. But the Chief Justice of Australia  (Sir Frank Gavan Duffy),  was placed at the southwestcorner of Table H, which was one of the lesser tables, a long way from the junior Ministers at the top table. I do not blame the Chief Justice for having been offended at this treatment and for having walked out of the dining-room and back to the Hotel Canberra, where he had his dinner. Then  Sir Stanley  Argyle, the Premier of Victoria, who was mainly responsible for the Duke's visit to this country - the Premier of the State whose centenary we were celebrating - was also placed at a considerable distance from the top table, as were also the  President  of 'the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. In Great Britain the procedure adopted towards foreign diplomats, the presiding officers in the House of Lords and the House of Commons is entirely different. Most honorable senators were placed  generally with their backs to the top table instead ofbeing distributed among the various guests, whilst on the other hand I saw in very prominent places right in front of the table at which  His  Royal Highness sat, ex-members of both Houses of this Parliament and some people who had not even that distinction. How some of these people were invited to the dinner at all, is a mystery to me. But they were more prominently seated than the Chief Justice of Australia, the Premier of Victoria, the  President  of the Senate, and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
The arrangements for the transport of visitors after the function were also unsatisfactory. The night was dark and wet, yet distinguished visitors from Great Britain and other countries as well as consular representatives who had honoured us with their presence, had to jump down, women as well as men, from a high platform and were obliged to break our railway by-laws by crossing the rails and clambering, as best they could, into the train which was standing some distance from the station. On the following morning when we reached the Victorian border we found that the refreshment car was not attached to the train. There was again an unseemly scramble at Albury, due to the fact that  bo  many of our visitors did not know where to go. I was able to guide a number of them to the railway refreshment room, where they obtained a hurried and somewhat inferior breakfast. I should add that prior to reaching Albury, the usual courtesy of serving morning tea and light refreshments on the train was not observed. When I asked the conductor if hot water and morning tea were available - I explained that I was not so much concerned about my own needs as I was for the needs of our distinguished visitors - his reply was : " There are only ' 'tothersiders ' on this train " - the inference being that it was not customary to serve morning tea for them. Then, as I have stated, when we transferred to the Victorian train, the usual facilities for refreshment were not available to our distinguished visitors. The lack of these courtesies was not, I suggest, due to the probable cost, because we had been honored with the presence of a large number of representatives of foreign countries and other distinguished visitors, and Australians are well known for their lavish entertainment of their guests. In every other respect the arrangements for the comfort of our visitors was excellent ; but there was a definite lack of organization at the Canberra functions and I can only assume that it was due to carelessness or ignorance. I mention the matter now in the hope that, on future occasions when we may be similarly honored, there will not be a recurrence of these unfortunate if unintentional discourtesies. I have not the slightest idea who was responsible for the lack of attention to the foreign ambassadors. 
At all events the gentlemen to whom I refer were the accredited representatives of foreign governments, and as such should have had the usual courtesies extended to them. I do not know who was responsible for the muddle in the dining room at Canberra or on the train, but I hope that a similar mistake will not recur on any future occasion when we are again honored by a visit from some member of the Royal Family and the representatives of foreign countries. 
I direct the attention of the Government to a matter that is causing considerable concern in the State which I have the honour to assist to represent in this chamber. I refer to' the operation of Japanese sampans in North Queensland waters to which much publicity has been given in the Queensland newspapers as well as in those of the southern States. The reports state that large Japanese vessels, especially designed for pearl shell andbeche  de mer  fishing have been operating on the fishing grounds off the northern coast of Queensland, and that their presence is seriously interfering with the trade of Australian luggers engaged in that business. I understand that a prominent member of the Queensland Government has stated that a protest has been made without avail to the Commonwealth Government, and I think it should be definitely stated whether the Japanese samp ans are operating in 
Queensland territorial waters, or whether they are working in a neutral zone, and are, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Government. I am informed that, in addition to interfering with Australian vessels engaged in. that trade, the Japanese have done extensive damage to coco-nut plantations which were established on a number of the islands by the late  Sir Thomas  Mcllwraith, a former Premier of Queensland. These plantations are an extremely valuable asset, because on many occasions they have saved the lives of shipwrecked mariners cast ashore from vessels which had been lost in tho typhoons which are experienced in northern tropical areas. The cutting down of coco-nut trees for the purpose of getting the nuts is wanton destruction because, as is well known, they will not grow again, whereas if they are not interfered with, they will last for hundreds of years, and may be the means of succouring many other shipwrecked mariners. "We should have some definite information from the Government as to the position. The operations of these sampans are causing considerable alarm to the ' people in Northern Queensland, and, as 1 have explained, they are injuring the legitimate trade of our own luggers. Recently it was stated that, owing to the extensive nature of the work being done by these sampans, several Australian luggers have been tied up, and their employees paid off. If the sampans are operating in territorial waters over which the Commonwealth has jurisdiction, the position is serious. Requests have been made for the provision of a patrol boat or a seaplane as a precaution against intrusion by foreigners. I do not wish to exaggerate in any way the .alarm that is being caused to the people in North Queensland; but I strongly urge the Government to ascertain definitely whether the owners of these sampans are committing a breach of international law, and, if so, to take immediate steps to check them. 
Referring to the matter raised by  Senator Foll,  I remind the honorable senator that a question placed on the notice- paper by one of his colleagues from Queensland was answered by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  this afternoon. I shall have some further inquiries made from the External Affairs Department to ascertain if a more definite statement can be furnished to the honorable senator. The matter has been under the consideration of the Government for some considerable time, and I am aware that steps are being taken to keep a closer watch on these marauders, if they be marauders, in our northern waters. 
It is a matter of deep regret to the Government that anything, which could be construed as discourtesy, should have happened in connexion with the recent festivities in Canberra to mark the visit, of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester to this city. I regret that  Senator Guthrie  did not advise me of his intention to mention the matter on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate; had he done so I could have obtained some information from the officers concerned, who may be held responsible for anything that happened. But there are one or two matters about which I did hear something, and I can assure honorable senators that, so far as the seating arrangements at the top table were concerned, the order of precedence laid down was rigidly observed. It is possible, of course, that some honorable senators have forgotten that a number of visitors occupied prominent places at the table by reason of the distinguished services which they had previously rendered to the community. I say nothing as to that. As regards the gentleman whom we do not usually discuss in this chamber or the House of Representatives, the Chief Justice of Australia, I admit that a mistake was made, but not by any officer of the Prime Minister's Department, because the seating arrangements at the dinner were arranged by an officer of that department strictly in accordance with the order of precedence. Unfortunately, some one did not recognize the truth of the old Scotch saying,  "Where the MacPherson is, there's the head of the table," because, unfortunately, he startednumbering the table from the wrong end, and it is a matter of deep regret to the 
Government that such a mistake occurred. Apparently, the officer in charge did not have an opportunity to see to this matter, but immediately it was noticed a senior member of the Ministry endeavoured to rectify the mistake, and had the numbering of seats altered. I was a witness to that unfortunate incident, which was indeed painful, and I am sure we are all sorry that such a distinguished gentleman should have been unintentionally placed in an embarrassing position. I have not previously heard of any lack of attention to the consuls of the various countries, who were with us on that occasion. ' We always endeavour to show them the respect due to their high and honorable position ; but I would remind  Senator Guthrie  that consuls do not carry ambassadorial rank. If any discourtesy was shown to them by their not being suitably received in the precincts of the building, I very much regret it. 
I had not previously heard of any discourtesy to you, sir, to the Premier of Victoria, or to any member of the Senate. Perhaps it would have been better, from the viewpoint of social intercourse, had the seating arrangements been made in a somewhat different way; for instance members of the legislature might have been interspersed amongst the visitors. I know nothing concerning the train service; but of course after the train had left the Federal Territory this Government was not in any way responsible for the arrangements in connexion with it. The Government, which cannot accept any responsibility, regrets that these difficulties should have arisen. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
ask the Minuter representing the Attorney-General - (1) In view of the fact that the Lyons-Page Government refuses to allow Herr Kisch to land in Australia, and appears so fearful regarding the admission of any person of knownanti-war tendencies, will the Ministry warn the Government of New Zealand that at an early date a person who at one time was a leading figure on public platforms in Australia, and moved MayDay resolutions submitted underan organization flying the red flag, will leave Australia and attempt to enter the sister dominion? (2)Will the Government also advise the New Zealand Government that the name of this person, who was such a bitter opponent of war- 
Order! 
Order ! The honorable senator's question contains an expression of opinion which, he must know, is not allowed. I therefore ask him to alter his question in conformity with the Standing Orders. 
If the honorable senator is seeking information he must submit his question in the form prescribed by the Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, upon  notice - 
Can the Government inform the Senate when the reports of the Royal Commission on Wheat will be made available? 
Can the Government at this stage give any indication of its policy concerning the wheat industry, which, owing to the continued low price,is reported to be in a parlous condition? 
The following answer is supplied by the Minister for Commerce :  - 
The further report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry is expected almost immediately. 
The Government's policy will be determined and announced as soon as the royal commission's report is received. 
 Senator 
Sampson has asked a number of questions with reference to the staff dwellinghouse now being erected for the wireless broadcasting station at Kelso, Tasmania. Inquiries are being made, and replies will be furnished at an early date to the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Have representations been made recently to the Government of Great Britain in regard to the status of marriedwomen? 
If so, what was the nature of such representations, and has anyreply thereto been received? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers! - 
No. 
See answer toNo. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has any agreement been arrived at between the Australian and the British Governments regarding the restriction of meat export to Great Britain during the next two months? 
Will the Senate have an opportunity to discuss the matter? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The question of regulation of meat exports to the United Kingdom during the next few months is to be discussed on Monday, the19th November, by the Federal Meat Advisory Committee. The Government's policy will be guided by the advice of the committee. 
The result of the deliberations of the Meat Advisory Committee, and the action to be taken pursuant thereto, will be announced in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
In view of the great importance to Queensland of the proposed meat restrictions, is it a fact that the British Government is firmly convinced that,by means of restrictions of imports, or a levy on imported moot, it can benefit the British producers? 
Are the British farmers being subsidized this year at the British taxpayers' expense to the extent of £3,000,000? 
if the replies to the above questionsare in the affirmative, is not such an attitude in direct contravention of the principle enunciated in the Ottawa agreement that British producers or manufacturers should be given opportunity for reasonable competitionwith Australian manufacturing industries ? 
It appears that such is the case. 
It is understood that a subsidy is being paid to British beef producers by the British Government, and that the expenditure involved, during the period 1st July, 1934, to 31st March. 1835, is estimated at £3,000,000. 
No. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is primarily to authorize the borrowing of a net amount of £5,000,000 in order to provide employment and grant assistance to rural industries. The total sum set out in the bill is £5,050,000, the additional £50,000 being provided in order to cover discounts and the expense of borrowing. The £5,000,000 proposed to be raised is additional to the £1,000,000 for postal works already authorized by the Loan Act passed in August of this year, and represents the amount estimated to be required during the balance of the present financial year for implementing the Government's policy in regard to public works and rural relief. The Government is not yet in a position to place before Parliament full particulars of the ways in which the money is to be expended, and, therefore, thebill contains particulars only of £200,000 to be expended on additional telephone services. At a later date, a further measure will be introduced to obtain authority for spending the balance of £4,800,000. As honorable senators are aware, the Government is in consultation with various Commonwealth departments and the State Governments with a view to determining the manner in which the money can best be applied to the purposes already indicated. It is hoped that these proposals will be brought to finality in the near future, and that the Government will shortly be in a position to submit details of the appropriations desired. In the meantime, parliamentary approval for the raising of the loan money is necessary, as portion of the money will be included in the £15,000,000 loan which is to be raised for Commonwealth and State purposes. The 'bill is urgent since it is proposed to issue the new loan in Australia, and because market conditions are now favorable for the floating of the loan, the terms of which will be considerably more favorable to the Loan Council than those of recent issues, as market yields from Commonwealth securities have fallen steadily during the last three years. 
As was announced by the Assistant Treasurer last evening, the terms of the loan are as follow: - 
The new flotation will be for £15,000,000 and will be opened for subscriptions on Tuesday the 20th November. The loan will close not later than the 3rd December, but may be closed before that date. The proceeds will be used for Commonwealth and State public works and for the funding of treasurybills. Of the total amount, £12,250,000 will be used for public works and for relief and assistance to rural industries, and the balance of £2,750,000 for theredemption of treasury-bills. The terms of the loan have been unanimously approved by the Australian Loan Council. The nominal rate of interest will be 3 per cent. and the issue price will be £99 15s. per £100. The loan will have a currency of fourteen years, and the average annual yield to the investor over that period will be £3 0s. 5d. per cent. The conditions regarding taxation are the same as those applying to the previous four loans, but the securities of this loan will not be accepted in payment of Commonwealth estate duty. This latter condition is not expected materially to affect subscriptions to the loan, as persona desiring to make provision for payment of estate duty may purchase Commonwealth securities of several other issues on the market for that purpose. The prospectus will provide that, in the event of the loan being over-subscribed, partial allotment of application will be made. 
I shall be glad to give, in committee, any information desired by honorable senators. I emphasize that, at this stage, no appropriation isbeing made; the Government is merely seeking authority to borrow £5,050,000. 
.- I understand the desire of the Government to have this bill passed expeditiously, and I shall not unduly delay its passage. Although this measure seeks to authorize the borrowing of £5,050,000 that amount is merely a portion of a larger sum which is ultimately to be borrowed. But the proposal to borrow even so large a sum as £15,000,000 suggests that, after all, we are only tinkering with a grave situation. For several yearsAustralia,  in common with other countries, has been faced with the problem of the unemployment of a large proportion of its people, and although many proposals have been made for the amelioration of their conditions, their plight is still serious in the extreme. I understand that in this measure the Government is concerned chiefly with the re-absorption in industry of our unemployed men and women. This is a very serious problem, so serious indeed that I foreshadow that the effort now proposed by the Government will be but as  a  drop in a bucket in proportion to the endeavours which will ultimately be required of it - or  a  government that will necessarily replace it - to remove the evil conditions that have prevailed in Australia during the last three or four years. Prior to the depression governments borrowed huge sums of money that were expended principally on public works, and gave considerable employment. But the time came when we could not borrow further money, and the deplorable result waa that hundreds of thousands of our people were thrown out of employment. Conditions lately have been remedied to a certain extent so that the unemployment position to-day is not so grievous as it was even twelve months ago. Still the problem remains  a  serious one, and  I  support this bill for the reason that th&lt;? expenditure of the money will result in the employment of at least some additional men. To that extent I welcome the bill, but I warn the Government that moro effective proposals than this, or the further expenditure foreshadowed by the Postmaster-General, will be necessary. Neither I nor my .colleagues will be completely satisfied with proposals which go no further towards solving unemployment than those embodied- in this bill, and the related measures to .be submitted later. "We have repeatedly warned the Government that .drastic changes in government policy must be effected in order to deal with this problem. The remedies which the Labour party prescribes were indicated in the speeches made from this side of the Senate during the debate on the Address-in-Reply. The Government will have to consider seriously ;the shortening of the hours of labour, even if it has to give a lead to the world with such  a  policy. But it will not have to give a lead to the world, because during the last few days we have been informed by the newspapers that the recent election in the United States of Am erica was fought on an identical issue. In that country, which has a far greater population than our own, the people were faced with an unemployment problem similar to that existing in Australia, but they have a great leader in President Roosevelt, who boldly told them that the hours of labour would have to be reduced, even to thirty hours a week in order to enable their countrymen to get work. Seventy-five per cent, of the  American  people endorsed that proposal, as a means of re-absorbing their unemployed in industry. The Government of this country will have to take similar steps if it is to do anything to give permanent relief and establish industrial stability in this country. Great difficulties are involved in the solution of this problem. The Government will have to face many possibilities that will probably horrify a number of people. A 30-hour week is 'such a proposal. But why should Australians be afraid to do what their kinsmen in America have undertaken? And .there will be further problems to be met. Australians will have to realize their situation with respect to the load of debts. The national debts .of Australia and ether countries cannot .be paid while present conditions continue  io  operate. 
I have no desire .to delay the passage of this measure. I welcome it  as  an earnest of  what  I hope the Government will do .later along similar lines, following the promises it made at the election that it would evolve measures to employ every man in this country at reasonable rates of pay and for reasonable hours. If the Government is willing to carry out that promise, honorable senators on this side of the chamber will .not throw wrenches into the machinery. 
Endorsing the .remarks made hy my leader, I .point out to the Government that if it is sincerely desirous of grappling with the problem of unemployment, something much more far-reaching will have to be done than anything foreshadowed in this bill or its corrollaries which the Minister in charge of the  hill  has indicated will later  be  introduced  into tins chamber. The Government must recognize that the mere expenditure of loan money on public works of any nature whatever, or in the handing out of doles to primary industries or any other section of the community, cannot overcome the fact - of which if the Government is not aware, most of the thinkers of the world concentrating on the problem are aware - that when we have spent the available loan money, the people whom we ha?* put into temporary employment will again be unemployed; then wo shall again be faced with a similar position, only increased in intensity, because nothing fundamental has been done to relieve the position. That sums up tha difference between the policy of the Government and that advocated by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Wo say that there must be progressive reduction of hours and progressive increases of wages in order to cope permanently with the difficulties of the unemployed. It is very easy for us to sit here *nd pass this hill, but how many honorable senators have taken the trouble to calculate the additional load of interest that will be placed on the taxpayers of this country by the mere passing of legislation to authorize the borrowing of £15,000,000? The rate of interest on the proposed loan is 3 per cent. That means that the taxpayers of tha Commonwealth for every week of the fourteen years of the currency of this loan will have to pay an additional £8,654 in interest. Yet, yesterday we were told by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who was backed up by interjections from his supporters, that if we gave the old-age pensioners an additional 2s. 6d. a week it would not increase the purchasing power of the people, but would actually decrease it because the money would have to be raised by further taxation. Yet here we are proposing to saddle the taxpayers of Australia with an additional liability of £8,654 a week. 
I have no desire to protract the debate since I realize that the bill should be passed as speedily as possible; but I should like to refer to one or two pertinent points that have been raised by my leader  (Senator Barnes).  ' The constant borrowing of money and its haphazard expenditure by this Government are not taking us any nearer a solution of the problem of unemployment. I endorse the view expressed by my honorable leader in regard to the necessity for a reduction of the hours of labour. We have had recently in connexion with the Victorian Centenary celebrations a distinguished visitor in the person of  Mr. Malcolm  MacDonald, a son of the Prime Minister of England. In a recent speech he pointed out that the time was rapidly approaching when we should have to reduce the hours of labour to four a day. This Senate has reduced its labours not to four hours a day or 40 hours a week, But to 40 hours a year, and in that respect has set a splendid example to the rest of the community. It seems to me that if the work of the Senate is to continue to diminish it will not be very long before we shall be drawing our allowance without having to attend at Canberra at all. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator must not disparage "the House of which he is a member. 
-I am not doing so sir, rather am I expressing my admiration of the excellent example it has set. If the community generally but follows our example, we shall have no unemployment. 
The .Senate, on all occasions, devotes to the transaction of the business put before it whatever time is necessary. 
 Like other senators I have no desire to delay the passing of this bill, but it seems to me that certain issues that it raises should not be allowed to go without comment. If they are, it may be said that we joined in a conspiracy of silence, just as- complaint was made during an election campaign that a certain honorable senator had allowed a bill involving an expenditure of £5,000,000 to go through without uttering a word. My complaint to-day is that we have no information as to the way in which this money is to be spent. 
 Even so, the Senate is entitled to address itself to this measure since it involves the expenditure of a very large sum of money. The Government has not met the unemployed problem as it should have done. A noteworthy omission from the GovernorGeneral's Speech was the absence of any reference to a large and well considered scheme to absorb the unemployed. The present Government and others of the  6arne  colour have done nothing in that direction, and I venture to say that nothing will be done this side of Christmas. The question of the reduction of hours should certainly be tackled, as  President  Roosevelt has tackled it in the United States of America, with the object of making a change, in the industrial structure of the Commonwealth. The eighthours principle is obsolete; the hours of labour should be reduced to six, if not less, per day. As a means of improving present economic conditions, the age at which workers should be permitted to commence work should be fixed at eighteen or twenty, and retirement should be made compulsory at 55, thus helping to absorb the large number of young Australians who are out of work or on the dole. Although I do not support the policy enunciated by the advocates of the Douglas credit system, I was particularly struck with their suggestion, that old-age pensions should commence at 55. and if the pensioners did not then possess sufficient of this world's goods they should be paid a pension of at least 25s. a week. Such statements may have been regarded -by some as electioneering propaganda, but in Australia with our high powers of production it should be possible to operate under such a system and still avoid national bankruptcy. I deprecate the fact that the Government has failed to make sufficient money available to enable a substantial re-employment, scheme to be commenced and that it proposes to continue this uneconomic handtomouth system while hundreds of thousands of deserving men and women are out of work. 
I intend to oppose the bill, lock, stock and barrel. During the remainder of my term as a senator, I do not propose to assist to buttress up the unsound financial system which this Government supports in its vain endeavour to solve the unemployment problem in Australia. When this bill is passed, further huge sums of interest will be paid to banking institutions as their rake off. Even if the proposed loan mentioned by the Minister be a success, no benefit will accrue to the Australian people. Until there is a general reduction of hours and an increase of wages, and the monetizing and socialization of the banking system of Australia, the unemployment problem will remain as acute as it is to-day. The successful flotation of the loan will necessitate only a few entries being made in the banks' ledgers, but certain privileged persons in the community will increase their already substantial incomes. The introduction of this bill is another indication of the Government's inability to grapple with the unemployment problem. In practically every newspaper published to-day there are lengthy articles on the subject of economic nationalism, which is now being preached and practised in many countries. While the United States of America and other progressive countries have realized the necessity for dispensing with obsolete financial and industrial systems, the Government of this country adheres to a policy which must eventually lead to national bankruptcy. The vote I received at the last general election clearly demonstrated that there are 500,000 adults in New South Wales definitely opposed to a continuance of the present, patchwork financial policy, and for that reason I intend to oppose the bill. I do not intend to assist the Government to place hundreds of thousands of pounds in the hands of persons who do nothing to earn it. On Saturday last, when we celebrated Armistice Day, we were mopping our tears and licking our wounds in remembrance of those who sacrificed their lives on behalf of this nation; yet there are some to-day who challenge the right of the dependants of those men to earn a living. Although leading economists tell us almost daily that the only solution of the unemployment problem is a reduction of working hours and an increase of wages, this Government refuses to introduce such a reform, which could result only in benefit to those engaged in industry and in almost every other walk of life. The Government will not favour a re-organization of our financial system because that would be detrimental to the shareholders in the private banks. The fact that some portion of the amount will be used for the relief of unemployment while another portion will be required to meet Governmental obligations does not satisfy me. I am not prepared, with my vote, to patch up a financial system which I know to be wrong. 
I remind those honorable senators who owe allegiance to the various Labour parties in Australia that Labour Governments in Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia are parties to the arrangement for the borrowing of this money. All the pretty theories which honorable gentlemen preach about extracting money from the clouds and building up credits by means of book entries really mean nothing to practical men like leaders in the State Labour Governments, who, as members of the Loan Council, have given their approval to this arrangement. Not one constructive suggestion has been put forward by the honorable gentlemen opposite. All that they have said has been mere blatancy intended to tickle the ears  of  the groundlings, and does not get  us  anywhere. They have offered  no  practical proposal for the relief  of  those whomthey claim  tdo  represent. This is a practical measure designed  to  achieve results. I am obliged  to  honorable senators generally for the manner in which they have received the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read  a  second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause  1  agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Treasurer  may borrow  £5,050,000). 
.- Can the Postmaster-General inform  us of  the reason for the decision that securities issued in connexion with this loan will not be accepted in payment  of  estate duty! 
. -I have had inquiries made and have been informed that the privilege  of  tendering securities in payment  of  probate charges was first offered  as  an inducement  to  subscribers  of  war loans. That practice was continued in later issues, but  as  this is  a  proposal for  a  loan  at  a very low rate  of  interest, it is considered advisable, and in the interests  of  the Commonwealth and States, that the practice, should  be. discontinued.  All "future loans; will  be  issued  on  the understanding  that the  securities will not be accepted  in  payment  of  probate duty. 
Can the Postmaster-General tell me what is the price  of  treasury-bills, and what additional amount the Commonwealth will have  to  pay  as  the result  of  the conversion  of  treasury-bills amounting  to  £2,125,000 ? 
The present rateof interest on treasurybills is. 2 per cent.,but the Commonwealth Bank doesnot desire such  alarge  sum tobeoutstandingasexistsatpresent. 
SenatorBrown.-What explanation is offered for the altered policy  of  the  Com- monwealthBank with  regard  totreasury-  bills? 
-I understand thattheCommonwealthBank arranged; with the Loan Council for a refund of treasury-bills, equivalent to the combined deficits of the States for this year. This would account for the apparent discrepancy between the amount of treasurybills authorized in this measure as redeemable and the amount referred to by the honorable senator yesterday. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 - 
The amount borrowed shall be issued and applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for the purposes of appropriations madeor to be made by law. 
SenatorDUNN (New South Wales) [3.59].- I move- 
That after the word " the " second occurring, the following words be inserted: -" purpose of Australian unemployed and assistance to farmers." 
As a Labour senator, I wish to be consistent in my endeavours to help the people who need assistance. 
I suggest to the honorable senator that as this is not a measure to appropriate a sum other than the £200,000 mentioned, it would be more appropriate if he submitted his amendment when the other appropriations were being made. 
I do. not wish to run counter to the wishes of the Minister,but I think I understand the meaning of the King's English. Certainly, I know what should be done in the interests of the people whom I represent. On other occasions, the honorable senator's appeals to me have not fallen on deaf ears, but as this is a bill for an act to authorize the raising of a certain sum of money " and for other purposes, " I consider that I am fully justified in persisting with my amendment. The Postmaster-General has just told me that this hill appropriates only £200,000, and that the particulars are to he found in the schedule, but in my six years' experience of the Senate, I have learned that the ways of some governments are very mysterious. In this case there mightbe a " ring-in. "' 
The,  CHAIRMAN (Senator Herbert Hays).-Order! 
I say this with no intention to offend the Minister. At all events I as a Labour senator, intend  to press ray amendment, the purpose of which is to provide assistance for Australian unemployed and farmers. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
Can the Postmaster-General furnish any particulars of the proposed expenditure of £200,000 ? 
.  - The Postal Department anticipates that of the amount of £200,000, £125,000 will he required for telephone exchange services, and £75,000 for trunk line services. The increased amount of £125,000 is due to the growth in demands for telephone connexions which has considerably exceeded expectations. There are indications that the figures for the year will reach the peak results obtained prior to the depression. The estimates for 1934-5 were framed on the assumption that new telephone connections would reach34,000 lines and 45,000 stations. It is now clear that the new connections will substantially exceed 50,000 lines and 60,000 stations. The additional amount required is due to the need for expansion, and to some extent is due to unavoidable delay in completing certain trunk works at the end of last year. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I desire, first, to congratulate the Government upon the formation of a composite Ministry consisting of men from hoth Houses of Parliament who, I feel sure, will combine to render good service to this country. A composite government hadto come, because the original Lyons Government did not contain even one primary producer ; and as this country is almost entirely dependent upon primary production, it was anomalous that there should be in office a government which did not contain one representative of the great industries upon which the stability of the country rests. I am glad that that position has been rectified, and I wish the new Government well. 
One paragraph in the GovernorGeneral's Speech calls attention to the fact that during the last two years Australia, the Mother Country, and other parts of the British Empire, have made rapid strides towards financial recovery, and an improvement of the position in regard to employment. Australia is indeed fortunate to be a full partner in that great commonwealth of free nations known as the British Empire, living under the Union Jack and owning allegiance toHis Majesty the King. Looking around Europe, we find chaos in Russia under dictatorship, and even worse conditions in some respects in 
Germany under the dictatorship there; the dictatorship in Italy appears to have been more successful. The great democracy of the United States of America is also virtually under a dictatorship; and although that country possesses most of the gold of the world, and is supposed to have benefited from the world war, conditions there are by no means happy. Nowhere in the worldis the government of the people more democratic, or the financial position more sound, than in the various portions of the British Empire where constitutional government and true democracy are to be found. During the last few years, Australia has made remarkable progress towards economic recovery. Not many years ago Australian bonds of a nominal value of £100 were quoted at as low as £60, whereas to-day all government securities are above par. Our credit stands high to-day because Australia has played the game and honoured every pledge it has made. Twice within three years its people have rejected proposals for  th8  socialization of industry and banking. Our reputation is high because we have acted constitutionally, and have followed the straight and honest path. During difficult times the masses of the people have acted magnificently; like the leaders of the nation, they have stood up to their obligations and played the game of life manfully and well. Other nations have witnessed upheavals, and many of them bloodshed ; but although, at one period, nearly one-third of the people of Australia were unemployed, and consequently living on or below the breadline, there was no great industrial disturbance and no bloodshed whatever. Wo should be thankful that wo have emerged from the dark days of the depression with an unsullied name. I attribute the character of the Australian people to some extent to their sporting instincts. We are a nation of sportsmen, and have learned to apply the lessons learned on the playing field to our national affairs. Where true sportsmanship exists the growth of communism, or other " isms " whose object is the pulling down of constitutional methods of government, is not encouraged. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Although I agree with most of the Governor-General's Speech, I am not altogether in favour of that paragraph in it which suggests that unemployment will be further reduced by the expenditure of money on works to be undertaken by the Government. Australia is almost entirely dependent on primary production for its wellbeing. To our primary producers we look for our food and clothing, and for the creation of that wealth which will establish credits in other parts of the world to meet our interest commitments. Moreover, our primary industries provide the greatest amount of employment for our people. I am confident that our unemployment problem will rapidly disappear if only we can find profitable markets for our produce. Australia can produce almost to perfection many of the things which other countries can produce; but our great difficulty is that production costs are such that our produce cannot be sold at a profit in the very low world's markets of to-day. We should bend our energies  towards  reducing costs. 
No. World conditions are such that it behoves us to take steps to lower the costs of production. I hope that the honorable senator will not infer that I am in favour of lower wages; I am not. In the production of our greatest staple product, wool, wages do not enter into costs so much as taxation, tariffs, and consequent high freights. Sheep-breeding is our greatest industry, and I ask the Government, instead of  borrowing money to  expend on public buildings and the construction and alteration of railways, few of which, if any, are paying in competition with other modern means of transport, to encourage private enterprise and reduce taxation in order to help us to lower the cost of producing those great primary commodities for which Australia is noted, and upon which the Commonwealth and, indirectly, all Australians live. Those passages of the Governor-General's Speech which suggest that money is to be expended on buildings and railways are not to my liking. But there is a portion of that speech which I endorse entirely - 
My Government wishes to express to all primary producers the indebtedness of the nation for the manner in which they have, despite low price-levels, continued to maintain, and in many industries, substantially increase, the measure of their production and export. As far as lies within its power and resources, the Government will continue and enlarge its policy of aid to rural industry until such time as marketing results show considerable improvement. 
The reasoning in that passage is very sound and there is another paragraph which I think summarizes the whole position of this young democracy of Australia, which I emphasize again, is a country of primary production. Being blessed by advantages of soil and climate, it is capable of producing everything from tropical fruits in the north to the English type of fruits and berries in tha south, as well as the best wool and wheat iti the world, also splendid butter, lamb and other meat. 
No; I am advocating a reduction of taxation. The second passage of the Governor-General's Speech, to which I was referring, reads - 
The satisfactory sale of our surplus primary produce is the index to the prosperity of every Australian industry and business and of all sources of employment. 
With that view I agree entirely. Over a period of from ten to twenty years our primary products were responsible for 97 per cent, of the total value of the goods exported from Australia each year. Whilst all our primary products are of the best quality - Australia excels in respect of sheep and wool - it is worth while to emphasize, in order to impress the facts upon the public, the great majority of whom are resident in the bigger cities of Melbourne and Sydney, that our sheep industry, over a period of years, has been responsible' for 50 per cent, of the total value of our exports. Australia occupies a unique position in the wool industry. It depastures more sheep than any other country and produces the best wool, as statistics impressively demonstrate. On this island continent we depasture 16 per cent, of the world's sheep; in weight we produce 27 per cent.; and in money value, 32 per cent, of the world's wool. These figures show conclusively that, owing to favorable natural conditions and the foresight of Macarthur and Marsden, and the pioneers who followed them, Australia's average yield of wool per sheep is twice the value of the average per sheep for the rest of the world, although, of course, not twice the value of the yield per sheep in such countries as New Zealand, South Africa, and, possibly, America. These figures show conclusively how efficiently this industry is being conducted, and how lucky our nation has been in inheriting a continent suitable for depasturing all kinds of stock, which are practically immune from contagious diseases, even those diseases which afflict stock in many other parts of the British dominions. For the year ended the 30th June last the sheep industry produced in value 57 per cent. of the total exports of merchandise from Australia. That fact emphasizes the preponderating importance of this industry. A lot of people ask, "What does that matter?", inferring that most of this income goes to sheep barons  called  squatters, and that the money is monopolized by a few. But that is not so; there are in Australia 89,000 families dependent for their livelihood on sheep husbandry, as compared with 64,000 families dependent on the wheat industry, whilst the average size of the flocks in Australia is only about. 1,300 per flock master. Thus, a rise or fall in the price of wool directly affects a vast number of people, and, of course, affects indirectly every man, woman and child in this Commonwealth, as well as the government of this country. 
Although Australia easily leads the world in the growing of wool, the industry has been built up in a little over 100 years from the time 
VT.acartb.ur sold bis first wool in London, from the time he bought his sheep from a  Mrs. Gordon  in South Africa, and from the time he attended the sale of King George's flock at Kew. The purchases Macarthur then made there laid the foundation of the wool-growing industry in Australia. The pioneers who came after him carried on his work magnificently. Personally, I am proud of the fact that Australia's wool industry leads the world, not because I am connected with it, but because I realize that it is the one industry in Australia that has never asked for or received any form of government assistance, directly or indirectly. 
I come now to a more pessimistic phase of the subject. The Government to-day proposes to spend a large amount of money on public buildings. Prom the speech made by the Leader of the Senate we are to infer that, economically, we are out of the wood and round the corner. However, I fear that, owing to the distressingly low world prices for primary produce, we still have a difficult time ahead of us. Therefore, we should shape our national and individual policies accordingly, realizing that we may still have need to tighten our belts, and concentrate all our energies on increasing our efficient production and lowering the costs. This country literally rides upon the sheep's back; but this year the marketing conditions for wool have not been as satisfactory as we could hope. During the ten years prior to the war, the average price of Australian greasy wool was  9½d.  per lb. For the next ten years that average increased to l7id. per lb., the average for the 30 years ending 1930, omitting the four years in which Bawra operated., being  12½d.  .per lb. For the year ended the 30th June, 1930, the price was  10½d.  per lb., and for the next three years the average dropped to 8£d. These prices are gross at seaboard. Then last year, for reasons that are not quite clear, even to those engaged in the industry, we experienced a boom, and our total receipts from wool sales increased by £20,000.000, the average price realized being 16.19d. per lb. So far this year, however, the average price has been only 9£d. per lb., so that we are back to the pre-war level and little above the depression prices from 1930 to 1933. From those prices the producer has to deduct Id. per lb. for transport and selling charges. To-day the sterling price of our wool is as low as 7/d. per lb., whilst some countries operating on the gold standard pay only the equivalent of 4f d. per lb. These are distressingly low prices. Nevertheless, the statistical position of wool is very strong. There is no real accumulation of stocks in the world. There is no over-supply, but temporarily there is under-consumption. The Government might do something to encourage and help those nations who are willing to buy our wool but are unable to do so. This phase of the problem 1 shall deal with more fully when discussing the tariff schedule. There is, however, one bright ray of hope. The low prices now ruling tend to make more difficult the marketing of substitutes for wool. Until recently Germany was our second largest customer for wool, buying from 600,000 to 700,000 bales per annum; but Germany's place has now been taken by Japan. The reason for Germany's custom failing is that it has been unable to arrange credit here for the purchase of wool- 
Not to any extent. Much of the wool reported to have been bought for Germany has been bought for speculators by a German firm and for exchange purposes. Recently German scientists have manufactured from wood, &amp;c, an imitation wool which is the best I have yet seen. It is called  "Vistra"  and the German people are being forced to use this imitation material in place of wool. The wealthier Germans are using in place of wool material which is composed of 50 per cent.  "Vistra"  which can be spun even finer than wool, and 50 per cent, natural wool, whilst the poorer classes are using "  Vistra  " entirely. Thank goodness, however, science has not yet been able to invent any artificial material which is the equal of natural wool for the clothing of mankind. As we all know, wool makes the best of all clothing, and is the most economical in the long run. Wool is a non-conductor of heat, and is non-inflammable. It is more elastic, retains a dye better than any other material, is stronger,  will take a greater strain, and retain its shape better than either artificial materials or cotton goods. Quite recently, the medical profession has again expressed the view that it is far more hygienic than any other article of human clothing. 
Coming to the question of production costs, let me say at once that 1 do not advocate lower wages in the industry. The shearer, the station hand, and the farm hand well earn their money, and iri production costs wages are not nearly so important a factor as are taxes, freight and tariffs. I object most strongly to the federal graduated land tax. It was imposed by the Fisher Government in 1910 with the avowed object of " bursting up," as it was called, large estates, which, it was considered by certain people, were not being put to the most profitable use from a developmental, population, employment, and, indeed, a national point of view. There is no necessity, however, for such a tax, because private owners are only too willing to subdivide and sell any of their properties that are suitable for closer settlement. It is absurd .to tax properties on an acreage basis upon the assumption that all lands would be more profitable to the people as a nation if cut into small blocks and used for purposes other than the production of wool. Wool-raising requires comparatively large areas. Merino wool cannot be grown successfully on small blocks. I repeat that the graduated land tax is most objectionable. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  has  publicly stated that he realizes that land cannot be taxed into productivity, but that it can be taxed out of productivity. In the first instance, the Lyons Government reduced the tax by 33 per cent., and later on made a further reduction of 17 per cent., or 50 per cent, in all. Wool-growers M the present time are paying two-fifths of that taxation. ! call upon the Government to honour the promise made by  Mr. Lyons,  both before and during the recent election campaign, that, as soon as the budgetary position warranted it, the land tax, which was un-British, undemocratic, and uneconomic, would be abolished. What is the use of applying this tax to city lands ? One cannot cut up a small block of 10 or 20 feet. 
The amount raised by means of the tax is now £1,250,000 annually, and of that amount two-fifths are paid by the wool-growers, who have to sell their produce in the unsheltered markets of the world which to-day are much below production cost. The imposition of this tax increases the cost of living when applied to city areas. If a shopkeeper has to pay a higher rent because of the imposition of this tax, he must naturally charge more foi- the commodities, that he sells, and so the cost of living is affected. This undemocratic impost is, in the case of the primary producer, an annual tax on capital. His land comprises five-sixths of his capital, so that the tax itself is neither more nor less than a yearly class impost upon capital. It is also an attack upon Crown titles. When people purchased Crown lands, and obtained their title deeds, they did not anticipate that such a tax as this would be applied to take precedence over everything. 
If it were removed, the money now swallowed up by the federal land tax would be used by the primary producers in making necessary improvements to their holdings. They would erect fences, excavate tanks, destroy noxious weeds and animals, and engage in other works which they have had to neglect owing to shortage of funds. 
Quite so. If the money which now has to be found for the payment of land tax were available for maintenance and improvements, more employment would lie offering. Every member of this Parliament deplores the fact that about 20 per cent, of our people are still unemployed, and anything we can do to increase employment should be done without delay. Employment in our primary industries would be definitely increased by the abolition of this undemocratic tax. 
I do not think that, any further taxation would bo  necessary. The Government, boasts of a big surplus and indeed has been remitting taxation. It has been restoring salary cuts and even part of the reduction of the allowance to members has been made good, so that I think it is in a position to abolish the Federal land tax without fear of disturbing its budgetary equilibrium. I have dealt so often with this matter, that I need not weary honorable senators with details. But I call upon the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  to honour his pledge. I was  chairman  of a deputation, representing 68 organizations, which waited on him two years ago, when he said that he realized that the tax was unsound - that we could not tax land into productivity but could tax it out of productivity- and that at the first opportunity the Government would remove this burden. As soon as the Government could balance the budget, he declared, the tax would be removed. Since the Government has balanced its budget and made many restorations, I call upon the Prime Minister and his Cabinet to honour his pledge without further delay. 
I am very glad that it has done so. It was about time that the primary producers, who keep us all, were represented in the government of the Commonwealth. A committee appointed by the Commonwealth showed that the land tax added 12 per cent, to the cost of producing wool and there are other great primary industries which also have to bear this burden. The wool-grower, although suffering great disabilities, is not complaining. He is fighting on and has improved his flocks to such an extent that this year we have reached the record of 120,000,000 sheep, while our production in wool will amount to about 3,250,000 bales, equal to over 1,000,000,000 lb. That is a record for this and every other nation, and one of which we should be proud. 
What is the position in regard to other primary products ? Take the meat industry. Beef, at seaboard, is worth from 2-Jd. to 3d. per lb., ewe mutton 2£d. per lb., wether mutton 3d. to  3½d.  per lb., and tallow from £17 to £20 a ton. I am taking the Australian average. All these prices are definitely below production costs. The Commonwealth stands very high, not only in wool production, but in the production of wheat. We produce up to 250,000,000 bushels of wheat per annum, and I noticed recently that Australian wheat had been selling in the Liverpool market at as high if not a higher price than that realized by Manitoba No. 1. Australian dry white wheats are now classified as the most valuable per bushel of any that are produced. There are 64,000 families directly interested in wheat production, the cost of which is not less than 10s. per bag, or 3s. 4d. per bushel. That is a very moderate estimate. Last March, unfortunately, I sold wheat produced by my excellent ex-soldier share-farmers in Riverina at 2s. per bushel in bags, delivered at the railway station. I have been endeavouring to ascertain what are the prospects for the coming season and to-day I received a quotation of ls. lid. a bushel in bags delivered at Rand railway station - a hopeless price. Something must be done for the wheat-growers. It is useless to brush them 'aside with a dole at Christmas time. Last year before they could receive that dole, they had to prove that they had no income. I know that mine has not yet come to hand. In any event, the system is altogether wrong. In all parts of the Empire, the dole for the relief of unemployment has been in operation since the war, but it is a very bad principle, and should be avoided. It is utterly demoralizing. It undermines a man's character and ambitions; it undermines the morale of a nation, and the sooner it can be superseded by some other system and the people put in employment, the better. The Labour party suggests a reduction of the hours of labour, and I do not know that we shall not have to face up to that proposal. I do not propose to brush it lightly aside because that alteration might be the means of providing more people with employment, which would be more economical than providing dole money by further taxing certain sections of the community which already are so heavily overtaxed that enterprise is retarded. To-day there are hundreds of thousands of young men in the Old Country and in Australia who have never had an opportunity to prove their worth in any sphere of activity. In the northern counties of England,  young  men who cannot obtain work can e seen leaning against lamp-posts day after day, and have reached the stage when they regard themselves as useless units in the community. Under present economic conditions, they have no opportunity to develop their talents or to prove their worth in producing any commodities. I am willing to discuss the subject of shorter hours with any one possessing knowledge of the effect of such a policy upon industry,, and although an offspring of an old conservative family which probably would have regarded any one supporting such a scheme as a heretic, I am open to conviction. 
A home consumption price for wheat is essential in the interests of the Australian wheat-growers. The suggestion to assist wheat-farmers by means of further doles is repulsive to me. A fixed price for wheat consumed locally, such as we have for sugar, butter, dried fruits, and other commodities, would overcome most of the difficulties with which the wheat-growers are now confronted. The stabilization of the butter industry saved those engaged in the production of butter from ruin, and if similar help is not afforded to the wheat-growers, the industry must collapse. It is impossible for wheat-growers to continue selling their product at ls. lid. to 2s. Id. a bushel delivered at country stations when that figure is at least 'ls. a bushel below the actual cost of production. 
About 5s. 6d. a bushel. As about one-quarter of our wheat is consumed in Australia, the fixation of a reasonable price would not. be a great hardship on our people. We know from experience that the price of wheat has very little effect upon the cost of a loaf of bread. In my own district, when we were selling wheat at 2s. a bushel we were paying ls. for a 4-lb. loaf, whereas we were only paying lOd. or ls. for a 4-lb. loaf when wheat was 7s. 6d. a bushel. In New Zealand the price of wheat last year was 4s. 6d. a bushel at country railway stations, bags extra, yet a 2-lb. or a 4-lb loaf was selling at a lower price than it was in Australia, where wheat was bringing only half the price. Why should the Queensland sugar-growers abstract from the Australian public a sum which has been estimated by some as high as £7,000,000 annually, while others engaged in more important industries do not receive any consideration at all? A fixed price of 4d. per lb. which Australian sugar consumers pay does not seriously hurt any one, but those who believe in a fixed price for sugar and dried fruits and a stabilized butter industry should not object to wheat-growers receiving a home consumption price for their product. On behalf of the Australian wheat-growers, I demand that the Government shall fix a home consumption price for wheat sufficiently high to return to the growers the cost of production, which is not less than 10s. a bag, or 3s. 4d. a bushel at country railway stations. No definite proposals have been made with respect to a fixed price, but it should be between 5s. 6d. and 7s. a bushel. The price should be sufficiently high to compensate those producers who are living in comparative poverty, while others who are not rendering any real service to the community are prosperous. The wheat-growers should have, at least, a living wage. 
As a nation of primary producers which has to sell the bulk of its produce in the open markets of the world we should enter into trade agreements whereby our wool and other primary products can compete with those of other nations whose taxation and wages are lower than ours. To-day the rail and ocean freights on wool are excessive. When I first entered the wool industry the freight on wool from Australia to London was  ¼d.  per lb., but to-day it is l-3/16d. or an increase pf over 400 per cent. The freight to London from South Africa is f d. and from Argentina 3/16d. Those countries are our great competitors. 
The cost of production must be lowered by a reduction of taxation and freights, or by the imposition of lower custom duties on commodities essential to primary production. A more definite attempt must be made to encourage intra-empire trade instead of engaging in trade with countries such as the United States of America, with which we have an adverse trade balance. That country will not purchase our wool, meat, fruits, and other commodities, and, in fact, has practically prohibited the importation of any Australian goods. 
Through other channels. Germany, which is still a great nation, was our second largest wool customer and still wishes to buy that commodity but cannot do so because credits cannot be established. Why should we not exchange our wool, wheat, butter, and meat for German products which we cannot obtain from Great Britain and which we are now purchasing from America ? If we purchased German goods,Germanywouldpurchaseourwool. 
Germany,and,toalesserextent,Italy, arealmostentirelyoutofourwoolmar- ket. Belgium will not purchase Australian barley because of the assinine embargo placed upon Belgian glass. When the Scullin Government was in power it imposed 70 embargoes, but I am glad to say that since that Government was defeated, 69 of those embargoes have been lifted. An embargo is still placed upon Belgian glass merely because glass is produced by a combine in New South Wales. Statistics show that the average rate of duty imposed on dutiable imported commodities is 52 per cent. to which must be added 25 per cent. for exchange, freight, insurance, and primage. In these circumstances, I again appeal to the Government to remove the federal land tax, and to do everything possible to reduce the cost of producing primary commodities so that Australia may be enabled to compete with other nations in the markets of the world. Unless we can export our produce at a profitable price, how can employment be provided for our people? It is the policy of the Government to Iborrow money for the construction of railways and post offices, but that will not prove a, permanent means of providing employment - quite the reverse. The Government must so amend its policy as to ensure that Australia, which is essentially a primaryproducing nation, will be able to sell its products in competition with other nations in the unsheltered world markets. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct attention to a matter which my colleague from Queensland  (Senator Collings)  discussed at some length yesterday. I refer to the statements, contained in a document which subsequently was laid on the table of the Senate, alleging that an organization known as the Australian Legion was operating in New South Wales and in Queensland. As so much publicity has been given to the allegation, it is desirable that further information should be obtained from the Government as to the facts. The Senate and the people generally are indebted to  Senator Collings  for having directed attention to the fact that, according to the information in his possession, there is in existence in Australia an unlawful organization, the members of which are armed. I have read the report carefully. I do not know who is responsible for it, but I understand that the document was presented to the Government of Queensland, probably at its request, and I should like to know if any action has been taken by the Defence authorities, who alone are responsible for the maintenance of an armed force, except, of course, members of State police forces. One paragraph of the report makes this serious statement - 
During the last six months rifles had been sold to the public from the Brisbane military ordnance stores in large quantites, only six transactions being recorded. 
I have yet to learn that it is the policy of the Defence Department to sell rifles to the general public. The rifles are intended primarily for the defence of the Commonwealth. 
It is extraordinary that a branch of the Defence Department should be selling rifles freely. I give  Senator Collings  credit for having mentioned the matter yesterday in all good faith. If the statements contained in the document are true, action should be taken by the Government to curtail the operations of this alleged unlawful body. I am just as anxious as is  Senator Collings  or any other honorable senator to support the Government in any action which may be deemed necessary to put down any organization seeking to disrupt law and order and bring about a state of affairs unprecedented in the history of Australia. 
Unfortunately no name is attached to the document. 
It is a typewritten copy of a document which  Senator Collings  stated yesterday was an official re- port, supplied, I assume, to the Queensand Government. 
 Senator Collings  assured us that it was a copy of an official report. 
That is what I wish to ascertain. The statements contained in it indicate that it is of recent origin. 
I do not care to whom it refers. The point is that it contains serious allegations which no government can afford to ignore. Action should be taken immediately to test the accuracy of the statements. I, therefore, hope that the Government will, without delay, take steps to ensure that if organizations of the nature described are in existence, they shall not be allowed to continue in operation. 
I do not know if  Senator Foll  expects me to make a further statement regarding the matter which he has just mentioned. The document from which I quoted yesterday was laid on the table of the Senate, but I was not aware that it would be handed to the press. However, I have not the least objection to that course, but if  Senator Foll  or any one else expects me to make a further statement disclosing the origin of the report, he is doomed to disappointment, because I have no intention whatever of doing that. The suggestion of my honorable friend,  Senator MacDonald,  that the whole business is probably a mare's nest is both unkind and unwarranted. I am not in the habit of using, in this chamber or anywhere else, documents of doubtful origin. 
It was, and what surprises me most is  Senator Foil's  amazing innocence on the subject. Every one in New South Wales who has taken any interest in this matter knows that the New Guard was in possession of arms, and that it was secretly drilling its members. I have personal knowledge that members of the New Guard were not known to one another except by numbers ; and that they were accustomed to receive telephone messages at their homes or places of business advising them where they were expected to assemble at night in Sydney to go through certain evolutions and receive specific instructions. 
I am aware of that. It is well known that the Australian Legion was for some time functioning in the northern part of Queensland. Reports concerning it appeared in the public press, so the honorable senator should have been aware of its activities. I am of the opinion, but I do not intend to state definitely until I verify my information, that official action was taken .with regard to this organization in Queensland. I also believe that the Government would have been wise to make a similar investigation with regard to Kisch, whose exclusion from Australia was under discussion yesterday, when I took occasion to mention the subversive activities of existing organizations in this country. I believe that in Queensland - I shall ascertain definitely before I make a statement later - the Government decided to take no public action against the organization referred to, but that official steps effectively checked operations of the Australian Legion in that State. It is common knowledge that there are, or were until a few months ago, subversive organizations operating in New South Wales and Queensland. I understand, however, that members having fallen out among themselves, the New Guard is on the point of being disbanded. 
It is a copy of an official report. 
That information will not be extracted from me by any member of this chamber or any other authority. I have no intention whatever of disclosing the source of the report,  first  because I do not wish to involve my informant, and, secondly, because I shall always defend the privilege enjoyed by a member of Parliament of using in the legislature information which cannot be challenged by outside interests that may be damaged by it. There is no tribunal in this country which can get from me the source of my information. But I tell the Senate that I know that the statements contained in the document are true; that I know where the document originated. I repeat that every one who takes any interest in this subject knows perfectly well that subversive organizations were in existence in New South Wales; that retired military officers were in control of them, and were directing their semi-military operations. In 1931, when I was organizing in New South Wales against the Lang paTty, it was well known that such destructive agencies were then at work - one being the New Guard, and the other the Labour Bed Army. Every one knew this. I saw members of both organizations wearing their membership badges. Every one knew also that in the early part of 1931 a physical clash between these rival bodies was hourly expected in Sydney. I brought this matter up for discussion at a conference in which I was interested, but which had no power to take action. It would seem that I am becoming somewhat enthusiastic or heated over this matter. Perhaps this is because there seems to be a suggestion that I made my protest in this chamber .yesterday without knowing exactly what I was talking about. As a matter of fact, the allegations contained in the documents laid on the table of the Senate have, at different times, appeared in the principal newspapers of Queensland. I should have thought that  Senator Foll  had seen them, although I do not blame him if he has not. At all events, the facts were published, and received a good deal of attention in both the Labour and antiLabour newspapers. 
I mentioned the subject yesterday because I know that any government relying on force, will never take action against subversive organizations other than those which happen to be acting in the alleged interests of the working classes. I do not believe in force. Therefore, I do not believe that such organizations should be allowed to exist. In another place and on another occasion I urged that steps should be taken to prevent such organizations from obtaining a footing* in Australia. I mentioned the subject in the Senate yesterday as a protest against the action of the Government with reference to the man Kisch to prevent by force the operations of people with whose objectives it is entirely out of sympathy, while it tacitly acquiesces in the operations of other more dangerous and subversive forces that are carrying on a campaign with which, obviously, it is in sympathy. I am glad that  Senator Foll  has given me this opportunity to explain my views, because yesterday I did not think that the matter was worth discussing further. I then made the charge that subversive organizations were at work, and that the Government, while not prepared to suppress those which it had reason to believe would advance its interests, was quick to deal with others which it believed would operate to its disadvantage. I shall not say more than that should either the Department of Defence or 

 Senator Foll desire my assistance in dealing with this matter, I shall be happy to do what I can to help. 
If the remarks of  Senator Collings  had reference to me, because of some questions which I asked by way of interjection, I can only say that the report of the honorable senator's speech in the local newspaper was not convincing. It is a serious thing for an honorable senator to stand in his place in this chamber and say that subversive organizations exist in our midst, and that they are equipped with guns, when, perhaps, the whole thing is nothing more than a joke, like Eric Campbell and his New Guard. If we continue to talk about communism and fascism, we shall foster the very things which we do not want, and which have been foreign to Australia so far. I know that rumours about the existence of subversive organizations are current; but an honorable senator should hesitate before giving publicity to these rumours by directing attention to them in the Parliament of the Commonwealth. "When I asked questions about the document referred to by  Senator Collings,  I was told that it was typewritten. In my time, I have had before me many documents; but, unless their contents have been authenticated, at least by an indication of their authorship, I have taken little notice of them. 
The honorable senator was unable to mention the author's name. I am reminded of an occasion on which an honorable senator opposite made serious charges against an officer of the Customs Department; but had to retract them later. 
In that case, he would have been wiser had he not made the charges. He was told so at the time. If we get excited because of rumours of communism or bolshevism in our midst, we shall encourage their growth. A few years ago, Eric Campbell was a good deal in the public mind, because of publicity given in the pres9 to the doings of the New Guard, but when, on one occasion, I travelled with him throughout the night, I was so little afraid of him that I slept soundly. Although  Senator Dunn  has on many occasions said that Eric Campbell and the New Guard constitute a grave menace to this country, the Federal Labour movement has done nothing likely to arouse armed opposition on the part of any such body, and, consequently, I am not alarmed when I hear charges made against the New Guard. The less prominence given to the activities of the " Blue Shirts ", the " Brown Shirts ", or other shirted  organizations, the less likely will be the development of Fascism and Bolshevism in Australia. 
I shall not condemn  Senator Collings  for having brought before the Senate the dangers confronting Australia from Fascism, because one of his Queensland colleagues  (Senator MacDonald)  has already condemned him. 
 Senator MacDonald  condemned the honorable senator for having produced in the Senate a document, the authorship of which he would not disclose. On the occasion of the election of a  President  of the Senate about two and a half years ago, when I attempted to draw attention to the ramifications of the New Guard, and supported my remarks by sworn affidavits, no member of the Senate was more violent in his denunciation of me and of my colleague,  Senator Rae,  who supported my remarks, than was  Senator Collings.  The chickens have come home to roost, and to-day  Senator Collings  indulged in an oratorical outburst, in the course of which he told us that in Queensland, where a Labour government is in control, there is a danger of Fascism or New-Guardism.  The honorable senator is honoured in that the  Canberra Times,  probably the leading newspaper of the Commonwealth because it is the only newspaper published in the Federal Capital, has given him a front page advertisement, while a distinguished Sydney newspaper, the  Labor Daily,  has similarly honoured him by devoting nearly a full column to his remarks. Our friends in the press gallery understand the value of news. One authority has told us that the biting of a man by a dog is not news, whereas the biting of a dog by a man would be news. Apparently there is news in anything relating to Fascism. I have a profound respect for  Senator Collings,  whose hair has grown white in the service of his fellow men, but the honorable senator may not know that Fascism had its origin far back in the times of ancient Rome. If the honorable senator studies books in the Parliamentary Library dealing with the subject, he will learn that in the time of the Caesars,  capitalism was buttressed by Fascism in the same way as it is to-day. 
When I attempted, over two years ago, to tell the country about that organization,  Senator MacDonald  was one of those who tried to prevent me. I refer him to  Hansard  of the 23rd August, 1932, for my remarks on that occasion. To-day,  Senator Collings,  in reply to a remark by the Government Whip,  Senator Foll,  said that at one time he organized against the Lang group. The honorable gentleman lias his point of view, but he himself has told us that there are forces of capitalism operating through the Fascist Brown Shirts in Queensland, who are armed with machine guns, which they are prepared to use against the workers' government of that State. We have also the honorable gentleman's own admission that he found in New South Wales organized against each other the New Guard on the one hand and what he called the red army of the Labour party on the other hand. It does not redound to the credit of  Senator Collings  that he has done organizing work against the Lang party in New South Wales. When he realizes the full import of that admission, perhaps he will be sorry for having made it. Whilst I have known  Senator Collings  in this House for only two and a half years, he was my mentor when I attended the youth student classes in economics which he conducted under the auspices of the Trades and Labour 
Council in Turbot-street, Brisbane. At that time 1 was under twenty years of age, but on many occasions he was proud to commend me as an example to hia class, which was composed of  members  of various trade union organizations in Brisbane. The honorable gentleman stated this afternoon that there were two forces opposed to each other operating in New South Wales - the New Guard, representing the Tory conservative element, and led by Eric Campbell, and the Red Army, which was prepared to take up the challenge of the New Guard and its political thugs. I am very surprised that  Senator Collings,  one of my early mentors, should admit that he worked in New South Wales as an organizer against the Lang party. Whether the Lang party is right or wrong - to me it will always be right; - I was grieved to hear  Senator Collings  boast of his opposition to it. The Lang party was prepared to combat the New Guard or any force which should attempt to march to Macquarie-street  lock the doors of the State Parliament of New South Wales, and hurl out of office a government whose duty it was to maintain law and order in accordance with the King's law. Akin to  Senator Collings'  criticism in this matter is the newspaper propaganda which sought to lionize " the Cromwell of the Riverina,"  Senator Hardy,  when that honorable gentleman .proposed to march from the Riverina at the head of 10,000 farmers, using threats against constituted authority similar to those expressed by the New Guard. Having as a member of the Senate taken the oath of allegiance, I shall certainly resist any efforts by the New Guard,  Senator Hardy,  or anybody else, to throw out of office any sovereign government elected by the people. It is interesting to note that at a recent coronial inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of a doctor as a result of a wound received while cleaning a revolver, it was disclosed in evidence that the deceased was a member of the New Guard, on which account he had received threatening letters, and had bought the revolver to defend himself. From this fact, we can assume that many members of that section of society among whom doctors move socially, had armed themselves in a similar fashion, and for similar reasons. It is safe to assume that many thousands of persons in [he professional and higher middle classes are members of the New Guard, and have taken similar precautious. We have had it admitted, for instance, that several members of the House of Representatives were members of the New Guard. 
I give to  Senator Collings  every credit for bringing up this subject, when dealing with the report that a body of armed Fascists exists in Queensland. The newspapers too are to be commended for having circulated  Senator Collings'  statement If the report is correct the publicity given to it will be a warning to the Forgan Smith Government that dangerous forces are at work in Queensland, as they were in New South Wales during the Lang regime1. Some people are inclined to treat this matter as a joke. But were there not many people who said that Hitler, before he rose to power, was a joke? To-day we know that Hitler is no joke; he controls  48,000,000  Germans, and has committed the European nations to the expenditure of hundreds of millions of pounds on a wild race of armaments. Dollfuss, the Austrian dictator, was no joke when he shot down, in cold blood, thousands of men and women, members of the social democratic party of his country. Mustafa Kern al in Turkey, Mussolini, the Italian dictator, Pilsudski, of Poland, and Mosley's Fascists in Britain to-day are not jokes. Tet there remain many who regard similar extremists in this country as negligible. Let us be honest in our convictions and acknowledge definitely and clearly there is only one solution to the struggle reflected in these movements; that solution is the policy proposed by the Lang party for the monetization and socialization of the credit and resources of this country. I cannot imagine that the interests ' represented by the gentlemen on the Government side of this chamber will be prepared to surrender without a struggle any of the privileges they now enjoy. 
They will do nothing of the kind. History shows that these interests have never surrendered any of their privileges without a struggle. That baa been proved recently in Germany, under Hitler, and in Austria, under Dollfuss. These interests are concerned with the preservation of their privileges, and if any notion they contemplated in order to retain those privileges conflicted with an Act of Parliament they would be prepared to resist the law. Nevertheless a government in this country receiving the necessary mandate and power from the people themselves, and having the necessary backbone and courage to do so, should get on with the job of combating those interests, whether they be represented by the New Guard, the Brown Shirts, or any other body. As a Parliament we wish to avoid any such struggle because we seek to uphold the sovereign law of this country as dictated by the people at the ballot-box. But  it  is the duty of any government to silence any unlawful body which challenges the right of Parliament to govern. Parliament reflects the views of the people and Parliament alone should rule. I deplore any thought of armed conflict, but I hold the view that if a Labour government were in power, its duty would be to meet such forces in no uncertain manner. I do not wish to see any armed conflict in the community.  As  the records in the possession of the Defence Department will show, I experienced five years of armed conflict in the last war, and I saw enough of it. However, if the facts are as disclosed in the document produced by  Senator Collings,  this Government should act promptly and put these undesirable forces in their right place, telling them convincingly that the sovereign power of this country shall not be usurped by hoodlums, who strut about in brown shirts and armed with- guns. 
, - I have not had an opportunity to examine the report to which reference has been made by  Senator Collings  ; but the matter will be taken up by the Minister for Defence and by the Investigation Branch of the Attorney-General's Department, because I understand that the report is an official one. I accept the honorable senator's assurance that he will divulge the name of the gentleman responsible for its preparation. 
I understood the honorable senator to say that he would supply the name. 
Then we shall be glad to have the honorable senator's assistance. We are concerned chiefly about the allegation that a large number of rifles have been sold by the Ordnance Department to a body of people in Brisbane engaged apparently in some illegal activities. That allegation will be inquired into and the parties concerned, whoever they may bo, will be dealt with if they have infringed the provisions of the Defence Act or any other statute. There has been a definite allegation of the disposal of arms within the Commonwealth and this must be investigated and examined to the end. 
I regret to have to inform the Senate of a very unfortunate happening to one of the new De Haviland 86 machines while on its way from England to Brisbane. The machine, which was to participate between Australia and Singapore inthe England to Australia air service, crashed early this morning when 29 miles from Longreach. Four persons were killed - three outright, and the fourth was taken to Barsdale Station, two miles from the scene of the tragedy, where he died shortly afterwards. The cause of the accident is a mystery. Advices received in Brisbane state that the machine left Longreach early this morning and that at 7 o'clock it crashed at Barsdale Station five or six miles from Ilfracombe. 
No. We have received a telegram stating that - 
The machine evidently got completely outof control and crashed but did not catch fire. There werefour persons on board, three being members of the crew and the fourth  Mr.  E.  Broadfoot of the Shell Oil Company, Sydney, who was returning from Darwin after having assisted in the refuelling of machines which participated in the centenary air race. The machine is identical with the De Haviland86 which was flown by Captain Brain from England recently and which returned to Brisbane from a trip to Sydney yesterday. It was under the command of Captain R. A. Prendergast who had with him as a first officer, relieving pilot and wireless man Creastes, whilst Flight Officer Charlton was flight engineer. 
I am quite sure  that  honorable senators will hear with the deepest regret of this tragedy. Lieutenant-Commander A. B. Prendergast was in charge of the machine which visited Canberra quiterecently and took a number of honorable senators for a pleasant flight over Canberra. It is a most regrettable happening. The machine, I may say,was similar in type to that which was recently lost while flying from Tasmania to the mainland. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Acting Leader of the Senate aware of the losses sustained by potato-growers in Tasmania during the last four years? If not, will he have inquiries made, and if he is satisfied that heavy losses have been incurred by that section of our primary producers, will they be included in the rural rehabilitation scheme which the Government proposes to introduce to this Parliament? 
I shall have inquiries made. I understand that information regarding the position of the potato-growers of Tasmania is in the possession of the Federal Government. The latter portion of the honorable senator's question touches upon Government policy concerning which the Prime Minister will make a pronouncement when the legislation referred to is introduced. 
Has the Government received the report of the royal commission appointed to inquire into the wheat industry ? If so, when will it be made available to honorable members? 
I am not aware whether the report is actually in the hands of the Government, but I understand that it was presented to His Excellency the GovernorGeneral to-day. 
Is it the intention of the Government to table, prior to the Christmas adjournment, a tariff schedule dealing with items which have been the subject of inquiry by the Tariff Board during the last twelve or fourteen months ? 
A tariff schedule will be tabled before the Christmas adjournment. I do not propose to make any statement asto its contents. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce. (1). Has he noticed that  Mr. McCann,  the Agent General for South Australia, started recently that the scientific standard reached by the Queensland chilled beef industry now exceeded that of the Argentine Republic? (2). In view of the conflicting statements that British restrictions on meat imports were due - (a) To the desire of Britain to foster meat production in the Mother country - (b) To the activities of British interests in Argentina, will the Minister obtain and furnish to honorable senators information as to the comparative imports into Britain of Argentine and Australian meat for 1910, 1915, 1918, 1920, 1925, 1930 and 1933? 
Portion of the honorable senator's question contains an expression of opinion which he knows is not permissible. 
I was unable to follow the honorable senator's question in detail, but I think that the information he desires is available in the department. If it is, I shall be glad to arrange for it to be supplied to him. 
£15,000,000 LOAN. 
Can the Minister representing the Treasurer say whether the £15,042,985 subscribed to the recent loan represents the final figures ? 
I understand that those are the final figures. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government refused to allow Herr Egon Kisch to land in Australia because of ft policy of fear regarding anybody with anti-war tendencies? 
Will the Government inform the New Zealand Government of the imminent arrival in New Zealand of.  Senator the  Right Honorable  Sir George  Pearce? 
Is it a fact that this gentleman was once a leading figure on platforms under the Red Flag, and advocated and moved international May Day resolutions? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows: - 
No. 
The Government of New Zealand was duly advised of the intention of the Right Honorable  Sir George  Pearce to visit that dominion in response to the invitation of the New Zealand Government. 
I am not in possession of information which enablesme to reply to the honorable senator's inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon  notice - 
Is it a fact that there is a shortage of accommodation for living purposes for single girls employed by the Government in Canberra ? 
Will the Minister consider the question of new buildings to accommodate the single girls mentioned in question 1 ? 
The Minister for the Interior supplies the following answers: - 
No. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has his attention been drawn to the overseas press cables appearing in the Sydney  Sun  newspaper of 14th November, that  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, Prime Minister of England, stated that when he visited the Dardanelles, Turkey, where 7,818 Australian Imperial Force soldiers were killed, and 19,441 Australian Imperial 
Force soldiers were wounded, he was shocked to see the Turkish guns bearing brass labels with the name of a British armament firm on them? 
Will the Prime Minister ascertain f rom the British Government the names of the British armament firms who  had  supplied the guns to the Government of Turkey ? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister supplies the following answers : - 
Yes. 
It is not seen that any useful purpose would be served by taking the course suggested by the honorable senator as this is a matter which directly concerns  His  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom. It is customary for private armament firms of all arms exporting countries to sell armaments to foreign countries, and attempts by the League of Nations to prevent such traffic have been in the main unsuccessful. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in Western Australia severe losses in this year's wheat crop are threatened through drought and the prevalence of rust? 
If so, will the rehabilitation scheme promised by the Government include provision for special assistance to farmers suffering such losses ? 
The Minister for Commerce supplies the following answers : - 
Advice has been received that crops in Western Australia have been affected in this manner. 
In its interim report  the  Wheat Commission's recommendations included a proposal that a certain sum be set aside for the relief of farmers who might suffer loss of crops through various causes.This aspect of  the  wheat-farmers' position is at present receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs,  upon notice - 
What action, if any, is the Government taking to protect Australian shipping against the invasion of foreign subsidized shipping trading to and from New Guinea? 
The Minister for External Affairs supplies the following answer: - 
The Government is giving close consideration to this question, but is not yet in a position to make any statement on the subject. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill provides for an appropriation  of £176,000  to cover expenditure on various works and services for which provision was not made in  the  budget for the current financial year. Appropriations already passed by Parliament for expenditure on works from loan and from revenue, and available for expenditure during the current financial year, exceed  £4,250,000.  As that amount  is  a considerable increase on the amount expended  on  such services during the last  financial  year  it  will materially assist  in the  alleviation of the unemployment problem. 
The bill now before the Senate will provide the appropriation necessary to carry out a number of additional works and services which are of such a nature as to enable the works to be put in hand immediately so that employment may be found before Christmas for a large number of men who are at present unemployed. Moreover, the character of the proposed works is such that the greater portion of the expenditure will be required for labour rather than for materials. 
The schedule to the bill indicates under four headings the nature of the works upon which the money will be expended. Of the total, the sum of £154,000 will be expended on works and services in the various States, and will be distributed practically on a population basis. The sum of £12,000 is being allotted for works and services in the Federal Capital Territory, £4,000 for undertakings in the Northern Territory, and an additional amount of £6,000 for New South Wales to be expended in the construction of dips for cattle tick control. The lastmentioned amount is to be supplemented by a contribution of £4,400 by the Government of New South Wales. 
The total amount proposed to be appropriated will be divided among a large number of comparatively small works distributed throughout the Commonwealth. At this stage it is impracticable to furnish details of such works, but I hope to be able to furnish further particulars when the bill is in committee. 
I emphasize that these works do not, of themselves, constitute a complete works programme; they are merely supplementary to the already large works programme which is now being carried out under appropriations amounting to £4,250,000, which have already been passed by Parliament. The works covered by this bill are mostly of a class that can be put in hand without the necessity for the preparation of detailed plans and specifications, which would involve considerable time. In order to obviate the delays caused by calling for tenders, the work will, so far as possible, be carried out by day labour under the direction of the Commonwealth Works Branch. Of the total amount to be appropriated, approximately £65,000 will be expended in New South Wales, £42,000 in Victoria, £23,000 in Queensland, £12,000 in South Australia, £10,000 inWestern Australia, £6,000 in Tasmania, £12,000 in the Federal Capital Territory, and £4,000 in the Northern Territory. As the passing of this hill will enable work to be given during the next few weeks to a considerable number of men who are at present unemployed, it is hoped that it will be passed through all stages without lengthy discussion, so that the works may be commenced as soon as possible. 
.- I am glad that at last the Government has bestirred itself sufficiently to introduce a bill for the carrying out of works which will provide some measure of relief to unemployed men, who otherwise could anticipate only a dismal Christmas season. For that reason, I shall not delay the passage of the bill; but I should like a definite assurance from the Minister that the works to be undertaken by the Commonwealth will be carried out under the direction of its own Works Branch. In the past, large sums of Commonwealth money have been expended by the States upon relief conditions which provided for only a couple of days' work for a man in each week. I hope that that system will not operate in connexion with the expenditure of this money, but that the Commonwealth itself will undertake the works and pay award rates to those engaged on them. When this Parliament appropriates money for the purpose of relieving unemployment, it is not right that that money should be applied by the States, or by local governing bodies in the States, merely as a means of granting relief to hungry men, who are paid about 22s. for two days' work a week, and are expected to subsist on that sum for an indefinite period. If the money is to be expended by the Commonwealth, under its own control, and the men to be engaged are paid proper rates of pay, I shall be satisfied to allow the bill to be passed as quickly as possible in order that the men may be set to work. 
I rise with some diffidence to discuss this bill, because on a previous occasion the Minister criticized Opposition members for what he described astheir blatancy. During the election campaign, 
Government candidates, as well as newspapers supporting the Government, promised that if the Lyons Ministry were returned, it would undertake such works as would usher in a new era in this country. Now, it appears that the Government's programme comprises no great undertakings, for only a comparatively small sum is to be appropriated under this measure. We, on this side, while accepting the measure of relief to be provided, look for something more. Under the present economic system, men must starve ifthere is no work for themto do. I look forward to the day when every man will have an assured income whether or not work is made available for him. That may appear to some honorable senators a somewhat revolutionary proposal, but it is the opinion of many distinguished visitors to this country, one of whom was so impressed with the potentialities of Australia that he said recently that four hours' work a day would probably be sufficient to provide for the needs of the nation. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Minister in charge of this measure has suggested that we become rather blatant when dealing with unemployment. My answer is that we have good reason to be vigorous  in  our complaint that the Government has not put forward any common sense suggestion for the solution of the problem.  Senator Payne  smiled when I mentioned a few moments ago that, although in this country we have an abundance of all that is necessary for the well being of the people, the position, unfortunately, is that only those who have a private income or employment can obtain the wherewithal to satisfy their requirements. Unfortunately although the land is overflowing with foodstuffs and all that the people require, society in its lack of wisdom says, " We are very sorry there is not work for all to do, but those for whom there is not work to do must starve." That such an attitude should be taken up shows that we have not reached a very high state of civilization. 
Extravagant statements are sometimes necessary in order  to  impress those who are not capable of appreciating how serious the situation really is. If we speak in moderate terms our statements are often disregarded. The time is rapidly approaching when in this and every other country the chief consideration will not be work but rather that of giving to the people those things which are produced in abundance and which so many of them now sadly lack. 
The Minister in charge of this measure has under his administration the Council for Industrial and Scientific Research, which is doing a wonderful work for the Commonwealth.  Dr. A.  C. D. Rivett, a distinguished officer of the department, recently published a small pamphlet, a copy of which was sent to every member of the Parliament, showing what could be accomplished by Australia, if, instead of joining with others in flooding the markets of the world with all kinds of primary products, of which there is a saturated market, we efficiently and thoroughly organized our gold production. We have heard distinguished visitors from the Mother Country and the Dominion of New Zealand to-day discussing the situation in those countries, and we realize particularly the tremendous difficulties that confront Great Britain.  Mr. Malcolm 
MacDonald spoke of the activities of the Old Land, and expressed the view of many of its public men with regard to restriction, or, as he said, " the regulation " of imports; but I am convinced that the conditions operating to-day, bad as they are, will become worse. Owing to the intensive development taking place all over the world, there is no hope of an improvement in the future.  Senator Collings  to-day showed me an extract from the Melbourne  Star,  in which it is stated that large sums are being expended in the Old Country with a view to eliminating the importation of flowers and certain fruits and vegetables. It is pointed out in this article that thousands of pounds are being expended in the Old Country in erecting glass houses for the production of flowers which hitherto have been imported and that special steps are also being taken to increase the production of certain fruit. As the result of this action it is hoped that there will be a reduction of £10,000,000 a year in the imports of these commodities within the next few years. 
It is always spring time with the honorable senator; that is why he rarely listens reasonably to the proposals which we seriously put forward for the amelioration of the conditions of the unemployed.  Dr. Rivett,  in his pamphlet, suggests that the Australian Government, instead of trying to force on already crowded markets many of our primary products should concentrate on the production of something that will always demand a market in every country. He writes - 
On 30th June, 1932, we owed in London £554,528,000 sterling, and the annual interest bill was £26,301,000. With gold at £6 sterling per ounce, we need 134 tons of it to pay the yearly bill, while 2,830 tons would liquidate the debt. (If we were forgiven £80,000,000 of war debt, the total weight would be reduced by 408 tons). . . 
If we did our level best to pay England in foodstuffs, not merely the annual interest but also the principal sums which we owe to her, we could easily create a situation utterly intolerable to her: even oureffort to pay the interest bill and to give a return for the goods we take from her is causing her painful embarrassment . . . 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I understood the honorable member to be discussing the question of unemployment as affected by this measure. In doing so he has, perhaps, strayed a little, but I shall ask him at once to connect his remarks with the bil] itself. 
My complaint is that the amount for which this bill provides is too small and that it is not to be spent in the best way. The Queensland Government, through the Minister for Mines, has done splendid work by expending several thousands of pounds in fitting out members of the unemployed to engage in prospecting. In that way profitable employment has been found for quite a number of men. That is a very important consideration. 
It has everything to do with it. My desire is that the money for which this bill provides shall be spent in a way that will be most serviceable to the unemployed and to the country. If men are employed merely in producing commodities on the export of which restrictions already exist, little benefit will result. Money should be used to provide employment in producing goods that will find a ready market in other parts of the world. I have taken advantage of this schedule to drive home my point.  Dr. Rivett's  pamphlet should bring home to Ministers and the people generally that the Government, instead of only playing and tinkering with the problem of unemployment, should exercise its ability and administrative powers in the organization of gold production on an efficient basis, gold being more acceptable in other parts of the world than our primary products. Action in that direction would prove far more effective than the Government's present policy of trying to find work for the unemployed by spending a few thousand pounds on repainting and titivating public buildings. 
I am very glad that the Government is providing a sum of £176,000 for the relief of unemployment before Christmas, but I agree with the previous  speaker  that this amount is very small and falls far short of what the people expected to follow the return of the Lyons Government to office. Although I listened carefully to the Minister's speech I am still unaware of the basis on which this money has been apportioned. It appears that the allocations have not been based on either population or area, or partly on population and partly on area as were previous grants, such as those for road construction. Only £10,000 of this amount is to be allocated to Western Australia, which in area forms one-third of the Commonwealth, and possesses only one-fifteenth of the population of Australia to develop it ! If area were taken into consideration Western Australia should receive one-third of the total amount, and if only half the total grant were distributed on a population basis, and half on area, it would be entitled to receive one-sixth of the amount. Yet Western Australia is given no consideration for its huge area, and for the fact that it is comparatively undeveloped. It is given a paltry £10,000. Is it any wonder that the people of that State want to secede from the 'federation? 
They would govern Western Australia well. At the State luncheon to-day I heard one of the distinguished visitors from New Zealand praise Canberra - Australia's tragedy - the place for whose development the rest of Australia is being bled white, and for the expenditure on which no return is shown. It is all very well for a° gentleman coming from a dominion which had the good sense to keep out of the Australian federation to praise the beautiful result of the huge expenditure at Canberra, but the people of Australia are suffering under excessive and unnecessary federal taxation to keep it going. Of this grant for the relief of unemployment, £12,000 is to be devoted to works in the Federal Capital Territory - this little, useless capital where every act of government administration could be done more efficiently and economically in one of the State capitals. But this Territory is to receive £12,000, whereas to one-third of the Commonwealth - Western Australia - a mere £10,000 is to be granted. I inform our distinguished visitors that this action is typical of the attitude of the Federal Parliament to Western Australia. A study of the whole of the federal expenditure would reveal that we have invariably been treated in this fashion. The gentleman from New Zealand admires,as I do, the rose gardens of Canberra, but I remind him that the people of Australia have to pay for them to the amount of at least £30,000 annually. This capital city is to have wonderful buildings to house the arts and sciences, but people struggling in the outlying parts of the Commonwealth who can never enjoy these beauties have to pay for them. This measure is typical of the Government's attitude to Western Australia. Of the small amount of £176,000, the Federal Capital is to receive £12,000, whilst onethird of the Commonwealth - the most undeveloped State- 
If the people of Western Australia were given complete control of their own affairs that State would be developed to support a greater population than that of all the Eastern States combined. Its population at present is only one-fifteenth of that of the Commonwealth, but even on that basis it is not being fairly treated under this bill, as it will receive only a little more than one-seventeenth of the total amount. 
I am glad to have this opportunity to tell the gentlemen from New Zealand, who admire Canberra, how the people of Western Australia have to pay to keep this city going, and how little consideration they get from the rest of Australia for governing and developing one-third of the Commonwealth. The voyage from Fremantle to Sydney occupies nine days; the voyage from Sydney to Auckland occupies only four days. The people of New Zealand, I repeat, showed very good sense in not joining the Australian federation, and we in Western Australia are more isolated from the Eastern States of the Commonwealth than are the citizens of our sister dominion. 

 Sitting suspended from3.50 to 4.35 p.m. 

During the brief adjournment, I had an opportunity to read the  Hansard  report of the debate on this measure in the House of Representatives. I find that £12,000 is to be set aside for expenditure on works in the Federal Capital Territory, £4,000 for the Northern Territory, and £6,000 for the construction of cattle dips in the Grafton district of New South Wales, but only £10,000 for Western Australia. The distribution of the amount available is typical of the regard paid by the Commonwealth to the needs of Western Australia. Although that State has one-fifteenth of the population of the Commonwealth, it will receive only one-seventeenth of the sum provided in this bill. The Government would be wise to withdraw the measure, because the amount is inadequate, and bring down another bill appropriating £500,000. This sum would give employment to a considerable number of people between now and Christmas. The larger amount should also be distributed amongst States on the same basis as the federal roads grants are distributed - namely, three-fifths on a population basis, and two-fifths on an area basis. Personally, I think the most equitable basis is area alone, but I would be satisfied if the Government increased the amount to £500,000, and, in allocating it, observed the principle laid down in the act relating to federal aid roads. When one remembers that the sum provided in this bill is, in the main, for expenditure on roads, there is no reason why there should be a departure from the method of allocation observed in the Federal Aid Roads Act. 
I am pleased that, for the first time in legislation of this nature, the Government accepts responsibility for the construction and repair ofroads on, or approaching, Commonwealth properties. During my six years membership of the Senate, I have placed before governments many requests for the construction or repair of roads leading exclusively to Commonwealth properties, but on every occasion the responsible Ministers have declined to accept responsibility for works of that nature. Although the Commonwealth pays no rates to local-governing bodies, it has hitherto declined responsibility in respect of roads on, or leading to, Commonwealth properties; but in item 3 of the schedule to this bill, there is provision for £35,600 for the construction and repair of Commonwealth roads. This is a very important principle, which, I hope, will be recognized by the Government in future. Hitherto, the stand taken by the Commonwealth Ministers has resulted in an unfair proportion of expenditure being thrown upon individual ratepayers. The road to the Maylands aerodrome, Perth, is used entirely for Commonwealth purposes, and is in a shocking condition. Repeated requests have been made to the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  and the heads of other departments for urgent repairs to be made to it, but without avail. Consequently, when distinguished visitors have come to Western Australia, the members of the Australian Aero Club in that State have, in desperation, carried out the necessary repairs at their own expense. I should like to know whether any portion of the £35,600 provided for in item 3 of the schedule will be expended on that road, which is the worst in the metropolitan area, and is a disgrace to the Commonwealth Government. The road" to the rifle range at Swanbourne is also in urgent need of repair. The same may be said of the roads to the lighthouses at Cape Naturaliste and Cape LeeuwinSome time ago, 'the former Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Stewart)  authorized a grant of £50 for the improvement of these roads. I should like to know if further provision is made in this bill. There is also a large area of neglected Commonwealth property at Fremantle - the Henderson naval base - where, many years ago, the Commonwealth expended £1,200,000 on the commencing  of the establishment of naval dockyards and works which were to be the most up to date in Australia. Unfortunately, that project was abandoned, and the condition of the site now suggests thatthe federal blight, has settled over it. I hope that the Government will, without further delay, give attention to this area, and not throw responsibility for road construction and repairs on the local governing authority, which depends for much of its revenue upon rates paid by market gardeners and other producers in a small way of business. As the Commonwealth Government has now admitted the principle of maintaining roads leading to properties under its control, I hope the roads I have mentioned, as well as others, will receive proper attention. I am glad that the bill has been introduced, but I trust that, in committee, the basis of apportionment will be altered to that adopted under the federal aid roads scheme. When Commonwealth money is made available to the States it should be on the basis of area and population, and I trust that the Government will decide to apportion this amount on the same basis as the federal aid roads grant. If that is done, I shall, while Western Australia remains in the federation, be relieved of the obligation to direct attention to the callous neglect to which that State has to submit in this and in many other ways. 
.- Some of the honorable senators who have spoken on this measure have suggested that the amount to be appropriated is all that the Government proposes to make available to relieve unemployment, but the Minister stated quite plainly that the amount to be provided is in addition to other appropriations yet to be made.  Unfortunately  the amount is not so large as some would like, but it. will be the means of providing some relief at Christmas. The fact that the basis of allocation is not quite the same as under the federal aid roads scheme or general loan expenditure is not of great importance in this instance. 
I take this opportunity to protest strongly against the utterances of  Senator E.  B. Johnston, who prior to the suspension of the sitting to enable the Ad dress-in -Reply to be presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, allowed himself to go a little too far in attackinga distinguished visitor- 
At the time an ex-Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr. Coates,  was a guest of  Mr. President  and honorable senators. When attending a function at which he was the guest of the Commonwealth Ministers,  Mr. Coates  paid a high tribute to our national capital, and it ill-becomes a member of the Senate to take him to task for what he said. There are plenty of persons outside the Federal Capital Territory who criticize what we do and say, without members of this Parliament speaking unfavorably of Canberra and the Commonwealth legislature. I am sure that  Senator Johnston  was not voicing the opinions of other honorable senators, or of the people of Australia generally, when he made a veiled attack upon  Mr. Coates. 
It is not my intention to delay the passage of this measure, because I realize that it must be passed speedily so work may be provided before Christmas. A previous Government which attempted to afford relief in this manner was ultimately defeated; but as I believe this Government is anxious to relieve the unemployment situation prior to Christmas, I trust that its objective will, to some extent, be achieved. If this amount is distributed amongst the 300,000 unemployed and their dependants, it will represent only11s. 6d. or 12s. a head which is quite inadequate. At present the States are providing work for ft certain number of days in each week, and I trust that the additional money now being made available by the Commonwealth will not interfere with the relief works under State control. 
SenatorMcLachlan. - It has nothing to do with the States. 
I am glad to have that assurance from the Minister. Further, I trust that the Government will follow the lead given by the Scullin Government, which directed the Works Department to assist those whose need was greatest I was glad to hear the Minister say that most of the money would be expended in the payment of wages, as was the case under the Scullin Government's proposals. I am pleased also that the Commonwealth proposes to handle its own money on this occasion. I have a great admiration for the officers of the Commonwealth Works Branch, and I feel that if they control this expenditure justice will be done. 
I hope that the Government will follow the lead of the Scullin Government and stipulate that award rates and conditions shall be observed on all the works to be undertaken by it. Legislation passed by the several States makes possible the evasion of award conditions, particularly in regard to marginal rates of pay, and I ask the Commonwealth Government not to take advantage of that legislation to the detriment of the workers. If these conditions are observed, I shall have no complaint to make, except that the amount of money to be expended is less than is required. However, we must be thankful for small mercies - I speak as one who will soon be unemployed. The worker, who previously was not prepared to make any sacrifice, is now resigned to his fate, and is willing to accept the crumbs which fall from the master's table, but no Government should take advantage of his present frame of mind. In my opinion, the problem of unemployment is not being tackled determinedly by any government in this country. When 300,000 registered trade unionists, able and willing to work, are idle, it is time to embark on a bold programme. 
I was pleased to hear the Minister say that the appropriation of the amount covered by this bill is meant to be only a small contribution to the relief of unemployment before Christmas, and that a larger scheme would be introduced shortly. Unlike the Scullin Government, the present Government has a sufficient majority in both Houses of the Parliament to put through any proposals it desires. It may be that the financial institutions of the country will still place difficulties in the way; but the people believed that they would treat the present Government more leniently than a Labour government, and they recorded their votes accordingly. The Government should use its utmost endeavours to persuade those who provide the wherewithal for the carrying out of works to relieve unemployment of their duty in that direction. If governments do not tackle and solve the problem of unemployment, the unemployed themselves will tackle it, and parliaments will be dissolved and another form of administration set up. I do not wish to see that  happen; but I wonder how much longer men who are willing and anxious to work will tolerate a state of semi-starvation with  no hope for the future. The most important problem facing the Government is the relief of unemployment, and it is not too much to ask that those who control the destinies of the nation should render service to the Empire by making work available. If the Government fails, it will be because it is not big enough, or game enough, to tackle the problem. 
.- The bill speaks for itself, in that it indicates the earnest desire of the Government to do something to relieve the unemployment situation before the Christmas season comes upon us. The scheme covered by this measure is of a temporary nature, and has nothing whatever to do with the Government's proposals for a larger measure of relief.  I  should like to deal generally with the subject of employment, and especially to reply to some statements made by Opposition senators.  Senator Dooley  said that the States had taken advantage of the plight of the workless, and had not paid to them standard wages or observed award conditions ; but I assure him that the policy adopted by the States has done more to alleviate distress among those out of work than would have been possible under the policy which he advocated. 
That may be; but I remind the honorable senator that necessity is a hard task-master. If it is not possible to grant full relief to all in need, it is better that partial relief should be given to as many as possible. 
It is a matter of spreading the money available to reach the greatest number pf necessitous persons. The State authorities have relieved distress more effectively under the system adopted by them than would have been possible if they had adhered strictly to arbitration awards. 
I am speaking of urgent cases. The State authorities should be commended, rather than condemned, for having relieved the distress of so great a. number of people. I hope that the Government will spread this money over as many needy cases as possible. 
Probably the most serious phase of the unemployment problem is its effect on the youths of this country. Unless something Ls done shortly to remedy the existing state of affairs, heaven only knows what may happen, even in Australia. I hope that Opposition senators will bear with me if I utter some home truths in this connexion.. For many years, and possibly with the best of intentions, we have slavishly followed a policy which has prevented thousands of young lads from having had an opportunity in life. Many of them have reached manhood without ever having had a chance, largely because every State has passed legislation restricting juvenile employment. Laws have been passed stipulating that, in certain industries, only one boy may be employed to every three men, and in other industries one boy to four or more men. What right have men of mature age to say that boys who, in five or six years' time, will attain the age of manhood, shall, on leaving school, be denied an opportunity to equip themselves for the responsibilities of manhood? 
Our laws, which restrict the employment of juveniles, are responsible for their lack of opportunity. 
Doubtless the legislation referred to was introduced with the best of intentions; but we cannot shut our eyes to the awful results which have followed its enactment. There are to-day thousands of men who have been denied a chance in life because of the existence of such laws. 
It is due to a strict adherence to the policy advocated by the Labour party. There is shortly to be a conference of State and Federal Ministers, and, although I cannot predict what lines the discussion will follow, I am confident that, before long, many cherished ideals will have to go by the board. 
I have had ideals, and I have stuck to them. Surely it is not an unworthy ideal that employment should be found for all our people, especially the youths of to-day, who will be the men of to-morrow. Unless steps are taken to find employment for them, it is impossible to say what kind of a community will exist twenty years hence. Under our State educational systems, millions of pounds have been expended in providing technical education for Australian youths, and to enable them, in the words of a leading educationist in New South Wales, " to find themselves," only to realize later, when they have left school, that our laws have closed the doors of industry against them. 
It is time that we awoke to a realization of the true position. 
We must get down to bedrock, and seek the reasons for the present state of affairs. It may be found necessary to relegate to the waste-paper basket many of the State laws now on the statute-book. 
I propose something which will benefit the community. I trust that the Commonwealth Govern ment, which I believe earnestly desires to relieve the present situation, will confer with the State governments on this subject, and that, as a result, a scheme to remedy existing conditions will be evolved. Figures published by the Commonwealth Statistician show that, in 1922, the natural increase of the population of Australia was 84,000, whereas last year, when the total population was 1,250,000 more, the natural increase fell to 52,000. That ought to make people think. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator not to go too fully into the matter of vital statistics. 
I have been dealing with unemployment, and I desire to show that the unemployment of our young people has a very important bearing on the figures I have been quoting. What will be the position 50 years hence? 
I suggest that any restriction on the employment of our young people is wrong. Who, can we reasonably anticipate, will be the homebuilders and bread-winners of Australia in the future if the boys of to-day are still to be faced with these restrictions? How can the boys of to-day fit themselves to take up such responsibilities when these restrictions are enforced? Having by law kept lads out of work until they reach the age of seventeen or eighteen years, we then declare that they shall not be employed at less than a certain wage. What employer can afford to pay the stipulated wage to a youth who, because the law has not permitted him to learn anything about it, knows nothing of the trade in which he desires to be engaged. " Payment according to age" is an absurd requirement, and has no regard whatever to ability or experience. Any day in the week, one may meet in Collins or Swanston streets, Melbourne, from 50 to 100 young men who have never done any work, and who will tell inquirers that they have applied from time to time for jobs only to be told that they are too old to be taken on since the wage fixed for their age is more than the industry concerned can afford to pay. 
-I do not believe in fathers " scabbing " on boys any more than I believe in boys "scabbing" on fathers. I shall say  no  more on the sub  j  ect at this stage; butI have at least opened up  a  campaign that I. intend to prosecute during the next three years, with the object of giving the youth of Australia a chance. I believe the Australian people are ripe for a revolution in that direction; they are determined that the youth of the community shall be given a fair opportunity and will relegate to the scrapheap some of the principles that have been so dear to many in years gone by. 
I suggest that the measure before us should meet with the hearty acceptance of the Senate.  Senator Brown  made  an  attack upon the Minister in charge of the bill, which would suggest to any one who had not heard that honorable gentleman, that he had sneered at the working class. I did not hear the Minister make any comment except in explanation of the con  tents  of the bill itself. 
The honorable senator's remarks concerning  Senator McLachlan  were absolutely unwarranted. I hope the bill will pass and that the expenditure for which it provides will afford the relief that we reasonably anticipate will be realized by the community. 
. -I  thought that honorable senators on this side of the chamber had made it reasonably clear that they would do what they could to facilitate the passing of this all too simple measure, and that we should escape the charge made against us of mistaking it for a larger and more ambitious scheme. We, of course, shall vote for the bill as an attempt to relieve a very small portion of the tragic distress prevailing at the present time. As usual, however,  we  are to be fobbed off with the statement that it is merely to bring a little brightness into the homes of the unemployed during the coming Christmas season. 
Yes, if wewere not being continually fobbed off with apologies for the failure of the Govern ment to attack this question in a statesmanlike fashion. One would imagine that it was commencing only to-day to make promises to the unemployed. This Government has been the most " promising" of which I have had experience, so far as the serious problem of unemployment is concerned. On the 10th May, 1932,  Senator Pearce,  speaking on the Unemployment Relief Works Loan Bill, made the following remarks :- 
It was the desire of the Commonwealth Government that, in co-operation with the whole of the States, an endeavour should be made to evolve a well -conceived plan for dealing with the most tragic of our problems, that of unemployment, in both its long range and short range aspects. 
Two or three weeks ago, we had in the Governor-General's speech a statement to the effect that " my advisers will take steps to ascertain the root causes of unemployment." Two and a half years ago,  Senator Pearce  said that the Government was desirous of evolving a co-operative plan as between the States and the Commonwealth that would take a long and. a short range, view of the. problem. But when is the job to be tackled? This afternoon, with the knowledge that we shall adjourn to-morrow and that there will be later on another of the series of intolerable adjournments, we are asked to pass a bill that provides for a miserable £176,000 expenditure and we are called upon to deal with it at once on the ground that it is to provide temporaryChristmas relief. When are the people responsible for the government of this country going to recognize that at least 1,000,000 are suffering from the effects ofcontinuous unemployment? This is no recent happening. In Canberra alone, we have the tragic spectacle of800 people out of work. If the whole of this £176,000 were spent here it would not represent a reasonable attempt to grapple with their problem alone. Mention of Canberra reminds me that something should be done to improve the disgraceful housing conditions at the Causeway and Molonglo. For the last two years, I have been asking for reform in this respect, but nothing hasbeen done, or is being done other than the serving of notices to some of the unfortunate tenants of these miserable cottages that they must pay up arrears of rent or go out. 
Senatorbadman.- Are not the unemployed in thiscity to participate in a fair share of this expenditure? 
The honorable senator is attempting the impossible by trying to divert me from my argument. We on this side have a great regard for the genial Minister in charge of this bill  (Senator McLachlan),  but with all respect, I say that his levity, whilst  Senator Brown  was speaking, was unworthy of him. We on this side are not setting ourselves up as the special champions of the unemployed, but because of our experience of the tragic results of unemployment, because such' education as we have was acquired in the university of hard knocks and, because we know what the unemployed to-day are suffering, we are determined that no patchwork system of relief shall be allowed to pass without criticism. We accept this bill as representing, as  Senator Dooley  put it, a crumb from the Government's table. It is a slight measure of improvement, but we protest that it is not an attempt to tackle the problem in a thorough going way. The Government is not dealing with the problem in anything like an effective manner and, what is more, it does not intend to deal with it. We shall adjourn a fortnight hence, meet early in the year for a few weeks, and then adjourn for some months. In the meantime nothing will be done to bring us nearer a realization of the promise made by  Senator Pearce  twoand ahalf years ago. 
I propose now to make a brief reference to  Senator Johnston's  observations regarding Canberra. The press seizes on sensational statements with greater eagerness than it displays in reporting the considered arguments of senators concerning fundamentals of our present economic problem. And, because of that, his re- markto-day concerning Canberra will be givenwide publicity. Itis most unfortunate that we who enjoy the privilegeof living in Canberra and of doing our work here should be so constantly misrepresenting it. We ought to be proud ofthis CapitalCity. We shouldbe delightedthat theotherday the foundation stone of the National Library was laidhere and that the establish ment of a national university is contemplated; yet some honorable senators are continually going out of their way to misrepresent Canberra. I have some figures, supplied to me two years ago, that will show  Senator Johnstonhow  entirely unwarranted and unfair was his criticism. 
I am not suggesting that the beauty of Canberra does not appeal to the honorable senator. I am referring rather to the wisdomof the examplewhich has been set in building a national capital where the real work of the nation can be done. Is  Senator Johnston  aware that up to the 30th June, 1932, the building of Canberra had cost £12,232,408, and that the revenue received from buildings and other sources up to that date amounted roughly to £3,000,000? In other words, the actual cost up to that time was about £9,250,000. At the same date the State debts amounted to £768,000,000, the Commonwealth debts, incurred very largely in helping the States, amounted to £386,000,000 and the railway debts of Australia totalled £352,000,000. The Sydney Harbour bridge and the Sydney city railway cost £42,000,000. Nobody declared that the expenditure on these projects was a deplorable waste of public money. 
I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the subject under discussion. 

 Senator Payne, I regret, has a most unfortunate habit of throwing out challengesto honor able senatorson this side of the chamber and then scuttling out of the way when effective replies are being made to his arguments. He said that he had many cherished ideals; perhaps his conduct represents his* ideal of the manly way of tackling a problem.  Senator Payne  said that honorable gentlemen on this aide of the chamber are responsible for the great tragedy of unemployment among the youths of this country. I fling back that accusation. He said that, because of the Labour party's policy, expressed through Labour governments, the number of juveniles permitted to be employed in industry to-day was in the proportion of one to three, four, or five adults, and he suggested that if the legislation embodying those provisions were abolished the unemployment situation in Australia would be immediately relieved. The strength of the honorable senator is not in hig logic; apparently a course in Euclid in his earlier days would have benefited him considerably. He does not realize that to-day there is a certain number of adults normally employed at adult wages, and in proportion to that number, a certain number of youths. Of course he realizes that there is a large number of youths unemployed, but do not all employers, whether governments or private enterprise, employ all the people for whom they can find work? Employers in private enterprise certainly will never go without employees, if they can make a profit out of employing them. If a certain number of adults is employed to-day, and employers are to be allowed to put on additional youths will not the number of employees remain practically the same as at present? Of course not.  Senator Brown  asked, by interjection, whether  Senator Payne  was suggesting that we should encourage a policy that would assist a boy to scab on his father? The intelligent retort in reply to that interjection was that to-day the fathers are scabbing on their sons.  Senator Payne  knows that the opposite is true. In my home town I know of men and women who have reared families to adult age, and although on relief work themselves, are still keeping in the home their children who are also unemployed. I fail to see the force of  Senator Payne's  contention that this difficulty can be surmounted by displacing men now employed in industry and allowing their jobs to be taken by juveniles. Among other things of which we, as a nation, can feel proud, is the fact that the percentages of women and youths employed in industry are the lowest for any country. That is particularly so in Queensland. The arguments advanced this afternoon by  Senator Payne  are merely duplicates of statements made by his prototypes when Lord Shaftesbury's reform bill was being put through the House of Commons threequarters of a century ago. It is deplorable that we have to sit here and listen to such time-worn platitudes while no sensible attempt is made by the Government to grapple with this problem. Obviously, it has no understanding whatever of the fundamental causes of unemployment, or of the basic causes of the major problems with which every country is faced to-day. Therefore, it is charitable to say that that ignorance probably accounts for the Government's incapacity to tackle these problems. I would be sorry if this bill were not passed. I have no doubt it will be passed, but at this stage, I emphasize that we on this side of the chamber accept this measure merely, as the Minister said, as an immediate attempt which can be made before Christmas to relieve some of those most seriously affected by unemployment. But we repeat our demands, as we shall at every opportunity, that the Government must not continue to fob us off with attempts like this to solve the problem of unemployment, and that it shall get down to the real job before many more weeks have elapsed for the benefit of those who are suffering most acutely and for the betterment of the nation as a whole. 
It is regrettable that  Senator Collings  could not refrain from applying a rather caustic criticism to employers as a whole. He said that employers were not likely to employ people unless they could make a profit out of them. It is within the knowledge of every  honorable  senator that multitudes of employers in the years of the depression retained many employees and engaged additional employees when they  could not possibly have been in a position to make profit out of their labour. [Quorum  formed.]  These employers took this step when they were actually operating at a loss. That applies to employers in both the primary and secondary industries. I feel sure that the honorable gentleman himself will admit that that is true, and that he made a very sweeping statement in the enthusiasm of the moment. 
If the honorable gentleman prefers me to put it that way, I say that there are many employers who on numerous occasions, when applicants for work were in dire circumstances, acted in a very philanthropic way. 
I should like more information from the Minister respecting the basis upon which these various grants are to be apportioned. Details as to how it is proposed to spend the money were supplied in the House of Representatives, and I think it would have assisted honorable senators in the present discussion if they also had been supplied with that information. The Minister said that, so far as the division between the States was concerned, the grants were calculated on a population basis, and then added details of the Federal Capital Territory and the Northern Territory which had not been treated on a population basis. 
Why is that? What is the real basis of the allotments? I have taken the trouble to calculate the amount  per capita  of the respective populations, which the various sums will represent when distributed among the different States of the Commonwealth. The grants to Western Australia and South Australia work out at about 6d. a head of the total population in those States; in the Federal Capital Territory, the average will be more than £1 a head, and in the Northern Territory, almost £1 a head. If this money were to be expended on developmental works, such a basis might be considered fair, but where the object of the grant is to provide special work in the nature of 
Christmas relief, I cannot see any just reason why the unemployed people in South Australia and Western Australia should receive this money at the rate of only 6d. a head, whilst those in the Northern Territory and the Federal Capital Territory are to receive it at the rate of £1 a head. Such a distribution does not seem logical, and for that reason the Minister should explain the basis on which the allocations were made. Personally, I feel that the only reasonable way to arrange this particular distribution would be on . a basis, not of population or area, but of the number of unemployed people in each part of Australia. That has not been done. I do not object to the Northern Territory being assisted and developed; in fact, I agree with other honorable senators that it is most regrettable that so little has been done in that direction. But no real developmental work will be done through the expenditure of a mere £4,000 on Christmas relief. The only way in which we can hope to achieve good results in the Northern Territory is by the appointment of a Minister who is conversant, or will make himself conversant, with its needs, and who will be constantly at his post. For years we have had the spectacle of Ministers for Internal Affairs, animated by zeal for the welfare of the people there, but because of changing political circumstances, their work was of little avail. We all remember that interest was displayed by  Senator Sir George  Pearce,  Mr. Abbott, Mr. Parkhill  and  Mr. Perkins,  to mention only a few, who, following their appointment to administer the Territory, paid a visit to that vast area, but within a few weeks or months, because of changes in the Ministry, were given another portfolio. The result was that all the experience which they had gained was lost to the Commonwealth and the time which they had given to the study of Northern Territory problems was wasted. The development of the Northern Territory when it comes will not be due so much to the enterprise of chartered companies - we have not heard very much about that aspect of Government policy lately - as to the appointment of a Minister, a junior Minister if you like, who will make the study of its peculiar problems a full time and continuing job. 
I notice in the list of works which was supplied to members of the House of Representatives that of the amount allocated for expenditure in South Australia, £1,750 is earmarked for drainage at the Keswick Military Reserve. That item brings to -mind a very troublesome subject, and one which gave rise to more correspondence than was caused by any other subject with which I have had to deal since I became a member of this Parliament. The drain which runs through the Keswick reserve is insufficient to cope with abnormal flood waters which come down it occasionally. Complaints have been made about this drain since at least 1913. When I was a member of the House of Representatives for the division of Boothby I had brought to my notice the fact that the unfortunate people living in an avenue in the neighbourhood of the barracks - the majority of them are returned soldiers - had been flooded out on several occasions. Sometimes water inches deep flowed  through  their houses. It was my duty to see first the late  Mr. Bowden,  the then Minister for Defence, and subsequently his successor, the late  Sir Neville  Howse, with a view to having that state of affairs remedied. The Defence Department which is solely concerned in this matter, wished to put in a second 5-ft. pipe drain to carry off the excessive flood waters which, at rare intervals, cause so much trouble in that neighbourhood: but it was urged that because of the rapidity with which storm waters come down the drain it would not be an effective step. The city council concerned raised objections and I, on behalf  of that body, made representations to the Government. The department relied on the opinion of its experts, but I was convinced from information placed in my hands by the district council and others concerned, that the proposal then made would not be effective. We recommended the construction of an open drain which at least would have a chance of carrying away abnormal flood waters. Speaking on this subject in the House of Representatives on the 19th August, 1925, 1 said this - . 
The Minister, I am pleased to say, has shown an interest in the matter, and has made provision for the work to be  proceeded  with. An additional 5-ft. pipe is to be laid. Personally 
I have grave doubts whether this 5-ft. pipe will answer the purpose. 
In my communication to the Minister on behalf of the district council, I put the case much more strongly than I did when speaking in the House. We were supposed to know nothing about the matter, and, as one might expect, the official view prevailed. The second 5-ft. pipe was put in to deal with the flood waters at Keswick. But again the water has come down in rushing torrents, and because the provision made for it was inadequate, it has once more flooded the residences of these people to their great discomfort and personal loss. Some years ago it was clearly demonstrated to the Government that this would be the result unless the open drain were put in. Representations have since been, or will be, made to the Government that residents who have suffered loss due to this cause, should be recompensed. I am glad that provision has been made for effective drainage, and I assume that at last the department has come round to our view on the subject. After a lapse of ten years it is some consolation to know that what one said on a particular subject has been proved, by subsequent events, to be correct, although in this case every one must deeply regret that the unfortunate residents at Keswick have again been the sufferers. I hope that the Government will also consider the fairness and  advisableness  of compensating the property-owners and occupiers, the majority of whom are returned soldiers, for the damage done by flood waters. 
My original intention was to allow the bill a speedy passage, because its object is to make available a sum of money for expenditure on works as a little Christmas box for the unemployed in the various States. But I feel that I must point out that, as there are approximately 300,000 unemployed persons in the Commonwealth, the amount set aside represents only the value of two or three ties per man. Still it is something. Even 10s. or 15s. is acceptable to those in great need of it, as occasionally it would have been to me earlier in my life. The fact that the Government has brought down this measure is,  in itself, an acknowledgment of the  serious  condition of the working classes. We  do  not scorn this gesture of the  Government  on their behalf -  Senator Dooley  and the leader of  my party  (Senator  Barnes) reminded us this afternoon  that  similar provision was  made  during  the  regime of the Scullin Government -  but  as Labour members  we believe that the only  effective remedy for unemployment is the adoption of long-range  scientific  proposals that will gain the  respect of  the people of Australia. One can hardly doubt that our parliamentary  system  of government, in respect of unemployment problems at all events, is on  its trial.  If we fail to agree upon  a_  satisfactory solution of the present trouble, the existing system of government may be displaced by another perhaps in  the  form of industrial councils, having for their objective the continued employment of the people on works  of  an enduring character. Geographical parliaments, as we now know them,  may  be  swept  away. I offer this suggestion  in the  nature of a warning to the Government and its supporters, and I hope that those who constitute the large majority  which  the Ministry commands in both Houses, will realize their responsibility  in  this matter. There has  been  . much talk of proposals to deal  with  unemployment, and the Government has retained the services of a former Minister of wide experience, one who  may be  regarded as the fifteenth Minister  in the  Cabinet, to formulate proposals for submission to this Parliament. But  I fear that  there is little reason to hope that  this  Government will handle the situation in the way advocated by the Labour party for so many years, and as  the  Scullin Government would have  dealt  with it but for the hostile majority in the Senate three or four years ago. 
The proposal  of  the Scullin Government to  expend  £12,000,000 on public works. 
 It is quite  obvious that  supporters of the Government  are not very  much concerned about the present situation because when  Senator Collings  was speaking this afternoon only nine senators were present, including four Labour senators who may be excused for occasional attendance, because, rightly or wrongly, a Labour government a few years ago was prevented from giving effect to its proposals, and their criticism of this Government's proposals has not met with very encouraging response, as shown by the recent elections. 
That is precisely the objection which can be urged against this Government's proposals. After it has been three years in office there is now some talk about the unification of railway gauges. 
 I do not sub.scribe to that view because railways are essential in wet weather, and also for safe and comfortable travelling. Despite all this talk about expenditure on the unification of railway gauges, and other urgent public works, this Government is not likely to do very much because its masters outside appear to think that expenditure on relief works, an arrangement that was much favoured in the time of our grandfathers, meets the situation. We have to remember, however, that there are in Australia approximately 300,000 persons out of work and living from hand to mouth as a direct result of the Government's disregard of their welfare and the anarchistic state of our economic structure. 
 I base my figures on statements by Governments supporters, who never tire of telling us that three or four years ago, when the Scullin Government was in office, there were  4:00,000  persons out of work in this country, and that since this Government has been in power, the figures have been reduced by about 25 per cent. That would make the number about 300,000. 
I think the real explanation for the improvement in the figures is to be found in the higher prices for wool and in the return to higher price-levels. But foreigners are now giving their attention to the use of synthetic wool and are restricting imports from Australia. 
It may have dropped temporarily, but the honorable senator is aware that during one recent year the increased return from Australian wool alone amounted to £17,000,000. Whenever the subject of unemployment is under discussion in this chamber, the members of" the Labour party urge the necessity for a general reconstruction of our economic and financial system; but honorable senators opposite, who are as deeply steeped in  toryism  as were the men of 4.0 or 50 years ago, are always opposed to any reform, and consequently have no means of determining the value of the Labour party's proposals. If some determined attempt is not made to prevent the recurring curse of unemployment, and so bring about a general improvement of the conditions under which many persons in Australia are compelled to live, our parliamentary system must eventually collapse. 

 Senator E. B. Johnston took full advantage of the presence in this chamber of such distinguished visitors as the Bight Honorable J. G. Coates, and the Honorable B. Masters of New Zealand, and  Mr. Malcolm  MacDonald., M.P., Under-Secretary for the Dominions in the British House of Commons, to ventilate the alleged grievances of the Western Australian people. Although -the honorable senator spoke with such fire and volume of sound that, for the moment, I though it was  Senator Collings  or  Senator Dunn  speaking, I do not think that he should have said what he did before a member of the British Parliament. 
The remarks of the honorable senator might leave a totally wrong impression, as he was the only  speaker  whilst our distinguished visitors were present. Three or four months ago, I despatched a letter to a somewhat distinguished gentleman in England, a distant relative of mine, who, when replying, asked me the meaning of the agitation for secession in Western Australia. I propose to send him a copy of the Co.se  for Union,  which- will give him the facts. As he holds Western Aus- - tralian stock and the other members of his family hold Victorian stock, he is interested in Australian affairs. If  Mr. MacDonald  should convey to that gentleman the views he heard expressed in this chamber, it might not be of advantage to Western Australia. 
The Commonwealth is more stable than any State. 
Nothing should be done to depreciate the value of Commonwealth or State stocks, because in the past the money borrowed in Great Britain has been the means of providing many good Australians with employment on reproductive works.  Senator Johnston,  who objected to- the proposed allocation, said that while £12,000 is to be provided for the Federal Capital Territory, only £10,000 is to be expended in Western Australia. I understand that only about £22,000 is to be expended in Queensland, which, compared with the expenditure by the Queensland Government of over £5,000,000 last year, and the proposed expenditure this financial year of over £6,000,000 is a mere drop in the bucket. The population, of Queensland is about one-seventh of that of the whole Commonwealth, and therefore, on a  per capita  basis, the allocation, for Queensland should be £25,142.28, which, in- view of the substantial measure of relief necessary, is entirely inadequate.  Senator 
Payne appears to have reached that period in his life when he should ask an economist to sub-edit the remarks he proposes to make. In advocating the employment of boy labour, he is suggesting something repugnant to the average Australian. The wholesale employment of boys, when unemployment is so general among their fathers, would result only in throwing their fathers out of work. I have known men. in government departments in Queensland who  are  stronger and even healthier than I am, but who have been compelled to retire at 65 years of age. I know of a youth, seventeen years of age, who, after passing the Commonwealth Public Service examination, had to make the momentous decision of whether he would enter the Service or accept employ ment in private enterprise. He accepted the latter, but when he reached 21, he was sacked. 
 Unfortunately it is. I know the difficulties confronting boys, because during the last two years two of my own boys, whose ages are seventeen and twenty, were seeking work; but now, as the result of their own efforts, and the results achieved in competitive examinations, are in employment. I would be sorry if, in accepting positions, they displaced men who have families to support. 
That would be the logical outcome of the honorable senator's suggestion. The absence of remunerative employment is ruining many youths, not only in Australia, but also in Great Britain. According to a cablegram received by a Melbourne newspaper, 75 per cent. of 100,000 men who offered themselves as recruits in the British army were rejected. That was due almost entirely to the conditions under which the people in Great Britain are compelled to live. Many men in Great Britain are short in stature and poorly nourished, in consequence of the economic conditions which prevail. These conditions may eventually be responsible for the downfall of the British Empire. 
 I am pointing out that, if the conditions of the working people in Australia are not improved, we cannot expect to maintain our position as a nation. The cablegram to which I referred also stated that in Great Britain the authorities are now faced with the problem of dealing with those who were born during the war, and who, in the absence of proper food, were not properly nourished. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

The decay and waste, besides deficiencies caused by lack of nutriment, following unemployment, are serious matters from a defence point of view. Should there be need to defend Australia during the next generation we shall find the position here much the same as it is in Great Britain. 
On another occasion I may deal further with this subject, but I pass on now to the report of the committee appointed to inquire into the proposal to establish in Australiaa plantfor the production of oil from coal by the hydrogenation process. I mention this subject because the successful extraction of oil from coal would open up an avenue of employment for large numbers of our people. Each year Australia pays to other countries about £10,000,000 for motive spirit. The people of Australia generally desire that experiments shall be conducted with a view to finding means of extracting oil from coal in the event of flow oil not being found in this country. The Governor-General's Speech mentioned the unification of railway gauges, reafforestation, and water storage as proposals which the Government had under consideration with the object of providing work; I mention the extraction of oil from coal as another means of stimulating employment. The report of the committee to which I have referred states under the heading "Availability of suitable Coal Supplies " - 
It may be taken as definitely proved that there are in Australia ample supplies of bituminous coal thoroughly well suited for the production of liquid fuels by treatment with hydrogen gas under appropriate conditions of temperature and pressure and in the presence of catalysts capable of bringing about the desired chemical changes at a satisfactory rate. The proof of this is available in numerous tests carried out in the laboratories of Imperial Chemical Industries Limited and at the Fuel Research Station of the British Department of Scientific and Industrial Research at East Greenwich. Parts of Australia are, as a matter of fact, particularly well provided with black coals quite as well adapted for treatment as are those which are being used at the present time in Great Britain in the large scale work just mentioned, at  Billingham 
I was glad to notice in the report that the Blair Athol field of Central Queensland is mentioned as a suitable place for the establishment of a plant to obtain oil from coal. The report then mentions certain experiments being carried out at Billingham, England, and goes on to say - 
It seems to us, in the light of this position, that it would be folly to initiate any establishment of plant in Australia until this invaluable Dillingham experiment is completed. Certainly Imperial Chemical Industries could not be expected to expend money on what would be no more than a wholly unnecessary repetition of an experiment already in progress in Great Britain. . . Improved technique is steadily making possible an increased yield of petrol with corresponding reduction in the output of hydrocarbon gases, representing a decided improvement in the economics of hydrogenation. 
Generally, the committee does not favour the establishment of such plant in Australia., for another paragraph of the report reads - 
We realize that disappointment will follow an announcement of a conclusion that it would be folly to attempt the erection of a  hydrogenation  plant until the results of the rapidly progressing large scale experiment at Billingham are available. No other course, however, is open to us. 
Those of us who visualized our coal deposits .providing employment for our people are disappointed that the committee does not recommend the erection of a hydrogenation plant. The people of Australia are inquiring whether outside interests are delaying the search for oil in Australia. I have received a letter from the Rockhampton Chamber of Commerce suggesting that investigations be carried out on the Blair Athol field, where the deposits of coal are known to be at least  443,000,000  tons. I should like the Minister to give the Senate an assurance that this matter will be kept before the Government. If the Billing- ham experiments prove  successful, no  time should  be  lost in erecting  plants to  extract  oil  from coal  in Australia, because  in that way not only would  practically  one-third of the interest on  the national  debt be saved, but work  would also  be found for thousands of  Australians.  The proposals covered  by this  bill, although welcome,  will not provide  more than  a  small Christmas  box to  the unemployed of this country.  What  is wanted is that the Government  shall  direct its attention to big proposals  such  as I have mentioned, for,  if successful,  they would assist materially  in reducing  unemployment. 
In discussing a bill of this nature  honorable  senators should not adopt  a parochial  view.  Senator Johnston  asked whether the allocation to the  States had  been made on a  per capita  basis  or according  to population or area.  If it were on  an area basis the honorable senator  would  no doubt be pleased, for in that  case  Western Australia would receive  about  one-third of the amount  to be  appropriated. During the  honorable  senator's speech  I  interjected  that  although Western Australia  is a large  State, much of it has a  low rainfall,  and can be classed only  as poor  country, some of it almost  desert, incapable  of carrying more  than one .head  of cattle to  200  or  300  square  miles. Information  supplied in the  House of  Representatives indicates that most  of the  works to be undertaken with  the money  to be appropriated under  this bill are  already long overdue. For a  number of  years, particularly since the  Scullin Government  came into office  in 1929, the  defences of this country have  been sadly  neglected. Rifle ranges, parade  grounds,  drill halls, and other necessary  units of  a defence system have been  allowed to  get into shocking disrepair, and  I am,  therefore, glad that attention is  to  be  given  to them. The Tasmanian  allocation  will be expended on repairs to  various  post offices and rifle ranges, road  construction  in the vicinity of the aerodrome  on  King Island, and renovations to  war service  homes. Indeed, an examination  of  the works proposed to  be undertaken  in the several States  reveals  that most of them are  long overdue. 
I join  issue  with  Senator Johnston  from Western Australia - whom I am glad to  see fully  restored to health and able to  take  his seat in this chamber again -  in his  references to the Commonwealth.  I am a  native-born son of Tasmania, and  am  proud to represent it in the Senate,  but I am  first of all an Australian. I cannot forget that some twenty years ago,  as a  member of the 15th Battalion of  the  A.I.F., which consisted of Queenslanders and Tasmanians, I was associated with the chummy 16th Battalion,  which  came from the State of Western Australia. No finer battalion ever trod  this  earth. Physically, mentally, and in  every  other respect they were a magnificent body of men. The great bulk of them came from the goldfields, and all were  good  Australians. I cannot believe that  Senator Johnston  was expressing the views of the people of Western Australia when,  he  spoke as he did this afternoon  with  regard to secession. Secession is unthinkable. We in this island continent  are  Australians first of all. There  is a  legislative remedy for all our ills,  and the  good sense of the majority of  the  people of this great country will  see  that every portion of it gets a fair  and  just deal.  Senator Johnston  was rather unfortunate in his reference to the disabilities and wrongs of his State. One might retort in a way that would be effective, but rather unpleasant, by reminding him that the Commonwealth carried out its part of the bargain with regard to the construction of the EastWest railway, but that Western Australia has not yet carried out its portion  of the  bargain by laying down a uniform gauge line from Kalgoorlie to Perth. That, however, is a subject that has nothing to do with this bill, and I shall  not  pursue it. I would ask the honorable senator, however, to keep all these things  in  mind and to take a big broad Australian view rather than the small parochial view of this great question. Surely we should not be parochial in dealing with this bill, debating it merely from  the  point of view of the expenditure  to  be made in the several States, and entering into a somewhat acrimonious discussion as to whether the expenditure should  be  distributed on a population or  an area  basis. I am afraid that  my  own little State would suffer if either of those principles were adopted, and I therefore shall not advocate either of them. The schedule to the bill itself shows how the money is to be expended. It is to be regretted that interstate feeling on the question of secession should have been imported into this debate. The bill contains no reference to secession, and secession, I repeat, is absolutely unthinkable. In 1914 I was a Tasmanian, but after the 25th April, 1915, thank God, I, in common with hundreds and thousands of others, became an Australian, and I hold that in the consideration of all these matters we should adopt a truly Australian attitude. We come from different States, it is true, but we are the same in speech, in blood, in race and tradition, and to talk of secession is not only utterly futile, but also absolutely unAustralian. Such talk will not get us anywhere. 
This bill marks the first step in the plans of the Government to relieve unemployment 
I grant that it is. The greatest problem confronting us at the present time concerns the means to be taken to secure the employment of our youth. It is pitiful and pathetic that hundreds and thousands of the rising generation should be out of work. I receive every week letters from all sorts and conditions of people residing in my State asking for my assistance in obtaining employment for their boys. These boys have done everything their parents have asked of them. They have passed from' the State schools to the secondary schools, and some have even graduated from our universities, yet we have nothing to offer them. The problem is one that we should deal with irrespective of considerations of party, creed or sex. It will have to be solved, but it certainly will not be solved if we approach it from a party point of view. 
This bill is merely incidental to the Government's unemployment scheme. As the Minister has said, it is a purely machinery measure, but unfortunately the machinery by which we hope to absorb our unemployed seems to be rather  sticky and is much in need of lubrication in order that it may work better. I commend the bill to the Senate, and will support it, but I repeat that the problem of finding employment for our youth has to be solved, and I tremble to think what may happen to this fair land of Australia, unless it is solved within the next two or three years. 
I do not propose to go down to the lower levels that have been sounded by some honorable senators during this debate, nor to try to reach the higher ranges which have also marked this discussion, but I intend to offer a few observations on the apparent misconception in the minds of some honorable senators regarding the scope and intention of this measure. The bill, as I indicated when moving the second reading, is a mere palliative. It will give a certain measure of relief between now and the end of the year, but is not intended to represent the policy of the Government in regard to unemployment. That policy must have much greater consideration and will be brought down to this chamber after mature deliberation. I do not propose to discuss the root causes of unemployment which our honorable friends opposite are prepared so quickly and readily to determine. I would point out to them, however, that their brothers in the various State parliaments have failed to do anything; though theirs is the duty in the first place to deal with unemployment within their own borders, they have failed to provide any solution for this most distressing problem. Even those who claim to be greater than Lenin will find, if they look at the condition of affairs in the country where his principles apply to-day, that the situation is there more distressful than that which applies in Australia. In Russia conditions of hunger and suffering unparalleled in the rest of the world prevail. With such an example before us it would ill become us to consider those measures which have been indicated by certain honorable senators opposite, and which, if applied to Australia, would result in a still greater degree of suffering on the part of those whom my honorable friends desire to serve. It is the deep concern of this Go vernment, as it must be the deep concern of every government, that the unemployed position shall be remedied as speedily as possible, but to apply a remedy that would make the last condition of these people worse than the present would be utter folly. 
What my honorable friends opposite would do would be worse than nothing. The Labour party would rend this country by applying to it principles that have proved elsewhere to be unsound. 
My honorable friends opposite have held up Russia as a shining example. What are the conditions there to-day? 
No; but the honorable member and his party would bring into operation here the principles that apply in that country. They are afraid, however, to tell the people that that is exactly what they do propose, because the knowledge is spreading that Russia is in a state of the most pitiable distress. 
The honorable senator probably moves in a circle that knows more of Rasputin than I do. I am dealing not with Rasputin, but with a question of principle. It has been suggested that this is only a temporary measure. I admit that it is. I do not put it forward as representing even the works policy of the Government to assist the unemployed. I have already explained the reason for its introduction at this juncture. It has been said that it is an exceedingly modest effort compared with what has been done by the States. I point out in the first place that it is a mere palliative, and in the second place that we have not the facilities for spending money that are available to the States. The States control water supply, railways and other large enterprises with which the Commonwealth does not deal, and in respect of these they can engage in a good deal of expenditure. May I say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  that this is merely an appropriation bill to enable £176,000 to be expended in the relief of unemployment by the end of the year, and that the usual conditions will prevail. The expenditure will be entirely under the control of the Commonwealth Works Department, and none of those pranks which some one suggested was played by another distinguished government, whose name I have forgotten, will be indulged in. 
Then, shall I say that none of the pranks which it intended to play will be resorted to by this Government in the expenditure of this money. Before the Christmas recess, 1 shall place before honorable senators the major proposals of the Government to deal with this problem in its wider sphere. Much has been said in this debate concerning the basis upon which the various grants have been allocated. In dealing with a hurried measure of this kind, it was almost impossible to consider the merits of any scientific system such as one honorable gentleman suggested for allocation of the money between the States. 
In arranging the distribution among the States, the claims of the Federal Capital Territory and the Northern Territory were not taken into consideration, and in respect of them no estimate was made on a basis of either population or area. If an area basis had been adopted in respect of the Northern Territory, which is the concern of the Commonwealth alone, the Commonwealth might have retained a larger share for expenditure in that area. So far as the Federal Capital Territory is concerned, the ordinary annual Estimates were pruned and  repruned  with the result that an amount of approximately £12,000 was refused for works within the Territory which the Department of the Interior considered essential. In allocating these grants, the Government endeavoured to rectify that decrease in the Estimates for the Federal Capital Territory. The grant of £4,000 for expenditure in the Northern Territory will be devoted to the construction and repair of roads and approaches to various centres. Had we distributed this money on a population basis, Western Australia, which is now to receive £10,702, would have got only £9,940. Had we adopted as a basis the numbers of unemployed in the respective areas, Western Australia, because of its favorable position in this respect, would have received only between £8,000 and £9,000. 
Had we adopted it,  Senator Johnston  would have had greater cause for complaint. 
But the expenditure is limited to Commonwealth works required to be done in the various States. When honorable senators examine the schedule, they will find that we have had to look around in order to find Commonwealth works that could be put in hand expeditiously. Contrary to the views apparently held by some honorable senators, the Government is not ladling out this money to the States; the grant is to be expended on Commonwealth works under Commonwealth supervision. 
In regard to the unemployed in Canberra, about 800 of these unfortunate men are on our hands; they are the responsibility of the Commonwealth alone; no State will have them, and they cannot get employment in New South Wales, Victoria, or any other State. Thus we have to make some provision for their employment as best we can under this temporary scheme. 
The class of labour available here could not be utilized on the type of work required to be done. 
A lot  of  them will get such work; but we have  to  remember that our immediate duty  is to  provide for  all of  the 800 unemployed men in this Territory. 
The Government has not lost sight  of  the need for encouraging gold production,  to  which  Senator Brown  referred,  or  the possibility  of  obtaining oil from coal by the hydrogenation process referred  to  by  Senator MacDonald.  However, should  Senator Brown  need enlightenment on the views I hold on the matter  of  gold production, I invite him  to  refer  to  Hansard  for 1929  or  1930; he will see from speeches which I  madeon  this subject that I hold very clear views on the need for gold production being placed on an efficient basis, because of the effect which mining development would have on unemployment andour economic position generally. 

 Senator Sampson and  Senator Payne  emphasized the unfortunate conditions  of  our unemployed youth. This matter will no doubt be debated when, at a later date, we consider the problem  of  unemployment in its major aspects. At this stage, however, I want honorable senators to understand that the Government is in deadly earnest over this problem. In this regard there is no more sympathetic soul than the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  to reveal whose feelings in the matter I  am  tempted to quote Goldsmith's line, " And e'en his failings lean'd  to  Virtue's side." The Prime Minister in dealing with this problem, is tempted out of the goodness of his heart  to do  things which, in the long run,would not prove  of  real  benefit to  the unemployed themselves. 
The Government has reduced unemployment in this country, and it is an achievement whichour predecessors, with  all  their fantastic ideas, were unable  to  accomplish. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes referred to  the need for improving the drain at the Keswick defence reserve. A start, though a belated one. is being made with that work. Criticism was also voiced concerning Canberra as the seat of administration,  and  also  on  the changes made in  the 
Ministry. Examining the photographs of my predecessors which hang in the Post Office in Melbourne, I found that I am the twenty-first Postmaster-General to hold office during the 33 years of federation, and I wondered what understanding of the activities of the post office some of my predecessors had been able to acquire. But frequent change is a common feature of political life in this country, and the disadvantage of it is particularly evident in connexion with the administration of the territories. That, however, is a matter that does not arise under this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON (Western Australia) [8.42].  -  Can the Minister inform honorable senators as tothe details of the works proposed to be undertaken under section 3 of the schedule, which deals with the construction and repair of roads on and approaching Commonwealth property? Until this measure was brought down the Commonwealth entirely evaded its responsibilities with respect to the repair of roads which lead to its properties in the various States. I feel very gratified that the Government at last proposes to undertake work in this direction. Several of these roads requiring attention have been brought under the notice of myself and others. 
For works of the nature which the honorable senator mentioned the following allocations will be made from this grant : -New South Wales, £15,668; Victoria, £3,832 ; Western Australia, £1,200 ; Tasmania, £600. I am not in a position at the moment toname the particular roads which have been selected in Western Australia to be attended to under this grant, but I understand that in that State and in Victoria they are roads which have been the subject of complaint by honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives from time to time. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Billread a third  time. 
I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Tuesday, 11th December next, at 3 p.m. 
I find that the Appropriation Bill, which I had hoped would be sent up to this chamber before the week-end, has not yet been passed by the House of Representatives. I regret that it was necessary to call honorable senators together this week because of the urgency of the Appropriation (Work and Services) Bill, which they have been good enough to pass. 
I feel constrained to say a few words of comment on the motion that the Senate shall adjourn until Tuesday week. When I reached Canberra to-day and examined the notice-paper for the Senate, Ifound that it was completely bare of Government business. The only business listed was in the form of five questions by private members and the usual three contingent notices of motion. I anticipated when this chamber adjourned the week before last that there would not be much legislation to consider when it resumed this week, and I ventured to suggest privately that rather than summon members from all parts of Australia when there was no work to do, the preferable course would be to carry a motion authorizing the  President  to summon members when there was business for this chamber to transact. This is the fifth sitting day of the Senate since the opening of the new Parliament, and on three occasions this chamber rose before 6 o'clock. I do not wish to stress this aspect of the matter too much, but I remind Ministers that it is no light thing for members from the more distant States to attend in Canberra unless there is business to be done. It is comparatively easy for Ministers, who, perhaps are required to remain in Canberra to administer their departments, and it is relatively easy for those senators from New South Wales and Victoria who can reach this city by train in a few hours; but the position is quite different with senators representing Queensland, Tasmania or my own State. Senators from Western Australia seem to have no chance of returning to their State at all during a session. They have to come here at the opening of Parliament and stay here or in one of the nearer capital cities until the legislature adjourns. Therefore, in this matter, I am speaking more directly for the representatives from Tasmania, Queensland, and South Australia. I must confess that I find it fatiguing to be obliged to spend as I did the week before last, and as I shall probably have to do this week, four nights out of five travelling in a train, unless such a course is necessary for the transaction of public business. Furthermore, it is not reasonable to State governments which allow us free passages over their railway lines unless there is good cause for it. Of course, I do not for a moment begrudge attendance in Parliament when my duties require it. On this point I am sure that I can speak on behalf of other senators also. I have always held that it is the duty of a member of Parliament to attend when Parliament is sitting, and ever since 
I have been a member of this legislature, I have kept my absences down to a minimum. We are paid to be here and should attend when Parliament is sitting. But members may fairly expect that the difficulties of attendance will receive some consideration, and that they will not be brought here, as they were a fortnight ago and again this week, for the purpose of sitting merely for a few hours and then being told that they are at liberty to return to their homes a thousand miles or more away and remain there for a fortnight. As most of us have other work to do, I do not think we should be justified in remaining here for perhaps ten or fourteen days doing nothing. The inevitable result of these frequent adjournments of the Senate is that at the end of a session we are involved in a hopeless rush when legislation is being fairly shovelled before us in a way that makes it impossible for us to thoroughly master the details. I do not suggest that this is the fault of any party in this Parliament. The fault is probably common to all governments and parties. No doubt, it is desirable, from the point of view of a ministry, that members who are in the habit of offering embarrassing criticism should not' have too many opportunities to do so. I am, however, afraid that this way of conducting the business of the Senate is liable to bring this chamber into a certain amount of disrepute. I do not say that this is the fault of Senate Ministers, although I think the Government could, if it wished, initiate more legislation in this chamber. In the sheep industry, as some honorable senators are no doubt aware, it is regarded as one of the first essentials if the work is to be conducted smoothly, that the station-owner or manager should, during shearing, keep the sheep up to the shearer. That principle, I suggest, might, with advantage, be applied by Ministers in this chamber. Speaking figuratively, we are called together to shear something - to consider and criticize legislation designed for the public good - and it is to be deplored that, as in the case of the indifferent station-manager, there is now no work for us to do. I presume that, as it is stated that Parliament will soon be adjourning until early in 
February, there is no likelihood of there being a great rush of legislation before .we adjourn, as has happened in the past, but that many of the measures contemplated may be postponed over the Christmas vacation. It is, however, inevitable that certain bills will require consideration before we adjourn. To obviate future difficulties due to the rush of legislation at the end of a session, I suggest that, as we are dependent upon the House of Representatives for the supply of the necessary " sheep " to be shorn, the Government should adopt the practice of the House of Commons, which, in order to ensure the passage of bills within a reasonable time, works to a schedule; that is to say it fixes the time by which the various stages of particular bills must be completed. At the appointed time the guillotine is applied, a vote is taken, and the measure is completed. As the number of members in the Senate is not large, and some honorable gentlemen do not speak very often, I would prefer the guillotine to be applied after reasonable discussion of a bill, instead of having an interminable discussion on subjects in general and then a tremendous rush of work at the end of every session. The adoption of the House of Commons practice would, I believe, be a good way out of our difficulties. I conclude by expressing the hope that the Government will consider the suggestion which has been made to it several times privately, and which I now make publicly because nothing appears to have been done. As, under existing arrangements, Senate Ministers cannot say definitely when there will be work for us to do, I think it would be better, on occasions like this, if the  President  were authorized to send telegrams to honorable senators advising them when their presence was required for the transaction of public business. This would be preferable to requiring them to spend so much time travelling about Australia to no purpose. 
.- It is regrettable that, because of the state of public business in the House of Representatives, the Senate again finds itself with no work to do. I do not charge the representatives of the Ministry in this chamber with neglect, or with a desire  to  embarrass or inconvenience honorable senators. Apparently, it is not their fault ; but . the responsibility must rest upon the shoulders of some one. Parliament has now been sitting for some weeks, but effect has not been given to the promises made prior to the general elections, and prominent amongst which was the immediate relief of unemployment. Honorable senators are compelled to travel long distances to attend the Senate only to find that the work which they are required to do occupies only a few hours. Thousands of people throughout Australia are awaiting almost with palpitating hearts for the Government to honour its promises, particularly with respect to unemployment. The Opposition in this chamber is not sufficiently strong to embarrass the Government. The Ministry is embarrassed by its own- 
Exactly. Parliament has been sitting for only a few weeks, but the Prime Minister now finds that he cannot give effect to the policy which he enunciated prior to the last general election, and that criticisms are being indulged in not only by the members of the Opposition, but also by  hia  own supporters. I believe that the Prime Minister, who would die rather than break a promise to a pal, now has to admit that he cannot do what he undertook to do. The right honorable gentleman, who said that the tariff would not be tampered with by his Government, finds that owing to the exigencies of the political situation the protection policy may possibly be destroyed. It has been stated in the press that certain tariff board reports, which were deliberately suppressed prior to the elections, will shortly be made public. How can a government, which includes the right honorable member for Cowper  (Dr. Earle Page)  and other members of tho Country party, submit a definite policy to Parliament? The Prime Minister retires at night, and returns to duty next morning to find that  Dr. Page  has spent the night in compiling further tariff amendments. I know that the Post.masterGeneral  (Senator McLachlan)  is doing his best in very difficult circumstances; but on a previous occasion 
I suggested to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that this chamber should adjourn for three weeks in order that we might have something to do on our return. It is now proposed that the Senate shall re-assemble on the 11th December and, according to the  press  which controls this Government, Parliament will go into recess on the 14th of that month. Apparently, the Government intend to ask the Senate to dispose of, within three days, whatever legislation is dealt with by the House of Representatives between now and the 11th December. Such legislation will be chewed over by the House of Representatives and then spat at this chamber ! 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I ask the honorable senator to withdraw those words. 
I withdraw them. Honorable senators are willing and anxious to assist in the passage of legislation framed with the object of improving the conditions of the Australian people. The time has arrived for the introduction of a better system than that which now prevails, and which causes such a good deal of inconvenience to honorable senators generally. 
.- I support the views expressed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  with respect to honorable senators being brought to Canberra from time to time to find that there is very little business for the Senate to transact. As was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  honorable senators will be expected within three days to dispose of business which had occupied the House of Representatives for several weeks. There are several contributing factors, one of which the Leader of the Opposition conveniently ignored. He blamed certain individuals in another branch of the legislature, but he refrained from mentioning others who are really responsible. I read the proceedings of this Parliament carefully, and I know that much time is wasted by the Opposition merely with the object of preventing legislation from being brought forward. 
Because of the continued obstruction which has taken place in the House of Representatives, practically nothing of value has been accomplished by Parliament this session. For that state of affairs, the party to which  Senator Barnes  belongs is in a large measure responsible. 
At a. time like this, when great difficulties confront the nation, the Government should be able to rely on the co-operation of the Opposition in dealing with essential legislation. 
We are anxious to help the Government, but very little legislation has been brought before us. 
What important measures have been obstructed by the Labour party? 
Honorable senators should not be called together unless there is work for them to do. I desire to attend every sitting of the Senate, but I object to being brought here for one day's work after an adjournment for thirteen days, and then, because there is no business before the Senate, having to spend another thirteen days awaiting a further call to Canberra. I left Fremantle on the 8 th November, although, had I travelled overland, instead of by steamer, I could have left a day or two later, and reached here as soon. On the day on which I arrived in Sydney, intending to proceed at once to Canberra, the Senate adjourned for thirteen days. Now, after one day's sitting, it is proposed to adjourn for another thirteen days. The main business of the Senate will not begin until the 11th December, so that I could have remained in Western Australia another four weeks and still have reached here in time to participate in the business of the Senate. I realize that, because of constitutional difficulties, and the provisions of the Standing Orders, certain classes of legislation must be initiated in the House of Representatives. 
-Surely it is possible to initiate more legislation in this chamber than is done now! I am concerned about what is likely to happen when we meet on the 11th December, because it is reported in the press that Parliament is to adjourn a few days later. Although I desire to be home for Christmas, I would prefer to stay here aird attend in a proper manner to the work that comes before us rather than that the business of the Senate should be rushed through without proper consideration being given to it. The Government has promised to introduce measures providing for rural rehabilitation, the relief of farmers, the appointment of an interstate commission, and other important matters. I hope that, when they come before us, honorable senators will have an opportunity to read and consider them, before being asked to record their votes. On. several occasions legislation for the relief of wheat-growers has been brought before us in the closing hours of a session, and we have been forced to sit all night to deal with it, without having had a proper chance to understand its provisions. After a long sitting, honorable senators are unable to grasp the finer points of the legislation placed before them, and they are unable ro consult those whom it vitally concerns. 
If, when we again meet, there is any attempt to show undue haste in dealing with the matters that come before us, I shall support any attempt to secure the adjournment of the debate in order to allow sufficient time for adequate consideration. I favour the abolition of the Federal Parliament altogether, but so long as it continues I shall oppose the abolition of the Senate. The worst enemies of the Senate are not those persons who advocate from the soap box the abolition of this august  chamber,  but those who, in the Senate, are prepared to allow legislation to pass without proper consideration being given to it. Members of the Senate have a duty to perform in tho review of legislation passed by the House of Representatives, and the protection, of the rights of the weaker State.?. "What chance is there of dealing with legislation when the Standing Orders are suspended to enable bills to be passed through all their stages with, but honorable senators having a full knowledge of their contents, and an opportunity to consult those most concerned ? I  hope  that the Government will heed the protests of  Senator DuncanHughes  and others, and not call the Senate together unless there is work for it to do. Senators from Western Australia have to spend five days in trains to reach Canberra, and it is irritating to find no work to do when we get here. The convenience of honorable senators should be considered more than it is. 
When the Senate meets again on the 11th December, very little time will remain before Christmas to deal with the legislation which will come before it. We have not been told what business will be submitted to us when we re-assemble, although I assume that we shall be asked to deal with the budget and the Appropriation Bill. There is no mention of any tariff proposal being brought before us. As a matter of fact, the Government does not know where it is. For the last two months it has been engaged in making cabinets rather than in preparing legislation. Three different cabinets have been formed within the last eight -weeks. On the 16th September - the day after the general election - the Government knew what the result would be, and, i" view of its promises during the campaign, it should have got to work straight away. Instead of that, it has been forming cabinets - a pleasing job to those who remain in, but very unpleasant for those who fall out. In Victoria, 25 years ago, a non-Labour party with a substantial majority in both Houses formed so many cabinets that there was scarcely a member of either House who did not at one time or another hold office. It is rumour*"4 that the present Government, as cotstructed by the cabinet makers, is not satisfactory to the two parties involved, so that when we meet next February the process of cabinet making will probably continue, and the business of the country will again be held up. Like  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  who rarely addresses the Senate without making a suggestion, I propose to put forward something in the way of an innovation, although I fear it will not meet with the approval of the majority. Following Aristotle's idea of how a country should be ruled - that there should be rotation of office - I say that there should be a rotation of members on the ministerial bench, and particularly in this chamber. Such a change would have a very healthy effect upon the conduct of Ministers in the Senate. If, for instance,  Senator McLachlan  knew that in any event he would have to go out of office within a year of his having joined the Ministry, he would be more ready to fight for the rights of the Senate. I am an abolitionist, but while the Senate exists its rights ae a States' House and chamber of review should be preserved. 
For a number of reasons, which time will not permit me to state to-night. But given a House of Representatives plus a liberal use of the popular referendum, I think the democratic needs of this country would be met. That is what Labour intends. It would abolish this chamber, but would bring in an, instrument of redress that would meet all the requirements of a progressive democratic community like Australia. If members of the Government in this chamber knew that they could not retain office for more  than twelve months or two years, they would be more independent of their colleagues in another place and less inclined to kow-tow to the majority of the members of the Cabinet who sit in that other place. As a matter of fact, little respect is shown to this chamber; even when an honorable senator asks a question, difficulties are put in the way of an answer to it. "We do not receive the respect that is our due. If I were to submit twenty questions a day, as I might easily do if I so desired, I should perhaps expect to receive something of the treatment now meted out to us, but, as it is, there is no excuse for it. Ministers in this chamber appear to feel that their first duty is to the majority of the Cabinet sitting in another place, and they are prepared to allow the Senate to be treated just as Ministers in another place think fit. We are called here again and again only to find that there is no business ready for submission to us. It is ridiculous to suggest that there has been any obstruction on the part of the Labour party in either House. Reference has been made to the amendment to the AddressinReply ; but all who have spent any time in Parliament know that a debate on the Address-in-Reply gives a newly-elected government time to prepare its legislalation. In the case of a homogeneous Government, which is not quarrelling about the spoils of office, a fortnight's debate on the Address-in-Reply gives it an opportunity to prepare legislation based on the programme which it has submitted to the people. That opportunity, however, has not been availed of by the present Government, and consequently we have these frequent adjournments of the Senate. I suggest that the Government should give stronger representation to Queensland. We have over one-seventh of the population of Australia - a population verging on 1,000,000- 
The honorable senator is getting very wide of the subjectmatter of the motion. 
I ask that the Minister when replying will give us an idea of the business that we shall be called upon to deal with when we resume on the 11th December, and state what time we shall have to discuss it. Those are two reasonable requests. A good Opposition is essential to every Parliament. It is the duty of an Opposition to discuss the business brought before the Parliament, and we certainly should not be expected, when we resume after  a  fortnight's adjournment, to deal with the Estimates and other important  matters  in three or four days. 
I think that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and  Senator "  Secessionist " Johnston are to be highly complimented on the way they have dealt with this matter. 
While representatives of New Zealand were present this afternoon, he did some splendid propaganda work for Western Australia and the secession movement there. The frequency with which the Senate is adjourned serves to demonstrate to  the  people that it is of no great service to Australia. 
As a member of the Labour party, I believe in the abolition of the Senate, but just as  Mr. Malcolm  MacDonald said to-day, when dealing with the delicate matter of the restriction of trade between Australia and the Old Country, that he agreed with the principle of restriction, but recognized the difficulty of carrying it out, so, while agreeing that the Senate should be abolished as proposed by the Australian Labour party, I hope it will not be abolished until I have spent a few years as a member of it. Personally, it suits me very well to be a senator, but having regard to the way in which the Senate is treated by the Government it must  be  admitted that the game is not being played with the people of Australia. I  am  not going to say where the 'blame rests, but I am satisfied that if the present Government really had, as it claimed during the elections, a solution of our economic problems, it would before now have introduced the necessary legislation. It is unfair for  Senator Payne  to sal  that members of the Labour party in another place deliberately obstructed the passing of certain legislation.  His  statement is grossly inaccurate.  Mr. Scullin  has said, on several occasions, that if the Government brought down proposals that would tend to solve the unemployed problem, our party would do all in its power to give legislative effect to them. Having regard to the casual sittings of the Senate, it seems to me that its business might very well be done by correspondence. There would be no occasion then for  Senator Johnston  to leave Western Australia. We could be informed by post of the business proposed by the Government, and could notify the Government of how we proposed to cast our votes. 
It would appear that after next June, with only three of us on this side of the chamber, if God spares us- 
I may give the leadership to  Senator Collings  or to  Senator MacDonald;  or perhaps I may take it myself. Let me assure  Senator Sampson,  however, that whoever is our leader, we shall continue to carry out our work with zest, and, I hope with a measure of ability. I repeat that the conduct of business in this chamber has become a burlesque, and the responsibility devolves upon the Government which believes in the bi-cameral system, so to organize its legislative programme as to ensure that full opportunity will be given bo honorable senators on both sides of the chamber to analyse and discuss adequately all proposed legislation. 
Perhaps I am responsible, in a measure, for bringing this censure on my head. The only reason, however, for my decision a fortnight ago to re-assemble honorable senators to-day was that the Appropriation (Works and Services) Bill could be no longer delayed. Its passage through the House of Representatives had been expedited, and if honorable senators had not re-assembled to-day, it is possible that this legislation would not have become operative in time to afford the relief which the Government considers is urgently needed by the class of people whom it has been devised to assist. I realize that it is very inconvenient for honorable senators to be brought from their homes to Canberra to sit for a single day, but I had to take that risk in the absence of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  I knew that the legislation we have ready could not be introduced in this chamber, and, at the same time, I was doubtful as to whether the House of Representatives would have passed the Appropriation Bill in time to make it available for consideration by honorable senators to-day. 
I shall deal with that point later. Something has been said to the effect that we are not playing the game with the public. From what I have seen in the House of Representatives the "game" is being played - the political cards are being played, and nothing is being done to enable the Government to function as it should. Legislative measures are exercising the minds of Ministers night and day, but the Government is being harassed by a hydraheaded Opposition which mouths and proclaims its pity for the unemployed, and its desire to serve the people, but, at the same time, is holding up essential legislation. Thus the responsibility for this delay cannot rest on the shoulders of the Government. 
The Estimates, for instance. I understand that these have been discussed in three different ways* What sort of a " game " are those responsible for these tactics playing? An amendment was moved to reduce the first item on the Estimates by fi, and debate ensued  ad nauseam.  When that amendment was disposed of another Opposition member took advantage of the Standing Orders to move that the amount be reduced by 10s., with the result that the whole of the debate was repeated. These tactics have been continued week after week. My friends opposite smile when I point out these things; but such methods are not politically honest, and do not reflect credit on any party, or parties, responsible for them. These tactics are employed to the detriment of the people, and thereby legislation which could have been submitted to the Senate has been delayed. I cannot accept, on behalf of the Government, any responsibility for what has happened in this respect. In bringing honorable senators here to-day, I was actuated by the knowledge that the Appropriation (Works and Services) Bill had to be passed immediately in the interests of those people whom it is intended to benefit. It is provided under the Constitution that Parliament must meet within 30 days of an election. Some considerable time elapsed before the results of the election were known definitely; we met within the statutory period; the Government was re-formed, and the House of Representatives has been in session every week since. 
Perhaps the best course to adopt in future to avoid the inconvenience of which honorable senators have complained is that suggested by  Senator DuncanHughes,  viz., that if business is not ready for the consideration of the Senate, its reassembly should be delayed, and members summoned later by telegram. That is the procedure adopted when the Senate is adjourning for a lengthy and indefinite period. However, in the absence of the Leader of the Senate, 1 did not care to take the responsibility of altering the practice that has been followed in the past. In fixing the 11th December as the date of resumption for the Senate, I have a fairly reliable idea of what business we shall then be asked to deal with. The measures include one or two which cannot be initiated in this Senate, because they must be preceded by a message from the Governor-General. These,  however, are not of urgent importance, and could very well wait until January or February. But there are three major matters to which this chamber will be asked to direct its attention. First, there is the larger measure of unemployment relief, which is being prepared and will have to be first considered in the House of Representatives. The second measure will deal with the wheat industry, the report on which I tabled this evening. Thirdly, there will be the Appropriation Bill, which should, be passed before the 51st December, as we have supply only to that date. 
I see unreason why the Appropriation Bill could not be passed in one day if honorablesenators dealt with it expeditiously.. Information is always available on every detail of the Estimates. Usually the delay occurs, not in considering the items, but through the dissemination of political propaganda before the chambercommences to discuss the details of expenditure. It may be that honorablesenators will find it impossible to get through the work allotted, but in  the interests  of honorable senators who haveto journey to distant States, the Government is hopeful that Parliament will be able to deal with these matters so that it may rise at the ensuing week-end. Honorable senators are already familiarwith the class of legislation relating to» the wheat industry, and with the general proposals for the relief of unemployment,, whilst the Appropriation Bill will be a matter for consideration in commitee. 
I do not propose to follow the ramifications of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes^, who* made various suggestions inferring, iaone instance, that members in another place have sacrificed principle. So far- a3 the formation of the composite government is concerned, there has been. n®&lt; sacrifice of principle by any honorablemember. It is suggested that we should" initiate more work in this chamber. That could be done, except for the reason that the legislation we desire to consider has: to be initiated in the House of Representatives by message from the GovernorGeneral. The illustration employed by Senator Duncan-Hughes that the Government, in presenting business to theSenate is failing to keep the sheep up tothe shearers, is not quite to the point. In-, my day, a shearer was paid at a piecework rate. The shearers in this chamber, if honorable senators may be so described,, are not employed on a piece-work rate,, but at an annual salary. 
I realize the responsibility resting, onthe Government in this matter, but Ministers cannot help themselves. Thebill dealt with to-day was pressing, aRc the legislation to be presented to  this chamber  on the 11th December will also be of an urgent nature. But we cannot deal with it until it is passed by the other- chamber. If honorable senators opposite have any influence -with those responsible for the delay in the House of Repre-  sentatives, I suggest they might exert it for the convenience of honorable senators. -Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  move  - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Copies of the report of the directors and the balance-sheet of Commonwealth Oil Henneries Limited, as at the 30th June, 1934, have been placed on the table of the Library. 
On the 14th November, when replying to certain observations by  Senator Foll,  I indicated that I would have further inquiries made from the External Affairs Department with a view to a more definite statement being .made in regard to the operations of Japanese vessels in North Queensland waters. Several reports have been received recently to the effect that foreign shell-fishing vessels are operating actively, and apparently Tin increasing numbers, in waters off the Australian coast. Allegations have ako been made from time to time that -Japanese crews have been responsible for damage to planters' holdings, but no specific  report has been received by the -Commonwealth Government of the depreciations in regard to the destruction of  coco-nut  trees, to which the honorable senator referred. The Commonwealth "have been fully seized for some time of the necessity for being able to legislate for fisheries in territorial waters, and raised the matter at the constitutional conference in February last. No conclusion was arrived at, and subsequently the Commonwealth Government communicated with the State governments to ascertain if they were prepared, either by way of amendment of the Constitution Or by a possible reference of power, to facilitate the Commonwealth exercising legislative powers in regard to whale fisheries, pearl, beche-de-mer, and trochus fisheries within territorial limits. Up to the present only four States have replied to this communication, and the nature of these replies indicates that there is no measure of agreement on the subject. Therefore, the Commonwealth and States in the meantime, must take such measures ,as will enable their own laws to be enforced, and steps with a view to more adequate policing are now being taken by the Commonwealth departments concerned. 
On the 13 th November, a copy of a report, to which reference had been made by  Senator Collings,  was ordered to be laid upon the table of the Senate. This report dealt with an alleged armed organization in Queensland, and, more particularly, the statement was made therein that during the last six months rifles had been sold to the public from the Brisbane military ordnance stores in large numbers, and that only six transactions had been recorded. The Government has had this statement investigated, and it appears that, since the prohibition of the importation of arms and ammunition into Australia, the Defence Department has been selling arms and ammunition to the public under certain conditions approved by the Minister. These conditions are designed to ensure that the purchasers are reputable persons. Firms who purchase for re-sale are required to keep a record of every sale for inspection by the department whenever desired. Service rifles and ammunition are extensively used in kangaroo and buffalo hunting, and in killing crocodiles. For the year ended the 30th June, 1934, the department sold throughout Australia 637 rifles and 1,040,758 rounds of small arms ammunition, exclusive of sales to rifle clubs. These quantities incidentally are much below those imported into Australia before importation was stopped. The 310-inch rifles referred to are old stock, for which there is no ammunition, a fact that makes their disposal very difficult. Reference was also made in the report to a machine gun in a building in Sydney. The story relating to this gun has been told frequently in the last three years. It has always been found to be completely without foundation. Owing to the precautions which have been taken for the safe custody of Vickers machine guns and other weapons, none has been lost by the Defence Department. There has never been any indication of possession by any organization of any automatic weapon. No information is available concerning parts for assembling armoured , cars by any Queensland organization. One Sydney organization was found to have the necessary mild steel plates to fit on twelve chassis. These passed into the possession of the Defence Department some twelve months ago. 
.- Without knowing that the Minister  (Senator McLachlan)  had intended to make a statement of the subject of armed organizations in Australia, I had determined to avail myself of the opportunity afforded by this motion to say something, because of the statement made in the House of Representatives, and because also of the garbled reports which have appeared in the newspapers as to what I have said about the subversive organizations, as well as the contents of the document which I have laid on the table of the Senate. 
The press has erroneously stated that I quoted from that document. I did nothing of the kind. My statement about the organizations in question was brief and contained no reference whatever to the document until I was challenged by one honorable senator, who asked me for the source of my information. I replied that I held in my hand a report which contained the facts alluded to and many others. The Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  said in the House of Representatives - I am glad that the PostmasterGeneral did not repeat the statement in the Senate to-night, for it would appear that he at least has some conscience - that I had admitted that the statement was unsigned, undated, and unofficial. I definitely told the Senate that the statement was official; that it was prepared by the Defence Department, and was presented to a department of the Queensland Government. Of course it was unsigned. ' My document was merely a typewritten copy of the original. I said definitely that I would not disclose the means by which I had obtained the information. The reason is, I think, obvious to most honorable senators. 
If  Senator Sampson  is seeking information, he must adopt means other than that of interrogating me while I am addressing the Senate. Every one knows that the present Minister for Defence has a most unfortunate manner. He gives one the impression that he believes he can get over any difficulty by sneering at his opponent, waving his hand and declaring that " there is nothing in it ". My statement in the Senate was true, but I quite expected that every attempt would be made to misrepresent what I said. I know enough of the operations of Government departments and of Ministers to realize that no effort would be made to verify the truth of my statements, but that, on the contrary, every attempt would be made to cast ridicule upon them. What were those statements? I asserted that the Government was taking extreme action to prevent a certain .person from landing in Australia and addressing meetings, and I went on to say that I did not know the individual concerned and had no sympathy with him. Then I put to the Government a very pertinent question, and one which I shall repeat whenever the occasion warrants it. I asked why its powers were always exercised when it appeared that the individual or the organization concerned was likely to operate on behalf of the working classes and against the policy of the present Ministry. I went on to say that the former Minister for Defence and the Government knew of the existence of subversive organizations, but had not taken any steps to suppress them. To show that I was not biased in this matter, I mentioned the New Guard, which had been and still is operating in New South Wales ; the Australian Legion which was, until a few months ago, in active operation in Northern Queensland, and the so-called Labour Red Army, which of my own personal knowledge was in existence  in New South Wales in 1931 and subsequently. The last-named is a workingclass organization. I said further that I did not believe in force, and that if the Government was determined to prevent a certain man from landing in Australia to deliver lectures - I might have added that it was also censoring books which advocated a policy in opposition to that for which it stands - I would like to see it suppress these illegal organizations, which were armed. An attempt has been made to laugh that statement out of court. It has been said that the organizations concerned could not get the arms. 
Again  Senator Sampson  is seeking information by way of interrogation. We now have the admission that there is a possibility of these organizations being armed. The Minister for Defence said that this statement was not true, and added that no " concealable " weapons had been sold by the Ordnance Department. I have not a copy of the document which I laid on the table of the Senate, but I know it contained no reference to " concealable " weapons. Nor did I say that any person or organization had come into the possession of " automatic " weapons. What I said was that arms had been sold and were in the possession of at least one of these organizations. That statement I repeat. It has been said that the swastika emblems to which reference was made in the document, were in no way symbolic of subversive organizations, but were being sold as good luck charms by some individual in Northern Queensland. That was the Minister's reply to my statement. I now tell him and the Department of Defence that they cannot put anything over me in this matter without my protest. I am not likely to be a victim of any of these organizations. Only a few weeks ago, because tramway employees in Melbourne were on strike, another organized fascist body undertook to provide 500 free labourers to take their place. That is another of the subversive organizations which I might include in my list. I say definitely that these bodies are constituted to frustrate any effort made on behalf of the working classes to improve their conditions whenever it appears that they have become tired of the political system under which so much is denied to them. 
Of course they have, but their rights will be filched from them by this Government if by the term " public " is meant the working classes. 
I said that the report was prepared by the Defence Department and presented to a department of the Queensland Government. That fact has already been made public in another place, and I understand that inquiries are being made by the Queensland Government with regard to the matter. I have no desire to escape my personal responsibility, but I shall want to know how the inquiry is to be conducted, because I know how easy it is for investigations to be carried out in the interests of those concerned so that the investigator shall not discover anything. Make no mistake about that. I am not innocent of the methods of governments. My parliamentary experience is not limited to my membership of this Senate. Here is another statement, published by a newspaper circulating in Queensland and, I understand, in every capital city of Australia, in its issue of the 12th August, 1934- 
The Minister for Defence says that there is no law to prevent it. I wouldrather accept the opinion of the Minister for Defence, such as it is, than that of  Senator Sampson.  The report continues - 
Frequent investigations have shown that the proportion of personnel with weapons is comparatively small. 
I did not say that it was great. I said that they possessed arms and I knew the statement to be true. I also said that the members of these organizations were skilled in the use of firearms. I do not care whether the Minister for Defence or  Senator Sampson  is concerned, but I believe  Senator Pearce  knows, that because of the Government's fear of an armed rising in New South Wales the defence authorities took the precaution approximately a couple of years ago to withdraw the bolts from rifles and the locks from machine guns and to make sure that no one would know where they were - without them the guns would be useless - the ordinary place of concealment was changed. 
Of course it was. It was done because the people were tired of the inactivity of the Government and had read the published declaration of the New Guard in New South Wales- 
I am not belittling the honest efforts to prevent the activities of organizations which should be scotched. I do not expect to please  Senator Sampson.  I am not a fighting man but the honorable senator is. 
It would be greater evidence of common sense to tell those in control of these organizations which, under the Constitution, are illegal, that they must disperse, or go to gaol. They should not be permitted to injure Australian democracy. The statement of the Minister for Defence continues - 
Owing to the precautions which have been taken, for the safe custody of Vickers machine guns and other weapons, none have been lost by the Defence Department. 
There has never been any indication of the possession by any organization of any automatic weapon. The Director of Investigation submits that persons alleging the existence of an ti -constitutional bodies in the 
Commonwealth should give every possible assistance to responsible Government officers. Informants can be sure that they will not be compromised in any way. 
Before I tabled the document in the Senate I said that I was willing to assist the Government and the Defence Department to trace these organizations to their source, and if necessary to assist to destroy them. A fortnight has passed and I have not been asked to assist. The press of this country has been full of sensational statements concerning the ridiculous position into which I am alleged to have got myself, but I am not complaining of what is said in the press. There is only one thing that I am afraid of, so far as the press is concerned, and that is its praise. I welcome its condemnation but I suggest that its representatives should be truthful and not put into my mouth words which I did not use. The Minister continued - 

 His department was still inquiring into  Senator Collings'  statements. The Australian Legion of Ex-Service Clubs, to which  Senator Collings  has referred, was non-political and non-sectarian. 
I did not refer to any such thing. I notice that  Smith's Weekly  said that I should apologize to the Australian Legion of Ex-Service Clubs. Speaking from memory I think that that newspaper stated that the Australian Legion of Ex-Service Clubs consists of 32 or 52 returned soldiers' organizations banded together for charitable purposes and has rendered wonderful service to the dependants of returned soldiers. Any one who knows me wall realize that I applaud such kindly acts and those who have heard my statements know that I did not say anything about the Australian Legion of Ex-Service Clubs. I did refer to the fact that an organization known as the Australian Legion was active in North Queensland and that certain badges were manufactured in Queensland for it, which the Minister now says were good luck badges. I have here an extract from a Queensland newspaper -  The Worker-  of the 13th June, 1934, in which the people of Australia are warned against allowing the movement towards Fascism to develop - 
The movement for the establishment of a Fascist dictatorship has even extended to Great Britain, and in the cables this week we were (given accounts of a number of demonstrations which were organized by the followers of  Sir Oswald  Mosley, and which were accompanied by brutalities and displays of savagery similar to those which saw the initiation and the establishment of Fascism in Germany, Italy, and Austria. 
At a demonstration of  Sir Oswald  Mosley's  followers in London on Saturday, the brutalities of the " black  shirted  storm troopers " were such that .the London  Daily Telegraph  expressed amazement that many of the ejected persons were not killed by the ruthless kick.ings and beatings. 
One of the statements I made was that a Queensland factory had manufactured a number of brown shirts as uniform for these people. That is not the Australian Legion of ex-service clubs banded together for the disbursement of charity. The shirts were made for a different purpose. The Minister for Defence  (Mr. Archdale Parkhill)  is reported to have said - 
The manufacture of small quantities of shirts of various hues had been brought to notice from time to time,  Mr. Parkhill  proceeded. The smallness of the quantities had not indicated anything of account. 
The newspaper article, to which I have referred proceeds - 
Suffice it to say that the Minister for Agriculture, Walter Elliott, during the course of an address declared, "We do not want dictatorships. We won our liberties through centuries of hard work and fighting, and do not intend to surrender them to any one, whatever the color of his shirt." 
That is all that I said. Knowing that these organizations exist, the Government does not need to wait for the confirmation of my remarks, because the organizations are illegal. Were the Government to suppress them, it would declare to the world that it stands for the British ideals which we, in Australia, have inherited, and for the constitutional parliamentary system of government which we enjoy, and will not allow subversive organizations to exist, even on a small scale. I should not have referred to this matter to-night, had I not been afraid that I would not have an opportunity to do so when we meet on the 11th December. We shall then probably have a number of all-night sittings in order to get through our work. I am in entire agreement with those who have objected ito the adjournment of the Senate for nearly a fortnight, and rejoice that I have gathered a number of recruits to the ranks of those who object to the way the business of the Senate is conducted. I do  not object to being brought here if there  is  work to do, but I do object to being forced to waste time when I get here. 
I have never advocated that that should be done; that  is  a communistic doctrine to which I am opposed. The object of those who advocate that trainees should retain their arms is that they should have them  in  the event of other people getting  the  upper hand. The party to which I belong is opposed to that policy, as  it  is to all forms of aggression, whether internal or external. 
A few days ago, I asked whether the Government would consider the exemption of rat poison from  Bales  tax, pointing out that, owing to the exceptionally wet season in Queensland, rata had caused considerable damage in the sugar fields and that Weils disease had caused sickness among the cane-workers and led to industrial trouble as well. The Minister promised that the matter would be brought under the notice of the Government. I pointed out then that similar poison used for the destruction of rabbits was exempt from  Bales  tax. I wrote to the Prime Minister's Department on the subject, and received  a  reply from the Assistant Minister  (Mr. Thorby),  on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  in which  ho  stated that he regretted that no means existed whereby rat poison could be exempt from sales tax. I do not blame  Mr. Thorby  for that stupid letter; he probably signed it after having been told by soma official that it was all right. I know that there are ways  of  exempting items from sales tax, and cannot understand that any one should be so foolish as  to  send such a letter to me. When I received that reply, I communicated with the organizations which had brought the matter  to  my notice. Imagine my surprise when I read in the press a day  or  two later that Cabinet had decided  to  exempt  Tat  poison from sales tax, although so far I have received  no  notification from the Department to that effect. Such occurrences place honorable senators in an unfair position. I hope that the Minister will institute inquiries in order to ascertain who was responsible for such an absurd letter being sent to me. 
Some time ago I brought before the then Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  the claim of Captain Conway for compensation for injuries received. It is my intention, at the first opportunity, to move for the appointment of a committee to investigate the claim of Captain Conway, because, having gone into the matter thoroughly, I am convinced that he has a genuine grievance. Had he been employed by a private concern, he would have been able to obtain redress; but as his claim is against the Government, he will not get compensation unless on the recommendation of such a committee as I have mentioned. I ask the Acting Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLachlan)  to bring this matter before the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill),  so that he may become conversant with the details.  Senator Pearce,  when Minister for Defence, promised to lay on the table of the Library the papers in connexion with this case. 
.- As requested by  Senator Dooley,  I shall bring before the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  the claim of Captain Conway for compensation; but, from what I know of the case, I cannot hold out to the honorable senator any great hope of success. 
If  Senator Foll  has presented the facts correctly in regard to his request for the exemption of rat poison from sales tax, it would appear that an error has been made by some officer; but, from my experience of the Prime Minister's Department, I cannot believe that any responsible officer would be so grossly ignorant of the position as to set it out in the bald way in which the honorable senator has presented his case to us. I remind the honorable senator that the executive 
Government cannot override the law, Probably the position could be met by the department not collecting the tax and the Government reimbursing it out of the Treasurer's Advance. 1 cannot say more at the present stage than that I shall have the matter inquired into. In fact, from something that has been dropped by the honorable senator I think that inquiries are already being made. I shall endeavour to have the question considered and will see that proper representations are made in regard to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I lay on the table of the Senate the Annual Report of the Tariff Board for the year 1933-34. The report is complete, but in the annexure,which contains a summary of the recommendations made by the Tariff Board, certain recommendations relating to tariff revision matters not finally considered by the Government have been omitted. 
In view of the near approach of Christmas, and the alleged generosity of the Government to certain classes of the community, I ask the Leader of the Senate if the Government intends to give to invalid and oldage pensioners an extra pound or two during the festive season? As the pension has not been restored to ?1 a week, will the Government consider the giving of an extra sum at Christmas? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What was the total cost of the Cose  for Union,  and the cost of (a) preparation, (b) printing, (c) distribution, and (d) postage? 
How many copies were distributed in each State? 
On what basis was the distribution made? 
?16,715, including (a) preparation, ?753; (b) printing, ?9,152; (c) distribution, nil (apart from printing of wrappers and miscellaneous expenditure ?348, and postage); (d) postage, ?6,462. 
New South Wales, 13,599; Victoria, 12,270: Queensland, 9,822; South Australia, 356,070; Western Australia, 248,490; Tasmania, 137,430. 
Copies were distributed to public libraries) and public bodies and organizations in the States of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland, and a copy was sent to each person enrolled on the Commonwealth electoral rolls of South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following questions,  upon notice: - 
With reference to the Prime Minister's reported pre-election promise regarding rural debt relief reading as follows: - "We intend to borrow large sums- ?10,000,000, ?15,000,000, possibly more - to relieve the primary industries of the burden of debt which they are carrying. When we see how much money we can obtain, we intend to consult the industries themselves as to the best way of using it." - what steps have been taken towards putting this policy into operation? 
Is it a fact that farmers' debts are generally payable after harvest and that consequently the legislation for debt relief should be passed before the coming Christmas adjournment? 
Have the farming industries been consulted as to the best way of affording rural debt relief, as promised? 
If so, through what channels? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence the following question,  upon notice : - 
What arrangements have been made for the carrying on of the air mail service between Wyndham and Ord River, Western Australia? 
Arrangements were made with the  MacRobertson-Miller  Aviation Company to operate a service between Ord River and Wyndham as a temporary measure pending tho re-invitation of tenders and award of a full-term contract for the service. The temporary service was inaugurated on the 6th October last, and is being maintained to a weekly frequency. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it intended to expedite the new air mail services between England and Australia? 
If so, to what extent? 
The Commonwealth Government is responsible for the section of the England-Australia air service only as far as Singapore. The Australian section is intended to be operated normally by D.H.86 aircraft, to a four-day time table between Singapore and the eastern Australian terminals. With the introduction of more extensive night flying, which cannot be undertaken until bettor ground facilities are provided, it should be possible to operate the Australian section in three days, or perhaps even less. The section from Singapore to London is under the -control of the United Kingdom Government, and I am unable to say what acceleration will be brought about on this section, although I understand the matter is receiving the careful consideration of the United Kingdom Government. 
asked the Leader of the Government in (lie Senate,  upon notice - 
With reference to the proposals for an increased expenditure on the defence of the Commonwealth, is it the intention of the Government to resume work on the Henderson Naval Base at Cockburn Sound, Fremantle? 
If not.  why  not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following replies: - 
No. 
The Government's Naval Advisers do not recommend that work be resumed at Cockburn Sound. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice- - 
With reference to the Government's policy for the relief of unemployment, will the Government give further consideration to the requests made by the Government of Western Australia for Federal Assistance towards the provision of a modern dock at Fremantle, Western Australia? 
If not. why not? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Commonwealth asked all States to submit programmes of public works in connexion with its -policy of co-operation with the States in order to. relieve the unemployment situation. In a schedule just received from the Acting Premier of Western. Australia as preliminary advice it is suggested that the provision of a dock at Fremantle is a necessity. All the proposals will receive the most careful consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that for the period 1st January to 30th September this year the United Kingdom imported .agricultural .produce to the sterling value of - wheat (grain), ?20,080,000:  barley,  ?2,590,000; oats, ?008,000; beef (chilled), ?10.545,000; beef (frozen), ?2,080.000; mutton (frozen). ?2,480,000: lamb (frozen), ?12,053.000; .bacon, ?23,009,000; ham, ?2,483,000; pork (chilled or frozen), ?2,103,000; poultry (dead) ?088,000; butter. ?25.777.000; cheese, ?5,187,000; fruit and vegetables. ?27,505,000: eggs in shell, ?4,430,000? 
If so, what' proportion of these items was provided by tho Commonwealth ? 
Is there any other country taking such quantities of agricultural products from overseas? 
Yes. 
The proportions of the various items supplied by the Commonwealth were: - 

<graphic href="145332193412114_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

* Figures relating to oats, chilled beef, bacon, hams, and poultry are not at present available. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
If all nations that have an adverse trade balance with Australia used their powers of persuasion to bring about equality of trade with this country, what would be the economic effect upon Australia? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 
The honorable senator's question is based on a contingency which may never arise, and any attempt at an answer would only be of a speculative character. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the New Zealand Government have recently amended the Spirits Act, making it compulsory for all whisky consumed in the dominion to be five years old? 
If so, will the Government ascertain from the New Zealand Government their reasons for so safeguarding the public, and, if necessary, introduce similar legislation in Australia? 
Yes. 
The question of the period necessary for the maturation of whisky was referred to the Tariff Board, and will be considered by the Government on the Tariff Board's report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has he noticed that  Mr. McCann,  South Australian Agent-General, stated that the scientific standard reached by the Queensland chilled beef industry now exceeded that of the A Argentine ? 
In view of the conflicting statements that the proposed British restrictions on Australian meat exports were due, (a) to the British  desire  to foster the meat production of their own country, (6) to the activities of British interests in the Argentine, will the Minister obtain and provide for honorable senators the information as to the comparative imports into Britain of Argentine and Australian meat for the years 1910, 1915, 1918, 1920, 1925, 1930, and 1933? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - , 
Yes. 
Figures showing the quantities and values of meat (all kinds except poultry and game) imported into the United Kingdom from Australia and the Argentine respectively during the years referred to are as under: - 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Was the recent loan a success? 
If so, does this indicate that money can be borrowed at 3 per cent.? 
Are war service homes applications for new home construction accumulating? 
Will the Government consider raising  a  further loan at 3 per cent, to grant the applications for war service homes? 
Will the Government consider reducing the interest rate on war service homes mortgages from 4 per cent, to 3 per cent.? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : - 
Yes. 
The recent loan was raised at the rate of £3 Os. 5d. per cent. 
Not to an appreciable extent. The funds available this year will dispose of all applications lodged prior to 1930, and provision for the remaining applications will be considered in conjunction with the preparation of the 1935-36 Estimates. 4 and 5. It is not customary to reply to questions involving matters of policy. 
[3.19]. - I move - 
That  bo  much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all ita stages without delay. 
This is the annual Appropriation Bill which embodies the Estimates for the financial year ending the 30th June next. It is, of course, competent for honorable senators to debate the first and second readings of this bill, and also to discuss the various items in the schedules when it is in committee. I ask the Senate to agree to this motion so that the discussion may be proceeded with to-day. I understand that honorable senators generally are in accord with the desire to complete the transaction of business this week. The main business to be dealt with during this portion of the session is the relief to be afforded to the wheat industry in connexion with which three bills are now before the House of Representatives. As they are all money bills they could not be introduced in this chamber, and the Senate will wish to be sitting in order to discuss them as soon as they have been passed by another place. The reason why there has been little work available for the Senate is that nearly all the legislation to be dealt with before the new calendar year consists of money bills, which cannot be introduced in this chamber. Consequently, there was a somewhat lop-sided distribution of the work in the early part of the session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Although Parliament has been in session for about two months, the Senate has sat on only a few days, and now there appears to be a general desire that Parliament shall rise this week for the Christmas recess. These happenings give strength to the contention that the Senate is a useless chamber. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The honorable senator must not disparage the Senate. 
-The amendment of the Constitution, with a view to dispensing with the Senate, which is said to be a useless appendage to the legislative machinery, is a subject which is agitating the public mind. 
On page 38 of the Estimates, the defence expenditure for this year is set down as £4,187,040, an increase of £664,220 over that of last year. According to information published in the public press, it would appear that the policy of the Government is to expend a considerable proportion of the defence vote in the purchase of a warship, to be built outside Australia. As a layman, I doubt the wisdom of that intention; 1 should prefer that the money be spent in developing the air arm of our defence force. In my opinion, the building of warships is more or less useless, because they are not nearly such effective units of defence as are well-equipped aeroplanes. Irealize that Great Britain depends for foodstuffs on countries in various parts of the world, and that, consequently, the Empire must have a navy to protect the trade routes and ensure adequate supplies of foodstuffs for those situated at the heart of the Empire; but I submit that the provision of warships to protect those trade routes is more a matter for the people of Groat Britain than for us, even though Australia isan exporting country. From a defence point of view, we in Australia are primarily concerned with defending our shores against any aggressor. I am a man of peace, and my party believes in preserving peace among the nations; but I realize that the day may come when Australia will be forced to defend those principles which its people hold dear. For instance, the White Australia principle is a part of the creed of every true Australian ; and I believe that in its defence Australians would fight to the last ditch. The difficulty is to decide what constitutes the best defence for Australia, because the experts attached to the various arms of the defence force cannot agree in this matter. Those representing the Navy claim that the Navy is indispensable; experts attached to the land forces are equally vigorous in their claims on behalf of the arm they represent ; while those in the Air Force claim that future battles will be fought in the air, and that., consequently, that arm should be given first consideration.  As  a layman, I express the view that Australia's expenditure on defence should be directed to the development of our Air Force. Some years ago, when a previous government proposed to purchase a couple of cruisers, I said that the money would be better expended in developing our Air Force. So far as I can see, those vessels did nothing for Australia; indeed, it took them all their time to stagger out to this country. My opinion has not changed during the years that have passed. On the contrary, the views that I expressed then have been consolidated, and I am more than over convinced that our defence vote should be expended in the development of an effective air force. 
I see no particular provision for public works, and I should like to know from the Minister what is in the mind of the Government with regard to absorbing the unemployed. Up to three or four years ago, there was in existence a public works committee of this Parliament, which did wonderful service for the Commonwealth by inquiring into all expenditure proposed for public works, but thisbody was abolished during the depression in the interests of economy, because there were no public works to be put into operation and no money to be spent. Every honorable senator knows the state of the labour market, and the tremendous desire of the people to alter the present disastrous condition of affairs. So far as I can gather, the Government has no trouble whatever in getting all the money it wants, and the people arc wondering why it has not put forward proposals for public works which could absorb quite a number of the great army of unemployed that is wandering around Australia to-day. It may bo that the Government is depending upon the States to put forward pointers, and is prepared, if the States furnish a plan, to find the money necessary to enable them to carry out the work, but I think, and I believe the country agrees with me, that there is ample scope now for the Government to get busy of its own accord. At the time of the general election, the people hoped that, so soon as the turmoil of the contest was over, the Government would bestir itself in an earnest effort to provide work for the unemployed, but three months have passed, and very little is being done. So far as I can see, the Government has made no provision for an adequate works programme, and if all that we hear is true, Parliament is to rise at the end of this week for two months without any serious attempt being made to put the unemployed to work. 
SenatorDUNN(New South Wales) [3.35]. - The only criticism I have to offer relates to defence. Provision is made for a new cruiser to be built overseas at a cost of £1,675,000, which, at the present rate of exchange, is equivalent to £2,100,000 in Australian money. When that vessel comes to Australia, its motive power will be generated by the burning of imported oil. Yet statistics show that in the northern, western and southern  divisions of the State of New South Wales alone there are 10,000 miners unemployed- With the march of invention throughout the world, an increasing proportion of machinery is being driven  by  oil fuels. Before tho war, Messrs. John Fell and Company, a private firm  in  New South Wales, proved by actual experience that that State was in the happy position of being able to produce all the raw oil required to generate  the  power necessary to drive existing plants. I am reluctant to record  my  vote for the passing of Estimates which will have the result of using oil, imported from cheap labour countries,  to  drive the new cruiser, when I know  that  10,000 miners in my own State are unemployed. Only a few months before  the  general election, the Prime Minister,  on  a visit to Kurri Kurri, a coalproducing centre in New South Wales, received  a  deputation representing young men under 20 years of age, many of whom, according to their spokesmen, had gained  the  leaving certificate at the Maitland High School, the Newcastle High School, and other centres of education, but none  of  whom had been able to find work since leaving school at the age of sixteen or seventeen. These young men were also confronted with the unhappy spectacle of their sisters having to grow up with no prospect of practising the domestic arts which they learned at school. Young men and women are left as so much junk, 'as it were, in the coal mining districts of New South Wales. Alongside the tragedy of unemployed youth is the sad spectacle of 10,000 adults - many of them the parents of workless children - living on the dole. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  led the youthful leaders of the deputation to which I have referred, to believe that the Government would do everything in its power for the general development of the coal-fields of New South' Wales by encouraging the extraction of oil from coal and shale, but the only step which the Government took in this direction was to invite to Australia  Sir John  Cadman, an expert from overseas, to inquire into this matter. This man is one of the chief controllers of commercial interests in natural oil wells in various parts of the world; he represents vested interests in the commercial production of raw oil. He toured New South Wales and other States to investigate our shale deposits, and he had the impertinence to give an adverse report on this matter to the Government of the day. It was to be expected that he would do so because the interests he represents could not be served by the development of oil shale in the Newnes Valley, or by the extraction of oil from coal in Australia by the hydrogenation process. Now honorable senators are asked to support the expenditure of £2,000,000 on a cruiser, which, we know, will have to consume as fuel oil drawn from overseas wells. About 1,800 men were employed by John Fell and Company when that company was operating in the Newnes Valley in the production of raw oil from shale; allowing for the dependants of these men, the operations at Newnes supported a big settlement. To-day the Newnes Valley is an industrial cemetery; it is practically dead, and the few inhabitants now remaining in that district are dependent on kerosene, candles and .acetylene gas for the lighting of their homes, and small business places. So bad are economic condition  in  that district that the proprietor of the only hotel in the locality cannot pay rent for his premises. Similar economic conditions prevail at the present time in all the mining districts on the south coast, at Helensburgh, Wollongong and Wonga Willy, and around Newcastle, Baerami, Cessnock, Kurri Kurri, Weston and Greta. Young women in Greta and other mining settlements near Newcastle and Cessnock may be seen playing tennis in bare feet, because they are unable to buy footwear. This is a shocking state of affairs, particularly when we recall that a few weeks ago amidst pomp and splendour and the waving of flags we welcomed, as was our duty, one of the princes of the British Royal Family -  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, who, himself, saw fit to praise our Australian youth. Yet at the time he made his tour through Australia fellow citizens of these young men and women were suffering in circumstances which I have mentioned; young women on these coal-fields, in order to obtain a little recreation on the tennis courts, were forced to play in bare feet. 
The honorable senator should be ashamed to say hear, hear, to such things. I defy him to go to the coal-fields and express such sentiments to these women, daughters of the miners. The honorable senator was well described by  Senator Brown  as a troglodyte.  Senator Payne  should be kicked out of this chamber. 
 Senator Payne  having objected to the honorable senator's remarks, he must withdraw them. 
SenatorDunn must not indulge in threats against another honorable senator. I ask him to withdraw that statement. 
The setback given to the proposal to extract oil from coal or shale has also been a severe blow to the district of Latrobe in Tasmania, where there are immense deposits of shale with as high an oil content as the deposits at Baerami and Newnes in New South Wales. 
I agree with  Senator Barnes  that some portion at least of the proposed expenditure on defence could be put to better use by inducing Australians to become more air-minded. Those of us who have reached  middle age realize the urgent need for giving more opportunities to the younger generation. The young people of to-day regard their parents as oldfashioned. Notwithstanding the changing conditions not only in Australia, but also throughout the world, honorable senators on this side of the chamber, who, during the last election campaign, promised the electors that they would do everything in their power to assist in providing employment, are asked to authorize the expenditure of £2,000,000 on a cruiser to be purchased overseas which, in about twelve months' time, will be little better than " junk ". Having served for a period in the Royal Australian Navy, I know that modern war vessels become obsolete shortly after they are placed in commission. Had the money which is being utilized in this way been expended in developing aviation in Australia, more beneficial results would have been achieved. We have been informed by  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith,  Mr. Ulm,  whom we still hope will be rescued,  Mr. Scott, Mr. Black  and  Major Roscoe  Turner, who hails from the United States  of  America  that Australia is one of the  best  countries for the efficient and economic development of aviation. Moreover, that money could have been expended economically in developing the shale deposits in New South Wales and in Tasmania and in that way Australia could have been made independent of other sources of supply of fuel oil. I take this opportunity to place on record the fact that I do not propose to assist in authorizing the expenditure of £2,000,000 on a cruiser which should have been built in Australia. 
While I am anxious to assist the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  and other honorable senators representing distant States to return to their homes in time to participate in the usual Christmas festivities, I think it only right that honorable senators should avail themselves of this opportunity to discuss public questions, and, more particularly, the items of the proposed expenditure embodied in the schedules  of  this bill. When I last spoke at some length in this chamber, I said that the number of unemployed in Australia was roughly 300,000, and  Senator Sampson,  who, I am glad to see, is present at the moment, asked me where I obtained that figure. I informed the honorable senator that when the Scullin Government was in power, it was taunted with the fact that there were over 400,000 unemployed, and that we were told subsequently, that as the result of the activities of the Government, or should we say the last three governments that have held office, the number had been reduced by 25 per cent., and therefore on a moderate estimate, the number then unemployed must have been about 300,000. Shortly after that statement had been recorded in  Hansard,  the census figures were published, and I w.as astonished to find that in New South Wales alone, in which two-fifths of the population of the Commonwealth reside, and which has been under the control of an anti-Labour Government for two and a half years, the number of unemployed was 222,000. Figures in respect of three other States were given, and the total for the four States was 460,000. It is therefore safe  to  assume that, on the basis of the  New  South Wales figures, the total number  of  unemployed in Australia is considerably over 500,000, which shows that my  estimate  was not excessive. 
The Minister is somewhat astray, as the figures supplied by the census returns just published, and which embraced New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, and, I think, South Australia, totalled 460,000. When the figures from the other two States are included the number will be well over 500,000. Therefore, in my desire not to overstate the case,  I  under-estimated  the  number by at least 200,000. I am sure that all honorable senators wish Australia to return to those happy conditions which prevailed in 1928, when the percentage of unemployment was low. Under  the  capitalist system, there is always likely to be a large number of unemployed. We have conducted many socialistic experiments in Australia; but  the  people generally do not believe that conditions can be altered overnight. As the unemployment figures published in the census returns disclose a woeful state of affairs in Australia,  we  should utilize every opportunity  to  address ourselves to the subject of unemployment in an endeavour to assist those needing work, which should be available to every able man in a partially-developed country such as Australia. It is nearly three months since the present Parliament was elected ; but we have not yet been asked to consider any of those important problems to which our political opponents gave such prominence during the last election campaign. We are  now  approaching Christmas, and by the time Parliament re-assembles next year,  five  months will have elapsed since the elections were held. The figures supplied in the census returns do not represent the actual number of persons unemployed. 
Yes. It is- 1 not the duty of representatives of industrial organizations to compile statistics for the use of the Government. Their time is taken up largely in collecting the dues of unionists, fighting cases of industrial organizations in the courts, and generally assisting their parliamentary representatives to give effect to the Labour party's policy. If we remain silent when many pressing problems await solution, years may elapse before anything is done to assist the unemployed. The present Government is undoubtedly a rich man's government. I have before me a document marked " Private and confidential " - it cannot be confidential, as I understand that copies have been supplied  to  others, and probably to every member of this Parliament - in which it is stated that in 1928-29 the receipts from  the  federal land tax totalled £2,988,885, and that in 1934-35, after certain remissions had been made to wealthy taxpayers, they were only £1,200,000. When remissions  of federal land tax were under consideration in this chamber, it was claimed by  Senator Massy-Greene  that reduced taxation would result in those engaged in private enterprise providing additional employment. The Government has not disclosed the total amount represented by these remissions, but it must be between £5,000,000 and £6,000,000. Now we are informed that the federated taxpayers associations of Australia have unanimously agreed to arrange a deputation  to the Prime Minister to urge on the Commonwealth Government the abolition of the federal land tax. When the tax was imposed by the Fisher Government in 1910, it received the whole-hearted support of tho present Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  I agree with the compiler of this document that the legislation imposing the federal land tax was one of the best measures ever introduced into this Parliament, in that it was designed to break up big estates into areas suitable for closer settlement, thereby increasing the population, which all will admit is most desirable from a defence point of view. The first essential of defence is ample man power; and anything which tends to increase the population is of value from a defence point of view. Viewed in that light, big cattle or sheep runs are not of much value. The document proceeds - 
Federal land tax was introduced by the Fisher Government in 1910, and since the inception, land to the approximate conservative value of £150,000,000 has disappeared from the taxable sphere, due to the subdivision of large estates. This can be claimed as of very great advantage to the taxpayer and settler, especially when compared with the tragic methods adopted by State governments under closer settlement schemes, which have caused the writing off of several millions of pounds from the taxpayers' consolidated funds. 
Originally country lands paid far the greater proportion of the tax, but, owing to the incidence of the tax forcing subdivision, the position now is that approximately 65 per cent, of the tax is paid by the owners of city lands. 
The federal land tax was instrumental in breaking up huge country estates as there is an exemption for properties of unimproved value of under £5,000, with the result that most of the tax now collected comes from city properties held, for the most part, by wealthy people. 
When we hear the abolition of the tax advocated, it is well to remember that lue amount received annually from that source represents the interest on a loan of approximately £40,000,000 at 3 per cent. It needs little imagination to visualize the benefit which the farmers of this country would derive from a loan of that magnitude. I understand that the Government has in mind a scheme of rural rehabilitation. Those whose income consists of salaries and wages are expected to view that plan cheerfully, and not to complain of the remissions of taxation to wealthy people who, particularly during the war period and until 1928, had a fat time. The statement which has been supplied to members of Parliament points out that the taxation remissions made by the Government have already led to the reaggregation of large estates. These are held principally by absentees, who would like Australia to be merely a ground for exploitation by investors whose income derived in Australia would be spent in other countries. 
It is true that exchange is a big factor. Between Australia and England it is about 25 per cent., and between this country and the United States of America 50 per cent.; or even 60 per cent. 
The honorable senator will not deny that many absentee land-owners have made huge fortunes out of their Australian holdings. 
Sufficient money has come into Australia to exploit the whole country. There is not much land in Australia capable of carrying sheep or cattle which has not been taken up, largely by British investing companies. The remissions of taxation have not relieved the  unemployment  situation,  for there are still over 500,000 persons unemployed in Australia. While considering the claims of those government employees whose salaries and wages are covered by this appropriation bill, we must not overlook those less fortunate in the ranks of the unemployed. 
 My remarks must necessarily be brief, since circumstances appear to require the Senate to deal with this Appropriation Bill and a number of other important measures within four days. In such short time, effective consideration cannot be given to the proposals which will come before us, and we shall have to take them largely on trust. Although I, personally, do not lack faith in the Government, I submit that it is in the best interests of all concerned that honorable senators should be fully informed on all phases of the legislative proposals submitted for their consideration before registering their decision in regard to them. 
I view with favour the genuine efforts being put forward to improve Australia's trade with other countries. The recentlycompleted agreement with Belgium will be of great value to Western Australia, which in the ten years 1923-32 exported to that country beef valued at £1,075,860, in addition to regular shipments of hides and tallow. The improved trade which must result from the new agreement will put fresh heart into the people of the north-west of that State. In my opinion, the agreement represents a real advance towards the effective development of that territory. 
I urge that greater provision be made for lighthouses and other navigation aids on the north-west coast. 
I know nothing about that subject other than what I have read in the press. 
It is to be regretted that there is no mention in the budget of further reductions in taxation. I, with other honor able senators, realize, of course, that the present commitments of the Government are very heavy and that the claims of the unemployed and the wheat industry must undoubtedly take precedence over other matters. The sales tax is especially burdensome to people in business and the measures taken to collect it inflict a further load upon the community and undoubtedly greatly increase the hardship and the cost to the man who pays the tax itself. The incidence of the income tax to a very large extent deters the influx of capital from overseas. Quite recently a case was brought under my notice of a property in Western Australia which was offered to a possible buyer in the United Kingdom. This property was likely to provide an income of £5,000 annually, but the prospective buyer discovered after investigation that he would be liable under Federal and State laws to taxes to the amount of £2,503, or just over 50 per cent., which brought the deal down to a mere 3 per cent, proposition. In such circumstances we cannot expect to attract very much capital from abroad.  Senator MacDonald  touched upon that subject just now, as also did  Senator Duncan-Hughes  by way of comment. 
I should like to commend the Government for its endeavours to cope with the problem of the wheat industry. Much depends upon its maintenance, because it and wool and gold provide the wealth upon which this country must depend, and does depend, for its future prosperity. Although it is said that royal commissions are sometimes fruitless, I do think the royal commission on wheat and its allied industries is to be congratulated on the manner in which it is conducting its investigations and submitting its reports. The result in print will, I am sure, be a great public document upon which governments can safely rely when framing complementary measures in future. 
I endorse the suggestion to exploit further the gold-mining industry. For this, the great auriferous belt in Western Australia affords almost unlimited opportunity. Metallurgical research has made such great advances in recent years that it is hardly necessary to give primary attention in that direction. It should  be devoted to opening and prospecting new areas, rather than concentrated upon laboratory work. For this, geological knowledge is of the first importance, and I urge that the greatest possible use be made of local staffs, such as that of the Kalgoorlie School of Mines, the members of which are qualified and highly competent, and in close daily touch with every phase of geological research and mining development upon almost the whole of that auriferous belt. I know of the help that has already been given in many directions by that staff and its operations, and I suggest that generous encouragement to further effort would be a just reward, and would be appreciated by the community as well as by the officers concerned. 
In the House of Representatives a proposal has been mooted to review the war service homes system. I admit that there are circumstances which justify such a proceeding, but I invite attention to the splendid manner in which the majority of the commission's clients have observed their contracts. A reduction of interest is due where conversion loans have been so satisfactorily launched, and would be much appreciated by those clients who have so well stood up to their undertakings. I am not in favour of a. comprehensive devaluation of war service homes. I think it would be unbusinesslike, and I do not think the country could afford it, but I put forward a plea for greater consideration in special cases, such as that of the man on a pension, who, by reason of the possession of it, is denied a share in the Government relief work arranged from time to time. Try as he may, this man is unable to keep up the payments on his home.  His  task is a most difficult one. I submit that such cases do justify and merit special consideration, and that it is within the power and scope of the commission to meet them as they deserve. 
Upon the subject of unemployment and relief work under the Commonwealth schemes, I desire to bring under notice the frequency of complaints in regard to the refusal of the Federal Government to provide money for the repair of the roads leading to the Swanbourne rifle range and the Maylands aerodrome, both places being in Western Australia. It is true that these roads are largely used also by the public residing there, or other people having business in those neighbourhoods, and any one can understand the hesitation of the Commonwealth Government to spend money in such circumstances. On© might logically expect that, if it accepted this responsibility, it sh]ould go even further and agree to undertake the maintenance of roads leading to all post offices, but I do suggest that, of the grant for special works in the States for the relief of unemployment, some portion might be set aside for those two urgent works without in any way admitting a primary responsibility or liability. 
I hope that the expenditure entailed in the re-organization, arming, and equipment of the defence forces, will be disbursed under the supervision of only th-3 most highly qualified and trained officers. At present several of the higher offices of the army are vacant. These should be filled by men with the necessary training and experience of war. Efficient defence measures mean adequate preparations to meet an attack; an attack postulates war-like operations, and warlike operations are a most serious and involved business. It will be disastrous to hove our forces directed by men trained only in an office, no matter what their rank or title. In the past - and I say this with knowledge - we have had captains in our navy who have never commanded a ship, and brigadier-generals in our army who have never commanded a battalion or a regiment, or even, in one case that I know of, a platoon. Only recently I observed in the press a statement relating to one gentleman who held a high appointment abroad. He went abroad on some administrative job, and it was stated that he was in France and Belgium, and saw the whole thing through with the Australian Imperial Force. No doubt hp values the credit which  he thereby attained, but. there are other ways of looking at the matter. I am not exaggerating in making these statements. I am merely emphasizing the need for the Minister for Defence to seek skilled and unbiased advice before making these appointments. Nobody understands this better than the present Leader of the 
Seriate, and I regret that he has left the Defence Department. When  Sir Ian  Hamilton was hero early in 1914 for the purpose of reporting on the progress of the then new scheme, he pointed out certain tendencies and dangers. He prophesied that the pay department administration would break down immediately war broke out. It did, as most of us know to  our cost, so that there is some advantage to bc gained in securing the best possible advice. It would be to the advantage of everybody if that advice were sought  and  acted upon. 
Upon the subject of finance generally, 1 do not wish to say much at 'this stage. Conditions are improving; certainly not as rapidly as we would like, but a large sum is to be expended on works and development in several directions. I suggest again that the reduction of unemployment is of first importance to all of us, and when this problem has been success.fully coped with, we shall have the satisfaction of knowing that the optimism that many of us possess at the present time has been very fully justified. 
 Senator Collett  has raised the usual to ry cry " reduce taxation." He and those who think with him say, " If only wc can cut down taxation, the country will be better off." They, however, never tell us in what direction they propose to act. On this bill honorable senators will have an opportunity to move for the reduction of expenditure in any department  they choose, although I understand that it does not matter whether or not any such motion is carried, because the Senate has no power over money bills. At the same time, it would be edifying to members on this side of the chamber if those who arc continually talking of solving our economic problems by reducing taxation will  only  tell us in what direction they will reduce it. It is questionable whether the more reduction of taxation will improve to any great extent the economic situation or solve the problem of unemployment, t notice that  Senator Johnston  smiles somewhat satirically at my remarks. What taxes would he reduce? 
This bill is brought before us to enable us to pass an expenditure of many millions of pounds for the purpose of carrying on the government of tho country. I shall be glad if  Senator Johnston  will, during the debate, indicate what particular item of expenditure he would cut out.  Senator  Dunn  has indicated his opposition  to expenditure on defence.  Senator Johnston  would reduce the income tax and other taxes.  If he succeeds in doing that, the amount of money available for some departments must be reduced. It will be necessary to economize in some direction.  Senator  MacDonald  accuses me of being Utopian, but I claim to be a realist, and being a realist I want to know in what way  Senator J  ohnston and others propose to solve our problems merely by reducing various forms of taxation. In using such arguments, honorable senators should state definitely what reductions of expenditure they propose should be made, and iii which departments the reductions should be applied. If departments are compelled to economize to the extent of reducing the salaries of their officers, a corresponding reduction in the general purchasing power of the community must result. Does  Senator Johnston  or  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  for instance, advocate that wc should reduce our own salaries and tho cost of parliamentary government generally? A large majority of honorable senators has declared iii favour of the continuance of the present parliamentary allowance. 
I can understand the view of the honorable senator. If I were in his happy circumstances, my outlook, too, would probably be influenced by my economic situation. Dealing with the cost of government,  Truth  of the 9th December makes what, I believe, are extravagant statements; but, in support of its claim that Australia is extravagantly governed, it cites specific figures. It shows that the total cost of government in the Commonwealth to-day amounts to £1,154)000. It gives the particular items under various headings to show how that total is arrived at. The GovernorGeneral's salary iB given as £8,900, whilst the total salaries of. all Governors in 
Australia amount to £21,600 per annum, and those of Lieutenant-Governors to £4,750. Secretaries' salaries are shown to cost £1,348, whilst the total salaries of Governor-General, Governors and Lieutenant-Governors and their officials, including secretaries, clerks, orderlies, messengers, stewards, and the cost of . residences, amount to £56,530. When honorable senators suggest that taxation should be reduced, they should say, for instance, whether they are in favour of reducing the cost of GovernorsGeneral and State Governors and the other items of expenditure I have enumerated. I hope  Senator Johnston  and other loyal senators will tell us whether" they think a reduction of this expenditure should be made in order to enable us to reduce taxation. 
Yes. When I asked the Loader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to-day whether pensioners might expect a slight increase in their allowances as a Christmas gift, he pointed out that the Government was already expending £12,000,000 a year on pensions. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber do not advocate reducing the wages of any person. If a man receives £1,000 a ye nr, and gives value for his money, he is entitled to that income, "and if democracy insists that it must have Governors-General and Governors and other such officials, and is willing to pay for them, then let democracy have them. The point I emphasize is that a reduction of taxation connotes reduced expenditure, and honorable senators on the opposite side of this chamber should state definitely how taxation should be reduced, and what expenditure should be curtailed. The argument continually advanced by honorable senators opposite that, if taxation is reduced, the country will go ahead economically, is futile, unless they show definitely in what direction our present costs can be curtailed in order to enable taxation to be lowered.  Truth  shows that the total cost of parliamentary government in 1927-28 amounted to £1,276,415, and that in 1931-32 the cost had declined to £1,154,865. In the latter year, this cost represented an expenditure of 3s. 6d.  per capita  of the population. The total expenditure of the different States under various heads of government, including 30s. 4d. for education, 29s. Id. for hospitals and charity, 15s. 3d. for law, order and public safety, 9s. 2d. for land and surveys, and 17s. lOd. for general government, amounted to 101s. 8d. for each person in Australia. Claiming that the cost of government is excessive,  Truth  supports its argument by detailed information. Honorable senators, when claiming that taxation bo reduced, should be similarly explicit, and state definitely in what direction our present costs should be cut down. They should back up their arguments with concrete instances, in order to convince us how, by reducing taxation, our economic condition generally can be bettered. Honorable senators on die other side of this chamber are prone to talk generalitiesFor instance,  Senator  Duncan-Hughes  spoke of money coming into the country and other honorable senators have, from time to time,, expressed fear of money . going out of the country. Economists tell us that money does not leave or come into a country. 
I am dealing not with the internal economy of Australia but with the monetary relations of Australia with outside countries. Honorable senators reveal a wrong conception of world economies- when they talk of money leaving one country or going into another. Their arguments are too often based on a false premise. 
Men who have made a life time study of political economy tell us that money does not leave a country or go into another country. 
In our discussions, an understanding of basic facts is essential.  Senator  Sampson  has asked what it would cost to send money to England. I contend that no money leaves Australia and goes to England. Money is not shipped from one country to another. We merely send goods abroad to create credits that will satisfy our external obligations. If  Senator Sampson  understood that fact he would view the subject of trade in relation to our economic problems from a different angle. Only when we accurately appreciate the facts of the economic situation shall we be able to evolve a solution of our problems. To-day I asked in the Senate - " If all nations that have an adverse trade balance with Australia - used their powers of persuasion to bringabout equality of trade with this country what would be the economic effect upon Australia?" I asked that question in all sincerity but was told flippantly that a reply to such a question could only be speculative. I realize the falseness of the conception which honorable senators and thousands of people outside this chamber have of trade. This false conception is evidenced when people speak of a certain country buying from us only half as much as we buy from it, and of other countries buying from us twice as much as we buy from them.- The inference is that the economic stability of a country depends on an equal exchange of goods between it and foreign countries.  Senator Collett  used such an argument- when he inferred that the Belgian treaty was one of the actions of this Government which would help us to solve our economic problems. If an Australian glass company sells 7,500,000 square feet of sheet glass, that quantity is merely exchanged for so many other commodities and services in Australia. What difference does it make if the exchange is between two industries in this country instead of between Australia and Belgium? If, instead of selling in Australia, 7,500,000 feet of Australian glass, we sell only 4,500,000 feet, and accept from Belgium or from some other country, goods in exchange for glass that was formerly manufactured in Australia, the net result will be that some of the persons employed in the manufacture of that commodity in this country will have lost their purchasing power. 
That is not the question at issue. Let me repeat that if we reduce the sale within our borders of Australian goods in order to exchange them for goods produced in other conntries, we shall not he solving our economic problem, because by reducing the volume of Australian commodities to be exchanged for other goods produced in Australia, we shall be reducing the purchasing power of Australian citizens. 
Does not the honorable senator realize that a reduction of the volume of local trade means the unemployment of a number of Australian workmen whose purchasing power will be destroyed ? If the exchange in Australia of £1,000,000 worth of goods produced in this country is reduced by,  Bay,  £500,000, the manufacturers affected, having no buyers, will dismiss employees and thus disorganize the Australian market for other producers. 
I am endeavouring to show that trade is merely the exchange of commodities for commodities. Thus it follows that if the opportunity to exchange goods is taken from one section within Australia and given to producers in another country, we shall not improve our position, because we will not increase the number of jobs available in Australia. 
Surely the honorable senator realizes that if the volume of goods exchanged internally is reduced, certain producers must cease production. This will mean no dividends for investors, wholesale dismissals of employees, and a loss of purchasing power. Consequently, the demand for Australian commodities within Australia will be reduced. The honorable senator has suggested that we shall overcome our present difficulty if we increase the volume of work available in primary production. I put it to him, however, that the situation must be viewed as a whole, and that the acceptance of his theory will not have that happy result. I am afraid that in all the blather about trade agreements with other countries, supporters of the Government are not inclined to get down to bedrock in order to understand the existing economic situation. Of what value to Australia would an increased sale of our primary products be if the opening of one avenue for the exchange of commodities meant the closing of another? The recent conference between representatives of the Commonwealth and New Zealand Governments is a striking illustration of the truth of my argument. It had been suggested that New Zealand would take more of our citrus fruits if, in return, Australia opened its doors to the sale of New Zealand potatoes. That conference was a splendid example of the intelligence that is exhibited by the Government of this country. The representatives of the Commonwealth said to New Zealand : " If you take our citrus fruits, we will take your potatoes ". But that proposal immediately caused resentment in Tasmania, which said, in effect, that if any agreement were made along those lines, Tasmania would be against it. Tasmanian interests were sufficiently strong with the Prime Minister to prevent the agreement from being ratified. 
Tasmanian interests emphasized that if the sale of New Zealand potatoes were allowed in Australia, the market for Tasmanian potatoes would be affected. 
All that I meant was that the Prime Minister was susceptible to the agitation coming from his own State. 
I submit,  Mr. President,  that I did not impute unworthy motives to the Prime Minister. I do say, however, that the right honorable gentleman was influenced when he realized that an agreement with New Zealand along the lines indicated would jeopardize the interests of Tasmanian potato-growers. That was my point, and I respectfully submit that what I said did not imply unworthy motives on the part of the Prime Minister. If in respect of a similar agreement the interests of Queensland were likely to be jeopardized, I should expect the representatives of that State to lodge their protest, and, if necessary, put up a fight for tho people whom they represent. 
I fail to see why I should be forced to withdraw something which I did not say. I did not make any unworthy insinuation or impugn the character of the Prime Minister in any way. If you want to prevent me from speaking I can resume my seat. 
I did not mention the representatives of Tasmania. 
On. a point of order,  Mr. President- 
Do you, sir, intend to listen to my point of order? I refuse to withdraw the statement about which you have complained, because I did not impute unworthy motives to the Prime Minister. 
It is only fair that 1 should say that the  President  misunderstood what I had said. Apparently he was under the impression that I had said that certain members representing Tasmania approached the Prime Minister in connexion with the negotiations for a trade agreement with New Zealand. I said nothing of the kind. What I said was that the Prime Minister had been influenced by the agitation on behalf of Tasmanian potato-growers. By that I did not intend to impute unworthy motives. However, I suppose I must withdraw the statement. 
The  President  having intervened so effectively it is incumbent upon me now to make my position quite clear. What I meant was that if, in negotiations for trade treaties with other countries there was likelihood of Australian industries being jeopardized, the people concerned would be fully justified in approaching their representatives with a view to representations being made in the right quarter. That, I suggest, is what was done on behalf of the potatogrowers of Tasmania and I see nothing wrong in it. 
What has happened in connexion with chose attempts to make trade treaties merely discloses the impossibility of solving the economic problems of any country by the exchange of commodities, because, as I have shown, a reduction in the volume of goods exchanged internally, following a trade agreement with another country, means a lessening of employment internally, and to that extent a loss of purchasing power by the people directly concerned. Can any honorable senator show me how unemployment in Australia will be lessened by increasing the opportunities for the sale in this country of New Zealand potatoes, if by that arrangement there is a reduction in the volume of Tasmanian potatoes marketed? If we are to have a proper understanding of this complex problem, we must consider its basic causes. A superficial examination will not suffice. 
I now wish to refer to a statement made by  Senator Pearce  some weeks ago, (hat there is plenty of credit available in Australia if the people would only utilize it, and that the money expended on public works does not produce income. We know that there is a plethora of credit, and that if we wish to borrow and can show the manager of a bank or any other financial institution that we can use the money or credit to advantage, credit can be obtained. But under our present economic system the avenues are not open to the use of the credit which is so plentiful. Employment should be provided by expending money on works of national importance, which would raise Australia to a higher economic plane. It is always essential to study these problems from a national view-point. We should utilize whatever credits or money we can obtain, so that at the end of a certain period, Australia would bc able to carry on national works in the interests of the whole community.  Senator Pearce,  who said that money expended on public works does not produce income, should realize that, as expenditure of that nature would assist Australia to produce more plentifully with less energy, it would be justified. In discussing such subjects as unemployment, it is essential to get down to fundamentals. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have shown the utter stupidity of the Government's so-called solutions of our economic problems. The decided weakness of the Government is shown by its inability to remedy any of our economic ills. Although the deplorable position of the Australian wheatgrowers has been before this and the preceding Government for the last two years, this Government merely proposes a further bounty to the wheat industry. Why does not the Cabinet, which is supposed to consist of intelligent men, get down to foot causes, and place industry on a firm basis? Instead of providing palliatives and pottering about while the position becomes more acute, it should be studying  fundamental causes. 
I deplore the fact that under our present system of government honorable senators, after being absent for weeks, should be called together, and in a few days be expected to deal hurriedly with legislation that should take weeks to c6nsid.Gr, It is the fault of the Government.  The position has been explained to some extent by the Minister, who said that, as most of the business of the session consisted of money bills which cannot be initiated in this chamber, it was impossible to furnish work for the Senate to do earlier in the session. Prominence has been given to the matter through the newspapers by public men interested in parliamentary government, who have attacked the Government for placing this chamber in such an invidious position. To-day senators, who are being attacked from One end of the country to the other, are being told that this chamber is an excrescence on the system of parliamentary government. 
The word "excrescence " means a useless or troublesome outgrowth - something that can be dispensed with. If, sir, you ask that that word be withdrawn, I withdraw it; but I shall say that, owing to the mismanagement of the Government, the people are beginning to think that the Senate is redundant. 
The honorable senator does not view the matter in the the same way as I do. Voting for the Senate and for the House of Representatives is compulsory, and I am showing that, in treating this chamber as it has, the Government has degraded it in the eyes of the people, who feel that if it were dispensed with they would not be any. worse off. 
The honorable senator's statement may create a false impression. The abolition of the Senate was not an issue before the people at the last general election ; it was not mentioned from one end of Australia to the other. The Labour party Senate candidates were not returned because the electors were misled by honorable senators opposite and those whom they represent. 
May I say a few words-- 
This is grossly unfair.  Mr. Seullin  may have said that the policy of the Labour party includes the abolition of the Senate, but as a matter of policy that matter was not placed before the people of Australia at the last general elections. If I am to be treated in this way I may as well walk out of the chamber. 

 .- Senator MacDonald quoted from a document which he said was marked, " Private and confidential," concerning the federal land tax.  (^Quorum formed.]  Originally the federal land tax was introduced with the object of bursting up large estates, but its effect in that direction has not been a complete success, as the tax is imposed on valuable city properties. For years, the business section of the community has been suffering from the imposition of a tax which, far from assisting the development of the country, has retarded its progress. Remissions of taxation must inevitably lead to further employment. With few exceptions private individuals with money are more likely to solve industrial problems than are governments by the expenditure of a similar sum. Many of the suggestions contained in the document which  Senator MacDonald  quoted are unsound. 
I agree with  Senator Barnes  that at the last election the people gave to the present Government a mandate to find employment for those out of work. To the full extent of its ability the Government is prepared to find employment for those seeking it, and its efforts in that direction would have been more successful had not its proposals been baulked by the tactics of the Opposition. A good deal is made of the delay on the part of the Government in giving effect to its promises to the electors ; but those who have criticized it have ignored the obstructive tactics of the Opposition. In tho House of Representatives futile amendments have been discussed for hours, and the time of the country wasted, and we have had similar experiences in this chamber. 
The Government is prepared to help those who earnestly seek work. 
The Government . as at present constituted, and as constituted during recent weeks, is anxious to find work for those seeking it. It received a mandate from the electors to find employment for the people; and I hope that that mandate will be carried out. 
It will be carried out only if some of the legislation now on the statute-book is repealed. Thousands of lads in this country have never had a chance, because of the existence of restrictive laws and the operation of arbitration awards. These youths have as much right to employment as men have. Who are we, men of mature years, to say to lads of sixteen years of age, who in five years' time will have the rights and responsibilities of manhood, that they shall not have an opportunity to develop? The laws of the country deny them that right by restricting juvenile employment in various ways, as, for instance, when they stipulate that, irrespective of experience or ability, every lad must be paid a certain wage according to his age. Thousands of boys are not capable of earning award rates. Last week, when in Melbourne, I met a widow who was working as a housemaid in a boarding establishment. She told me that two of her six children were boys, aged sixteen and eighteen years respectively,who had never had a chance because, whenever they sought employment, they were told that already the proportion of juvenile employees allowed" by the law was engaged. She said, moreover, that a boy of eighteen years, must be paid a certain wage although he may not be so experienced as a lad of fifteen who had been working for twelve months. What chance have such lads? Are they never  to bo allowed to develop into men, or to become the home-builders of the future? If they are denied employment now, what will be the outlook of this country in a few years' time? Before the problem of finding employment for the youths of this country can be solved, it may be necessary to relegate to the waste-paper basket many of the cherished ideas now embodied in the laws of this country. 
I am aiming at awakening the public conscience, and I shall awaken it. There are many problems before us which can be solved only by all parties getting together and determining to find a way out. 
We shall never overcome our difficulties so long as the Opposition is determined to obstruct. I hope that the day will arrive when  Senator MacDonald,  and other honorable senators opposite, will join with the Government in seeking a solution of the problems confronting this country. Surely the honorable senator does not believe that all the virtues are possessed by the Opposition! Proposals for the relief of the poorer sections of the community have frequently been opposed by every member of the Opposition, merely because a Government supporter brought them forward. So long as such tactics are followed, we shall not make progress. I am prepared to work in co-operation with  Senator MacDonald. Senator Barnes, Senator Rae, Senator Dunn,  or, indeed, any one who is prepared to give of his best to find a way 
Out of our present difficulties. 
On the 28th November,  Senator Brown  moved that six weeks' leave of absence be granted to  Senator Rae  on account of urgent private business. The motion received the support of every honorable senator, and the leave asked for was granted accordingly. I was astonished to read the following paragraph in the Melbourne  Age  of the 5th December: - 
I shall not weary the Senate by giving details of the speeches delivered by leaders of the Communist party and so-called anti-war organizations at the meeting referred to. In addition to Herr Kisch and  Mr. Griffin,  the speakers included a lady, who, I understand, is a professor at the Melbourne University. With one or two exceptions the speeches could have left no other impression than that the speakers desired to sow hatred between class and class. I mention this meeting, because I now want to refer to some of the literature which has been circulated throughout Australia recently. I ask the Minister to cause investigations to be made in order to ascertain whether the existing law is not sufficient to prevent the circulation of such propaganda. I have in my hand a copy of the  Workers' 

 Voice, a newspaper published in Melbourne, which contains the Communist programme in full. At the meeting which I attended at theWest Melbourne stadium the soviet system of government, as in operation in Russia, was advocated for Australia. Speakers there urged that all our cherished ideals should be dragged in the dust, and replaced by Soviet rule such as obtains in Russia. In fact, one man, who has aspired to membership of this Parliament, went so far as to say that the Soviet Union of Russia had eliminated more vice during the fourteen years of its existence than Christianity had in 1934 years. That is the kind of stuff upon which gatherings of that kind are fed. The " Liberation Program of Soviet Power " appears in full in this circular, which was distributed freely during the last election campaign. The following five items are significant: - 
To annul the debts which the workers, toiling farmers and middle classes (professional, artisans and small business people) owe to the big capitalists and landlords. To cancel the public debt payable to overseas and Australian bondholders, abolish all existing taxes imposed by Federal and State governments and introduce taxation based on the class principle. 
To confiscate the houses and residences belonging to the rich and transfer them back to the unemployed and those workers badly housed and to provide workers' rest homes, sanatoriums and children's creches. 
To confiscate all supplies of food and other necessities of life held by the State and big capitalists and place them at the disposal of the unemployed and all needy persons. 
To guarantee to all toilers full freedom of organization, of assembly and of the press, placing at their disposal the large halls, the printing presses andall supplies of paper. 
To conclude a fraternal alliance with theSoviet Union and Soviet China, arm all toilers and create a mighty revolutionary Red army, which in alliance with the international proletariat and particularly of England, New Zealand, America and Japan, will destroy all attempts at intervention and all efforts of the capitalist class to restore their power. 
I quote this as a sample of the ordinary propaganda that is allowed to be circulated, notwithstanding our laws. This kind of literature was current years ago, but the name of the authority or of the publisher was not attached to it. This pamphlet has the name of the authority and the name of the printer on it, and, so far as I can see, there is no possible loophole by which the people who authorize and publish these things can escape if the law is put in motion. This particular production is authorized by J. Brew, Campaign Director, Communist party, 182 Exhibition-street, Melbourne, and printed by Starlight Press,. 553 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. That is the literature of the Communist party. I turn now to the stuff circulated fey the anti-war party. I have here a green, leaflet authorized and issued by the "League of Youth Against War and Fascism, The Youth Section of the Victorian Council against War and Fascism, " Bourke House, Bourke-street, Melbourne. It is significant that this also is printed by Starlight Press print, 553 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. It was distributed by the hundred, and possibly by the thousand, among the people who assembled at the sacred gathering for the dedication of the Shrine at Melbourne. Upon it there is a picture of the Shrine resting on the back of an enormous crocodile which is shedding tears; four civilians and a man in military uniform also are shedding tears. That is the kind of propaganda that is being carried on in Australia to-day. Here were mourners by the scores of thousands, and men who were not mourning, because they had not lost relatives, but were there as a sacred duty to pay tribute to those that fought and died for us, and a dastardly thing like this was circulated among them by the so-called anti-war party, which is part and parcel of the same organization that had the "Liberation Program of Soviet Power " pamphlet printed. 
 Senator Rae,  according to the newspapers and according to what I heard stated at the stadium last Sunday, is on the same mission to New Zealand as that on which Herr Kisch is engaged in Australia. 
I do not say that it has. 
 Senator Bae  is a member of the Friends of the Soviet Union of Australia, as ho has stated publicly more than once, and that is linked up with the anti-war movement by the imprints on these two pamphlets. 
I am not attacking him, but I ask why leave of absence can be granted on the ground of urgent private business to a senator who is engaged in a mission of this character. Surely that is not urgent private business. Honorable senators will remember that the object of clause 7 , of the " Liberation Program of Soviet Power." ;from which I have just quoted, is " To conclude a fraternal alliance with the Soviet Union and Soviet China, arm all toilers, and create a mighty revolutionary Bed army ". Bead that in conjunction with the anti-war movement, whose main object is to destroy the defence forces of Australia! Thousands of well-meaning men and women have joined up because they have -a horror of war, as we all have, and we can imagine the Communist party laughing up their sleeves to think they have ensnared them into an anti-war movement, whose object is to eliminate our defence forces, and whose active members look upon anything of a military character with horror. If they succeed in destroying our defence forces, and if all the armed toilers form a mighty revolutionary Red army, what an opportunity will be offered to those who circulate stuff of that kind ! It is just as well for the public to know what is going on. It is more than a coincidence that literature representing those two organizations; which are supposed to have nothing in common, issues from the same printing press. The green pamphlet against war is addressed to the youth of Australia, and this is portion of it: 
Armistice Day: The day on which the warmongers utilize the sanctity of the heroic dead of 1014-18 to arouse the emotions of the youth. This day is used as a day on which they dedicate a shrine to the memory of those who fought and died in a war that was represented as a war to end war. The capitalists who to-day are shedding crocodile tears over the brave dead arc the same people who arc leading the drive for another world war. 
I need read  no  more. That is quite sufficient to show me, at any rate, that it is time for right thin-king men and women to awaken to the seriousness of the position. None of us want war, but none of us in this chamber, so far as I can see, wants Soviet rule to displace Constitutional rule. It is high time for all those who believe in maintaining the best interests of the community, even if they do not agree with my political views, to take a stand against this kind of propaganda, because unfortunately the movement is growing fast, judging by the gathering, estimated to contain 10,000 people, which I attended on Sunday night. Whenever reference was made there to the abolition of the capitalistic class, and the breaking down of British Constitutional law, it was received by the crowd with cheers, 
Thank God, there were some. 
I go because I always believe in hearing at first hand rather than accepting reports from the pre3s or other sources. Following that principle, I have attended many extraordinary gatherings in Australia. I do not apologize for bringing these matters before the Senate, because they are of sufficient importance to warrant serious consideration. We should do all we can to make the people of the Commonwealth realize that we have a Constitution of which we ought to be proud. I believe the majority of them do realize it already. There are many difficulties to face and perhaps many faults to be found with the administration of our laws, but that does not justify talk of revolution. We are living in a country that has more blessings to the square foot than any other country in the world has to the square yard, and we should be proud of the fact. If I could only take some of those individuals who cheered the treasonable utterances at that gathering on Sunday night, to other parts of the world to see the conditions under which other people live, and contrast them with our own, they would come back not only able to wear bats two sizes smaller than when they went away, but convinced that there is no country like Australia, and no Constitution equal to that under which Australia has been built up. They would then be prepared not only to maintain that Constitution, but also to make it stronger and stronger, as they realized more and more clearly what a blessed country they live in. 
I feel almost ashamed to attempt any remarks this week upon any subject in this chamber. The year is nearly ended and very little business has been done here. The Leader of the Senate attempted to camouflage the position this afternoon by explaining that in moving the contingent notice of motion on the notice-paper, he had no intention of rushing measures through or preventing anyone from saying what he wanted. We were told that on the first reading of this bill we could speak on any subject, but the Minister knows that there is no possible chance of our doing, in the time at our disposal this week, the work which we are paid by the taxpayers to do, even if we utilize every second of it and go without" meals and sleep until the Government decides that Parliament shall adjourn. The last thing in my mind is to belittle this chamber. I believe in our Parliamentary institutions, and our British form of Constitutional government. I know of nothing better anywhere in the world to-day, but, as I have often said, I am almost ashamed to rise and say anything. Nothing that anybody can do, not even the meeting at the Stadium which the assistant censor,  Senator Payne,  attended last Sunday night, will bring our Parliamentary institutions so speedily into disrepute as will the fact, which is being made so painfully obvious to the taxpayers, that we in this chamber are not giving anything like an equivalent service for the salaries that we draw. Personally, I take my job here seriously. This Appropriation bill is handed to us to-day, and it is my duty to know the details of every item of expenditure contained in it, so that I may be able honestly and genuinely to criticize them if I think necessary. I am not competent to criticize some of the details, which have been entrusted to specially selected experts in the departments to prepare, but I should be able to go back to my constituents and tell them, in a general way, what these millions of pounds are required for, and justify my vote. However, at the time at my disposal, I am unable to do that. We on this side of the chamber give as much attention, if not a great deal more, as members of other parties to our parliamentary work. To such an extent do we recognize that it is impossible to do our job here this week or at any other time because of the way the business of this chamber is brought on, or not brought on, that we are seriously considering whether we are not merely allowing ourselves to be used as puppets in the hands of those who control the conduct of business in the House of Representatives; and whether it would not be more honest towards the people who sent us here if we walked out of this chamber and refused to take any part in the farcical procedure, which we know will be the rule from now on till the end of the week. However, I suppose that is not really the right attitude to take; it would perhaps be better to stay here and do our work as efficiently as the limited opportunities afforded to us will permit. 
I sympathize a good deal with the remarks made by  Senator Brown  when he was attempting the impossible task of persuading honorable senators opposite to focus their attention, for once at any rate, on the fundamental aspects of the problems that are confronting the people to-day, not only in Australia but also the world over. He was trying to persuade honorable senators to get away from the futilities and purilities  to which we have become so accustomed in this chamber. He was contending that we cannot get over our present difficulties by Tweedledum and Tweedledee methods, and was urging honorable senators opposite to exhibit at least a kindergarten glimmer of intelligence when dealing with our major problems. It waB impossible for him to get them to see anything in his arguments.  His  failure in that respect was due, not to any wilful intention on their part not to see his point, but to their utter incapacity to understand the position. So long have honorable gentlemen opposite been trained in a school of wrong thinking that they would now rather do anything than attempt to get to the root causes of our troubles. It is an utter impossibility to get them to deal with the fundamental aspects of the nation's problems. 

 Senator Collett suggested that taxation should be reduced.  Not  only in this Parliament, but in every State Parliament is the cry continually raised that taxation should be reduced, hut I never knew of a Parliament in which certain members did not demand reduction of taxation whilst, at the same time waiting on ministerial doormats every day throughout their political careers trying to secure increased expenditure in the interests of their constituents. We cannot have it both ways ; we cannot reduce taxation and, at the same time, increase government expenditure. But the incidence of taxation can be altered, and we on this side of the chamber contend that that should be done. We ask that taxation shall be so arranged as to fall most heavily on the shoulders of those best able to bear it, and be lifted off the shoulders of those least able to bear it. For honorable senators - and' they do not belong to this side of the chamber - to demand reduction of taxation when behind the scenes they are continually demanding increased expenditure in their own electorates is, to say the least illogical. 

 Senator Duncan-Hughes claimed that, because the Labour party stands for the abolition of all second chambers, the defeat of Labour candidates for tho Senate at the last election was evidence that the people endorsed the contrary view. I am sure  Senator Duncan-Hughes  knows better than that; he knows that if we had a government in this country with the necessary political courage to go to the people and ask them to abolish six of our seven Parliaments, there would be no request to which the people of this country would so readily agree. Public opinion is in favour of the abolition of State parliaments and the elimination of duplication, with its conflict of awards and laws and the frightful amount of unnecessary expenditure .now incurred. 
I do not suggest that State parliaments themselves would agree to be wiped out. But there is no question upon which the people of Australia are so united as on the necessity for the unification and simplification of government and the abolition of competing governments. However, that will remain only a matter of opinion until some government has the political courage to .refer the issue to the people. If such a step were taken, then this chamber and the House of Representatives would become positive necessities. 
I am amused when people claim to see wonderful results disclosed in election returns. I understand that the number of informal votes cast in Tasmania in the last election was larger than the number of primary votes which placed  Senator Grant  at the top of the poll. Such a result indicates that there is something wrong with the electoral system or with the intelligence of Tasmanian electors. The electors of Queensland, on the contrary, were so intelligent that the number of informal votes cast in that State was the lowest for the Commonwealth. No doubt  Senator Foll  will contend that the result proved that the vote in Queensland was a highly intelligent one. 
If  Senator Payne  will not think me presumptuous, I shall give him a little advice with regard to the impassioned outburst which he made about the circulation of certain nefarious literature. The honorable senator did not have to go to the Stadium last Sunday to know that such literature was in circulation, and he did not have to wait until this afternoon to tell the Government that long ago it should have been dealing effectively with subversive activities. But  Senator Payne  does not grow eloquent until he can direct his arguments against the dispossessed section of the people. I have no sympathy with subversive organizations of any political colour, but if an inquisitorial examination is to be held into the reasons which prompted honorable senators to ask for leave of absence for  Senator Bae,  and that honorable gentleman is to be pilloried in his absence because he got leave on the ground of urgent private business, I am resolved that no honorable senator shall in future get leave of absence without a similar inquisition being held into the reasons for his application before instead of after such leave is granted.  Senator Payne,  like our censors, is guilty of a very serious mistake. The best way to advertise a film or a book is to have it censored. 
If he censored indecent films, half the American films now shown in this country would never be released. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Apparently  Senator Payne  and I have something in common concerning this business  of  censorship. I imagine, however, that the honorable gentleman would not like to see it enforced to the extent approved by me in respect of certain things, while, on the other hand he would like to see it very rigidly enforced in connexion with all literature and activity in advocacy  of  the policy to which he is opposed. 
Nevertheless, by his references this afternoon he gave much greater publicity than would otherwise have been given to the propaganda to which he objects so strenuously. No one can deny that censorship in Australia is directed mainly against those things which are comparatively innocent, and that it disregards matters which all too frequently introduce a very undesirable element into the life of the community. For example, we have had the censorship  of  such books as Aldous Huxley's  Brave New World,  a publication that has had wide circulation in the Mother Country. 
I understand that is so, and that it was read by a number of members, but was withdrawn before others who wished to read it had an opportunity to do so. The most recent, example of childish censorship is the banning of the film  Evensong,  a picture that has been screened in other parts of the world without any complaints about its implications. From a review of the production which I have read, the objec tion of the Australian censor is not at all understandable. I know, of course, that the reason alleged is that it is taken to be a reflection on the late Dame Nellie Melba. This ground for objection is childish in the extreme. I understand that the picture might, with equal justice, be applied to any public character suddenly faced with a reversal of public appreciation. The time is opportune for a review of the censorship. Surely the people of Australia may be trusted to decide for themselves what they should read or see. It is remarkable that while a picture such as  Evensong  has been banned other films which have no central thought worth while, and no redeeming feature - pictures which obviously pander to the morbid and sensual tastes of the community - are screened nightly in cinema theatres throughout Australia. 
May I say, in all sincerity, and with all respect to  Senator Payne,  that we should be careful not to allow our personal antipathies - I suppose I have as many as most people, but I do try to keep them in subjection - to cloud our judgment of public issues and blind us to the real facts? I offer this thought because this afternoon  Senator Payne  was not at all charitable to the people of another nation simply because he had read in some of the literature which had been issued by the Communist party in Australia statements which I am sure were distasteful to all honorable senators. We should not, however, lose sight of the fact that a great economic and social experiment is being carried out in Russia, the population of which is probably greater than that of the most of the English speaking countries put together, though we may be sure that, by some, the purpose of those experiments will be grossly misrepresented. I am not for a moment suggesting that Russian methods would be either desirable or successful in Australia. I content myself with the statement that the methods adopted in that country were the only ones that could have been employed in the circumstances, and we should not be intolerant of the views held by its people. 
In the  Sydney Morning Heraldof  today's date there appears a telegram, which I commend to  Senator Payne,  because that honorable gentleman said this afternoon that if we could only get the people of Australia to understand the pernicious propaganda that the alleged Communists - I use the word " alleged " advisedly - were putting out, the good sense of the people of Australia would cause them to suppress both the teachers and their doctrines. The telegram from Melbourne was to the following effect: - 

 Mr. J. P. Blakie Webster,  chairman of Mount Isa Limited- 
The gentleman named is personally - known to me -  who arrived from London to-day in the 

 Strathnaver - said that trade privileges  were  being granted to Soviet Russia so "that Soviet products were being marketed in 
England at the rate of ?10,000,000 yearly, while the Soviet was buying British manufactures at the rate of only ?3,000,000. Practically the whole of the British imports from 
Russia  could be supplied by the dominions, a  large  proportion by Australia. 
I ask Ministers not to forget that signifi- cant statement when they are talking so freely about the silken ties that bind the Empire. Government supporters this afternoon sneered at my colleague,  Senator Brown,  when he advised them not to close their minds against what was being done in other parts of the world in connexion with trade matters, and when he pointed to the harm that might have been done to the interests of Tasmanian potatogrowers if, in return for the admission to New Zealand of citrus fruits grown hi "New South Wales, potatoes from the dominion were allowed to be marketed in Australia. He suggested that an agreement of this sort would not lead to the millennium. The telegram which I have just quoted shows that the Mother Country will not give preference to dominion goods if, by an agreement with Soviet Russia, it can secure a market for British products in that country. Capitalism knows no country and no law. 1  1  will sweat the producers of any ^country in the interests of profits. In conclusion, I suggest that  Senator Payne  and his friends should endeavour to keep an open mind with regard  te  what is going on in the world so as to bring a more enlightened judgment to bear on the problems which beset Australia, to the solution of which we are supposed to give our attention. 
.- I take this opportunity to bring under the notice of the Senate several subjects which have been given a good deal of prominence in the press during the last few weeks. The first of these is the proposal of the Commonwealth Government to consider the advisableness of expending ?17,000,000 on the unification of the Australian railway gauges. As every honorable senator is aware, a certain amount of inconvenience is now caused at the various breaks of gauge throughout the Commonwealth to railway passengers and those transporting goods and live-stock; admittedly, the breaks of gauge entail a good deal of unnecessary expense and loss of time, but one naturally wonders whether there are not many other ways in which such a large sum could be utilized with greater benefit to the Australian people. Had the Queensland 'Government, in the first instance, adopted 4ft. 8?in. as its standard gauge, the railway system in that State would be less extensive than it is to-day. Governments could not possibly have provided sufficient fun'ds to lay down the same mileage in wider gauge, thus involving additional expenditure on the tracks, rolling stock, and maintenance. There are in Queensland thousands of miles of the 3ft. 6in. railway of light construction, built to serve centres far removed from the coast. Such lines would not have been built had the wider gauge been adopted. Many of those which are now showing a small surplus, would, if converted, show a tremendous deficit. There are many other ways in which such a  3uni  could be spent, particularly in opening up country which at present is undeveloped. In Queensland, there ave large areas behind the sugar cane country at Ingham, Mackay and Cairns, where the expenditure of a few thousand pounds on roads would be of great benefit to settlers, and would bring a far greater return to Australia than would a wider railway gauge. It is necessary to expend money on developmental works to provide employment, but it is more essential to open up the scrub country in Queensland than it is to provide a standard gauge. At present there is no break of gauge between Adelaide and Albury or between Sydney and Brisbane, and where there are breaks in our  railway system no great inconvenience is caused. If the Government wishes to undertake additional railway development, why does it not assist in connecting Bourke with the railway line from Darwin? 
I do not mind in which direction the money is expended so long as it is of real benefit to Australia. If this proposal were adopted it would not be of advantage to Tasmania where the service at present is considered satisfactory. In these circumstances, I trust that the Government will give further consideration to the matter before involving the country in a heavy, unnecessary and uneconomic expenditure. 
I understand that the Government proposes to make £403,000 available to the State governments to assist the goldmining industry, the effective development of which may play a tremendous part in getting us out of some of our present financial difficulties. As the demand for gold js unlimited, and the industry in Australia is now booming, it should not need assistance. When the payment of a gold bounty was first agreed to, gold was about one-half of its present price; but the expenditure of such a large amount on an industry which is now flourishing does not seem to be justified. Men engaged in growing maize are in a serious position owing to the low price of that product. 
That is so; but the industry is doing well as a result of the high prices prevailing, while other industries are in the doldrums. The wheatgrowers who are to receive further financial assistance are in trouble, and the growers of citrus fruits and tobacco are also in great difficulties. There does not appear to be any good reason why the gold-mining industry should receive such a substantial subsidy, while those engaged in less profitable undertakings do not receive any help. State legislation is needed to protect the public against " dud " gold-mining enterprises, and thus ensure that the money subscribed shall be used in developing genuine shows instead of those controlled by " go-getters ". 
It has been stated recently that £8,000 was provided by the Commonwealth Government to guarantee the expenses of the flight of  Mr. Ulm  and his companions from the United States of America to Australia. With other honorable senators, I still hope that these brave aviators will be rescued. I fail to understand, however, why the Government should have subsidized such a flight, particularly as the trip across the Pacific has already been accomplished on two occasions by  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith, on one of which he was accompanied by  Mr. Ulm.  The first Pacific flight was regarded as the world's greatest aviation feat, but the recent attempt of  Mr. Ulm  could not be regarded as a pioneer flight. No organization attempting to conduct an air service would think of using land machines on a flight of such long distances over water. I am surprised that the Government should have guaranteed £8,000 for this purpose, and that Parliament did not have the opportunity to discuss the wisdom or otherwise of such a payment. 
Prior to the depression, a public works committee and a public accounts committee were engaged when necessary in conducting inquiries into proposed public works, and certain phases of government finance, but when it became necessary through economic circumstances to reduce expenditure, they were suspended. The comparatively small amount involved in maintaining those two committees was saved over and over again, as a result of the adoption of their recommendations, particularly in connexion with public works. It was my privilege to be a member of the Public Works Committee for some years, and at another time I was  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee. A study of the investigations conducted by these committees will reveal considerable savings of public expenditure. In regard to the Public Accounts Committee, not the least important consideration was the knowledge that it could at any time institute an inquiry into departmental expenditure. That, in itself, frequently proved a deterrent to extravagance. Now that the Government is again embarking on a public works programme, these committees should be reinstated. Should it be contended that the previous committees were top heavy, in that they contained too many members, the Government could re-institute them with five members on each. In making these suggestions I have no axe to grind, for I should not be a candidate for either committee, if re-constituted. But, knowing what I do of the savings effected by these committees in the past I urge that they be again brought into existence. In connexion with this building, for instance, as well as other public works in the Federal Capital Territory, the cost of the Public Works Committee was saved many times over. One inquiry into wooden ships saved Australia between £50,000 and £00,000. Honorable senators will recollect that in connexion with the Australian Commonwealth line of steamers considerable savings resulted from the adoption of the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee that the vessels be sold. I am confident that the savings which would be effected by these committees, if re-constituted, would more than compensate for the costs incurred. 
The announcement that negotiations with representatives of New Zealand for a trade agreement with that dominion had broken down came as a shock to many of us, particularly as there was an overwhelming consensus of public opinion, both in Australia and New Zealand in favour of such an arrangement. I understand that negotiations are about to be revived, and, therefore, at this stage I shall do no more than express the hope that on this occasion agreement will be reached, and a trade arrangement between the two dominions effected. Early this year I visited New Zealand where I found a general desire to obtain citrus fruits from Australia. That desire coincides with the need for an outlet for our fruits, and it seems a pity that both growers and consumers have so far been denied an arrangement which would be to their mutual advantage. 
Yesterday I discussed with a prominent business man who has just returned from an extensive trip through China, the possibilities of trade with that country. He told me that great changes were taking place in China, and that within a very short time a more stable form of government will exist there, and that the banditry and piracy which have existed for so many years will soon come to an end as a result of strong action by the Chinese themselves. The cessation of the periodical outbreaks of disorder which have retarded China's development is causing the Chinese to contemplate the manufacture of more of their requirements, particularly clothing. The adoption by the Chinese of western attire offers an opportunity to the Australian wool industry. I am advised that large orders have been placed by Chinese merchants with British manufacturers of machinery for the manufacture of textiles, and that mills for the production of woollen goods are being erected throughout China. The Government of China is establishing a police force to maintain civil law, and for the clothing of that body alone large quantities of woollens will be necessary, particularly in the colder parts of the country. At present the Chinese are buying cheap products in a semi-manufactured state, Germany being a big supplier of such goods. I hope that the Department of Commerce will take notice of the evolution now taking place in China, and not allow a repetition of our experience with Java and the Federated Malay States, where we lost a great opportunity some years ago. In those countries to-day goods which should be obtained from Australia are being bought from the United States of America and Germany. My friend assured me that China offers an outlet for the disposal of Australian wool and woollen goods, and I hope that this opportunity will not be lost to Australia. 
[8.39].- We have had an interesting discussion, during which many subjects have been mentioned ; but I hope that honorable senators will not expect me to roam over the whole field traversed by those who have spoken. Among the statements to which I wish to reply are those in criticism of the increased expenditure on defence. I shall not go lengthily into the matters raised, because I have circulated among honorable senators an explanatory statement prepared by the direction of the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill).  On page 3 the following paragraph appears : - 

<graphic href="145332193412114_29_2.jpg"></graphic>

On pages 4 and 5 are set out the proposed additions to the defence of Australia under the three services - navy, army, and air force - and on pages 15 and 16 there appears an explanation of the additional expenditure proposed in connexion with the munitions supply branch. Generally, the increases proposed provide for such additions to our navy as will moke it a greater guarantee of the maintenance of our sea communications. The Government's proposals include the rearmament of fixed defences at vital points, particularly to cover war bases, dockyards, and harbours of refuge and of assembly for convoys carrying our goods to and from the markets of the world. They provide, also, for a more effective air force, by the addition of modern land 'planes and sea 'planes, as well as for a more effective and more mobile .arm. to protect defended ports against raids. It is also proposed to make additions to the munitions establishment, whereby we shall be able to make in Australia cordite of a character not at present made here, and equip ourselves with certain other defence material not now available in Australia. These proposals are part of a connected plan extending over three years. For the first time in the history of this Parliament financial provision is made for a connected plan covering all three services. I hope that this is a beginning of a continuous defence policy, which is impossible of accomplishment so long as we are dependent on annual estimates. Too frequently in the past plans have had to be dropped because of insufficiency of funds, the change resulting in the loss of the expenditure already incurred. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is not quite correct, for from 1910 until some years after the war there was a connected policy, although its scope was not so wide as that of the present proposals. This policy has been carefully thought out after taking the advice of the best naval, military and air brains that the Empire possesses, as well as of our own experts. It has been weighed, criticized and questioned from every possible angle, and it does, I think, represent a well-thought out cohesive practical plan of defence that is within the capacity of Australia financially to maintain. After all, it is of no use for us to enter into ambitious schemes of defence, if we cannot find the money to keep them going. I suggest to  Senator Barnes,  who seemed to think that we should concentrate more on the air and less on the navy, that that point has not been overlooked. It has been thought of, and we have had the advice of those who have seen all three services in use in actual war. The honorable senator said to-day a thing which is typical of some criticism that is at times directed at the defence policy, and seems to indicate that the matter has not been fully thought out. That is, that the defence of sea communications should be left to the government of the United Kingdom because it has a greater stake in their maintenance than we have. That is a fallacy. As a matter of fact, the exports from Australia to the rest of the world are infinitely greater than the exports of Great Britain to Australia. If we are to adopt that view of defence, which, I suggest, is very narrow and rather foolish, that a country should look after only that part of trade within an Empire that benefits itself, then from that standpoint Great Britain has less at stake in the trade with Australia than Australia has in its overseas trade wilh the rest of the world, including Great Britain. Our trade with the rest of the world, including the British nations, is more than our trade merely with Great Britain. The view put forward by the honorable senator is therefore, I suggest, a mistaken one. The facts show that we have an obligation as a self-respecting people to do what we can to provide for the effective defence of our sea communications. Another fallacy which is often repeated outside crept into the honorable senator's speech. He seemed to think that we can effectively defend our overseas trade by aerial defence. The distance at which a land plane - a bomber - can operate effectively from the coast is, after all, extremely limited. A bomber has to go out to sea, drop its bombs on the enemy,- and then return - if it is lucky enough to return - for a further supply. That shows how limited is the area which it can cover. To repel enemy cruisers the only aeroplane which is effective is the bomber. A fighter is of no effect against a cruiser. The object of the fighter is to attack the enemy bombers and to keep them from attacking the cities. Therefore, the only plane that can be considered in defence of Australian coastal trade is the bomber. Honorable senators can imagine the immense expenditure that would be required to provide st fleet of bombers sufficiently large to protect even our coastal trade. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Yes, but the wastage in the air force is much . greater than the wastage in the navy. The plane has a shorter life, its engine has a shorter life, and experience in actual warfare showed that the wastage both in material and men was enormous. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Still there is no reason to think that the wastage will be any less. The greater the speed the greater the wastage, but in any case the area within which a defensive air force can operate for the protection of sea-borne trade is very limited. For the protection of sea communications, the land bomber is absolutely useless. It cannot patrol the sea routes. The experience of the last war showed that to meet the submarine menace sea trade has to be carried in convoys. If we were menaced by an enemy we should have domain tain our trade, otherwise we should perish, and in order to maintain our trade, we must adopt the convoy system. A bomber can be no protection to a marine convoy proceeding over thousands of miles of ocean. The only effective protection for a convoy is light cruisers and destroyers to guard against submarines and attacks from the air. Another factor is the aeroplane carrier which does extend the radius of air defence or air attack, but by the very nature of its construction it is a cargo ship, and its range and speed arn limited. It is also very vulnerable, because it is slow and cannot carry heavy armament. If it is used to carry aeroplanes out to sea it must itself have naval protection. Therefore, we always return to this conclusion, that we cannot have effective defence of our sea trade or our sea communications or even our coastal trade without some naval force. I do appeal to those who think, because they read a sensational story of something done by the air force, that therefore we can do away with the navy and army, and put all our eggs in the One basket of air defence, to look at and study the actual facts. The truth is that the air service has created a situation very much like that created by the introduction of tho rifle. It becomes an additional arm, and not able to take the place of other arms, but supplementary to them. In future wars, if ever there should be any, which God forbid, it will be found that these three forces will act in combination either in. attack on Australia or in defence of Australia. "We shall have to provide the three and provide means by which they can act in common. This plan has been drawn up with that as its basis. No matter what may be the political future, whatever government may be in office,  I hope we shall carry on something like a connected defence policy, and that defence will not be made the sport of party politics, but rather that all parties will join in assuring a continuous, connected and common-sense policy to make the best possible contribution for the effective protection of our country. 
Unemployment was also mentioned by  Senator Barnes.  Some honorable senators were a little uncharitable to the Government with regard to the speed at which further and additional action to relieve unemployment is being carried out. Before the election, certain action was taken by the Government and afterwards approved by Parliament for the expenditure of money through the States for the relief of unemployment. What was promised at the election was that the Government, if returned to power, would adopt an additional policy by which the Commonwealth itself would come into the field as a definite factor for tackling the problem of unemployment. It was indicated that the three lines that would be followed were: Firstly, the investigation of works which the Commonwealth could undertake, and which would be a definite contribution towards a permanent solution of the unemployment evil; secondly, conferences with the States to ascertain what works of a joint character could be undertaken, by which the Commonwealth and the States could carry out certain undertakings which would be a definite contribution ; and, thirdly, that the whole plan of this public works policy should be worked out on the basis of undertaking works which would not be of a mere temporary relief character, but would be a substantial contribution towards the economic well-being of Australia, and at the same time take off the labour market large numbers of men who were now unemployed. No sooner was the Government returned to power than steps to that end were initiated.  Mr. Stewart,  who has not seen his way to join the Government, was asked by the Prime Minister to take this matter up as the active agent of the Government, to put himself into touch with each State, to confer with the State governments to explain our attitude and proposals to them, and set the policy going. An immediate contribution of £176,000 was made by the Com- monwealth to enable additional work to be provided before Christmas, whilst these plans were being worked out. Considerable progress has been made;  Mr. Stewart  has had the opportunity to consult with some of the State governments, and other governments at a distance which he was not able to meet personally were telegraphed to some time ago, and asked to prepare their schedules. I think that now we have schedules from practically all the Governments. In answer to a question put by  Senator Johnston,  I indicated that there had just been received from Western Australia a schedule in which a work particularly advocated by him was  mentioned. I think, therefore, it can be said that the Commonwealth has lost no time, but of course new proposals, involving heavy financial commitments, must not be accepted lightly. We must examine them, and discuss them with the States and see that there is justification for them. Money is not so plentiful that it can be simply thrown out. If we are to tackle this question seriously and properly, we must see that the works have some economic value. There has been too great a disposition to say, " Do this, it will give work to the unemployed anyhow." That argument has been accepted a3 a justification for almost anything. I do not think it is wise, nor do I feel that honorable senators would like to see it adopted.  Senator Dunn  spent much time in criticizing the expenditure on the new cruiser. I tried several times to tell him that no money is provided for the cruiser in this bill. The money for it was voted by the Parliament before the election. The honorable senator spoke of the Newnes shale project and the Cockatoo Island Dockyard. To both the Government applied the test of economics. If ever anything has justified the action of the Government, it is the success that the Cockatoo Island Dockyard has been achieving since it was leased to private enterprise. The Newnes shale matter is still being dealt with, but economic principles must govern that proposition also. It is not economic simply to put people to work shifting sand. If the industry of distilling oil from shale is to be opened up we must be satisfied that it has some economic justification. 
That is so, but a great deal of information has been obtained and many things have been demonstrated to be unsafe and uneconomic. Let us hope that we shall be able yet to come to an arrangement by which this asset may be put to economic use. I shall bring  Senator Collett's  remarks concerning war service homes, the Maylands aerodrome, and the Swanbourne rifle range under the notice of the Ministers concerned. 
So far as the circulation of Communistic literature is concerned, I assure  Senator Payne  that this Government is desirous of defending the Commonwealth against the inroads of Communism because of its revolutionary and anti-social character. But to deal effectively with the publication and circulation of this literature is not quite so easy as the honorable gentleman seems to think. As  Senator Collings  pointed out, we have to be careful that we do not go too far and interfere with that freedom of speech that should be allowed in a democracy. Listening carefully to the extracts read by the honorable senator from the published platform of the Communist party, I noticed that the most objectionable clause in it is very cunningly worded. The act dealing with unlawful associations defines as offenders those who advocate the overthrow of the established government by force. Although the platform refers to the proletariat army it carefully omits any reference to the overthrow of the government by force. Although we have no doubt what is in the minds of the framers of that platform it is not sufficient for a prosecutor to tell a judge and jury what he thinks certain words mean. The prosecution must prove that the words in question mean that the offenders are instigating the overthrow of government by force. Literature of this kind is brought under the notice of the Attorney-General's Department from time to time. There have been prosecutions in connexion with such matters, but it is most difficult to prosecute successfully without leaving ourselves open to the charge that we are interfering with the legitimate expression of opinion. 
In reply to  Senator Foil's  remarks on the unification of railway gauges, I assure the Senate that nobody has put forward the proposal that the whole of the railway gauges of Australia should be unified. All schemes that have been advanced have omitted the railways of Tasmania, and no proposal now under consideration contemplates the unification of the gauges of all railways on the mainland. I invite honorable senators to read the somewhat old but valuable report of the royal commission which investigated the unification of railway gauges some years ago. That report is very applicable to our railway problem to-day. The commission divided its consideration of this matter into two sections. First, there was the proposal that the whole of the railway gauges of the mainland should be unified, but even then the railways of Tasmania were excluded. The commission expressed the opinion that so comprehensive a scheme was beyond the financial capacity of the Commonwealth. In the second section, of its report the commission dealt with the unification of railways between the capital cities and it is this proposal which is now engaging the attention of the Government. I remind  Senator Foll  that the State he represents was the most enthusiastic advocate of this recommendation of the commission and that Queensland was the first State to take advantage of it. Further, it is extraordinary that the only part of that commission's report to which effect has been given is the recommendation for the' construction of the railway between Brisbane, Grafton and Sydney. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Queensland loss is borne partly by the State and partly by the Commonwealth. There is little doubt that if the Commonwealth had not come into the scheme Queensland and Hew South Wales would eventually have constructed the line, in which event they alone would have had to bear the loss. It is somewhat ungenerous for an honorable senator, representing a State which has obtained the benefit  of  a unification of gauges, to contend  now  that  no more  work of this character should be undertaken. 
I do not agree with that statement; it may be true of the attention given to the measure in the House of which the honorable senator was then a member, but such criticism does not apply to the Senate. The proposal to proceed with the work of unifying the railway gauges it now put forward as typical of schemes in which the Commonwealth and the States can co-operate. So far this proposal has not been adopted. It is to be fully examined at a conference to be held early next year, at which will also be considered other schemes in which the Commonwealth and State governments might co-operate. If, as a result of such deliberations it is proposed that action be taken, Parliament will be fully informed before the Commonwealth is committed to any expenditure. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No. The proposal put forward by the Government to assist the gold industry - another matter raised by  Senator Foll  - does not mean that money will be spent to assist mines that are already operating ona payable basis. The real proposal is to assist in the production of gold by other mines and to encourage the discovery of further deposits of gold. It is obvious that if the world wants gold, and is prepared to pay a premium for it, it would be far better for the Government to encourage the production of this metal than to increase the growing of such a commodity as, for instance, maize. I assure  Senator Foll,  however, that maizegrowers who are in difficulty have not been forgotten by the Government, and that their claims for assistance will be dealt with under the rural rehabilitation plan. That assistance, however, will not be extended with the idea of increasing the production of a commodity for which there is not a profitable market. The aim of the Government is to produce more gold because the world wants gold ; therefore, the more gold we can produce the better will become our economic position. 
With respect to the guarantee of £8,000 given by this Government in connexion with Ulm's trans-Pacific flight, the view taken by the Government was that, following the letting of a contract for an air mail service from Great Britain to Australia through the Malayan Archipelago and India and the inauguration of this service, it would become necessary in the near future - and this necessity still exists - to establish a commercial airway service from Australia to England via New Zealand and Canada.  Mr. Ulm  has rendered a great service to Australian aviation. 
He has been one of our most reliable pilots, and he has displayed sound business sense in all his ventures. He waited on the Prime Minister, to whom he put the proposal that he would pioneer a service on commercial lines which would demonstrate the possibilities of establishing a permanent commercial service across the Pacific. 
No;  Sir Charles's  trans-Pacific flight no more demonstrated that a service on a commercial basis was practicable on that route than the first flight from England to Australia demonstrated the possibilities of a commercial service between the two countries. The first trans-Pacific flight made by  Sir Charles  Kingsford Smith, in which  Mr. Ulm  also was associated, was a wonderful performance, and gave a great impetus to international aviation. Although that flight rendered a distinct service to aviation, it was not considered at the time as a pioneering commercial flight on that route.  Mr. Ulm  put the whole of his proposals before the Government, and convinced it that his flight would be something more than a mere attempt to break records. He satisfied the Government that if his venture succeeded it would bring nearer the time when it would be possible to inaugurate a trans-Pacific commercial service. All he asked -was that the Government should .guarantee an amount of '£8,000, the guarantee to become operative in the event of his flight proving a failure. Unfortunately, it has failed, and I am sure all honorable senators deplore that failure at such a cost, because the passing of so eminent an aviator has been a distinct loss to Australian and Empire aviation. The Government will make available to honorable senators full details of the conditions under which this guarantee was given. Originally it was Mie intention of the Government to introduce a bill early next year to secure the sanction of Parliament to this guarantee. It was never intended that tho guarantee or the conditions of it should be kept secret. We were legally advised at the time that the Government could not give this guarantee without securing parliamentary sanction. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.I reiterate that it was always the intention of the Government to seek parliamentary sanction to this guarantee as soon as possible. In the agreement with the Commonwealth Bank that fact is mentioned. 
No. The suggestion made by  Senator Foll  that the Public Works and Public Accounts Committee should be revived will be brought under the notice of the Government. In his speech, the honorable gentleman also mentioned the Now Zealand trade negotiations, and at the time I asked him not to proceed with a discussion of that subject. I- did so because to-night in Sydney these negotiations have been resumed, and I think it would be unfortunate if anything were said in debate which might interfere with the course of the conversations. The Government is anxious to bring the discussions to a successful conclusion. I assure honorable senators it has done all  in its power to achieve that aim, and I hope and believe that the negotiations will now prove successful. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
Second READING 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [9.14]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The whole of the facts.and figures relevant to this measure were given to honorable senators when the motion for the printing of the budget-papers was moved. This bill is to appropriate supplies for the services of the year ending the 30th June, 1935. Parliament has already passed Supply for the earlier part of the year amounting to £11,898,205, and this bill is to authorize Supply amounting to £10,618,212 for the balance of the year. The whole of the amount of £22,516,417 will be appropriated as outlined on page 3 of the bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator 
Barnes) adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been directed to the following news item which appeared in to-day'sissue of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph :  - 
MANUFACTURES CHIEF IN STRAIGHT TALK. 
Adverse Effecton Industry. 
Tariffs and trade treaties, under the present Federal Government, were strongly criticized at the Sydney Chamber of Manufactures dinner last night, by the  President  of that body,  Mr. C.  V. Potts. " Itis regrettable that tariff changes have been made, particularly at a time of higher protection abroad," he said. " Had there been no change in our tariff policy, the movement towards increased efficiency and increased output would have been accelerated ". 
Discussing trade treaties, be said : " Ifin return for concessions regarding imports not competing with Australian products, wider markets can be found for imports, such treaties willbe advantageous. 
The first treaty is, however, depressing, as seriously affecting the local glass industry, as not only creating unemployment, but making economic progress impossible. 
It must be a cardinal principle that all trade treaties should contain nothing which limits Australia's right to develop any industry ". 
Referring to the Federal Government, he said :  - " The first act of administration by a further attack on the tariff protection to secondary industries is nut only disturbing but must create serious misgivings as to future administration. Recovery will not be achieved by destroying or curtailing the Australian home market ". 
If the above statement has been brought under the notice of the right honorable gentleman, can he say what action the Government proposes to take? 
THE  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - The lengthy statement which the honorable senator has read contains an expression of opinion by a person outside this chamber. As he knows, statements or expressions of opinions, even by an honorable senator, are not permissible in a question addressed to a Minister. It is my duty to conserve the time of the Senate for the transaction of public business. Time must not be taken up with the airing of opinions of persons outside this Parliament. The Leader of the Senate may please himself as to whether or not he replies to the honorable gentleman. 
Is it not a fact that members of the Senate will not have an opportunity to discuss the tariff proposals of the Government until some time in 1935? Also, is it not true that many millions of pounds are invested in Australian secondary industries, and that, due to the fact that a first amended tariff schedule was laid on the table of the House of Representatives recently, employees in some of the industries affected by the duties fear dismissal from employment early in 1935? This being so, is it not the duty of the Government, in the interests of Australian industries, to give Parliament an opportunity to deal with the tariff schedulewithout delay? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has approval been given for the establishment in Western Australia of a unit of the Citizen Air Force? 
If so, what progress to that end has been made? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for Defence has supplied the following answers :  - 
As indicated in the explanatory statement prepared by the Minister for Defence in connexion with the Estimates for 1934-35, the Government's air force policy contemplates the formation of a Citizen Air Force Squadron at Perth, Western Australia. 
The purchase of an aerodrome site near Perth is at present in hand, and it is hoped to commence building operations there at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that under Tariff Item 152a (1 ) duties on piping hitherto admitted free under British preferential and 15 per cent. under general tariff have been increased to 10 per cent. British preferential and 40 per cent. under general tariff? 
Is it a fact that this piping is essential to the development and maintenance of water supplies on farming and pastoral areas and elsewhere? 
What is the reasonfor these increased duties, if any? 
Does the Minister consider that the agricultural and pastoral industries are in a position to carry such an increased burden? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The rates were imposed on a report of the Tariff Board, and in accordance with the Government's tariff policy. 
The question of prices is being taken up with the local industry in order to ascertain what added burden, if any, will result from the increased duties. 
askedthe Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With regard to the sum of £3,000,000 granted to the States last year under the provisions of the  Wheat Growers Relief Act  1933- 
Is it a fact that relief was granted by the State Governments to wheat-growers on differing lines in the various States? 
On what basis was relief granted to individual wheat-growers in each State of the Commonwealth, under the said act? 
Relief was granted by all States to wheatgrowers on an acreage basis. The various rates of payment are set out below. 
Details of the amounts received by wheatgrowers onthis basis are as under: - 
New South Wales, 4s. 38d. per acre; Victoria, 4s..207 4d. per acre; Queensland, 5s. 6d. per acre where wheat-grower has no taxable income, 3s. per acre where wheat-grower has taxable income; Western Australia, 3s. 8d. per acre advanced - final payment not determined; Tasmania, 6s. 10d. per acre; South Australia, 3s. 5d. to 3s. 6d. per acre, but where area yields less than 3 bushels f.a.q. per acre, additional1s.6d. has been granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
With regard to the domestic sugar rebate and export sugar rebate handled by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the year ending 30th August, 1934 - 
What amount was granted as domestic rebate? 
What sum and what percentage of the total was distributed to each State of the Commonwealth ? 
What amount was granted as export sugar rebate? 
What sum and what percentage of the total was distributed to each State of the Commonwealth? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
The information desired by the honorable senator was contained in the Third Annual Report of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee, which was tabled in Parliament on 15th November, 1934 - a copy being supplied direct to each member of both Houses. The particulars for the year ended 31st August, 1934, are - 1 and 2 - 

<graphic href="145332193412125_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

These payments indicate the relative size in the various States of the respective businesses of processing and exporting manufactured fruit products. 
asked the Minister in Charge of Development,  upon notice - 
Has £403,000 been approved for the encouragement of the gold-mining industry? 
How is this sum to be allocated amongst the various States? 
Under what conditions can prospectors and holders of mining leases secure assistance and sustenance under this grant? 
A statement on this subject will be made within the next day or so. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
On the question of placing the unemployed in gold-mining, will the Government give consideration to the unemployed coal-miners  of  the northern, western and southern divisions of New South Wales, who are reported to number over 10,000, and to have not worked in their calling for over four years? 
Does the Government intend to take any action on the question of producing oil by the hydrogenation process from coal in the Newcastle and Cessnock districts? 
Will the Government give a definite answer as to its policy on the question of winning oil from coal? 
What are the Government's intentions in relation to the shale industries of the Newnes Valley, Lithgow, New South Wales ? 
From what countries is the fuel oil imported that is used in the Royal Australian Navy and the Australian Army units? 
What is the cost in money values to the Federal Government for oils imported into Australia for use in the Australian defence forces during the years 1932, 1933 and 1934? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
Consideration is being given to this matter in conjunction with the Government of New South Wales. 
The Government has demonstrated its active interest in the question of the production of oil from coal by the hydrogenation process, and its desire that an industry be established, if possible, for this purpose in Australia. The attention of the honorable senator is invited to the report of the committee appointed by the Commonwealth Government to inquire into the question of establishing a plant in Australia for the production of oil from coal by the hydrogenation process, a copy of which was laid on the table of the Senate on 14th November, 1934. 
See answer to No. 2. Any practicable proposals for the production of oil from coal submitted to the Commonwealth Government will receive the fullest consideration. 
The Commonwealth Government and the Government of New South Wales have already expressed their willingness to assist financially and otherwise in the development of the shale oil industry in the Newnes-Capertee area of New South Wales, provided that  a  company or persons possessing the requisite technical, engineering and other ability can be induced to operate the undertaking. With the object of inducing a company of the type mentioned to undertake the development of the shale oil industry, discussions have taken place between representatives of the Governments of the Commonwealth and of New South Wales and  Sir John  Cadman,  chairman  of directors of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company Limited.  Sir John  Cadman has personally inspected Newnes, and has made arrangements for two experts -  Mr. Robert  Crichton, director and general manager of Scottish Oils (Shale) Limited, and  Mr. H.  R. J. Conacher, the manager, Scottish Oils (Shale) Limited - to visit Australia for the purpose of investigating the shale oil industry. It is expected that these gentlemen will arrive in Australia shortly. 5 and6. Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement of the South Australian Agent-General  (Mr. McCann)  that some shipments of Australian oranges have reached the English markets in very bad condition? 
Will the Government take steps to ensure that in future no shipments of citrus fruit that would be likely to endanger our trade  with Great  Britain shall leave Australian ports? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
It is proposed to take steps which will have the effect of overcoming the difficulties which have arisen during the past export season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the reason why wheat prices at Fort Adelaide are usually quoted at from 3d. to 5d. per bushel below Sydney and Melbourne prices? 
Is wheat grown in South Australia inferior to wheat grown in New South Wales and Victoria? 
What are the handling charges per bushel for wheat from truck to ship's hold at the following ports: - Sydney, Williamstown, Port Adelaide, and Fremantle? 
Does the Government consider that the wheat-grower is getting the full advantage of the 25 per cent. exchange on the sale of his wheat ? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
This is a matter which has been under the notice, and is at present receiving the consideration, of the royal commission appointed to' inquire into the wheat industry. 
The Government is not aware of any difference in quality in the wheat grown in the States named. 
The information is being obtained. 
The Government has no reason to believe that the wheat-grower is not receiving the full advantage of the 25 per cent. exchange. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties,  upon notice - 
What were the reasons for the breakdown in the conference between Australia and New Zealand regarding arrangements for exchange) of trade? 
The Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties has supplied the following answer :  - 
Although negotiations in Canberra with the New Zealand delegation broke down further conversations have taken place in Sydney, and it is anticipated that these will be continued. 
[3.15]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to give effective expression to the Government's intention with regard to the fixed exemption of £250 in respect of income which is assessable for the special property tax. At present there is a diminishing exemption of £250 in respect of ordinary income derived from both property and personal exertion, the exemption diminishing by £1 for every £2 of income above £250 until the deduction disappears. In addition, there is a special property tax, in respect of which there is a fixed exemption of £250. The Financial Relief Act, No. 64 of 1932, correctly, and for the first time, expressed the intention of the Government in  these  two respects. When, in 1933, the Government decided to continue this fixed deduction of £250 in respect of the special property tax, it became necessary to express that intention in the Income Tax Assessment Act of that year. That was done in section 5 of the act of 1933, which was intended to re-enact section 6 of the Financial Relief Act of 1932. In lifting the provision from one act to another it became necessary, in order to state the purpose and intention of the Income Tax Assessment Act to alter the phraseology. In doing so, the effect inadvertently produced was such that at present it might be held that the fixed deduction of £250, which is meant to apply only in respect of the special property tax on income, could be claimed by any taxpayer with an income from property, who sought the special deduction in respect of the property income assessable in respect of ordinary income tax. That was not, and is not, the intention of the Government. The bill is to preserve what has been the clear intention of Parliament in the past by limiting the fixed deduction of £250 strictly to income . assessable under the special property tax and not to extend that fixed deduction to ordinary income taxation. It does not introduce any new principle into the taxation field, and is solely to correct an error. The measure also validates deductions in respect of the financial year 1933-34, which is the only year in respect of which there is likely to have been any misapprehension. 
The two points involved in this measure arise owing to the fact that the bill passed last year was drafted erroneously. It is now sought, by clause 1, to draw the bill in a more satisfactory way, and, by clause 2, that any possible losses which might arise on account of its having been erroneously drawn last year shall be avoided. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  suggested by interjection, this bill, apart from its future action, has a retrospective effect. The two bills which wore brought before the Senate yesterday have that effect - this one being retrospective for one year, and the other for three years. I have always held that retrospective legislation is not desirable, and I believe that that is the view of honorable senators generally, irrespective of party. 
As I have said, members of Parliament generally agree regarding the undesirable nature of retrospective legislation. Nevertheless, every year bills are introduced to rectify something which was not correctly done in the first place, and, in some instances, to rectify it for some years back. The general attitude of members on this subject was well expressed by  Mr. Latham  in the House of Representatives on the 30th September, 1924, when he said - 
Very important changes are made, which may or may not be desirable, and I want- honorable members to realize that some of them are  restrospective.  With much of the very lucid speech of the honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  I agree, but I am unable to accept his view that it is right or proper for Parliament to pass retrospective taxation legislation. Only in very exceptional circumstances can such legislation be justified. It is more important that this Parliament should be absolutely fair to the citizens of Australia than that it should collect by hook or by crook every possible penny. When Parliament is considering a taxation bill it has the assistance of officers of the Crown Law Department and . the Taxation Department, and it should make its legislation clear. Citizens are entitled to act on its legislation. 
Later  Mr. Latham  said - 
In the absence of special reasons to the contrary, the general rule should obtain that retrospective legislation, particularly in regard to taxation, is highly objectionable. 
Retrospective taxing legislation can hardly  ever be justified. 
That is a fair statement of the general attitude towards retrospective legislation. Against that we have the fact that last year's bill was introduced and passed by Parliament. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has said, that legislation was erroneously drawn ; and now we are asked, in effect, to intervene between the Crown and the taxpayer and to say that we will put this matter right retrospectively. On the merits of the case, I have not any objection to the alteration being made for the future.; and I do not know of any instance of a taxpayer with regard to whom this question has arisen during the past year. Yet the very fact that this alteration is sought to cover the past year suggests that individuals have made claims under the law as it hae stood for the past year, and that those claims will be defeated by the passing of this legislation. I do not think that that is a sound way to meet such cases. I ask the Minister whether there are any cases at issue between the Taxation Department and taxpayers, and whether any objections have been lodged. 
Presumably it is a test case. 
If only one taxpayer is concerned, I should like to know if the amount involved is large, and whether it is worth while bringing in a bill, the general principle of which is, as  Mr. Latham  said, objectionable, in order to defeat him. I remind the Senate that that taxpayer  when he made his claim, acted under the law as  drawn by  the Crown law officers,  with the approval  of the taxation officials, .countersigned, one might say,  by the  Attorney-General or his representative,  and  passed by Parliament. I suggest that it would be in every way fairer if this bill were not made retrospective,  in order  to take away the rights  of  the one taxpayer affected. This measure further emphasizes the extraordinary intricacy of our taxation legislation, to which I have drawn attention  on  several occasions; it proves that no man can understand the taxation laws under which he lives. 
That our taxation laws, taken as a whole, are so intricate a3 to be beyond the comprehension of any  man  is  proved  by the very fact that this chamber is now considering the righting of an error of drafting made by the Crown Law officers, who, no doubt were in close consultation with officers of the Taxation Department. If any persons  in  the community can be experts in taxation matters, officers of the Taxation Department should be. Yet in this matter they have made a mistake - as almost any one might do - and the Government is now seeking to put things right. I do not know  either  the taxpayer or the amount involved. 
That is likely. In any case, the findings of that body could hardly make things moi-e difficult. The intricacies of the taxation laws are admitted by all honorable senators. Such legislation is particularly hard on farmers, who cannot be expected to understand the intricacies of the law, or to have experts at hand to advise them. I shall not weary the Senate by pursuing this subject further; but it appears to me that this measure presents an excellent opportunity to right matters for the future- 
The bill introduced last year was rushed through Parliament at the end of a particularly heavy session'. 
Neither in this chamber nor in the House of ^Representatives was the bill fully discussed, and it might be claimed that members did not have time to consider it. But because of the intricacy of the whole subject, I do not think that members generally would have been much wiser regarding the bill had they spent days considering it. In this connexion, I wish to be fair to the Crown Law" officers. It is easy to criticize them, but the amount of work which they have to do during the last weeks of a session, when legislation has to be prepared hurriedly and amendments drafted during all-night sittings, is probably greater than that done by any other section in Canberra. Not all honorable senators realize the heavy strain imposed on these officers at the end of a session. I am not criticizing them, for it is possible for anybody to make a slip, but I think this fearful rush of legislation coming in at the last moment is the cause of the mistakes which have so constantly to be corrected. I approve . of the alteration for the future proposed to be effected by the bill, but am personally opposed to the retrospective provision contained in sub-clause 2 of clause 2, to the effect that " this section shall be deemed to have commenced on the date of commencement of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1933 ". 
.- 1  am heartily in accord with the views expressed by  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  The measure proposes to make taxation retrospective in order to ensure to the Taxation Department its full pound of flesh. The truth of the honorable senator's remarks regarding the danger  of  retrospective legislation of this character will be clearly recognized by every one. While he was speaking, I interjected that there might be some justification for introducing legislation of this kind and making it retrospective in certain cases. I have risen now to express my regret that the Government has not seen fit to provide in this bill a retrospective clause to ensure the refunding, to people who under the principal taxing act are not taxpayers, of amounts which they have been forced to pay for the last three or four years. I endeavoured by an amendment of the Income Tax Assessment Bill introduced last session to remove this injustice, but failed. I pointed out then that certain people, through the operation of a previous Income Tax Assessment Act, had been compelled to pay taxation, although, under the Income Tax Act itself, they should have been exempt. This has been going on ever since the act of  1931  was passed. The Income Tax Act provides that only certain individuals 'shall be liable to pay income tax. Those whose income is less than a certain amount are exempt, but for a number of years many people whose incomes  have  been considerably less than the minimum have been compelled to pay the highest rate, namely, the property rate, levied under the Income Tax Assessment Act. People whose incomes have been only  £25  a year have been levied upon at the property rate through the companies which have paid them their dividends. 
THE  PRESIDENT (Senator the  Hon.  P. J.  Lynch). - Are the people to whom the honorable senator is referring affected by the amending bill now before the Senate? 
They are affected by the Income Tax Assessment Act, and I am expressing my regret that the Government has not seen fit to make the bill retrospective in such a way as to compel the Income Tax Commissioner  to  refund to those people every penny which they have had to pay, seeing that the money never belonged to the Taxation Department according to the wording  of  the Income Tax Act. It is not too late now for me again to urge the Government to remove this grave injustice. 
 I rise to a point of order. Are those of us who sit on this side of the chamber entitled to a similar opportunity to that which is now being afforded to  Senator Payne,  to raise, in connexion with the assessment of income tax, matters which are very important to us and the people whom we represent! I submit that  Senator Payne's  remarks have nothing to do with the bill. 
I asked  Senator Payne  if the section of taxpayers to whom he referred was affected by the amending bill, and he explained that he was drawing attention to the shortcomings of the bill. I now remind the honorable senator that, whilst he may make an incidental reference to the shortcomings of an amending measure, he is not entitled to debate them at length. He must confine his remarks to the bill which is to amend section  9  of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I do so in order that I may have the opportunity to prepare the necessary amendment, which may involve an amendment of the title of the bill, so that provision may be made to ensure, not only that this injustice shall not be inflicted in the future, but that all payments which have been made under the operation of the section to which I refer shall be refunded by the department. 
No. The proper procedure was for the honorable senator to ask leave to continue his remarks. 
He did not take that course, and his motion for the adjournment of the debate is not in order. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [3.41].- In regard to the objection stated by  Senator DuncanHughes,  honorable senators generally are agreed that legislation of a retrospective nature is undesirable. That is accepted as a general principle, but each case has to be judged on its merits. The test of this bill is the intention of Parliament when it passed the act of 1933.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  has admitted that it  is  quite clear that what Parliament intended to do on that occasion is what we seek to do by this bill. Parliament thought it had accomplished this end but the draftsmen of the measure and Parliament, made a mistake, with the result that Parliament's intention was not effected. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
[3.48]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read asecond time. 
This bill provides for a minor amendment of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1923-1930. Shortly stated, that act prescribes sinking fund contributions designed to pay off the postal debt in 30 years and other debt in 50 years, the respective contributions being 30s. and 10s. per cent. per annum. The sinking fund moneys are used to purchase securities or to redeem debt. The purchased securities are at once cancelled and the revenue account obtains the benefit of interest savings. To preserve the compound interest basis of the fund, the law in. effect provides for a further contribution from revenue of 5 per cent. of the amount applied in debt redemption. The relative provisions are contained in section 9aa of the act and this bill is designed to correct an anomaly in one of the provisions relating to the 5 per cent. contribution. 
The proposed amendment will clarify the wording of section 9aa which was inserted by an amending act in 1930. It will also give effect to the original intention with regard to the operation of that section. No alteration in the present procedure in regard to contributions to the sinking fund from revenue will be involved, because, since the passing of the 1930 act, payments to the sinking fund have been made in accordance with the obvious intention of that act. The particular provision which it is proposed to amend is paragraph (f) of sub-section 1 of section 9aa of the act. The intention of this paragraph was that there should be a 5 per cent. contribution calculated from year to year on the accumulated gross receipts of the sinking fund from the 1st July, 1930, less the accumulated receipts of certain special repayments for a like period. Through inadvertence, the portion of paragraph (f) relating to the  deduction of these repayments contained the words " in that financial year " instead of " during that period ". This literally had the effect of limiting the deduction to the actual repayments for one year only, namely, the year in which the 5 per cent. contribution was made, instead of to the accumulated repayments from the 1st July, 1930. 
It is now proposed to amend the paragraph so as to bring it into accord with the intention of the 1930 act. At the same time, other words in the new paragraph are being altered to make the meaning clearer. If honorable members will read the memorandum which has seen circulated, they will see the original wording of paragraph /, and also the alterations which are being made. As I have already stated, the sinking fund has actually been credited with amounts accumulated in accordance with the intention of the act, and provision has accordingly been made in this bill for the proposed amendments to have retrospective effect from the date of the commencement of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1930. I trust that this proposal will meet with the approval of  Senator Duncan-Hughes,  because the position of individuals will not be prejudiced by the alterations being made, nor will the public interest be in any way affected. The whole purpose is to 
Make the act accord with the intention of the legislature. 
Yes; the bill does that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
I am glad of the opportunity afforded by the request of my colleague from South Australia  (Senator Duncan-Hughes)  to say a word or two about the activities of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. The vote this year has been increased by approximately £32,000. This has been necessitated partly by withdrawal of the contribution of £12,850 from the Empire Marketing Board, which, unfortunately, has ceased its activities. 
I agree with the honorable senator. In the provision for the division of plant industry honorable senators will note an increase over the expenditure for the previous year of approximately £8,000, made up mainly of the sum of £5,000 which is to be applied to the investigation of difficulties in connexion with diseases peculiar to certain plants. 
Yes, but the £5,000 has been added as an amount thought to be necessary to investigate the cultural and curing phases of the industry. There is also a vote which appears for the first time in the Estimates for this department of £5,000 for research in connexion with gold-mining. The services of certain experts, including Professor Stillwell, have been co-opted in a voluntary capacity to carry out this important work. Our contributions to the Imperial Agricultural Bureaux this year will be £9,959. This represents a considerable increase sn the expenditure of last year, and is due to the fact that pressure was brought to bear upon the .Government by the British Government, through Borne, where the bureaux function to continue important investigations into the higher branches of agricultural practice. Last year Parliament voted £3,377, and the expenditure for part of the year only was £7,664. There has been no material increase in the staff of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. I am glad to be able to say that the work which that body is doing meets with the approval not only of members of this Parliament, but with the people engaged in the various industries. Last year contributions received from outside sources amounted to £46,000, and this year we anticipate receiving between £30,000 and £40,000. 
.- I welcome this opportunity to pay tribute to the splendid national work being carried out by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. I regret that the Government, which has increased the vote for the present financial year, has not yet a proper sense of values in respect of the channels in which it expends money, and that it has to some extent failed to realize the value of the work clone by the council on behalf of the primary producers and other  sections  of the community. Although the council has on its staff scientists of great ability who render highly efficient service their salaries are far too low when compared with those paid to some other departmental officers. In the branch of animal health, it is proposed to spend this year £22,500 as ^compared with £20,400 last year. The increase is infinitesimal when one realizes the extensive field of scientific research which may be the means of avoiding the tremendous losses which occur annually in the sheep industry alone. It has been estimated that the losses incurred annually in consequence of the blowfly pest amount to £4,000,000. If this body of experts discovered some means of combating, eradicating, or even lessening this pest, the benefit to Australia would be enormous. It is' also estimated that foot rot and other diseases which attack sheep are responsible for a loss of from £2,000,000 to £3,000,000 annually. In consequence of the blowfly pest and foot rot and other diseases in sheep, Australia is losing from £6,000,000 to £7,000,000 annually. As scientists will eventually discover some means of destroying or greatly reducing these pests, the Government should increase the amount at the disposal of the council. Even if the vote cannot be increased this year, I trust that a larger appropriation will be made next year in order to encourage the council which is rendering such splendid service to the Commonwealth. The Government should also pav more generously those engaged in the higher branches of research work. 
I add my personal tribute to the work of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research with which I have been intimately associated, particularly in connexion with the forest products branch. I say emphatically that the work of the officers in this branch, which is a national asset, is not fully appreciated by the Australian people. Can the Minister say whether the Government has yet considered a long-range finance policy whereby continuity of work in certain departments of the council can be assured? Many of the experiments undertaken in the various branches of the council's work require investigations extending  over a period of perhaps ten years, and necessitate the training of officers for perhaps two or three years. One parliament may provide a certain amount for research work and a succeeding parliament, which may not be seised of the importance of the investigations, may reduce the amount. A trust fund or some similar fund should be established so that those controlling the council may make their arrangements for years ahead, and not be subject to political interference. Can the Minister say whether the Government has any such scheme under consideration ? 
 I realize the importance of the suggestion made by  Senator Hardy,  who will remember that, when money was plentiful, a previous government attempted to stabilize the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research; but, owing to economic circumstances, the money, which was to be expended on what I regarded as capital security, had to be utilized in keeping the council functioning. I pay tribute to my predecessor, who realized the importance of the council's activities. The point raised by the honorable senator has not been overlooked, and will be the subject of representation by me to the Treasurer. Although there may be no immediate possibility of inaugurating a long-range policy, the Government will continue its endeavours to secure the further cooperation of those engaged in various branches of industry. Investigations into the blowfly pest and foot-rot and other diseases in sheep, are still being carried on ; but this is not an occasion on which I can deal with those subjects at length. Full information on these matters can be obtained from the bulletins issued by the council from time to time, or direct from the offices of the council.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  referred to the increased expenditure for the current year. The honorable senator will see that the first two items, " Salaries and payments in the nature of salaries ", and " General expenses ", show only a slight increase. Salaries and payments in the nature of salaries of the administrative staff are kept distinct from those paid to the investigalion staff. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Departmentofthe Treasury. 

 Proposed vote, £723,480. 
 Can the Minister say how exchange is treated in these Estimates. I do not know what method is adopted in connexion with exchange; but in considering the Estimates last year, I suggested that it should be treated as a separate item. Unless it is intended to mislead the Senate, quite unintentionally, the votes should be shown in Australian currency. Will the Minister state how exchange is treated at present? I am not referring to the item of bank exchange, but to the general exchange between our currency and that of other countries. 
[4.15].  -  This item, of course, refers only to bank exchange within the Commonwealth; but I understand that the practice right through the Estimates is to charge the main departments with the amount of exchange necessary to complete its overseas purchases. The amount of the purchases is shown in Australian currency, and the exchange is debited to the particular department concerned. For instance, while the estimates of the Defence Department are set out in Australian currency, an amount is provided for exchange to cover the overseas purchases of that department. 
.- The proposed increase in expenditure of the Taxation Department for the present financial year amounts to £25,863, which, in view of previous increases, appears exceptionally heavy. On page 147 of the bill, it is shown that the staff has increased from 940 last year to 958 this year. The Taxation Department, which is always alert in seeing that taxpayers pay their taxation on the due date, does not display similar activity when refunds are to be made. A refund due in July was not paid until about November. Although I had several interviews with the departmental officers, I experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining the money duo. In view of the department's huge staff, which is to be increased by eighteen this year, I trust that the payment of refunds will be expedited. 
Not at all. I was asked to pay an amount which  was  not due, and then experienced difficulty in obtaining a refund. I am always prepared to pay what the law prescribes; but when I have to wait months to obtain a refund, which is eventually paid without interest, there must be something radically wrong. The department should be able to repay promptly money due to taxpayers. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [4.20].  -  Of the increase shown in the salaries paid, £8,245 is due to the restoration of salaries under the Financial Relief Act, while the increase of the staff by eighteen is largely due to the ramifications of the sales tax. Although the number of items taxable has been decreased, the sales tax is a very complex form of taxation, and additional officers are required to enable the department to grapple with the work. 
I am not competent to deal with the subject of refunds of taxation raised by  Senator Grant;  but I understand that usually there is no delay in making repayment. It may be that there were good reasons for not making the refunds earlier in the cases mentioned by the honorable senator. 
 In my case the department admitted the over charge in July, but did not make a refund until several months later. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That may be an isolated case; but, generally, there is no delay in making refunds. 
.- The vital statistics published by the Bureau of Census and Statistics reveal an 
Alarming  state  of  affairs. The natural increase of the population is much smaller than it was ten years ago. 
There are several reasons for the falling off of the birth rate; but the fact remains that in 1922 Australia's natural increase of population was 84,000, whereas in 1933, when the population was greater by 1,250,000, the natural increase dropped to 52,000. So serious is the position that public men should seek the cause of it. It cannot be said that the falling off is due to greater infantile mortality, because statistics show that whereas in 1921 deaths among infants numbered 57.88 to every 1,000 of the population, the rate had fallen to 41.30 to every 1,000 in 1932. The crude birth' rate in Australia, which between 1908 and 1913 was 27.4 to every 1,000 of the population, had fallen to 17 for every 1,000 in 1932. If these conditions continue, what will be the position of Australia in another 50 years? In the interests of national safety we must look into this subject. 
To some extent the prevailing wave of unemployment is responsible ; but there are other reasons. 
Under this item the honorable senator will not be in order in discussing the general question; he may discuss only the cost of tabulating the vital statistics. 
 I quoted figures yesterday to show that in regard to the employment of its people Australia is not in the happy position which government supporters would have us believe. So long as large numbers of the people are unemployed, and the economic basis of life is unsatisfactory, the birth rate must remain low. 
 Like  Senator Payne,  I shall reserve my further remarks on this subject until the Health Department estimates are before us. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £168,850. 

 Senator HARDY (New South Wales ' [4.32].  -  I notice that it is the intention of the Government to appoint an outside inspector to ensure that the awards of the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration are observed. Previously, union officials policed these awards, and in cases in which fines for breaches of awards were imposed, the money was paid to the unions responsible for securing the convictions. In the event of a special officer being appointed for this purpose, will fines imposed be paid to the unions, or will they go into Consolidated Revenue? 
.  -  I understand that it was the desire of the organizations representing both the employers and the employees that there should be an independent policing of arbitration awards. In most of the jurisdictions it rests with the magistrate who tries the case to determine who shall receive the fines which are imposed; it is within his competence to award the money to the person who brings the matter before the court. In regard to cases initiated by an officer appointed by the Crown, I imagine that any fines imposed will be paid into general revenue. 
.- There is a good deal of complaint regarding the administration of the bankruptcy laws, largely because the expenses frequently absorb the whole of the assets of the bankrupt, leaving little or nothing for his creditors. I notice that for some reason or other there has been a large increase in the personnel of the branch in New South Wales with a corresponding increase in salaries. The number of officers there has  risen  from 10 to 28, although in no other State is there such a great difference. In Tasmania the work was previously done by official assignees but there is now a staff costing £1,342 in salaries. Surely something can be done to avoid increasing the cost to the unfortunate debtors who have to go through  the  bankruptcy court, and also to their creditors. In the past under State administration, there was always a hope of the creditors receiving something and even of the bankrupt getting something back, but I have not heard of any one being satisfied with the present administration of  the act  or with  the tray  in which bankrupt estates are being dealt with. 
During the last year the administration in New South Wales has passed from the control of the State to the Commonwealth. An endeavour has been made to obtain uniform administration throughout Australia. In Tasmania certain changes have taken place which also will tend towards uniformity. The increase in the personnel in New South Wales is due to the fact that the whole of the administration has now been taken over by officers appointed by the Commonwealth. In the past the services of a number of officers including the registrar were made available by the State.  The  increased provision for salaries is caused by the fact that in the States of New South Wales and Tasmania  the  work of the official receivers has been, as from the 1st July last, performed by public servants instead of by private individuals remunerated by fees. The increased amount, it is expected, will be covered by  a  large increase of revenue. The amount for 1934-35 is estimated at £9,000. 
.- I draw attention to the practice of levying fees on creditors who, having sent in proofs of debt, afterwards seek information from the department. I know of a case within the last twelve months in which a creditor called upon the department at Hobart to ascertain when he would be likely to receive some return. The officer looked up a book and charged him a search fee. The whole service rendered did not take more than a moment. All that the creditor wanted was information to which he should be entitled at any time without fee. As  Senator Grant  remarked, the processes of the court should be made as easy and inexpensive as possible, both for the bankrupt and for his creditors. That, I think, was the intention of Parliament. 
, -  If the purpose of the creditor was to have a search made amongst the papers relating to the bankrupt estate in question, it is  probable that he was properly charged a fee. I cannot call to mind the contents of 214 closely printed pages of regulations which I dealt with last year, but if  Senator Payne  will let me have, in confidence, the name of the case and the estate, I shall ascertain the facts. If the creditor made a simple request for information, being personally interested in the estate, I can assure the honorable senator, speaking from memory, that the fee was improperly extracted. 
What are the duties performed by the Commonwealth Investigation Branch? There was once a Commonwealth police force; but I do not think that any such organization is now functioning, yet there seems to be an increase in the vote for the branch. In fact, in nearly everycase in these Estimates there have been increases, except as regards the unfortunate Government Printer, whose vote for parliamentary printing has been cut down by about £7,000. 
.  - A number of services is performed by the Investigation Branch, some of which it is not wise to disclose. They include matters arising under the customs and excise laws, which have at times to be vigorously policed. The immigration law has also to be enforced, and generally the laws, particularly in their fiscal application, have to be carried out. The Taxation Commissioner holds wide powers, which it would not be convenient or proper for the officers of his department to exercise, and it is thought that these can be better exercised by the Investigation Branch. Special work has also to be done under the Immigration Act, in observing movements that are taking place in certain centres. Occasionally, but not very frequently, inspections have to be made in regard to oldage pensions; but the bulk of the work of the branch relates to customs and immigration matters. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, £352,000. 
I draw attention to division No. 42, relating to the Governor- 
General's establishment, and to the item for the maintenance of  His  Excellency's house. Last year the votewas £300, and £420 was expended. This year the proposed vote is £1,700, an increase of £1,400. That seems to be an extraordinary increase, representing as it does about £28 a week. 
[4.45]. - It has been necessary to include under the heading referred to by  Senator Hardy  an amount of approximately £1,200 to cover the painting of buildings, roofs and so on, and general renovations required in connexion with the royal visit. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, £4,187,040, agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, £538,140. 
.- I draw attention to the item of £950 for fees to members of the Censorship Board, appearing under " General expenses." These gentlemen, in the performance of their duties, appear to be causing considerable embarrassment to many people in Australia. I should like to know the views of the Government with regard to the censorship of books, which has caused a great deal of public discussion and public interest. The Melbourne  Star  of the 27th of last month published the following article: - 
The book censorshipis an activity of the Customs Department, and I am referring to the item  for the payment of the salaries of members of the board. I should like to know why the Government pays so much money to gentlemen who are causing so much dissatisfaction to a big section of the people. 
I may be mistaken in that respect, but my remarks will be directed to the matter of censorship generally. The  Star's  report of the meeting states - 

 Mr. McMahon Ball pointed out that the banning of certain books on political grounds - books that were perhaps the most important contributions to political science in the last 600 years - was less a defence of democracy than an abrogation of it. 
Professor Giblin treated the censorship problem from a more general viewpoint, widening hie attack to include a denunciation of censorship on personal opinion, aB manifested in the recent attempted exclusion of two visitors from overseas. 
Order I I advise the honorable senator not to read lengthy extracts from newspapers. He may quote briefly in support of his own views on the subject, but at the moment, he is only quoting opinions of a number of persons who met for a specific purpose. 
The medical position was stated by  Dr. Reginald  Ellery, who attacked one of the fundamental principles of censorship;- the belief that certain books were capable of corrupting young people. As a psychologist,  Dr. Ellery  emphatically opposed this point of view, pointing out that, in essence, the scientist of to-day upheld the Pauline belief of purity being self-protective. 
I submit that, under our present system of censorship, the liberties of the people are endangered. Liberty of thought and speech is a sacred right of the people, entitling them to the full use of legitimate methods of expressing .their opinions. On this matter I quote also the opinion of another very eminent gentleman,  Senator Brennan,  who was reported on the 2nd February, 1932, as having said - 
I am one of those who believe with Edmund Burke that liberty is a good to be enlarged, not an evil to be diminished . .. . The whole tendency of our laws, and it is a growing tendency, is to restrict more and more human liberty ... I am one of those who believe that the less we restrict human liberty, the better it must be for the community as- a whole.  1 agree with the wisdom and broadmindedness of those views. 
 I still hold them. 
 Has the honorable senator read that book? 
 The honorable senator should read it; he would then be quite satisfied. 
A verdict has been given that upholds the right of a newspaper to publish its honest views on a matter of public interest, however severe these views may be, however derogatory and detrimental to any individual. 
Embraced in this question of censorship is the liberty of the human race, and to-day we find that in Australia there is  a danger that that liberty will be encroached upon by the Censorship Board. The  Herald  said further - " In matters of public interest ", said the Chief Justice in his summing up of the case, " Mot only the press but every citizen has a right to say what he thinks, no matter how injurious it may be to the other man who is affected by it. He has a perfect right to do this, and, in many cases, if he is a man of courage, he ought to deal with it as a duty, in addition to a right. 
I support such views whole-heartedly. It is my desire to impress upon honorable senators the need for overhauling this particular branch of the Customs Department. The censor's activities to-day are objectionable to quite a number of people in this country, including myself. It is the duty of honorable senators to discuss this matter frankly. I repeat that I resent any board being empowered to say which books I shall read. I have read in the newspapers during the past year of at least 50 books which were banned by the censors.I, possibly, would like to read these books, but I am not given the opportunity to do so, because they are not to be found on any bookstall, simply for the reason that the censors have banned them. 
 Senator Barnes  seems to be labouring under some misapprehensions with respect to this matter, for his tirade against the censorship of books is not relevant to the items to which he has drawn attention. He referred to a censor of books being paid £950 a year, but he is confusing the censor of films with the honorary Censorship Board, the three members of which are voluntarily rendering a much-needed public service to this country. These gentlemen are residents of Canberra, and noted for their learning, and their sense of decency; undoubtedly each of them has a great regard for the welfare of the young people of this country. They are giving their services gratuitously with the sole object of trying to protect the minds of the rising generation from harmful literature. It is this work which the honorable senator has seen fit to attack, alleging that the members of the board, in the execution of their duty, are invading the liberties of the people. I remind him that there is a point at which liberty becomes licence, and the line separating the two is very narrowly drawn. The final decision in regard to books rests not with the censors, but with the Minister. They merely make recommendations to the Minister, and on such recommendations, he decides whether the books are fit for circulation. 
Not all of them, but he is obliged to read someof them. 
After receiving the recommendations, if any doubt should remain in the Minister's mind, or if representations are made by any section of the people which holds that a book in dispute should not be banned, the Minister has the duty, sometimes a very painful one, I imagine, of reading the books. I emphasize, however, that the work being performed by the book censors is done voluntarily, and that these men offer their services solely in the interests of the nation. Honorable senators cannot expect the Minister to read every book which comes under his notice. The board which deals with the censorship of books consists of  Sir RobertGarran,  in whom, I am sure, honorable senators have every confidence, Professor L. H. Allen, M.A., Ph.D., and Professor J. F. M. Haydon, M.A. Would honorable senators suggest that these gentlemen have any interest to serve other than to protect the minds of young Australians? Although  Senator Barnes  spoke with considerable earnestness on this matter, he has lost sight of the purpose which those gentlemen desire to achieve. The decisions of every board of this character, no doubt, will be criticized. Music and literature are the two most difficult subjects on which to secure unanimity. I have seen books, which have been passed by the censors, and which, to my mind, are not fit for circulation.  Senator Barnes,  I am sure, could read such matter without injury, but I doubt whether he would agree that the younger people of Australia should be allowed to run the risk of being influenced by their sinister plots and low morals. The demoralization of the young is one of the worst crimes that can be committed against society. 
.- The Minister has given us a splendid argument in favour of relaxing the censorship of books. He has told us that even after reports have been received from the% intellectual men who are entrusted with the important duty of advising as to what the people shall be allowed to read, the decision rests, with the Minister. He also mentioned that the three gentlemen composing the censorship board live in Canberra and do this work gratuitously. We all appreciate their intellectual status and high-mindedness, but we do not forget that throughout the Commonwealth" there are many hundreds of men their mental equals in every respect, and quite as high-minded, who are bitterly opposed to the manner in which the censorship is conducted. I think, also, that the views of booksellers should be considered. In conversation with several booksellers I have learned that not infrequently books which have free circulation in other countries have been banned by the Australian censors. 
What the Minister has just said is merely so much " blather." That sort of tripe will not go down with me. 
Since you regard the word as offensive I withdraw it and will say that I am surprised that the Minister should indulge in so much bathos about the child mind of this country. Honorable senators on this side are just as anxious as he or any one else is that the child mind of the Commonwealth shall not be subjected to wrong influences; but we contend that the people should have greater freedom in the selection of literature to read so that, they may learn more about what is happening in other coun tries. Wc protest against the rigid application of the censorship which prevents Australia from having access to books which are read freely in other parte of the world. 
I do not approve of the Minister having the right to decide such an important matter as this. If in the enlightened Mother Country - the heart of the Empire which, we are told, is sound, and where for so many years men and women have been championing liberal views - certain books can be read freely, I strongly object to any Cabinet Minister having the right to say that they shall not be read by people in Australia. 
Every decent person is opposed to the publication or distribution of obscene literature. But there are in every community people of a puritanical turn of mind who see obscenity even in nature. Some such people would not visit the Institute of Anatomy in Canberra simply because anatomical specimens are on view there which would bring the blush of shame to their cheeks. Any tendency in this direction should be checked. It is important that the people should be educated to see clearly and cleanly. I do not say that the men engaged on film censorship are not earning their money. I believe that the chief censor is doing good work and I suppose that the people generally would uphold his decisions. But sometimes he makes some very curious mistakes. Some of the finest pictures produced in the world have been banned on the ground that the minds of the people must not be corrupted. One film described by a prominent reviewer in London as one of the best ever made, was banned, not on the ground that it was obscene or was likely to corrupt the child mind, but simply because it dealt with events connected with the revolution in Russia, which apparently the Government of this country believes should not be made known to the people of Australia. That film was acclaimed by Hollywood experts to be the production of a man  of genius, yet forsooth, application for its admission to Australia was refused! I am glad to be able to tell honorable senators that a few nights ago I paid1s. for admission to the State Theatrette in Sydney and had the pleasure of seeing aRussian picture, so evidently the censor is learning something. We on this side say that the censorship of books and films is altogether too rigid. 
My suggestion is that when some of our most prominent thinkers demand the admission of certain books and pictures, the censor shall not impose his will upon them. Recently at a conference of trade unions in Brisbane, a resolution was passed condemning the manner in which the censorship is being exercised in respect of books dealing with sociology and other subjects in which the people are interested. Complaint was also made that the censorship was influenced by the political views of the party in power. How can a man who is a biased tory deal impartially with matters of thiskind? It is not human to expect him to look , with a kindly eye upon literature which may be severely critical of modern capitalism. Simply because he may not agree with the views expressed by the author, his decision prevails, and the circulation of the book in this country is prohibited. We protest against the censorship as at present exercised, and say that it is time some change was made. 
All too frequently I feel urged to preface any remarks which I make in this chamber by saying that I recognize the utter futility of attempting to induce the Government to change its mind. This afternoon I know that anything which I may say with regard to the censorship will be equally futile. Nevertheless, I am impelled to voice my protest against the way in which it is being exercised, and against the obvious insincerity of the Government as evidenced in answers to questions, or retorts that are made across the chamber. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in discussing the subject of censorship generally. 
This afternoon the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  was told that he would be out of order if he attempted to discuss a certain matter under the item relating to film censorship, whereupon he spoke in general terms about the manner in which the censorship is being exercised, and I am endeavouring to follow his lead. I want the Minister to tell us who originates this censorship process? Who moves this voluntary board of patriots, whose morality cannot be influenced by anything which they may read, and who determine the precise character of the literary pabulum to be served up to the people of this country? How is this board motivated? Is it not a fact that a police constable has the power to submit a book to the board, and so put in motion the machinery which determines whether or not the product of a particular author shall be offered for sale in Australia? Some one has to make the first move. If it is true that a police constable takes the initiative, I voice my strongest protest against the whole business. I want to know the reason for the withdrawal of Aldous Huxley's  Brave New World  from the shelves of the Parliamentary Library, after it had lain there for nine months or so, and had been read by a number of senators. Who is to be the judge of the standard of purity in these matters? 
The honorable senator is again drifting from the subject. 
 I wish to correct the statement of  Senator Collings  that I advocated an " open go ". The honorable senator definitely advocated an " open go ", but after speaking for five minutes in that strain, suggested suppression of certain American cinematograph films. At first I thought that he was opposed to any form of censorship, and particularly desired the admission of political and economic text hooks which would help the advent of the new social order he is trying to establish. I am in favour of the censorship, but I suggest to the Minister that before economic works or books on new thoughts or new conceptions of any social order are banned they should be placed in the Parliamentary Library for our perusal. We, as the chosen representatives of the people, can be trusted to read such books, and if we do not agree with the decision of the censors we can make our protests in this chamber. At present we are in complete ignorance of the contents of some publications which have been banned. I have read a number of books which have, subsequently, been censored, because I received copies from overseas long before they were perused by officers of the Customs Department or by the Minister. But such books should be placed in the Library so that members of both Houses may read them and be able to judge their merits. 
 I am surprised that the debate should, have become so heated. There has been a good deal of public discussion on the censorship of books, and there may be some justification for complaint with respect to those which may go a little too far on the artistic side. I do not think that any one could offend my morals because the Bible was placed in my hands at a very early age, and I was able to read the lives of Noah, David, and others. I - have also read such Shakespearean works as  The Rape of Lucrece, The Passionate Pilgrim,  and  Titus Andronicus,  which, with others of that character, are always available even to children. Byron's  Don Juan  has passages as daring as are to be found in some of the modern books that are banned by the censors, and yet it is available to all. The other day I was advised to read  Juan in America,  but felt that it would not be of particular interest to me. 
I am endeavouring to do so by pointing out that for centuries old works, which might have been criticized, have not been censored. The average Australian can be trusted to look after himself. The strict censorship of books is causing a good deal of inconvenience and irritation, particularly in view of the liberal dose of objectionable literature made available in other ways. If certain political and scientific publications are banned our opportunities to gain information concerning what is being done in other countries are restricted. I join with my colleagues in objecting to an unduly rigid censorship. Where necessary action should be taken under the Publications Act, and those who vend indecent books punished. It seems ridiculous to permit the circulation of books published years ago, which, had the present system of censorship been in operation then would have been banned. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote, Department of Health, £106,670, agreed to. 
 Under the heading "Commercial Intelligence Service Abroad," there is an item of £7,000 to cover the expenses connected with the representation of Australia in Canada, New Zealand, the East and elsewhere. Can the Minister say whether the amounts are expressed in Australian currency? 
The sum of £2,000 is set down for " Representation in the East." Can the Minister say whether appointments of men to represent Australia in the East have actually been made? 
[5.37].  -  No appointments of trade representatives in the East have yet. been made, but, as the honorable senator knows, Australia has representatives in Canada and New Zealand. The amount set down for representation in the East is in anticipation of appointments to be made. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
 Australia may, perhaps, congratulate itself on the fact that of the £200 voted last year for "Belief and Repatriation of Distressed Australians Abroad," only £158 was expended. Numbers of individual Australians would be prepared to expend a good deal of that sum from their own pockets to get back to Australia. 
I wish to refer to the item " Assistance for the Boy Scout Movement," for which £350 is sst down. Last year, the vote under this heading was £100, but, only £6 was expended or handed over to the association. Although the amount set down this year is £350, I suggest that the item should be reviewed with the object of rendering greater assistance to this organization on a later occasion, if not this year. It may be that under soma other heading, this association is to receive a further contribution, but so far as I am aware, the amount set down here is the only. sum proposed to be paid to itI #0 so far as to say that the Boy Scout movement will probably have a greater influence for good than will any other organization which has been started in my time. This most admirable association is worthy of all the assistance that we can render to it. 
I am suggesting not that the amount set down is too large, but rather that it is almost negligible. To my own knowledge, many of 'he brunches of the Boy Scout movement are far from being wealthy units of the organization. From knowledge gained as a member of a committee, which a few years ago appealed for additional funds to strengthen this desirable organization, I can say that many of the branches of .the Boy Scouts.- Association are by no means strong financially. One of the tenets of the Boy Scout organization is that it will not ask for financial assistance or engage in anything which savours of begging. Particularly at the present time that organization finds difficulty in paying ite way, because the parents of many of the boys are not in a position to contribute to its funds. Assistance given when help is most needed is most appreciated. Although we help infant life by the grant of a maternity allowance, so far as I know we do nothing for the older children in the community, with the possible exception that the taxation laws allow their parents certain deductions according to the size of their families. The Commonwealth contributes little to the direct education of the youth of Australia, although it pays out about £12,000,000 a year in invalid and old-age pensions, and a further £7,000,000 or £8,000,000 in war pensions. I suggest that those amounts are out of proportion to the sums voted to organizations which care for the youth of this land.  Senator Collings,  with whom I am so frequently in disagreement, is with me in the belief that, among the gravest problems facing Australia are those associated with the growing boys and girls of the nation. In the boy scout movement, we have an organization which provides healthy and cheerful recreations for its members, and helps to make them manly and well disciplined. For any assistance which we give to the Boy Scouts Association, we shall be well repaid, because it trains boys to be frugal and reliable, and therefore less likely to become a burden on the finances of the country in the future than might otherwise be the case. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  mentioned, by interjection, the boy scouts' jamboree, to be held this month. To that gathering lads from many countries overseas will come; and, just as Australian scouts were the recipients of generous hospitality when they visited the jamborees in Hungary, Great Britain, and elsewhere, so should the lads who come here from other countries be treated generously by Australians. For that reason, I suggest that the proposed vote might be increased. 
It appears to me that whenever a government desires to augment any vote included in an appropriation bill, it acts, and seeks approval later. I make this  suggestion, believing that it is a good one and that the Government, being openminded, will consider it on its merits. 
[5.47]. - I .assure  Senator Duncan-Hughes  that he is mistaken when he says that the Boy Scouts Association never asks for financial assistance. The increased vote this year is the result of a request by the association for further assistance from the Commonwealth. The amount set down here does not represent the total assistance given to the boy scout movement by the . Government, because there is never a year in which the Defence Department does not make equipment available to the organization in connexion with its various camps. The association is not costly to run, as most of its officers give their services voluntarily. I suggest, moreover, that the worst possible thing that could happen to the organization would be the granting of large sums by the Commonwealth, thereby bringing it under the control of the Government to some extent. In addition to loans of defence equipment, the Commonwealth Government has treated the movement generously in the matter of halls for its meetings. Since the abandonment of compulsory military training, numbers of drill halls have either been lent or sold on liberal terms to the Boy Scouts Association. The Government recognizes the value of this movement, and desires to help it. The larger vote this year represents a special grant asked for by the association because of the forthcoming jamboree, and is in addition to the loan of large quantities of equipment by the Defence Department, the wear and tear on which represents a fairly considerable loss to the Government. I assure the honorable senator of the desire of the Government to assist this organization in every way possible. 
I direct attention to the item of £200 for the entertainment of visitors. The amount voted last year for this purpose was only £100. We must, of course, always do the right thing by our visitors, but I should like to know the reason for the increase of 100 per cent, in the cost of entertainment. Half the Commonwealth Government will be away in England next year attending the Silver Jubilee of the King, and I should have thought that less instead of more money would be required for the purpose of entertaining visitors here. 
There is also an item of £4,407 for the representation of the Commonwealth on the Imperial Economic Committee. About eighteen months ago an economic conference of nations was held in London, but I do not know what connexion that gathering has with this item, and I should like to learn the details. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [5.52].- The amount of £4,407 for Commonwealth representation on the Imperial Economic Committee is required to meet the following expenditures: - Salary of  Mr. F.  L. McDougall, £1,250 ; economic assistant, £337 ; stenographer, £182, and incidental expenditure, £60; making a total of £1,829, less £250, representing the proportion of  Mr. McDougall's  salary charged to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, making a net amount of £1.579.  Mr. McDougall,  of course, is not required merely for the Imperial Economic Committee, being one of the officers who assist the High Commissioner at Australia House, London. The sum I have just mentioned is not really the cost of the Imperial Economic Committee, but is part of the cost of the staff of the High Commissioner in London, dealing with economic and commercial affairs. 
Should not this amount come under the vote for the High Commissioner's office? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.Possibly it should, but it is debited to the Prime Minister's Department, to which the High Commissioner's office also belongs. In addition to the £1,579, of which I have given the details, there is an amount of £2,828 for the Commonwealth's share of the cost of the committee, bringing the total to £4,407. 
Besides being a member of the Imperial Economic Committee,  Mr. McDougall  assists the High Commissioner as an officer and carries out certain duties in London on behalf of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in consideration of which the council bears part of the debit for his salary. Following the dissolution of the Empire Marketing Board in September, 1933, the Imperial Committee on Consultation and Operation was set up to devise ways and means to continue certain activities of the defunct board. Recommendations of the committee in the main involved - (a) Extension of the scope of the Imperial Economic Committee to include certain work previously undertaken by the Empire Marketing Board in respect of the preparation of periodical market intelligence reports, world surveys of production and trade, and so on; (o) the enlargement of the scope of the Imperial Agricultural Bureau in the realm of scientific research.; and (c) The financing of the Imperial Shipping Committee on a co-operative basis as between governments in substitution for the previous arrangement under which thi3 body was wholly supported by the British Government. The Commonwealth Government accepted the recommendations of the committee and agreed to contribute on the basis proposed by the committee. The additional cost of the services mentioned is set down at £24,000 per annum, and Australia's contribution calculated on the basis of trade exports, and so on, is £3,360, divisible as follows : - Imperial Economic Committee, £2,828; Imperial Shipping Committee, £280 ; and Imperial Agricultural Bureau, £252. An amount of £2,828 is included in this item together with the sum of £1,579 required to meet the cost of the Commonwealth's representation on the committee, making a total of £4,407. The Commonwealth representatives on the committee are Messrs. F. L. McDougall and C. L. Baillieu.  Mr. McDougall  has also been our representative on the World Wheat Conference, which has been trying to determine the difficult problems of the home consumption and export quotas of wheat in various countries. He performs a number of services of a like nature. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Duncan--Hughes  as to the small amount of money allocated to the Boy Scout movement. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has stated that the Government realizes the value of the organization and is acting in a fairly liberal manner towards it by the loan of defence camp equipment, but I suggest that it is possible to increase the amount  of assistance given. Whilst the organization may have asked for only £350, on account of the huge World Jamboree to be held in Melbourne at the end of this year and the. beginning of next, the Government may well try to find other means of encouraging the movement. 
I desire to emphasize the importance of this wonderful organization, which is one of the greatest factors for good in the life of our community. It is most desirable that it should be supported and encouraged. It is magnificently conducted, and is of great value in training the youth of the nation to become self-respecting and useful citizens. These young people have proved their worth time after time. I do not think the enormous importance of the Boy Scout movement which is nonpolitical and non-sectarian, is fully realized. On many occasions, the young fellows trained by this organization have acquitted themselves magnificently in times of crisis. They are  tought  to be self-reliant, resourceful, and versatile. The movement does such a tremendous amount of good in building up the younger generation that I urge the Government to make a bettor contribution than £350 if it can possibly do so. 
We are told that the Senate cannot increase any of these votes, but I remind the Leader of the Government that, according to  press  reports, the Government is committed to the expenditure of £8,000 to carry out a guarantee in connexion with the flight from America to Australia of FlightLieutenant Ulm. He was a good aviator, and we all deeply deplore the loss of him and his companions. Still, I cannot understand why  the Government should have guaranteed him to the amount of £8,000 against loss in what was in no sense a pioneer flight. 
 I draw attention to the item of £500 for the Royal Commission on the Petrol Industry. A great deal of money has been spent on this inquiry, which has been dragging on for years. We still know very little about it, and I shall be glad to learn when the report is likely to be made available. I hope that some good will come of it, because the people of Australia have for many years been charged too much for petrol, but the commission is up against what is probably one of the biggest and most powerful and undesirable combines in the world. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [6.0].  -  The taking of evidence by the Royal Commission on the Petrol Industry has been concluded, and the commission is now engaged in collating the information and preparing its report. 

 Senator GRANT  (Tasmania) [6.1  J. -  An amount of £52,000 is provided for Australia's contribution to the cost of the Secretariat of the League of Nations. I am informed that many, nations represented on the League do not pay anything at all, and have not the slightest intention of paying. The Secretariat has, I understand, built up a huge organization in Geneva, with imposing buildings and a most expensive staff. I also learn that during the depression that staff absolutely refused to submit to any reduction of its salaries, which are enormous, some of the officials each drawing many thousands of pounds a year. So far as I can see, the League of Nations is doing no practical good. No nation of any military or naval strength takes the slightest notice of it. All that the League does is talk, as witness what happened when Japan took action in Manchukuo. There were similar instances of the League's powerlessness in South America and elsewhere. The money we are contributing could be much more profitably used in Australia for the relief of unemployment. I consider that at present it is simply being wasted. 
My opinion is shared by a great many other people. If any honorable senator can show me what the League of Nations has done towards preserving the peace of the world, I shall t&gt;e glad to listen to him, because, so far as I can gather, it has had no material influence in keeping the peace between nations. The great nations are still talking of war, and I fear that if any of them are determined to go on, nothing that the League can do or say will be the slightest deterrent. 
I support the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and  Senator Guthrie  regarding the Boy Scout movement, which should be encouraged in every way. It is rendering immense service in training the boys of Australia, and doing work which is of a great deal more practical importance to Australia than anything the League of Nations has done. Although the Senate cannot increase votes, supplementary Estimates are brought down from time to time, and the Government must give this matter attention. I trust, therefore, that the Senate will declare that a much larger sum should be voted to assist the Boy Scout movement. 
When the Minister is replying to  Senator Grant's  questions relating to the League of Nations, will he deal with the illogical aspect of the Government's action in making this contribution towards the League in view of the fact that the League recently admitted the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics to full membership? A number of countries bitterly protested against the granting of Russia's application for admission, because the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics at various times had announced its intention to overthrow capitalism. But Australia's representative at the assembly did not say a word on this matter. Does not the Minister think that it is illogical that Australia's representative at the League should have agreed to Russia's admission while the Government here refuses to have anything to do with the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [6.6]. - My reply to  Senator 
Grant is that the League of Nations is the only constructive international organization that is working in the interests of peace, and therefore it is the duty of everybody to support it to the utmost. 
Another illustration of the effective work which the League is doing in the cause of peace has been provided in connexion with the ugly situation which was developing in the Saar valley. The dispute over the ownership of this mining province might have developed into war between France and Germany. The situation was very critical ; it only needed some disturbance in the Saar to induce one or both of these nations to advance armed forces, and that might have been the commencement of a European conflict. 
The action of the Council of the League of Nations, and especially the splendid lead given by Great Britain in offering to provide troops to police the Saar, undoubtedly prevented this situation from developing into war. It is a distinct advantage to civilization as a whole that there exists in the world to-day an international organization working in the interests of peace and to bring the nations together in amity. The League has had some failures. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.That is so. If it averts only one war which might develop into a world-wide conflict the League of Nations will have conferred a great benefit upon humanity. It would be pitiable if Australia, because of this liability of £52,000, were to withdraw from the League. Last year, at the meeting of the Assembly of the League, the Commonwealth Government, through its representative, called attention to the excessive expenditure of the League. We agree that the present expenditure is on too lavish a scale. On behalf of the Australian Government  Mr. Bruce,  not only in the Assembly of the League, but in the appropriate committee, where he was supported by representatives of other British dominions, raised this issue. I am sorry that, such representations did not meet with success, but certain action is now being taken which we hope will eventually lead to a reduction of the heavy expenditure incurred by the League. Anybody who has visited Geneva will agree that the League is conducted on too extravagant a basis. Our representatives, with those of other British dominions, will continue their efforts to have this expenditure reduced, but in the meantime we should not hesitate to retain our membership of the League in order to help in its work in the cause of peace. 
I hope that nothing  Senator Grant  has said will influence honorable senators to favour a reduction of the provision for Australia's membership of the League of Nations. Any one who has taken any interest in the work of the League must agree, as the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the 
Senate has said, that it has more than justified its existence. It is true that the League has not been able to accomplish many of the objectives embraced in its constitution, and it is also true that the League on some occasions has failed. But it is much more important for us to remember, not its failures, but its successes. I regret that the time for discussion on such matters as these is too limited to allow honorable senators to deal with them adequately. I suggest to  Senator Grant,  and to other honorable senators,  who  agree with his views, that they should make themselves fully acquainted with the constitution of the League of Nations, the work it has attempted to do, and what it is actually accomplishing, not only in Geneva, but throughout the world. As  Senator Grant  is no doubt aware, the League of Nations Union operates in different countries today. The head-quarters of the Australian branch of this union is in Sydney, whilst there are many sub-branches established throughout .the Commonwealth. Work of the nature which these branches are doing in the State schools of New South Wales and Queensland would, apart from any other consideration, justify the existence of the League. Junior branches have been formed in these schools, as a result of which correspondence is initiated between the boys and girls of this country, and those of other countries such as Japan. Iri this way a better international understanding is being brought about, at least among the rising generation. All this work springs from the fact that at Geneva we have this wonderful organization which is functioning in the best possible manner to bring about better understanding amongst the peoples of the world. I feel sure that if  Senator Grant  would look into the position more fully- 
That may be so ; I am appealing to the honorable senator to look at it, not so much in the light of Australia's contribution of £52,000 towards  the  expenditure of the League - which expenditure, the right honorable the Leader of the Government in the Senate suggests, may soon be reduced - but rather in its utilitarian and ethical aspects. If he did this, he would agree that this expenditure was justified. I feel sure that  Senator Grant's  suggestion that this item be reduced will not be endorsed by honorable senators. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

I direct attention to the item, " Commonwealth representation at International Labour Conference, Geneva," the proposed vote for which is £850. Last year the vote was £750, and the actual expenditure was £1,829. I do not know if Ministers are aware that the two Australian delegates, representing respectively employer and employee interests at the last conference at Geneva, upon their return to Australia made conflicting statements as to the value of our continued representation at that gathering.  Mr. Charles  McDonald, the representative of the Employers Federation, expressed the view that the Labour Conference was absolutely valueless, and that the expenditure incurred by the Commonwealth was not justified. As  Mr. McDonald  is an industrial leader of note, his opinion should receive the earnest consideration of the Government. Probably no person is more conversant with industrial conditions throughout Australia.  Mr. J.  W. Roche, the employees' delegate, expressed the contrary view concerning the work of the conference, affirming that it was of immense benefit to employees. Although I read the various statements attributed to  Mr. Roche,  I failed to discover any sound reasons for the views which he expressed. I hope that, in view of the conflicting opinions of the Australian delegates, the Government will consider whether or not it is desirable to continue the Commonwealth's contribution. 
Another item about which I should like some information is the proposed vote of £1,500 for assistance to the Australian banana industry. This amount is exactly one-half of the sum expended last year. I am not aware of the reasons for this reduction, and I should like to hear what the Minister has to say on this subject. 
Last year the Commonwealth grant for relief of distress among unemployed returned soldiers and their dependants  was £2,000; but no provision is made for expenditure in the current year. As no class in Australia is in greater need of help when trouble overtakes them than returned soldiers and their dependants, I hope that the Government will make similar provision during this year. 
I am very pleased to hear the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  say that, following the usual custom, this form of assistance will be available this year for those who may need it. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.5], -  Senator Hardy  has asked for information with regard to Australia's representation at the International Labour Conference at Geneva. As honorable senators are no doubt aware, we have three delegates at that gatherings - one representing the Commonwealth, one the employers, and one the employees. Most of the expenditure in connexion with the conference was incurred before the 30th June of this year, and the sum of £350 is provided to meet expenses in connexion with the return to Australia of  Mr. Roche,  and to cover incidental items which had not been brought to account during the last financial year. The sum of £500 is set aside to meet the expenditure involved in sending delegates to the Nineteenth Conference in June next year. 
 Was  Mr. Roche  the official delegate of the Commonwealth? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.No; the Commonwealth was represented by  Mr. J.  G. McLaren, the Official Secretary at Australia House, London. Our representation at the Geneva Labour Conference has been causing the Government some concern. It is particularly inconvenient, in one respect, for a country like Australia, situated so far from the venue of the gathering, to be represented there, because our delegates have hardly returned from one conference before we have to make arrangements for representation at the ensuing conference. In saying this I am expressing my personal view, because the- matter has not been fully considered by the Government, although there has been some discussion of  it.  It seems to me that, if these conferences were held every two years, the convenience of many nations represented at Geneva would be served. I understand, however, that the Covenant of the League of Nations provides that the Labour Conference must be held yearly,  so  I suppose an amendment of the Covenant would be necessary to 'ensure a greater interval of time between the gatherings. I read the statement made by  Mr. McDonald  upon his return to Australia and also the remarks of  Mr. Roche,  the employees' representative. Personally, my sympathies are with  Mr. Roche.  I am not able to quote accurately the views which he expressed but my recollection  of  his statement is  that  he believed that Australia was benefiting materially from representation at Geneva. We have to remember that, industrially, Australia  is  in the vanguard of nations. Our workers enjoy a higher standard than those of almost any other country. This means that, in international trade, countries having a lower standard of wages and  Conditions  for their workers are able more effectively to compete with Australia. From this it follows that any action taken to increase the standards  of  living in other countries which are in competition with us must be of material benefit to the Commonwealth. Only to-day we decided to ratify a convention dealing with labour in the maritime industry. We did this in the full knowledge that our conditions are very much in advance of the conditions laid down in the convention itself. We realized, of course, that any action which would have the effect of making conditions in other countries approximate more closely to our own would be of definite advantage to this country. What is true of that convention is true of most of the conventions agreed to by the Labour Conference at Geneva. Australia is abreast or ahead of other nations in respect of the conditions enjoyed by its workers; but, as I have explained, every convention that has the effect of improving standards in other countries makes better our position in competition for world's markets. From this honorable senators will see that Australia does benefit from representation at the International Labour Conference. As I have explained, the Government takes the view that there should be a greater interval of time between the meetings, and we have listed this for consideration at the forthcoming conference. 
ThiB  does not, however, mean that a decision will be reached at that gathering. A great deal of information must first be obtained from the various nations represented at the Labour Conference, and the general effect of the proposed change must be studied. Following the usual practice the matter will probably be referred to a committee, and although an interim report may be made at the next meeting it is more probable, because of  the detailed  information which will have to be obtained, that a decision upon it will not be reached for two or three years. I feel sure that had those who were responsible for the drafting of the League Covenant realized the inconvenience which annual meetings of the Labour Conference would cause to many of the nations participating in it, provision would have been made for meetings every second year. The Government feels that Australia has much to gain from continued representation at the conference, and arrangements are now being made for the selection of delegates for  1935. 

 Senator Hardy referred also to the reduction in the vote for assistance to the banana industry. The Government has decided to provide a further  £1,500  for  1935  for the conduct of scientific research in connexion with this industry, including transport, packing, maturation, and diseases. Particular problems from the point of view of disease which will be dealt with include squirter, black end, banana beetle borer and banana thrips. It will be remembered that under the Ottawa agreement Australia agreed to take up to  40,000  centals of Fijian bananas per annum, subject to a customs duty of  2s.  6d. a cental, as compared with the rate of 8s. 4d. a cental, which operated previously. Following on that arrangement it was decided to make available a sum equivalent to the amount of customs duty that would be thus collected to assist the banana industry. The Government anticipated the customs revenue for  1933  and provided  £3,000  for that year so that work could be put in hand. However, during the course of the year, it became clear that the amount anticipated would not be realized, and that there was every probability that a sum substantially less than  £3,000  would be derived from customs revenue during  1934.  Accordingly representatives of the industry were consulted and the conclusion was reached that the limited funds available should be . devoted exclusively to scientific research and that the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. in consultation with the States concerned, and with representatives of the industry, should be responsible for the work. Customs revenue was again anticipated for  1934  and the sum of  £1,500  was made available for the continuance of such work as had been initiated during  1933.  The present provision makes a total of  £6,000  spread over three years. Customs duty collected from December,  1932,  the date of the reduction of duty, to date, totalled  £3,391.  It is apparent, therefore that the Government is more than honouring its undertaking to assist the banana industry by diverting the equivalent of customs receipts for that purpose. In doing this, however, it feels that it is important that the scientific work in progress should be continued without interruption, irrespective of whether customs receipts fall below the amount required or not. It is too early yet to forecast the results of the scientific work which has been undertaken. Many of the problems are of a complex character, involving long range attack. The most that can be said at present is that very good progress has been made in connexion with squirter, black end, bettle borer, and thrips. 
I am sure that those honorable senators who spoke this afternoon of the desirableness of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research being able to give effect to a long range policy will agree with the provision made in this regard. 
 Honorable senators on this side of the chamber were glad to hear the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  state that the Government intends to continue Australia's representation at the International Labour Conference at Geneva.  Mr. J.  W. Roche, the Union representative at the last gathering, is well known to the representatives of Queensland in the Senate, and is a personal friend of mine. He left Australia with the idea that probably the time taken and money expended in attending the conference would prove to him to be not worth while, but he returned fully convinced that the expenditure of the money and time taken was fully justified. He presented a long and detailed report to the Trades and Labour Council in Brisbane, and published a series of short articles recounting his experiences, not only in. connexion with the business transacted, but also concerning the other delegates at the conference. A point worth recording is that he thought it a wonderful experience to be able to listen - mostly through interpreters of course - to the representatives of foreign countries voicing their opinions with respect to industrial and cognate subjects in their respective countries. He said' that it was a liberal education to those privileged to listen to this interchange of ideas. 
The representatives of Queensland in this chamber are naturally pleased that the Customs revenue from the importation of Fijian bananas has not come up to expectations. We contend that no revenue whatever should be obtained from this source, and that there should be a prohibition of the importation of any commodity that can bc satisfactorily produced in Australia, and particularly the products of low-wage countries. 
The honorable senator will soon get a rude awakening. Certain Japanese trade representatives who are now in Brisbane will soon be here, and we shall soon learn what advantages we can obtain under these socalled bi-lateral agreements. We are pleased to find that £1,500 is to be voted this year for assistance to the banana industry, and trust that the Government will continue to allow the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research to proceed with its valuable investigations, which we feel assured will be of inestimable value to those engaged in the production of bananas in Australia. 
Under item No. 28, provision is made for the expenditure of £5,000 to conduct investigations in connexion with the development of Central Australia, and I  should like the Minister to give a detailed account of the manner in which that sum it so be expended. 
A few years ago  Mr. Jack  Roche, who attended the International Labour Conference in Geneva last year, was a bitter opponent of the International Labour Office, and voted against delegates being sent to such conferences. Some time later when he was selected as a delegate to represent Australia, he did not wish to go, but eventually attended, and now is convinced that this office is rendering a special service to the community. If the representatives of other parties, such as the Communist party, were also sent, they might be converted, which would probably save Australia a lot of trouble.  Senator Duncan-Hughes  said that he would like more money to be provided to assist the Boy Scout movement. It is peculiar to me that some of our friends opposite, should dilate upon the Boy Scout movement and various other activities, and raise no objection to the expenditure of the £25,000 on the Royal  visit. But when it is a matter of doing something of national importance, such as expending a few thousand pounds in sending delegates to the International Labour Conference, these Pecksniffian individuals offer opposition. I remind  Senator Grant  who is bitterly opposed to the expenditure of £52,000 on the League of Nations, that many minor conflicts which might have led to major engagements have been averted as the result of the activities of the League. Such major conflicts would doubtless result, in millions of lives being lost and thousands of millions of pounds being expended. In these circumstances, the appropriation of £52,000 in the cause of peace should not be ridiculed. As was mentioned by the Minister, the latest developments in Europe are not reassuring. If there should be another European conflict the British Empire may be involved and Australia would assist by sending troops. If the money which is poured into the Secretariat of the League of Nations is expended unwisely, criticism is justified; but honorable senators opposite should not attack the principle of endeavouring to secure international peace. Unfortunately, we spend a certain amount, but do not proceed far enough. Pamphlets exposing the operations of private armament firms are issued by the League and should receive a larger circulation. Money expended in that direction 'would not be wasted. I remind  Senator Hardy,  who referred to Russia joining the League of Nations, that we should be gratified to realize that that country is holding out the hand of friendship. 
Russia is the greatest exponent of international peace. 
Some months ago I stated that Russia had made a tangible proposition to the League of Nations that all nations should cease to produce armaments, and if that were done, there would be no wars. 
Russia has a better national backing than any other country. In other countries different sections of the community are diametrically opposed to each other ; but, if necessary, Russia will be defended by a united people. Russia will not attack any other nation, but if attacked, it will naturally defend its territory. 
I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the proposed vote. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.35].  -  In regard to the provision for investigations in connexion with the development of Northern Australia, there is at present a proposal before the Government for the further development of the Barkly Tableland and the creation of a port at the mouth of the MacArthur River. Before embarking upon that scheme the Government desired to have an expert investigation of the basis of it. The proposal is to establish a port and freezing works with a view to exporting chilled beef. Accordingly a subcommittee of Cabinet arranged for the appointment of a committee consisting of  Mr. J.  P. F. Stokes, chief engineer of Ways and Works. Commonwealth Railways, as leader, who will investigate particularly the transport and engineering problems; Commander H. T. Bennett, marine surveyor and hydrographic advisor;  Mr. H.  E. Beaven, meat works engineer;  Mr. G.  H. Anderson, representing the land lessees; and  Mr. J.  N. Whitett, senior agrostologist of the Department of 
Agriculture, New South Wales. This committee is about to submit its representations to the Director of Development,  Mr. J.  Gunn. Later, the subcommittee of Cabinet will consider its representations and report to Cabinet. Should Cabinet decide that the scheme is worth proceeding with, it will submit proposals to Parliament. The sum of £5,000 set down in these Estimates is for the purpose of enabling those investigations to be made. Part of the work has already been undertaken. 
.- In division No. 100 there is an item: "Remission of income tax and sales tax under special circumstances, £5,000. " I should like to know whether this amount provides for the refund of the special property tax paid by persons whose income is less than the amount exempted under the principal act. To my knowledge numbers of people in Australia, whose total income is less than the amount which makes them taxpayers under the principal act, have been compelled to pay, through companies in which they hold preference shares, the heavy property tax. The department has admitted that taxes have been received from such people, but states that the administrative difficulties are too great for such cases to be dealt with on the basis of the original act. However great the difficulties may be, money which the law says the department is not entitled to receive, should be refunded. I should like the Minister to say whether this item makes provision for such refunds. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.39].  -  There is no provision here for remissions of income tax of the kind indicated by the honorable senator. Indeed, the Treasurer could not legally make such refunds. The honorable senator evidently recognizes that fact, because on one occasion he tried to amend the law in that connexion. 
 No. 
.- I ask the Minister to bring this matter before the Government. 
The law states that no person is liable to pay income tax unless his income  is  a certain amount. A later law gives to companies the power to deduct at its source from the dividends payable to preference shareholders, the amount of  the  property tax. The tax is paid to the department by the companies. Many of the recipients of these dividends have incomes less than the amount exempted under the Income Tax Act.  I  can furnish the Minister with evidence to show that people who are not taxpayers under the principal act have been called upon to pay the property tax. I ask that that injustice be removed, and that refunds be made in cases in which the Commissioner is satisfied that the persons concerned are exempt under the principal act. 
I am surprised that a sum greater than £100 has not been set aside as a contribution to the British Woollen and Worsted Association. This association has done wonderful work in improving the manufacture of wool and in increasing the uses to which wool can be applied. The association has done much to enable woollen textiles to compete with artificial fibres, and, amongst other things, has invented a sort of rubberoid wool, which is used for motor cars and for papering walls. It has also devised many other uses for wool. Considering that the production of wool is Australia's greatest industry, and that Australia has more to gain from the scientific investigations  of  experts in connexion with wool than any other nation has, a contribution of £100 a year appears altogether too small. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) ['8.48].  -  Some years ago the grant was larger, but during the depression it was reduced. The honorable senator will be glad to learn that since the Estimates were printed, the Government, after communicating with the other  governments  interested, decided to restore the grant to its original amount, with the result  that  £1,000  has been  paid  as  Australia's contribution  to the  British Woollen and Worsted Association. 
.- In Division 107, there is a new item, " Assistance to Pineapple Industry  -  £450."  No  doubt the Minister is aware that the pineapple industry has been started in a small way in Western Australia, at Carnarvon in the north-west of that State. The plantations there are 250 miles from  a  railway, and consequently  the work is  carried on under difficulties. If the industry is to be assisted, those plantations in Western Australia should share in the grant. I should like the Minister to say under what conditions this assistance is granted. 

 Senator 
 Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [8.45].  -  The grant referred to by the honorable senator is being made by the Government to assist the experimental shipment in cold storage of canned pineapples to England. The canned pineapple industry which in Queensland is largely in the hands of returned soldiers  ha3  progressed very well, but there is a glut of pineapples, and there is believed to be  a  market in Great Britain for the surplus. If the experiment is successful, it will help the pineapple industry in Western Australia as well as in other parts of the Commonwealth. 
.  -  I am glad that  Senator Johnston  brought forward the item relating to the export of canned pineapples, and I am also pleased to hear that an attempt is being made to grow both bananas and pineapples at Carnarvon, in Western Australia. I hope that this will cause honorable senators from that State to regard the banana industry in Queensland and New South Wales with  a  more lenient eye in relation to the competition of the Fijian product. 
For the development  of  the fisheries industry, a vote of £5,000 is proposed. A similar sum was voted last year, but only £77 was spent. That seems to be  a  small amount. I understood that the Government intended to continue to assist  the work. 
 I am glad to note that the Government is setting aside £20,000 for tobacco investigation and instruction. I question the correctness of the item of £470 for Commonwealth representation at the Waitangi celebrations in New Zealand. I attended that gathering, and know that the whole cost of transport from Auckland to Waitangi was borne by the New Zealand Government. This item is notdescribed properly, because the Commonwealth delegation went to New Zealand on a trade mission. 
 It is a misnomer to call it Commonwealth representation at the Waitangi celebrations. I know what I am talking about in this matter, because I was in New Zealand at the time.  Mr. Stewart  was there largely on a commercial visit. If the item refers to last year, why does it appear in these Estimates ? 
 I notice  a  proposed vote of £8,000 for the Australian Dairy Council under division 107. The Commonwealth rightly seems to be paying a great deal of attention to the dairying industry, and spending money on it, but I have not been able so far to obtain any information as to its intention to hold an inquiry into the payment of secret commissions in the industry. A royal commission appointed by the Queensland Government discovered that £30,000 had been expended in secret commissions by the dairying industry in that State alone. The Commonwealth Government should undertake inquiries on that subject in relation to this and all other industries, particularly if it is spending money on them. 
As it appears in the Estimates, it looks like government money being expended out of ordinary revenue. I direct attention to the item of £5,000 for the Australian National Travel Association under division 107. A similar amount was expended last year. Will the Minister give the committee some idea of the value received for that expenditure year by year? There is also a grant of £15,000 for overseas trade publicity. A footnote states that the estimate for 1933-34, amounting to £15,000, was included under special appropriations under the heading of "The Export Guarantee Act". This also is an item about which we should know something. I do not say that it is a bad item from the point of view of the, welfare of Australia, but I should like to know how much publicity has been given to Australian products overseas as the result of the expenditure. 
.- A sum of £400 is proposed' under item 106 for subsidies and expenses in connexion with maternal and infant hygiene. A similar amount has been voted for some years, but I should like to know whether the department is satisfied that it is sufficient to meet the necessities of this very important matter. Earlier in the day I brought under the notice of the committee the fact revealed by the Commonwealth Statistician that the natural increase of population in Australia last year was only 52,000 as compared with  84,000  ten years ago, when the population was 1,250,000 less. There is ample justification for emphasizing that fact in discussing this item. If the vote for improving maternal and infant hygiene were increased, probably more effective means could be devised to increase the natural growth of population. I have no doubt that, under the care of the various State and local agencies, aided by the money granted by the Commonwealth Parliament, there has been a diminution of infantile mortality in Australia. The death-rate per 1,000 of infants fell from 74 in 1915 to 41 in 1932, a result which is very pleasing, but there is no reason why the low rate of 41 per 1,000 should not be made still lower. Possibly with increased financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government, that result could be attained, and give us the additional satisfaction of doing something towards promoting the natural increase. Something will have to be done in that direction. Many other factors contribute to the decrease in the natural growth of population, but I cannot deal with them now. I am discussing the matter simply from the health point of view in relation to the care of the mother and the infant. The greater the care given in those two directions, the lower will be the infantile death-rate, and the larger will be the natural increase. Although this is about the smallest item on page 78 of the schedule, I consider it one of the most important. 
I think it is spent mainly in aiding State or local efforts such as bush nursing and other agencies of the kind. Will the Minister explain how the money is expended? Is it not possible for the Government to make a larger contribution in the future in order to combat to some extent the present awful condition of affairs revealed by the vital statistics? 
I am pleased to see the proposed vote of £15,000 for overseas trade publicity. I am convinced that the money can be expended to the great advantage of the Commonwealth if it is used wisely. I draw the Minister's attention to statements made recently in Melbourne by a lady who takes a very prominent part in an organization in Scotland which has for its object the increase of Empire trade. She spoke at a gathering of the International Women's Congress in Melbourne about a fortnight ago. I had an opportunity to meet her, and she discussed the matter with me. I felt that there was a great deal in what she had to recommend, because when I visited the Old Country a few years ago I found that Australia was materially handicapped in the distribution and sale of its products by the fact that they did not bear a label sufficiently attractive and informative to show the people of Scotland that the goods were produced in this part of the 
British. Empire. Those who have taken an interest in the commercial relations of Australia with Great Britain and European countries must have noticed that the American exporter is much more alive than is the Australian exporter to the necessity for making his packages sufficiently attractive and distinctive to show customers the country of origin. This lady told me that she had visited several of the large canning and preserving establishments in Australia. One of the largest firms in Australia whose main factories are in Victoria thanked her for the interest she was taking in this matter, and told her that her suggestions were most helpful. The  Leader,  of the 1st December last, quotes her concluding remarks as follows: - 
Australian commodities sent abroad for sale should show the name of Australia much more clearly on their labels than the trade name, which is not the case at present. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that many goods bearing the attractive Rosella brand were marketed in parts of Scotland, but no person looking at the labels would learn that these goods were manufactured in Australia or any part of the British Empire. This lady made various recommendations to the managements of several factories which she visited in Australia, her main suggestion being that the word " Australia " should be placed attractively and prominently on every packet of goods exported abroad. 
 I hope that before long a better feeling will prevail between Lancashire and Australian commercial interests. We must do our best to remove any ill-feeling in that respect because it is essential to our commercial success that we have the goodwill of the millions of consumers in Great Britain. I commend to the Minister the recommendations made by this lady. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [9.2].  -  The proposed subsidy of £400 for maternal and infant hygiene is to be devoted to work being carried on in Canberra. Similar work is being carried out by the governments in each of the States, but in the Federal Capital 
Territory the Commonwealth Government is the health authority. This grant was established last year and is being continued this year. But I would point out to honorable senators that since these Estimates were printed an election has been held, and a feature of the Prime Minister's policy speech was his promise to convene a conference of State and Commonwealth representatives, to devise some plan for co-operative work in maternal and infant hygiene. Preparations for that conference are now being made. -The proposed grant of £5,000 to the Australian National Travel Association is in accordance with an arrangement under which the Commonwealth has agreed to contribute an amount equal to the total contributions received by this association from other sources. The association is controlled by a joint committee of representatives of railway, hotel and general business interests, and  Mr. Clapp,  the Commissioner for Railways in Victoria, is the  chairman.  It is really an association for the promotion of tourist traffic in Australia, including traffic to North Queensland in the winter months. It is doing good work. 
The grant of £15,000 for overseas trade publicity is not a new one, as  Senator Payne  apparently thinks. He will notice that there is a footnote which explains that during the previous year this money was paid out of special appropriations under the Export Guarantee Act. This year the money will be made available from general revenue. It is to be utilized for trade publicity in the United Kingdom to be conducted along the same lines as have been followed in that respect during the last three years. Up to 1931 the Commonwealth contributed funds for this purpose on the basis of pound for pound, .but the organizations concerned in this work now contribute an amount of money much greater than that made available by the Commonwealth. In 1934 the industries associated with this scheme found approximately £50,000 as compared with the Commonwealth contribution of £12,000, the balance of the sum made available by the Commonwealth being set aside for trade exhibitions under the control of the Director  of Trade Publicity in collaboration with the official secretary at Australia House, London. Very effective work is being accomplished with this grant. 
Would the Minister furnish further information with respect to the proposed vote of £250 for maternity allowances paid in special circumstances? What are these special circumstances? I commend  Senator Payne  for the concern he has shown at the decline in the birth rate and the rate of our natural increase of population. The honorable senator has our heartiest congratulations for the interest he has taken in this matter, but I remind him that the development he deplores has an economic basis. A few weeks ago he declared that he was in favour of the payment of smaller wages to the youth of this country. How does he expect the parents of Australia to increase their families if he and others of his ilk advocate the payment of lower wages for the children they bear ? On that occasion I suggested that the honorable senator was advocating that the children should scab on their fathers, and if I remember rightly he retorted that to-day the fathers were scabbing on their children. 
Order! The honorable senator must not revive earlier debates of the current session. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [9.9].- The item of £250 for maternal allowances in special circumstances is to provide for payments in special cases where moral grounds exist for such payment, but where there is a legal bar to it. An example of such a case is where a person entitled to receive this allowance has failed to claim it within the statutory time limit, through circumstances beyond the applicant's control. From this grant, also, payments are made in respect of births which take place in Papua and New Guinea. The proposed grant this year is slightly more than the money expended, and £150 less than the amount voted last year. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Refunds of revenue, £1,150,000; advance to the Treasurer, £2,000,000; war services payable out of revenue, £1,077,190; Commonwealth Railways, £684,747 - agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £9,126,580. 
Can the Minister inform the chamber whether anything is being done with regard to the erection of the new general post office in Queen-street, Brisbane, and whether any action is being taken to construct a decent post office in Stanleystreet, South Brisbane? 
The Director of Posts and Telegraphs is at present in Brisbane, where he is investigating these matters. I have had a preliminary conversation with him on the subject, and certain proposals, which I cannot discuss at the moment, are now under consideration. Finality will probably be reached early in the new year. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Territories of the Commonwealth. 

 Proposed votes, £445,620. 
I notice that an amount of £15,000 is proposed to be expended on repairs, maintenance, fittings and furniture in the Northern Territory. Last year the expenditure under this heading was £13,281. Will the Minister inform me whether this is a regularly recurring item of expenditure? 
An amount of £3,250 is to be devoted to the extermination of rabbits and dingoes in the Federal Capital Territory. In view of the large sum. of money which has already been expended on this work, this amount is unusually high. I was under the impression that rabbits and dingoes had by now been practically exterminated in the Federal Capital Territory. 
[9.15].- The vote for the Northern Territory covers expenditure on a large number of repair works, including Government House, the administrative offices, the hospital building, the public school and police barracks in Darwin, as well as the maintenance of inland buildings, stock routes, wells, windmills, and other services. 
The vote proposed for the subsidized steamship services between Melbourne and Darwin and between Fremantle and Darwin is £6,113. Last year, the same sum was voted and the expenditure was £6,413. I direct attention to the item because I take the view that a subsidy for steamship services to that part of Australia could be eliminated if the Commonwealth honoured the contract entered into with South Australia when the Northern Territory was taken over from that State. One of the conditions ofthe transfer was that the north-south railway line should be completed within a reasonable time. That work should be put in hand without further delay. Then if a railway to Darwin were also constructed through Queensland, communication with the Northern Territory would be on a more satisfactory basis. Yesterday I was surprised to hear  Senator Foll  say that he was opposed to the unification of the railway gauges. This scheme, I submit, has had the approval of railway engineers for the last 20 or 30 years, and it is necessary in the interest of defence. The construction of the line through Queensland was suggested when  Sir Joseph  Cook was in power in the Commonwealth, but owing to the short-sighted policy of the then Queensland government, which preferred the construction of agricultural lines, the project was abandoned. I agree with  Senator Foll  that the unification of the gauges of developmental railways is not essential for defence purposes, but all main lines should be of uniform gauge. 
The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the proposed subsidy for steamship services between Melbourne and Darwin and between Fremantle and Darwin. 
I take strong exception to the remarks of  Senator MacDonald  concerning the subsidized steamship services between Fremantle and Darwin. It may be news to the honorable gentleman that this means of communication, which is highly appreciated by the people living in the north-west of Western Australia, is furnished by the State shipping line of Western Australia. I mention this because I always understood that the honorable gentleman was a supporter of State enterprise. If any action were taken to interfere with the existing means of communication, it would be deeply resented by the people who are being served so well. The north-west of Western Australia could not afford means of communication by rail under existing circumstances. If, as  Senator MacDonald  has argued, railway connexion were made between Adelaide  and Darwin and through Queensland, and, if, as a result, the present steamship service between Fremantle and Darwin were discontinued, 1 he effect on the people in the north-west of my State would be disastrous. I am sure that no Commonwealth Government would be so foolish as to approve of that proposal. Knowing that the State cannot afford to construct a railway to open up the north-west, all political parties in Western Australia approve of the maintenance of the excellent service provided by the State. 
This year the Government has set aside £1,320 for assistance to missions in the Northern Territory. I do not know how the money is to be expended, but from what I learned of the work of the missions when I visited the territory some time ago, I am convinced that all that is being done by the Government in this direction is amply justified. The missions have been and are doing splendid work. The missioners, following in the footsteps of the Master, are cheerfully enduring hardships in order to bring relief to suffering humanity, whether black, white, or half-caste. I rose particularly to direct attention to the humane service which is being rendered by the Hermannsburg Mission, about 80 miles distance from Alice Springs. Some time ago those in charge conceived the idea that if they could raise sufficient money to cover the cost of a pipe line from a spring some distance from the mission, much greater progress would be possible. Accordingly, an appeal for funds was made in Victoria and South Australia, and so generous was the response of the people, particularly in Victoria, that within a few weeks the necessary money was subscribed. The work is now being put in hand, but the mission is still handicapped owing to the heavy cost of the transport of the pipe's. If the Government could help in any way to overcome this difficulty, its action would be very much appreciated by the mission and the good work which it is doing among the natives would be furthered. At the present time about 180 children are receiving sound instruction in those things which should fit them to become useful citizens of the Commonwealth. I commend the magnificent work of this mission to the earnest consideration of the Government. If the Commonwealth Government would assist those in control of the Hermannsburg mission stations in connexion with the transport of these pipes its help would be appreciated. 
Some time ago, a lady interviewed me in Melbourne, and asked me to interest myself in this matter. However, I trust that the Minister will make further inquiries, and, if necessary, increase the proposed vote. 
A gentleman was appointed recently by the Public Service Board to investigate the administration of the Canberra government hospital. This gentleman is not known to me personally; but, while his qualification as a public servant may be unchallengeable I doubt whether he is qualified to conduct an investigation into hospital administration. I understand that as a result of his investigation and the insane desire of this Government and administrative officers to exercise their quite unnecessary economy, certain conditions exist at the Canberra Hospital which should not be permitted to continue. Does the Minister know that the hot water service is discontinued at 6.30 p.m., and that however cold the night may be or whatever other conditions may exist to justify its continuance., nurses going off duty in the evening cannot obtain a hot bath? That state of affairs should not be permitted tQ, continue. Further, is the Minister aware that after the hot water supply is discontinued, instruments must be sterilized by being boiled in a kerosene tin of water,  which is heated by a small stove? This matter should be inquired into immediately and a change effected. A further point is that the food supplied to patients and others connected with the institution, but more particularly that supplied to the patients, is considered unsuitable. I am not ignoring the fact that sick persons sometimes get the weird idea that hospital service is deficient ; but I have such complete reliance on the source of my information that I trust the Minister will arrange for a further investigation to see that patients and others receive more favorable treatment. Moreover, sufficient care is not taken in connexion with the vessels and utensils used by patients. Vessels used by those suffering from tuberculosis and other similar diseases should be segregated, and be distinguishable readily from similar vessels used by others. This is a matter of personal importance to honorable senators who spend a good deal of their time in Canberra. I long ago decided that, should I be unfortunate enough to be overcome by illness I shall not incur the risk of returning to Queensland, but shall go to the Canberra Hospital. I regret that the residents of Canberra have not a more direct means of voicing their grievances than that which now exists ; but they are fortunate in having access to members of Parliament, who are ready at all times to champion their cause. 
I am proud of having usurped that position. I trust the Minister will consider sympathetically the points that I have raised. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [9.42]. -  I cannot see any startling evidence of economy in this proposed vote which appropriates  £1,800  more than was expended last year. I am also informed that when the hot water service is turned off, an electrical hot water service, which is found to be more economical, is available for the purposes he indicated. 
 Is that electrical service available to the staff? 
I should like some information regarding the proposal to spend  £4,000  in the vocational training of youths. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs)  [9.47]. -  The Government proposes to inaugurate a scheme of vocational training for the youths of Canberra, but the full details have not yet been decided on. Before the scheme is launched it is intended that a public meeting shall be held at which the proposals will be explained to the residents and that an organization consisting of representatives of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, the technical section of the Department of the Interior, the Property and Survey Branch of that department^) and of different sections of the community, shall be set up. For the technical training of the youths, classes under a technical supervisor will be established. Provision will be made for twenty youths to receive training in the joinery and carpentry class, and for a similar number in the plumbing and motor mechanics classes. Competent teachers will be required in each section. In addition to the creation of these technical classes, it is proposed to establish a farm for the training of  44  boys at a time. The  £4,000  included in these Estimates is intended to cover wages of the supervisors and assistants, provide tools, implements and materials, and cover the cost of alterations to buildings. One of the problems of this Territory is the almost total absence of industrial and commercial establishments. Canberra contains a large population of public servants, most of whom are married, but unfortunately there is no opportunity for their sons to acquire technical skill in any trade. It is tragic that in this capital city so many youths leave school with no opportunity to learn any trade. At times there is a scarcity of tradesmen in Canberra, and this scheme is an attempt to train these lads in that capacity. 
I thank the Minister for his explanation. Vocational training is excellent so long as the matter does not end there; the training must be followed by employment. Something will have to be done to find employment for these youths when their training has been completed. 
I am glad to hear that, for frequently money is wasted because after the boys have received their training the doors of industry are closed against them. 
If employment can be found in the Territory for these lads I shall be pleased, for I recognize that unless something is done for them they will have no chance in Canberra. If the training is confined to those vocations which will offer employment to the trainees, I can only say, "God speed the venture!" 
Twelve months ago I referred at some length to the workmen's temporary dwellings at Causeway and Molonglo; but conditions there are worse to-day than they were then, and nothing has been done to remedy them. I understand that peremptory demands are now being made on the tenants of those dwellings for payment of the full rental of11s. 3d. a week, together with all arrears, which in some instances represent a fairly considerable sum. The collection of these rents has been placed in the hands of private agents, who have been empowered to distrain on the possessions of tenants if they cannot secure payment otherwise. If the provision of £3,300 for " alleviation of distress, including ration relief " is not sufficient to allow a measure of mercy to be extended to these people, the amount should be increased rather than that they should be treated harshly. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister in charge of Territories) [9.54]. - My information is that the people from whom rents are being demanded are not out of work or penni less. Instead of the department collecting the amounts, the task of collection has been given to two firms of agents. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Glancing through the Estimates for the Department of the Interior, I was astonished to find a great disparity between the salaries of the Chief Electoral Officers in the several States, which are as under - 

<graphic href="145332193412125_38_0.jpg"></graphic>

I should like to know why,  Mr. Bandy,  the very efficient officer in charge of the Electoral Office in Western Australia, receives less than is paid to the Chief Electoral Officers in the other States. In justice to  Mr. Bandy,  I, perhaps, ought to say that he has never communicated with me, either directly or indirectly, in this connexion; the disparity between the salaries paid was discovered by me in my consideration of the Estimates. I think his salary should be substantially increased. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister in charge of Territories) [9.57]. - I cannot give an explanation of the apparent inconsistency to which  Senator Johnston  has referred except that at the time these Estimates were compiled the Chief Electoral Officer had just retired and certain changes were pending. It may be that at that time the officer in charge of the Electoral Office in Western Australia was junior to some of those in the other States. In all probability the matter has been rectified since then. 
Willthe right honorable gentleman bring this matter under the notice of the Minister concerned? 
Proposed votes agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2 (Issue and application). 
Why is the vote for parliamen-  tary printing reduced this year from £22,000 to £15,000? I notice that although £22,000 was voted last year, only £15,227 was expended. A 50 per cent. reduction seems to me excessive. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for External Affairs) [10.1]. - Probably there is less printing to be done, perhaps owing to less talk being recorded in  Hansard.  Last year only £15,227 was expended, although £22,000 was voted. The vote asked for this year is practically the same as the expenditure last year. 
. -I hope that no attempt is being made to reduce  the  amount of necessary printing either in  Hansard  or in other parliamentary papers. 
Clause agreed to. 
Postponed clause 3 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
In the last two or three issues of the  Canberra Times  the following advertisement has appeared :  - 
Applications, which close on the 13th December, are invited from persons with nursery and general gardening experience for the position of gardener at Parliament House, salary £226  to  £242 per annum, plus child endowment. Applications are  to  be made  to  the Secretary, Joint House Committee 
I desire an assurance from you,  Mr. President,  that in considering  the  appointment,  the  Joint House Committee will have due regard to  the  Government's declared policy of preference to returned soldiers. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - During my occupancy of this Chair, the principle of preference to returned soldiers, all other things being equal, has been rigidly adhered to in connexion with all applications for appointment to the staff of Parliament. I see no reason why that practice should be departed from in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  10.8 p.m. 
[3.1].-  by leave-  On the 28th November,  Senator Collings  referred to a copy of a report which was ordered to be laid on the table of the Senate, and which dealtwith an alleged armed organization in Queensland. The report contained a statement that during the last six months rifles had been sold to the public from the Brisbane Military Ordnance Stores in large quantities, and that only six transactions had been recorded.  Senator Collings  stated that this report was official, that it was prepared by the Defence Department, and was presented to a department of the Queensland Government. 
The Minister for Defence caused immediate inquiries to be made regarding  Senator Collings'  statement that the document was official, and he has been informed by the Military Commandant at Brisbane that no such document was prepared by his head-quarters, and moreover, the Home Secretary of the State Government has no knowledge of any such document. It is clear, therefore, that  Senator Collings'  claim is without foundation. 
Can theMinister representing the Minister for the Interior indicate when I may expect replies to a series of questions which I asked on the 15th November, relating to the plans and specifications of the staff dwelling house now being erected, for the wireless broadcasting station at Kelso, Tasmania? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that certain trade treaties have been arranged by the German Government with the Governments of South America and South Africa which have enabled Germany to buy wool extensively in those markets? 
Is it fact that owing to trade agreementswhichhave been made German wool manufacturers are baying large quantities of wool in South America at prices relatively considerablyhigher than those current in Australia? 3.Is it a fact that until recently Germany was Australia's second largest customer for Australian wool? 
Does the Government  contemplate  taking any action to encourage Germany to again seriously enter the market for Australian wool? 
SenatorBRENNAN.- The Minister directing negotiations for trade treaties has furnished the following reply: - 
The Government's information is that no trade treaty has yet been concluded between South Africa and Germany for the purchase of South African wool. SouthAfrica is endeavouring to make financial arrangements to enable Germany to purchase her wool. The Government has no knowledge of any recent trade treaty between Germany and the Argentine, but in 1933 Argentina agreed to grant to German goods the preferences which it had accorded to Chile. As from the 9th February, 1933, Germany ceased to apply the rates of its super tariff to Argentina goods. Imports into Germany of Argentina produce in 1933 showed a drop of 22 per cent. 
See answer to No. 1. If the honorable senator has authentic information to this effect the Minister would appreciate being supplied with details. 
No. 
Investigations are being made and various proposals are under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What development work has been done in gold mines owned and controlled by the Arnheim Land Gold Mining Company, Northern Territory? 
What is the total tonnage of goldbearing ores won and treated in these mines during the years 1933 and 1934, and the currency value of gold during the same periods? 
How many men are employed by the abovementioned company in and about the mines, and at what rates of pay, hour and working conditions; what hut accommodation, water supply, and medical services are available ? 
Who are the directors of the company, and what is the total amount of subscribed capital and total number of shareholders? 
How many acres are held by this company, and what are the terms of the leases granted by the Commonwealth Government; at what time and under what conditions were such leases granted? 
What other company is operating near the Arnheim Land Gold Mining Company's lease, who are the directors, what is the total subscribed capital, and what is the number of shareholders? 
What acreage and lease, if any, has been granted to this new company? 
What is the latitude and longitude by compass bearings of the above-mentioned mines in the Northern Territory? 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.The Minister for the Interior has supplied the following answer: - 
The information is not readily available, but steps will be taken to obtain it, and the honorablesenator will beadvised in due course. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the present position concerning meat export from Australia to Great Britain ? 
Have negotiations reached finality? 
If so, what is the agreement arrived at? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
Negotiations have not yet reached finality, and until they do no statement can be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
How many books have been banned during the past three years? 
What are the titles and names of authors of these banned books'? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The Commonwealth censorship of books is exercised under section 52 of the Customs Act, and applies only to imports. It has not been the practice to make public lists of the books prohibited. Decisions in this matter are, however, communicated to the importers concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a factthat certain large companies controlling heavily protected industries are distributing hundreds of thousands of pounds of accumulated or other profits in the form of bonus shares before the end of this year? 
If so, do the companies so disposing of such profits avoid paying income tax upon their huge profits? 
It has been stated in the press that certain companies propose to make distributions to shareholders in the form of shares before the end of this year, but the Government has otherwise no official knowledge of the intentions of companies in this respect. 
Such distributions would not in any way affect the liability of the companies to income tax. Tax has been paid by them on their income in the years it was derived. As regards the shareholders who receive the shares, their liability to assessment will be determined in accordance with the Income Tax Assessment Act 1922-1933, as the amendments effected by the Income Tax Assessment Act 1934, which affect the liability of shareholders in this respect, do not apply to distributions in shares made prior to the 31st December, 1934. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Under what terms is phosphatic rock obtainable from the Nauru Pacific Phosphates Commission ? 
What interests are concerned in the commission ? 
Who pays the interest and sinking fund, and in what proportion? 
What are the charges for (a) interest, and (b) sinking fund? 
Are the payments made lost to the Commonwealth, or are they received by the Government in any other form? 
The British Phosphate Commission supplies to manufacturers in Australia and New Zealand all their requirements of raw phosphate for making superphosphate in accordance with the agreement of 2nd July, 1919, between the Governments of the Commonwealth, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. 
The interests concerned are the Government of the Commonwealth, 42 per cent. ; New Zealand, 16 per cent.; and the United Kingdom, 42 per cent. 3, 4 and 5. The British Phosphate Commission pays the three Governments interest at 6 per cent. upon the purchase price of £3,53 1,500 paid by the three Governments in 1920 for the undertaking, together with a sinking fund contribution for redemption of the capital -sum in 50 years. The annual payment by the commission is £224,053 10s. 2d. divided between the three Governments in the proportion stated in 2. above. 
.- My colleagues and I concur in the Minister's suggestion that one debate shall cover all the bills in question, provided that there will be no restriction of the rights of honorable senators. 
I assure the honorable senator that, notwithstanding any procedure that may be adopted for the sake of convenience and expedition, the Standing Orders safeguard the rights of honorable senators to debate all measures fully. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill, together with the other measures which have just been introduced into this chamber, is designed to give effect to the policy of the Government for the relief of farmers. In framing it, the Government has been guided largely by the reports of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry. A detailed explanation of its terms is not necessary, because the findings of the royal commission have been studied by most, if not all, honorable senators. The final report of the commissionhas not yet been submitted to the Government, so that the bills which have been introduced are based on the two reports which have already come to hand - one in August last and the other in November. Realizing the need for prompt action to relieve the wheat-farmers, the Government decided not to await the commission's third report before introducing legislation for their relief. For that reason, the various measures which have been introduced are more or less in the nature of temporary expedients. Unfortunately, such methods of assisting the wheatfarmers of this country are not new, for in 1931-32 nearly £3,500,000 was paid by way of a bounty on wheat production ; in the following year, £2,000,000 was made available to the States for disbursement to wheat-farmers on an acreage basis; and in 1933-34 that subsidy was increased to nearly £3,000,000. Last year the Government realized that it was impossible to maintain permanently something which is only a temporary expedient, that an industry could not be maintained indefinitely by means of subventions from the general revenue; and that the transfer of money from the pockets of one set of people to the pockets of another set must sooner or later come to an end. Nevertheless, the Government could not allow the wheat industry to perish, for with its fall the whole social fabric of the country would be shaken. If it is objected that the expedient of assisting the wheat industry from year to year gives to it what may be termed a hand-to-mouth existence, the answer is that it is not at all desirable that permanent measures should be placed on the statute-book as the result of crises in the various producing industries, which, although they may differ in degree, do not differ in kind from the crises which have followed almost all the great wars of history. But just as the Great War, which is within the memory of all honorable senators, was greater than all previous conflicts between nations., so the dislocation caused by it was greater than that occasioned by any previous struggle. The Government, therefore, determined to appoint a commission to examine every phase of the wheat industry, and to report on the best means ofplacing it permanently on a satisfactory footing. Its final report, which will be the most important, is expected before the end of the year. The commission, in its last report, recommended that £4,000,000 be made available to assist wheat-farmers. That amount is proposed to be disbursed by the payment of a bounty of 3d. a bushel on all marketable wheat delivered for sale, by advances to the States of an amount to permit of a payment of 3s. an acre on land sown for wheat, and the balance of the £4,000,000 is to provide assistance to farmers who have suffered special hardship in respect of the current harvest. Honorable senators will see that this is a compromise between payment on a production basis and payment on an acreage basis. The Government has decided upon the following plan of disbursement: - A bounty of 3d. a bushel, which will absorb an estimated amount of £1,500,000; payments on the areas sown for wheat, involving £1,926,750; and the balance of £573,250 will he used to relieve what are regarded as extreme cases of hardship. The bounty is based on a saleable wheat harvest of 120,000,000 bushels, that being the balance of a total harvest of 133,000,000 bushels after deducting about 13,000,000 bushels required for seed. The basis of distribution of the £573,250 to meet cases of hardship has not yet been determined. It will be decided after receipt of the royal commission's third report, and a bill allocating the amount will be introduced during the next session of Parliament. As honorable senators will realize, the Government had to consider the important matter of raising £4,000,000, which was not an easy matter. The royal commission recommended that a portion of the amount should be raised by an excise duty on flour, to be collected over a period of six months. The views of the commission were that it was equivalent only to establishing a home-consumption price, and by fixing a home-consumption price the Government would be bringing the wheat-growing industry into line with other primary industries. The Government realized that to raise such a very large sum in six months would necessitate a heavy tax upon flour; that such a tax would almost inevitably result in increasing the price of bread, and that such an increase would fall, in the main, to an undue extent upon the poorer classes of the community. In those circumstances the Government has decided that the collection of the tax shall be spread over a period of twelve months, and shall be £2 12s. 6d. a ton. To raise the necessary amount in six months would have involved a tax of over £5 a ton. The proposed tax will raise about £1,700,000 and the balance is to be provided from general revenue. In a measure, the Government is subsidizing exports, but by this method the consumer will be asked to pay merely a reasonable price, based on the cost to the farmer on the bread which he actually consumes. The Government considers that this method, which embraces what really is a homeconsumption price, does not differ in effect from a home-consumption price. The Government found that it had insufficient time to provide for a home-consumption price which would have involved either an amendment of the Constitution or arranging for complementary acts to be passed by the Commonwealth Parliament and all the State Parliaments. The Government therefore decided that a tax on flour was the only expedient open to it. The measure does not differ greatly from the act which was in force a year ago. 
It is true that it contains certain small amendments, which experience has shown to be necessary. 
It was removed when it was found to be unnecessary, and at any rate the operation of the tax would have terminated shortly afterwards. I trust that the Leader of the Opposition does not think that the elections had anything to do with its removal, or that the electors of Australia could be so easily gulled.. The tax is to be imposed by three separate taxation acta, which will provide for a tax of £2 12s. 6d. a ton on flour for a period of twelve months commencing on the 7th January next. It may be described as an excise duty payable by millers on sales by them on and after the 7th January, 1935, and on deliveries to millers on and after that date of flour used by them in the manufacture of certain goods. Flour in transit on the 7th January will be treated as stock. The tax will be payable on all flour in excess of one-half a short ton hold at the commencement of the tax by any person other than a miller. The tax will also be payable on flour produced by millers from wheat supplied by farmers for gristing. In view of the policy to tax stocks on hand in excess of. 1,000 lb. at the commencement of the tax, the bill provides for a refund of tax paid on stocks in excess of 1,000 lb. on hand at the termination of the tax. The tax will thus apply on all flour used during the operation of the tax. When the tax on stocks at the commencement of the taxhas been accounted for, the only taxpayers thereafter, so far as Australia is concerned, will be the millers. Although the bill is designed to impose a tax on all flour which goes into final consumption in Australia during the operation of the tax, provision is made in clause 14 for exemption in certain cases in order to prevent competitive anomalies between goods manufactured from wheat products and goods manufactured from other cereals or substances. Thus, tax is not payable in respect of (1) bran, pollard, or meal made from wheat for use as a food for live-stock; (2) semolina or meal made from wheat for use as a breakfast food; (3) flour for use in the manufacture of cornflour; and (4) flour for use in the manufacture of goods, including meat products, such as are popularly known as sausage binder, but not including other foods. Exemption from tax is provided for flour held by or sold to any person in the Northern .Territory for consumption in that territory. Ae little or no wheat is grown there, and therefore no benefit from the tax can accrue ro any resident there, it is considered inequitable that tax should be imposed on such flour. I may say that the cost of flour delivered to outback stations in that area is as high as from £35 to £37 a ton, as against £7 a ton in Melbourne. Flour exported or held for export will be exempt, and rebate will be made of tax paid on flour exported or used in the manufacture of goods which are exported. 
Tax is not payable by a public charitable institution - which term is defined as meaning a public hospital,, a public benevolent institution, a religious organization and an unemployed relief organization - on stocks of flour held by it at the commencement of the tax. Rebate will be made to any such institution of the amount of tax paid on flour sold to it, or on the flour content of goods manufactured from flour, such as bread, biscuits, and so on, sold to it. Provision is made for the refund of tax in certain cases. 
The bill will enable the tax to be passed on to the consumer. Under clause 27, a miller who is liable to pay tax ou flour sold by hiin must show it as a separate item on his invoice. Penalties are provided for any attempt to pass on amounts in excess of the actual tax payable. A person who uses flour in the manufacture of goods for sale by him may pass on the tax on the flour in the sale price of his goods. All persons, other than millers, holding stocks of flour at the commencement of the tax, will be required under clause 16 to declare the quantities held, and will be charged tax on the weight of stocks, less 1,000 lb. in the case of each separate owner of stocks. Such tax is payable as follows : - Where the tax does not exceed £5, at the time of submission of the declaration of stocks; where, the tax exceeds £5, by equal monthly instalments of £5 or 20 per cent, of the tax, whichever is the greater. The first payment of tax in this case will be made on the 10th January, 1935, and subsequent instalments on the twenty-first day of each month subsequent to January, 1935. The provision for the payment of tax by instalments is designed to prevent hardship to those with large stocks on hand. Millers will lodge monthly returns by the 21st day of the month following that in which the taxable sale or delivery was made, and pay tax at the time of lodgment. Penalties are provided for evasion of tax by failure to furnish returns, or by furnishing false returns. The Commissioner of Taxation is arranging to follow up declarations and returns to test their accuracy, and will not hesitate to prosecute defaulters or evaders. Whilst it is not anticipated that the services of the Income Tax Board of Review will be necessary to settle disputes between taxpayers and the Commissioner of Taxation, the bill provides for such a means of settlement to be available. 
The bill contains secrecy clauses similar to those contained in the Sales Tax Assessment Acts. The machinery employed for the collection of sales tax has been adopted, as far as possible, for purposes of the flour tax. This has been done by reference to the sales tax acts, the necessary alterations being made in the wording wherever required. The measure deals with a subject which is thoroughly understood by honorable senators generally. Although this is all one scheme, it has to be carried into effect by a number of separate acts. This legislation follows the lines of an act which has expired. The subject has alao been thoroughly reviewed in the reports of the royal commission. I am, therefore, asked to express on behalf of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  the hope that, although no honorable senator will be asked unduly to curtail his remarks, honorable senators will not feel it incumbent upon themselves to hold up the business by debating this legislation at unnecessary length. 
I trust they will remember that the Government is anxious to have the whole of these measures passed at the earliest possible moment consistent with their proper discussion. 
.- As there is again at the conclusion of this session a great rush of business to be dealt with by the Senate, I do not propose to ask for the adjournment of the debate. I appreciate the opportunity extended to honorable senators by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to discuss at large on this measure all the ramifications of the subject, including the provisions of the bills which are to follow. Every honorable senator has great sympathy for the farming community which has been under severe stress during the last three or four years. We all know what an important section of the community the farmers are. According to the information collected by the royal commission, 70,000 of them get their living almost exclusively by the growing of wheat. Many people will be surprised, if they read the evidence taken by the commission,  by the conditions  under which those 70,000 farmers work. Although I know a good deal about farming, having been brought up on the land, I was astonished by some of the information collected by the" commission. 

 I find, for instance, that the cost of production of wheat in Australia varies from ls. to 5s.  a  bushel. One can easily understand what a struggle a farmer would have to get  a  living, with wheat selling at ls. 8d.  a  bushel, if if cost him 5s.  a bushel to grow it.  This information suggests  that a  calamity will overtake  the  wheat  producers  of Australia unless world prices recover, and I confess that I cannot see much likelihood of that happening. European countries which formerly provided  a  good market for Australian wheat are now, as the result of the policy of economic nationalism, meeting their own requirements; that is to say, they are growing sufficient wheat to feed their own people. Consequently, it is not at all probable that Germany, France, or Italy v.'il'l, in future, take much of our surplus wheat. France, we learn from recent cable messages, actually has an exportable surplus of 60,000,000 bushels. 
As I have stated, the Wheat Commission estimates that the cost of production in Australia ranges from ls. to 5s. a bushel. One factor in this abnormally high cost is the rate of interest on farmers' debts. The commission states that this varies from 3d. to ls. lOd. a bushel produced, the average rate paid by 30 per cent, of the wheat-growers being ls. a bushel. Obviously, it is impossible for the industry to carry on under a burden of this magnitude. No one can deny that our wheat-farmers are in urgent need of assistance. In order to afford relief to them, the Government proposes to subsidize the industry to the amount of £4,000,000 this year. As the result of government assistance given during the last three or four years, the wheat-farmers have already been helped to the amount of about £9,000,000. Knowing how unsatisfactory is their present position, it is not my intention to oppose the measures brought forward by the Government to assist them this year, but I do take strong objection to the imposition of a flour tax, by means of which the. Government expects to obtain approximately £1,780,000 of the total amount required. 
Because it will fall mainly on the poorer sections of the people, the majority of whom are in a more difficult position than that of the wheat-growers themselves. The Government "can obtain the money from other sections which are better able to bear the burden. In his budget speech last year, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  referring to the improved financial position of the Commonwealth, said - 
The shares of a representative list of ordinary industrial companies listed on the Melbourne Stock Exchange show an improvement in market value of 20.6 per cent,  in  August, 1933, as compared with  July,  19.12 . . . 
The profits of 80 representative companies have improved  from  £5,000,000 in 1931-32 to £5,980,000 in 1932-33. 
That, I suggest, is the source from which the Government. could obtain the money required to subsidize our wheat-farmers without inflicting hardship on any one. 
The remissions of taxation made by this Government during the last two years  have been very considerable. The  remission  of  land taxation by 50 per cent,  and the  liberalization of the relief provisions in the act represented  a-  comcession valued at £2,000,000. In regard to income tax the concessions in respect of the property tax totalled £1,880,000, and the reduction of the company rate for one year represented £585,000, while the relief given to life assurance companies, for o»e year, amounted to £710,000, and to shipping companies, £25,000. These amounts make  a  total of £5,200,000 remissions of taxes given to a favoured section of the community during the last two years. Can any honorable, senator say that the persons and companies concerned could not bear the additional burden necessary for the relief of our wheat-farmers instead of requiring the poorer sections of the community to do so? 
As they will still eat bread, which, as every one knows, is their staple article of diet, they will pay by far the larger proportion of  the  tax. In recent years, the Government has deliberately shaped its policy for the purpose of giving relief to the wealthier sections of the community. In 1932-33, it made remissions of taxation to the amount of £800,000. Last year further remissions were made amounting to £400,000, so that the total remissions for the two years reached £2,000,000. In 1932-33, remissions in respect of the property tax totalled £500,000, and in the last financial year additional remissions were made to the amount of £880,000. As two-thirds of the land tax is paid by city property-owners, it will be seen that in two years this Government has relieved them of taxes to the amount of £1,333,000. These remissions, I remind the Senate, were made principally to banking institutions owning city properties, insurance offices, shipping, commercial, land, mortgage, and similar companies. 
Not to the extent claimed by the honorable senator and his friends supporting this Government. The general community was in a much better position before these remissions of taxation were made than it has been since. The following table shows the annual value of taxation remissions made by this Government: - 

<graphic href="145332193412136_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

Some interesting figures issued recently by the Commonwealth Statistician reveal that, of the income tax remissions made, 94 per cent, will benefit those in receipt of incomes exceeding £8 a week. There are in Australia 7,000 persons whose incomes exceed £2,000 and who average over £5,000 a year. These 7,000 fortunate people have had their income tax reduced by £500,000 a year. We find, however, that in New South Wales alone, there are 1,305,158 persons with no income at all. Yet they will be expected to bear more than their fair share of this flour tax burden. 
Those with an income of less than £52 a year number 370,000. The census figures also show that there are over 2,000,000 breadwinners in New South Wales receiving less than £2 a week. 
These 2,000,000 people, along with their dependants, will have to pay this flour tax through a higher price for their bread. Can any honorable senator justly claim that this section of the community should be asked to bear this tax? 
 What report is the honorable senator reading? 
That refers to taxable income. 
A tax on any necessity is bad, because it exacts a much higher rate of taxation from the poor than from the rich. It is particularly bad when the commodity is used by children as much, or even more than, by adults, as with sugar, butter and bread. In such a case the tax becomes regressive to an appalling degree. A bachelor with an income of fi, 000 per annum would pay an additional 15s. per annum through the home price of butter. He would contribute less than one-fifth of a penny in the £1 of his income to relieve the depressed industry. A basic wage-earner, with wife and three children, would contribute over £3, or about 5d. in the £1 of his income. 
Honorable senators, I hope, will note carefully the point stressed by Professor Giblin. I am not directing any criticism against the farmer who, according to the evidence supplied to the commission, finds it difficult to make a living. The farmer himself knows that this Government has gone out of its way to relieve of taxation the people who are best able to bear it. It remitted land tax, a tax which was originally imposed in 1910, for the specific purpose of breaking up large estates; we never contemplated that it would be remitted to relieve any one section of the community of burdens resulting from a depression. It has been on the statute-book for over twenty years but it has been watered down to relieve the big financial institutions owning valuable city properties and the pastoralists who own vast tracts of land throughout the Commonwealth. And after doing this the Government is prepared to impose a tax of £1,700,000 upon the bread of the workers and workless and their children. How can the Government hope to retain the respect of the wheatfarmer when it seeks to aid him by adopting such methods? When the Government went before the people three months ago, it was cute enough not to indicate that it was considering the imposition of a tax on the workers in order to subsidize the wheat-farmer; it went to the country immediately after it had lifted a tax on bread and gave no warning then that, in the near future, that tax would be re-imposed in &amp; more severe form. If the Government went to the people at the present time do honorable senators imagine it would be returned to power? I have not heard any ministerial supporter claim that at the recent election the Government received a mandate to impose a flour tax and increase the price of bread to those people whose income is under £2 a week. However, a day of reckoning comes to all of us. 
.- I congratulate the Government on the introduction of these measures for the assistance of the wheatfarmer, and  I  intend to support them. They represent a very substantial instalment of the assistance promised by the Government to the wheat-farmer before the last election. Whether this will represent the whole of the assistance promised will depend, of course, upon the average price to be receivedbythe farmer for his wheat during the coming harvest. That we cannot forecast.ThePrime Minister (Mr.Lyons) promised that assistance to the amountof£4,000,000 would be provided for the industry on the basis of a price of 3s. a bushel on rail at the principal Australianports. The price has been varying day byday during the last fortnight, buton the5th, December - the day prior to thaton which the DeputyPrime Minister(Dr. Earle Page) introduced thislegislationin the House of Representatives.- the price was 2s. 5½d. in Melbourne and 2s. 5d. in Sydney. The price, has certainlybeen hardening a little, and,  I  hope,that it will further improve.  On  thebasisofthose prices the £4,000,000 being made available to the farmers is £3,500,000 short of the assistance promised to the farmers by the Prime Minister immediately before the election.  I  do not recall that promise in any spirit of complaint, but because we are not yet able to say that the 3s. a bushel mentionedbyethe Prirne. Minister as the basis on which assistance to the amount of £4,000,000 would be provided, will not be realized. 
I commend heartily the promptitude with which the formation of the composite government was followed by action  to assist the great wheat-growing industry which in "this measure is certainly recognized as worthy of assistance on the same lines as other industries. I compare the bill favorably withour other experiences of government action during the last four or five years. Wehad to drag doles from reluctant governments, and' last year the assistance was, so conditioned that it gave satisfaction to nobody. Of course, 'that was to be. expected from a government, the members ofwhich had; no practical knowledge of the industry.. 
SenatorCrawford. - That ismost unfair. 
It is true; I shallshowhow unfairly the legislation passed last yearoperated against thewheat-farrner inWestern Australia. 
SenatorCrawford.-Whynot give credit where credit is due. 
-I do, but I am entitled to pointcuthow WesternAustralia suffered through the failure of the Government to listento the advice which was given to. it when the Wheat Growers Relief Bill wasbefore Parlia- ment last year. Under that measure wealthy farmers in Queensland received a bounty at the rate of  3s.  an acre, whereas thosewithout a taxable, income were given  5s. 6d.  an acre. 
SenatorBrown.- Why mention Queensland? 
-Because in that State the wheat-growers with large taxable incomes were assisted to the amount of  3s.  an acre, whilst in every other Stategrowers with a taxable in- comereceived no assistance.Certainly the necessitouswheat-grower in Western Australia, with no taxable income, was given  3s. 6d.  an acre and. promised a small dividend - probably1d, or  2d.  a bushel-out of any amount remaining over;but the wheat-grower inQueensland,withnotaxableincome,wasgiven  5s,6d.  an acre, or ififhehadataxable income,  3s.  an acre and the wheat-grower in Tasmania  6s. 10d.  anacre. Icommend theGovernment for having introduced this measure, which does not contain thediscriminatory provisionsof the legislation,of last year. I also commend it for its. promptitude in coming to the assistance of the wheat-farmers, for the fairness of the provisions of this bill and for the evident intention substantially to fulfil the promise of the Prime Minister. If the price of this year's wheat reaches 3s. a bushel, or more, this measure will entirely fulfil, and may even do more than fulfil, the promise of the Prime Minister. The right honorable gentleman also said that, according as' the price of wheat; fluctuated above or below 3s. a bushel, so would the measure of assistance decrease or increase, and I expect that statement to be adhered to. Although the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry has presented only two interim reports, the Government has already introduced legislation to give substantial assistance to the wheat-growers this year. The Commissioners have foreshadowed a long range policy for the stabilization of the industry, and the sooner such a policy is adopted the better. The measure now under discussion is not equal to a proper scheme for the stabilization of the industry. That stabilization can be brought about only by fixing a home consumption price, and giving the growers themselves the control of the wheat. I suggest that when Parliament re-assembles after the Christmas adjournment, it should set itself to deal with the wheat industry on a permanent basis, and not, as in the past, leave such important matters until the closing days of a session. We should put the whole industry on a proper permanent basis, by providing for a home consumption price and for control by the growers themselves. 
The reports of the royal commission have assisted the Government to realize the paramount importance of wheatgrowing in our national economy. Wheatgrowing employs more labour in this country than does any other industry, and is second only to the wool industry in respect of the value of production and exports. Large portions of Australia are depend almost entirely on the wheat industry. The principal wheat-growing States are prosperous or financially embarrassed according to whether the wheat crop is large or small and wheat prices high or low. The serious plight of the wheat industry to-day is largely the result of the burdens placed on it by our fiscal policy, combined with low prices, and largely increased supplies in the world markets. The Government's proposals for the distribution of £4,000,000 to assist wheat-farmers are based on the following recommendations of the  Royal  Commission on the wheat industry: - 

<graphic href="145332193412136_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

The bounty of 3d. a bushel is based on an estimated crop of 133,000,000 bushels, less 13,000,000 bushels required for seed, leaving 120,000,000 bushels available for export. The amount to be distributed on an acreage basis will be allocated to the several States in the following proportions : - 
The prompt and businesslike arrangements for the immediate distribution of £3,426,750 to the wheat-growers of Australia is evidence of the Government's desire to assist a deserving industry. I am glad that so soon after the assembling of Parliament this legislation has been introduced, in fulfilment of the promises made by the leaders of the parties constituting the Government. 
The distribution of the £573,250 to be paid to necessitous farmers is causing concern. The  President  of the Wheatgrowers Union of Western Australia,  Mr. -I.  G. Boyle, has wired to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government  (Dr. Earle Page)  informing him that, of the total amount to be made available as compensation for crop losses, that State would require £200,000; because losses from drought and rust have been heavy in that State, particularly in the northern areas. 
I am glad that, contrary- to the policy adopted' last year, the ' Government on this occasion proposes to treat wheatgrowing as an Australian industry without discrimination. Last year there was discrimination, not only between wheatgrowers with and without taxable incomes, hut also between States. Evidently the Government had arranged the allocation to the several States before it agreed to discriminate between wheatgrowers with and without taxable incomes. Later, when it decided to assist only those without taxable incomes, it did not vary the original allocation to the States, with the result that Western Australia and South Australia suffered. Before the election I endeavoured to ascertain the basis of the distribution last year, but the information was supplied to me only yesterday. On the authority of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  who supplied that information, a total of £3,000,000 was distributed last year, compared with a first instalment of £4,000,000 this year. On an acreage basis, the amounts paid in the various States last year were: 
New South Wales - 4s. 3d. 
Victoria - 4s . 207d. 
Queensland - 5s.6d. in the case of wheatgrowers without taxable income, and 3s. to wheat-growers with taxable 'incomes. 
Western Australia - 3s.6d. advanced, and final payment not determined. 
Tasmania-6s.10d. 
South Australia - 3s. 5d. to 3s. 6d., and an additional1s. 6d. where the yield was less than threebushelsan acre. 
Will the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce),  who so strenuously sponsored, advocated and defended the legislation passed last year both in the Senate and in Western Australia, justify the discrimination which operated so unfairly against the wheat-growers in that State? 
THE  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - I remind the honorable senator that there is nothing concerning discrimination in this bill. 
No. I congratulate the Government upon the omission of those discriminatory provisions contained in the act of last year. The Commonwealth Constitution provides that there shall be no discrimination between States, andI am glad that in this measure there is no suggestion of the discrimination exercised twelve months ago when Tasmanian wheat-growers received 6s.10d.an acre, Queensland wheat-growers without taxable income 5s. 6d. an acre, and when in receipt of a taxable income 3s. an acre, and Western Australian wheat-growers, if necessitous, 3s. 6d. an acre, whereas in the other States the wheat-growers in receipt of a taxable income, however small, were not given any assistance at all. I have already brought under the notice of the Government a great many cases of wheatgrowers having only a small taxable income, who, although suffering extreme hardship, were denied any assistance at all. 
SenatorCollings. - How was that " rigged " up ? 
The members of the Country party in both Houses were not responsible, because they unsuccessfully endeavoured to remove the unjust discriminatory provisions from the measure. I trust that the Leader of the Senate will explain why some wheat-growers with taxable incomes, including even wealthy men, were paid 3s. an acre on their crops last year, while some in other States did not receive any payment at all. Will the Minister also explain why last -year a Tasmanian wheat-grower received 6s.10d. an acre on the area cropped by him, while South Australian and Western Australian wheat-growers received only 3s. 5d. and 3s. 6d. ? In New South Wales, the amount was between 4s. 2d. and 4s. 4d., and in Victoria about 4s., while in Queensland the amount was 5s. 6d. an acre in the case of a wheatgrowerwithout a taxable income and 3s. an acre to wealthy wheat-growers. In Western Australia, 3s. 6d. was paid, with a small final payment still to be determined. 
That is how it worked out. 
Parliament decided against payment on a production basis, and also against our proposal that wheat-growers with taxable incomes should receive the bounty. This bill is fair to all as it provides for a payment of 3s. an acre of the area sown, and a bounty of 3d. a bushel on wheat produced, with . the promise of assistance to the amount of £573,250 to those who have suffered in consequence of drought, rust and other disabilities. If the price, estimated at 2s. 7d. a bushel, which the present Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page)  mentioned as ruling in Melbourne and in Sydney on the 6th December, does not improve, this legislation will fall short of the Prime Minister's promise by £3,500,000. On the 1st August last,  Hansard,  page 1086, the Prime Minister said - 
The Government has had an opportunity to consider the first report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry andhas decided to accept the recommendation contained in it, that, on the basis of a price of 3s. a bushel for wheat, f.o.r. at principal shipping ports, assistance or relief to the extent of £4,000,000 is necessary for the coming season. This amount would increase if prices fell below 3s. f.o.r. at principal ports, and decrease if prices rose above that figure. 
The commission, in recommending the payment of a bounty, makes the following statement: - 
In view of the present uncertainties as to the comingharvest, particularly in some States, and as to the price likely to be realized, the commission is not prepared at this stage to recommend cither the proportion of such total amount which should be applied to the payment of the' bounty or the methods which should be adopted for the distribution of the remainder. A further recommendation will be submitted later. 
The commission also states that it will make a final recommendation as to the amount which, on the basis mentioned, will be necessary, before the next crop is harvested. 
When the volume of the harvest is known and information isavail able as to the prices likely to be  realized for the crop, the Government will be in a position to deal with the method of providing the necessary money and distributing it. It is clear that at present it would be a mistake to try to make final decisions upon these matters. The Government, however, desires to make it quite plain that it accepts, and will give effect to, the main recommendation of the commission as to the amount necessary upon the basis mentioned. 
On the basis of 3s. a bushel f.o.r. the amount necessary would be £4,000,000 as provided in this legislation. 
In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of to-day, varyng prices are quoted and amongst them is one of 2s. 7½d. a bushel for growers' lots f.o.r. Adelaide. There are also quotations of 2s. 5d. and 2s. 6d. and 2s. 7½d. for new crops. I am taking the figures of 2s. 5d. and 2s. 5½d. mentioned by the Minister forCommerce as the rate ruling in Melbourne and Sydney on the day before he delivered his speech. If prices do not improve and the Prime Minister carries out his election pledge, which was given great publicity in the newspapers and in other ways, £3,500,000 may still have to be paid to the wheat-growers. I have read what the right honorable gentleman said that his Government would do. 
Yes. His concluding words were - 
The Government, however, desires to make it quite plain that it accepts, and will give effect to, the main recommendation of the commission as to the amount necessary upon the basis mentioned. 
On the basis of the market price of 3s. a bushel f.o.r. at the principal shipping ports of Australia the amount necessary would be £4,000,000.  Mr. Lyons  further said - 
This amount would increase if prices fell below 3s. f.o.r. at principal ports and decrease if prices rose above that figure. 
I do not suggest that the Government does not intend to honor its promise, because we do not know the average market price for the coming season. I commend the Government for introducing this measure providing for the expenditure of £4.000,000, and I trust that if that amount is insufficient, further legislation will be introduced to give effect to the Prime Minister's promise. The point is that the Prime Minister's pre-election pledge to the wheat-growers is not being, and necessarily cannot be, fully carried out to-day. Whether it will be given effect to by these measures, or whether further legislation will be necessary to implement it, depends upon the vagaries of the wheat market during the next few weeks which I confess myself quite unable to forecast. The Prime Minister definitely promised that the £4,000,000 now provided would increase if the price fell below 3s. a bushel f.o.r. at principal ports, and decrease if it rose above that figure. The Minister for Commerce  (Dr. Earle Page),  in introducing this legislation in the House of Representatives on the 6th December last, said - 
Yesterday wheat was quoted in Melbourne at 2s.5½d. and in Sydney at about 2s. 5d. f.o.b. 
I cannot say what the average price f.o.r. at principal ports will be for the coming harvest, hut on the basis of 2s. 5d. and 2s. 5½d. a bushel f.o.b. quoted by the Minister for Commerce as the prices in Sydney and Melbourne respectively when this legislation was introduced, £3,500,000 is required in addition to the £4,000,000 now provided in order to carry out the Prime Minister's very definite promise of £4,000,000 on the basis of a price of 3s. a bushel for wheat f.o.r. at principal ports. 
I would like to see that done. The tendency is for the price of wheat to improve, and I hope that this legislation as it stands will provide growers with a greater measure of assistance than that which the Minister for Commerce had in mind when speaking on the occasion to which I have referred. If the present harvest averages 3s. a bushel f.o.r. at ports, of course this legislation will entirely carry out the Prime Minister's pledge. In the meantime I accept it as a substantial and welcome instalment of the assistance promised by the Prime Minister and by  Senator Sir George  Pearce and endorsed by the electors at the polls. No one can deny, in view of the wide publicity given to that pledge, that the Government received from the people a mandate to pay not only the £4,000,000, but whatever additional sum was necessary to honour the pledge in its widest terms. After all, these annual votes are mere palliatives. The Government should, as its first duty when Parliament re-assembles in February, bring down legislation to stabilize the wheat industry on a permanent basis. 
I supported a compulsory pool in the Wheat Marketing Bill, No. 2, introduced by the Scullin Government. Every member of the Country party in both Houses supported that bill. So far as I am concerned I shall support that or any other means of securing a home-consumption price under the control of the growers for the sale and marketing of their product. I advocate the stabilization of the wheat industry on a permanent basis with a home-consumption price for all wheat placed under the control of the growers and with the distribution of the proceeds on an all-Australian basis. Nothing less than this will satisfy the wheat-growers, who remember that every member of the Country party in both Houses supported the Wheat Marketing Bill, No. 2, introduced by the Scullin Government. Whilst I endorse this legislation, there is one direction in which it could and should be improved, and that is by protecting the wheat-grower against his creditors or any one else in regard to at least £50 of the acreage bounty. 
My experience is that the creditors of the wheat-grower are remarkably well able to protect themselves, so long as he remains on his wheat farm. It is true that when he is driven off the farm they ultimately lose, but this legislation is designed to keep him on the land, and not to pay off creditors. I hope the Minister will accept, if it has not already been accepted in the House of Representatives, an amendment to extend to the wheatgrower protection to the amount of at least £50 of the acreage bounty against his creditors under any other State or Federal legislation. 
I would not, and I would be the last person to injure his credit. In this measure the Government is providing special relief for those engaged in the industry. A great many wheat-growers are reduced to the most desperate plight, and I would  go so far as to earmark the whole of the acreage bounty for the benefit of the farmer and his family. 
I have been told that last year in some of the States the banks, including State banks, were foremost in claiming the acreage bounty paid by the Commonwealth. I do not want that to occur again. This bounty should go to the wheat-grower for his own use and benefit and not be attachable by any creditor. I have given notice of an amendment on the same lines as that indicated by the honorable member for Barker  (Mr. Archie Cameron).  This will ensure the wheat-grower receiving the first £50 of this relief for his exclusive personal use. If the operation of the guillotine prevents effect being given to that amendment in the other House, 1 hope the Senate will insert it in the bill. 
I desire your ruling,  Mr. President,  on the question of whether or not this measure is legally before the Senate. Standing Order 296 of the House of Representatives provides that no member shall be entitled to vote in any division upon a question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest not held in common with the rest of the subjects of the Crown, and that the vote of any member so interested shall be disallowed and shall not apply to motions or public bills which involve questions of public policy. I presume that the Senate has a similar Standing Order. Several honorable members in the House of Representatives who have a pecuniary interest in this measure, voted for it yesterday. Advice obtained from an eminent legal luminary in Sydney is to the effect that they voted illegally. If that is so I desire your ruling as to whether the bill is legally before the Senate. At the same time I do not wish in any way to block the passage of the measure. I wish to sec the farmer", including  Senator Johnston,  receive their cut. 
Certainly not. I should feel myself entitled to vote at any time on the matter of salaries. 
But this measure relates to a bounty paid directly in certain circumstances to certain individuals, among whom are the members to whom I have referred. 
I was not aware that the honorable senator was the  President  of the Senate. I shall be glad to hear the President's ruling. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - In my opinion, the bill has come before the Senate in the ordinary and proper manner, after passing through the other branch of the legislature. It is not within the province of this chamber to inquire whether it was properly or improperly treated there. I cannot find in the Standing Orders of the Senate any provision similar to that quoted by the honorable senator from the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives. 
My predecessors in this chair were chary of interpreting the Constitution, holding that that was the function of the High Court, whose jurisdiction I should be the last to trespass upon. My responsibility is merely to administer the Standing Orders of the Senate, and I hold that they do not support the honorable senator's contention. 

 Senator Brennan did well to remind us this afternoon that this transfer of money in the form of temporary assistance to one section of primary producers would not get us anywhere. The introduction of these temporary expedients is of little avail. This Government is lacking in its duty in not having brought forward a practical proposal to stabilize the wheat industry. 
It is also clear that the acreage reduction agreed upon has not been made, although there has been a reduction of area planted. 
Last. year, when I discussed, the world wheat position, and mentioned that, under the Russian Soviet planfor agricultural development, aeroplanes, were, being used for the sowing of wheat,  Senator O'Halloran,  my colleague from South Australia, smilingly indicated his unbelief. I have since had an opportunity, to obtain further information concerning Russian methods, and I learn from the  Moscow News  of the 11th August that aeroplanes were used in some, areas in the last wheat-planting season in order to lower production costs. I mention this Russian experiment to impress on Ministers, and every one interested in Australian primary production, the need for taking cognizance of what is happening in other countries. 
SenatorDuncan-Hughes.-There is nothing new in what the honorable senator has said. During the war British troops were fed. by aeroplanes dropping their supplies  to.  isolated units. I was fed in that way. 
Germany cannot be starved out by. an enemy in the event of war. 
Has this matter any bearing on the bill ? 
Germany was forced to import £250,000,000 worth of foodstuffs in 1928, the bulk of which, owing to agrarian activities, is now grown in Germany. 
Then, M. Paul de Hevesy, the Hungarian Minister in France, has shown that there is not much hope, so far as the rest of Europe is concerned, for an increased demand for wheat in the near future. He said - 
In Hungary and the other Danubian States, although the cost of production was somewhat higher than it. was elsewhere, wheat must in any case be grown, and the surplus exported, as the population of these countries must live and earn. Nor could even a small proportion of their inhabitants emigrate owing to the prevalence of unemployment in other countries. These were reasons why practically all countries, both in Europe and beyond, were still forced to subsidize their wheat-growers and, in some countries, their wheat exporters. Yet the wheat prices, even increased by these subsidies, drawn from the pockets of the taxpayers, were in most countries not sufficient to give a reasonable profit to the farmer. 
Honorable senators are aware of what is happening in this respect in regard to foodstuffs in other parts of the world. I do not propose to go more fully into that matter now, but I fear that it will be necessary to dilate continually on the international situation in order to give an impetus to the Government to deal with the fundamental aspects of our problems, instead of being content with bringing forward annually trumpery measures in which Parliament merely exercises its power to tax the poorer sections ofthe community. It is diabolical to remit taxation to the richer sections and then to rob workers, who. are on the dole; and others who are barely making sufficient to keep body and soul together. I fail to understand why the Government should, not try, according to its intelligence, and power, to raise the funds it requires by methods different from those which it is. employing at the present time. Honorable senators on this side recognize that given no other alternative it. is better to support a proposal designed to render assistance to the wheat-growing industry than see the growers go out of production. But we deplore the fact that in order to do this the Government has not proposed some more equitable measure than a tax on the poorer sections of the community.  Senator O'Halloran,  who has made a deep study of the wheat problem, will not be able to participate in this debate, but I propose to put before the Senate the views of the honorable gentleman, as contained in a communication he sent to me. In that document he made, some interesting proposals and convinced mo that, there was a possibility of meeting the situation without having recourse to taxing the poorer sections of the community as is being done by this rich man's Government. He put his argument very lucidly, and showed that the Labour party's policy, if implemented, would prove of more benefit to the people of Australia generally, and particularly to the farmer himself, than the methods employed by this Government. He said in his letter - 
The Federal Labour party did not have to wait on the report on an expensive royal commission to propound a policy. For years it. has consistently advocated action on the lines proposed in the policy for which it now seeks the people's mandate. 
That letter was written shortly before the recent election, at which the Government, which then had, as it has now, a majority in both Houses, so misled the people as to induce them to return it to power. Labour's policy as explained by  Senator O'Halloran  is - 
l ) To reduce the cost of marketing and raise efficiency of selling methods by establishing with the consent of growers (as indicated by ballot ) compulsory wheat pools. 
Fixing a local price for wheat, and with the co-operation of the States, pending the conferring of powers on the Commonwealth for this purpose, fixing prices for flour and bread to prevent exploitation of consumers. 
Reducing the cost of production by reduction of interest rates on farm accounts, so that these will have a more direct relation to the value of production. 
As to the first proposal,  Senator O'Halloran  showed that there is wide scope for reducing marketing costs, and cited the following statistics from the  Commonwealth Year-Booh : - 

<graphic href="145332193412136_19_3.jpg"></graphic>

During that period the average weekly wages decreased.  Senator O'Halloran  believes that pooling by orderly organized selling on behalf of Australian farmers will provide a means to counter the extensive buying in countries overseas. That method is followed in the sugar industry. Pooling will provide a means for bulk importation and distribution of theo farmers' requirements, such as cornsacks. During the war huge savings were effected by the Government in this regard. 
In connexion with the second proposal by the Government,  Senator O'Halloran  says - 
It is proposed to fix a local price of 4s. a bushel for wheat sold by the pool for local consumption, and with the co-operation of the States to protect consumers from  exploitation.  Properly policed, this need not increase the price of bread, as a study of the results obtained during the first three wartime compulsory pools indicates. The price of wheat was fixed for local consumption at 4s. 9d. a bushel, and bread was sold in metropolitan centres for 4d. per 2-lb. loaf. Allowing for some increase in overhead, with wheat so.ld at 4s., it should be possible to sell bread at the present metropolitan price of 4d. per 2-lb. loaf, without inflicting any hardship on millers and bakers. 
These proposals, it is suggested, should be applied to the wheat and bread industry, and industries generally.  Senator O'Halloran  also furnished the following table, composed on the basis that 48 bushels of wheat, when gristed, yield 2,000 lb. flour, 432 lb. bran, and 432 lb. pollard : - 
From these figures  Senator O'Halloran  draws the conclusion that the workers of this country would be able to buy their bread at practically the same price as they pay to-day, and that the farmer would get a return of 3s. 9d. a bushel, after deducting 3d. for the pool, and it would not be necessary for the Government to inflict a tax upon the poorest people of this country in order to give assistance to the wheat-farmer. 

 Senator O'Halloran also emphasizes the huge amount of money which is being taken from the farmer in interest payments, and points out that, in its report, the royal commission conservatively estimates the total debt of 65,000 wheatfarmers to be £140,000,000. I contend that it is practically impossible for the farmers to pay back all that debt to the various governments, banks, assurance, trustee and fertilizer companies. The farmer will never be free of that debt.  Senator O'Halloran  shows that, taking the rate of interest at 5 per cent., which is comparatively low, considering that in previous years he had to pay as high as 8 to 10 per cent., the farmer to-day is paying £7,000,000 annually in interest. On a gross production of 170,000,000 bushels, this represents lOd. a bushel, which is slightly mora than the figure mentioned in this respect by my leader. Calculating the position on the net production sold, after allowing 15,000,000 bushels for seed, this would represent an interest charge of lid. a bushel, and taking the average area sown as 15,000,000 acres, the average return as 12 bushels an acre, and the average price received as 3s. a bushel, this interest charge works out at more than 25 per cent.  Senator O'Halloran  continued - 
Finally, as a measure of restoration, Labour proposes a guarantee of 3s. 9d. per bushel f.o.b. for all wheat delivered to the pool for 
period of three years, the balance required after approximately 30,000,000 bushels have been sold by the pool for home consumption at 4s. to be advanced by the Commonwealth Bank. The bank to be repaid by the pool when the f.o.b. price of wheat rises to more than 4s. per bushel, retaining SO per cent, of such rise. 
He went on to show that the Labour party's proposals would benefit the farmers to the amount of  £1,625,000,  without burdening any individual in the community with even a penny of taxation. Unfortunately, the Labour party, which would have given effect to the proposals of  Senator O'Halloran,  was defeated because of the- mispresentation of our intentions concerning the Commonwealth Bank by members supporting the Government. The electors were grossly misled, and now the wheatfarmers have to be content with this principle that was contained in other measures previously brought before this Parliament. I look forward to the day when the wheat industry, as well as other industries, will be efficiently organized so that those engaged in them will be able to make a fair living. In my opinion, much of this bounty will go into the coffers of the banks. It may be that the wheat-farmers will be relieved of a little anxiety, but in many cases the granting of this money will mean that, by a process of bookkeeping, their debts to the -banks will not appear so large, although they will not be much better off than they are now. It therefore behoves the Government to consider the fundamental problems associated with this industry, and introduce proposals for its stabilization, so that periodical doles may be discontinued and the farmers receive a fair return for their labour. 
 I am afraid that, despite the reiteration of  Senator Brown,  I still fail to see how his proposals would place the wheat industry on a sound footing. The honorable senator dealt, first, with the sowing of wheat by aeroplanes, as in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. He regarded Russia as a potential destroyer of the Australian wheat industry, whereas had he taken the trouble to study the export figures of that country, he would have found that for the last three years no wheat has been exported from Russia. 
The honorable senator then dealt with the growing of wheat in industrial countries. The reason why those countries have commenced to grow their own foodstuffs is not the fear of war, as suggested by the honorable senator, but rather the high tariff wall erected by other countries. If the countries of the world were more willing to adopt a liberal policy of international trade - to buy as well as to sell - -many of the barriers which have been erected against their products would be removed, or lowered. I do not, blame the Labour party for all the troubles of the world, but I do say that, the proposals of  Senator Brown  are so vague that they offer no substantial contribution to the rehabilitation of the wheat industry. On the other hand, that industry is to receive something definite from the Government. It is easy to criticize the proposal to advance  £4,000,000  for the assistance of wheatfarmers, but I say emphatically that that amount will go a long way towards putting heart into the growers. I trust, therefore, that the Labour party will support the bill so that this money may be distributed among the farmers of Australia with as little delay as possible. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  was confined largely to the charge that the Government had remitted taxation to the wealthy and was imposing a tax on the poor - practically taking the food out of their mouths. The honorable senator quoted from a memorandum by Professor Giblin -which accompanied the report of the Royal Commission on Wheat - 
In such a case the tax becomes regressive to an appalling degree. A bachelor with an income of £1,000 per annum would pay an additional 15s. &gt;per annum through the home price of butter. He would contribute less than one-fifth of a penny in the  £1  of his income to relieve the depressed industry. A basic wage-earner, with a wife and three children, would contribute over £3 or about 5d. in the £1 of his income. 
When we were discussing the Dairy Produce Bill towards the close of the last Parliament, Labour senators raised no protest against that legislation. I ask them what is the difference between  a processing tax in the case of batter and a similar tax in the case of wheat ? There is no difference except that a tax on bread gives the Labour party good ammunition to fire at its opponents. Political capital - can be made out of a tax on the people's bread; but no voice is uttered in protest against a similar tax on butter or peanuts, or the hundred and one other products which are subject to a similar tax. The Leader of the Opposition read one paragraph from the report by Professor Giblin. He should have gone further and read an earlier paragraph - 
No one, in general, -would willingly raise the price of the necessaries of life. Al] tradition is against it. When, however,  ian.  important primary industry like dairying is threatened with disaster on account of a fall in world prices, it is felt to be reasonable that the whole community should contribute to help it over the lean times. ' Such a contribution is felt, by the public and the press, to be made by a home price. Each  consumer  is called upon to do his share to  sustain  the threatened industry. 
Among the products subjected to a pro.cessing tax is sugar, but no Opposition voice is raised against the maintenance of a system which guarantees a home consumption price for that commodity. Similarly, there is little outcry against a processing tax on wines and spirituous liquors, dried fruits, cheese, bananas, rice, peanuts, pineapples, cotton, tobacco or maize. 
 Senator Brown  next attacked the Government for not proposing to establish a compulsory wheat pool. Before I entered this Senate I advocated a compulsory wheat pool, and T would be prepared to do so now if I could see that it would achieve satisfactory results. There is, I submit, a great difference betwen  promises and results. That difference accounts for the great gulf which separates the parties constituting the composite government and the Labour party. At one time the Labour party had the opportunity to convert its promises into realities; but failed to do so. Any advocate of a compulsory wheat pool should be able to show how it could be brought into existence. No member of the Labour party, either in this chamber or in the House of Representatives, is able to' show how that can be done. The Min ister in charge of this bill is a barrister of note. I suggest that, in committee, he should be asked to explain the difficulties which would confront the Government if it desired to establish a compulsory pool. In that case, he would probably deal with the history of the pools in the various States, the  attempts to  control commodity prices and the operation of Section 92 of the Constitution. An amendment of the Constitution would be necessary before a compulsory wheat pool could be established. Does  Senator Brown,  or any other member of the Labour party, suggest that, while the farmers are struggling for an existence, the electors should he asked by means of a referendum to change the Constitution? 
I am simply stating facts. We must remember that the main objective of this legislation is to place the wheat industry on its feet. Australia cannot afford to sacrifice any of its export industries. Wheat plays an important part in our national economy, and the industry must be maintained if we are to meet our overseas commitments. In 1930-31, the monetary value of Australia's wheat exports was £14,000,000. Wheat then represented 14 per cent, of our total exports. During the next year the value . of the wheat exported was £19,000,000, representing 18 per cent, of Australia's exports, and in 1932-33, 14 per cent, of such exports. This Parliament must decide whether the wheat industry, which is of outstanding national importance to Australia, and employs 70,000 persons, is to be allowed to continue.  This measure, which is framed to afford some assistance to wheat-growers, does not provide permanent relief, but I am hopeful that next year an effective stabilization scheme will be adopted by this Parliament on the lines of a federal export board. The functions of such a board would be - 
To have power to control exports and to issue licences to deal in wheat and wheat products, to mill such products and demand information concerning stocks of wheat and wheat products. 
To recommend to the Government in November of each yea* what it considered a reasonable excise to be paid by millers on all wheat processed for home consumption, approximately 32,000,000 bushels, so as to provide a subsidy to distribute  pro rata  on all wheat marketed. To ensure a reasonable return to Australian wheatgrowers for that portion of their crop used for home consumption, and a slight set-off against the legislative burden on the portions produced for export. 
To control the money collected by such excise and allocate it to all State Boards equitably on a production basis for distribution direct to the farmers on production of proof concerning the quantity marketed from the wheat produced by them during the season. 
The advantages of such a system would be that it would remove the industry from continual political argument; it would secure the objective of farmers' organizations of all States, namely, a home consumption pi-ice, and 100 per cent, co-operation on the part of farmers; it would satisfy both the advocates and opponents of pooling, for it would not in any way disorganize the present marketing system, and would insure co-operation and support of merchants. 
In advocating a processing tax, we are not suggesting something which has not been tried in other countries. Under the legislation controlling agricultural organizations in the United States of America, and in practically every European country, a processing tax is imposed. I defy any honorable senator to name one primary industry in the United States of America that is not subjected to a processing tax. Under the scheme I have suggested, provision is made for a processing tax; a sales tax on flour is such a tax in another form. 
I remind honorable senators of the Opposition that there has been no definite pronouncement that the price of bread is to be increased. In speaking of starving children and of the disabilities of the working class generally, they charge the Government with proposing to raise £4,000,000 by taxing the bread of the men on the basic wage, and even those who do not receive any wages. But everyone consumes bread. The Leader of the 
Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  was incorrect in saying that there are 2,000,000 persons in Australia who do not receive any income at all. The statistics he was quoting were taken from the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation, who stated that there are 2,000,000 people not without incomes, but without taxable incomes. Who is to pay this tax? I assert emphatically that if the State legislatures do their work, the price of bread should not be increased. In New South Wales, in which two-fifths of the population of Australia, resides, a bill has already been drafted to prevent an increase in the price. Why has that been done? 
The bill has been drafted because the State Government realizes that the gross profits of the millers and bakers are sufficiently high to enable them to carry the increased cost of flour which will follow the imposition of this tax. If the members of the Labour party thought that the price of bread  would  not be increased, they would not hesitate to support the bill, because they have frequently stated that they are anxious to assist the wheat industry. In 1921, when the price of flour was £19 lis. 7d. a ton, the gross profits of the bakers - that is the difference between the cost of flour and wages, and the retail price of bread - was £7 13s. lid. a ton. To-day, flour is £7 53. a ton, and even if the impost should increase the price to £11 a ton, the gross profits of the bakers will be £10 Ils. Id. a ton. Every State government should pass legislation to prevent an increase in the price of bread, because the millers and the bakers are able to stand the additional burden. If honorable senators of the Opposition wish to assist the wheat-growing industry, they should support the bill. 
I am surprised that  Senator Hardy  should have made such a belated and inaccurate charge against the members of the Labour party, who, he said, are not anxious to assist the agricultural industries. I challenge any honorable senator opposite to prove that during the last fifteen years the Queensland Labour Government has not done more to help the working farmers than has any other government in Australia, whether such governments are or are not influenced by the members of the so-called Country party. Labour governments have been responsible for the establishment of pools almost too numerous to mention, which have been of great benefit, not only to those engaged in primary production, but also to the whole State. When  Senator Hardy,  who once favoured a compulsory Commonwealth wheat pool, said that such an organization could not be established constitutionally, honorable senators on this side immediately reminded him that the butter industry is controlled by a similar organization under the present Constitution. Later the honorable senator said " We " - I do not know whether he meant the members of the Country party or the supporters of the Coalition Government: - " advocate the establishment of a federal export board." But such an organization is now controlling the butter industry. If the Commonwealth has not the constitutional power to dispense with the middlemen in the wheat industry, it certainly has the power to avoid the obstacles which present themselves to those engaged in the butter industry. Further,  Senator Hardy,  who contends that the Labour party when in office did not pass a compulsory wheat pool bill, knows that a Wheat Marketing Bill providing for a compulsory pool was passed by the House of Representatives, but was rejected in the Senate. Unfortunately, the Labour Government was in office during a period of marked financial depression, and owing to the prevailing conditions and the fact that it had not a majority in the Senate, was prevented from giving effect to many important planks of its policy. As our policy in this matter has been expounded in the House of Representatives, and as it is possible to have too much of a good thing, I shall not explain it at length here. There is too much indirect taxation in this country. That is the substance of the paragraph which has 'been quoted by other Labour speakers from Professor Giblin's comments. By means of indirect taxation, the worker is absolutely skinned alive. If he gains any money, he has to pay it back through diverse processes of taxation, as  Senator Hardy  would phrase it. 
Customs duties. A man cannot get a rag of clothing or a bite of imported food without paying them. 
I am, but a good deal of taxation is raised by means of revenue duties, and I object to paying customs duties which do not protect. It is the policy of theGovernment party at the present time to impose that kind of duty. With imports increasing at their present rate, we shall soon be back in the position of 1929, when Australia was toppling right over the precipice. Indirect taxes are borne by the general mass of the community more than by the wealthy, who are better fitted to bear taxation. The latter should be taxed by direct methods. There is a new form of indirect or direct taxation that hits the masses, in the shape of the sales tax. 
There are taxes on everything. The flour tax undoubtedly means a bread tax, in spite of  Senator Hardy's  attempts to explain it away.  Mr. Stevens,  the Premier of New South Wales is uneasy about it, because he will have to face a general election four or five months hence, and does not wish to carry the odium of it. 
If he did, he was wrong. He established quite a number of precedents with which I did not agree. There are many matters in regard to which I do not follow  Mr. Lang.  He made a number of appointments that I do not stand for, nor do I approve of his idea of a dictatorship, but no matter what  Mr. Lang  did,  Mr. Stevens  is in a very uncertain position. The  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning published a leading article dealing most gently and discreetly with the situation. After reading it, my impression was that the paper was asking  Mr. Stevens  to ease off to some extent because something had to be done. Had  Senator Hardy  been free to speak to-day in his old familiar style, taking the truth where he found it, whether on the Labour side or on the Government side, he would have pointed out the hostility of  Sir Henry  Gullett towards the flour tax a year ago. That gentleman, who was not then a Minister, said that a flour tax upon the people's food was callous and cruel. Now, however, he is a member of the Government and will not repeat those sentiments. I heard another Minister in the House of Representatives the other evening make the claim that, whilst he believed in a national pool, it was not in existence and therefore the present scheme was the only practicable one. That was his clumsy effort to get out of the difficulty. 
 Sir Henry  Gullett, speaking on the Wheat Growers Relief Bill on the 6th December, 1933, said - 
There are some exemptions from the sales tax on flour. There are exemptions in favour of pollard and bran. Thus we have exemptions of chicken food, and taxation on children's food; exemptions of hog food, and bread taxation on every human being in this country. 
Yet I have no doubt that  Senator McLachlan  and  Senator Brennan  will sit cheek by jowl with.  Sir Henry  Gullett in the Cabinet, well knowing that that was his considered opinion last year. He went on to say - 
The tax will fall most heavily upon the poorest people of the land, because they are the main bread consumers. 
I had already noted that point for this speech. No doubt that is what will happen. The poorer people are the main bread consumers. We who earn a little more can eat more vegetables, fruit or meat. I have lived in the poorest of circumstances and I know that bread is (he real staff of life of the worker. The trouble for many years has been that too much of the goodness is taken out of the wheat in the endeavour to achieve whiteness. Still, with all its faults, bread remains the staff of life, and the poorer the people the harder this tax will hit them.  Senator Hardy  also contradicted  Senator Barnes'  statement that there were 2,000,000 people in the Commonwealth without incomes. That figure includes dependants, and the latest information shows that this is not exaggerated. In  Mr. McPhee's  census figures a statement is made to this effect - 
The following table shows the number of persons returned as wholly unemployed at the time of the Census, 30th June, 1933, in the four States mentioned- 
Those were New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia. The total shown is 443,223, out of 1,933,133 wageearners in those four States. In the other two States, although they are the smallest in population, there would be at least another 60,000 wholly unemployed, making a total of half a million.  Mr. McPhee  goes on to say - 
The foregoing figures include all persons who were wholly unemployed from any cause. Wage-earners working part time who were stated to be engaged on sustenance work have been regarded as employed. 
The total number, therefore, of unemployed in the Commonwealth must at that time have been much above 500,000. To them must he added their dependants, taking the average working class family as numbering at least three. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

It is estimated that at least 2,000,000 people throughout the Commonwealth - the unemployed and their dependants - will bo seriously affected by this tax. Others who are practically on the bread-line will also be called upon to pay it. We on this side contend that the re-imposition of the federal land tax, which was remitted last year, would provide the Government with £1,800,000, nearly one-half of the amount required, and further large sums could be raised by means of income tax on . the higher incomes. This would be a much fairer method than the measures introduced by the Government to place the principal burden on that section of the community which is least able to bear it. As further proof of my contention that the flour tax is objectionable, I remind honorable senators ofthe statement made by  Mr. Stevens,  the Premier of New South Wales, a few days ago to the effect that, if necessary, action would be taken by his Government to prevent any increase of the price of bread ro consumers in that State. The subject is also discussed in a leading article in to-day's  Sydney Morning Herald,  which states that apparently it is the intention of the Government to' see that the consumers of bread are exempted from the tax, and that millers and bakers will have to fight it out between themselves to decide which section shall provide the money which the Government requires to give relief to wheat-growers. The writer of the article goes on to criticize the attitude of the Premier of New South Wales, but we claim that his action amply justifies our objection to the flour tax as a means of raising the money. We do not cavil at financial assistance being given to wheat-farmers, because we know that, as the result of world depression and the spread of economic nationalism in Europe many countries which formerly were importers of wheat now grow all their own requirements. Some, indeed, have an exportable surplus. This increase of indirect taxation, because that is what the Government's proposals .mean, is indicative of its general attitude towards the different sections of this community. Its remissions of taxation during the last two years are evidence that it is a rich man's government, so in taking objection to its methods of financing the £4,000,000 for wheat-farmers, we are on safe ground. I hope that the Senate will reject this bill to impose a flour tax, and insist on some other method for raising the necessary money to assist our wheatgrowers. 

 Senator COLLINGS (Queensland) 8.6J. - As hae been said by my Leader  Senator Barnes)  and other speakers from this side, it is not our intention to oppose the bill. We know that the wheatgrowers are in need of relief from the difficulties in which they find themselves owing to the low prices ruling in the world's markets, but we object to the method by which it is proposed to raise a portion of the £4,000,000 required for their assistance. We have said time and again that the problems with which we are confronted arc .not isolated matters. All problems which arise in modern society in connexion with the production and distribution of the national wealth of a country are definitely co-related. All the difficulties which producers, primary and secondary, encounter, as well as the attendant consequences on employees engaged in them, arise from some basic cause which must sooner or later be located and dealt with in a practical way. The wheatgrowers ought to be the best judges of their needs, but this Government is not taking much notice of their views. It appears to be motivated much more by a desire to see other sections of the community get their full pound of flesh than by a desire to give to the position of our wheat-growers that consideration which it should receive. Other speakers have pointed out that after we have passed this series of bills designed to give relief to the wheat-farmers, and after the money has been provided, only a very small part of their difficulties will have been met. Next year the difficulties with which we are now dealing will arise again, and if the same Government should be in power, the problems of wheat-growers will, no doubt, be handled in the same piecemeal fashion. In my opinion, and I think that every member of my party is in agreement with me, this Government's proposal is not even a decent palliative for the wheat-growers' troubles ; but, as I have said, we shall vote for it for the same reason that we supported the measure brought in a week or two ago to appropriate £176,000 for the purpose of providing alleged Christmas cheer for the unemployed throughout Australia. We believe that the wheat-farmers need this assistance and should get it, but we say that the Government's methods are futile, because the job is not being tackled in the right way. 
I have said that the wheat-farmers are the best judges of their own needs. This was made manifest only a few weeks ago when a deputation waited on the Prime Minister in Canberra and urged the establishment of a Commonwealth-wide compulsory pool controlled by the growers themselves. The deputationists impressed on the Government that while they did not believe in taking extreme measures, if they did not get what they wanted they would have to decide whether or not stronger and probably less sane  methods should be adopted in order to get relief from their present intolerable position. 
Not so long ago  Senator Hardy  was one of the most stalwart champions of the primary producers in this Parliament. Now, I regret to say, because of things that have happened recently, he is so complacent that he will not say the mildest of unpleasant things about the Government. 
The Minister in charge of the bills  (Senator Brennan),  in introducing the measure this afternoon, treated us to one of his masterly attempts to justify the unjustifiable. The honorable gentleman endeavoured to lessen the severity of the onslaught which evidently he realized would be made from this side when he resumed his seat, by saying that he recognized that the unfortunate people who would have to pay the flour tax might regard it as a kind of torture. This is true because, let no honorable senator forget, whilst every person in the community is a consumer of bread, the poorest sections of our people, unlike those in more favoured circumstances, being unable to purchase the more expensive substitutes for bread, will pay by far the heaviest proportion of the tax because they eat more of this staple article of diet. The Minister in his kindly way told us that the Government proposed to ease the hurden by spreading the tax over twelve months instead of, as was originally contemplated, only six months of the year. As "honorable senators probably know, in earlier times a rauch favoured form of torture practised in some countries against offending persons was to place them on a rack and then, by mechanical means, to stretch them until they were properly accommodated to the size of the bed they must occupy. This flour tax will be torture akin to that, and, make no mistake, it will be paid by the working classes  who, indeed, pay all forms of taxation with the exception, perhaps, of the land tax, which cannot be passed on to the consumer of commodities. In order to persuade us to pass the bill without protest, the Minister told us in effect that the Government is going to spread the torture over twelve months because it realizes how excessively brutal it would be to confine it to a period of six months. I know what a storm of disapproval will burst over my head  when  I say that people will benefit under this proposal who have no right .or title to any shadow of benefit under it. However, I do not propose to elaborate that aspect of the matter, iki regard to which a question was asked in this chamber to-&lt;lay; the statement contained in it I know to be correct, but the honorable senator who raised it 'was informed that 
The Standing Orders of the Senate do not contain any provision to prevent members of the Senate from voting on a bill in which they will have a direct pecuniary interest. That may be true, but the Constitution and the electoral law contain such a prohibition, and any honest Parliament would take immediate steps to see that no member, who produces wheat and is not in need of this relief should get a fraction of the miserable amount to be provided. 
I much prefer that the wheat-farmers should realize that all that the Government measure is giving them i3 a dole, which will have all the degrading effects that doles have on not only the recipients but also the givers. I want to see every industry, and every individual also, freed from the soul-destroying and morale-killing system of doles. The people to whom, I believe, the Government is desirous of malting available this relief, will not be the ones who will receive it. I was very interested in the remarks made in this connexion by  Senator Johnston.  Honorable senators invariably are interested in the honorable senator's speeches because usually he is in a fighting mood, and even though we may disagree with his views, we all like a fighter. I have never seen the honorable gentleman so happy or so convinced that everything is right with the world as he appeared this afternoon. He told us  ad nauseum  - for we have heard them repeated so often - of the horrors which beset the wheat-farmer. He referred in harrowing terms to the drought, as a result of which the wheat would not grow; to excessive rain, which caused the wheat to rust, so that either the farmers had no crop or one deteriorated by disease; and finally, to the plagues of grasshoppers, which consumed the sorry remnant of all that the farmer had not got. I admire the honorable senator's ability to paint word pictures that would strike terror into the hearts of unsuspecting Labour senators, but I was amazed that he did not touch upon the real pests affecting the wheatgrower. He was silent upon the subject of interest; he had nothing to say of the toll taken of the farmers by those bloodsucking interest-mongers, those leeches of the financial system, who are never satisfied until their victim has been bled white. Not one tittle of his eloquence brought down the vials of his wrath on the heads of the shipping combine which is extracting the last penny of freight out of the primary producers; he said not one word about that incubus which is an evil, not only to the wheat-growers, but also to every class of primary producers; not a. word about the speculators who are always gambling in the food required by the people, rigging the market, gambling in futures, and watching every movement in order to be ready to take every opportunity of extracting more and more toll from the consumers; not one word of condemnation of the rake-off taken by those wheat-juggling firms, most of whom have never seen a paddock of wheat, or sown a bushel - gentlemen who operate in palatial brass-plated offices and play -no useful part in the industry from the production of the wheat to the time it reaches the consumer; not one word against the policy of this Government, which he was belauding this after.noon, but which last session he fought relentlessly, although it is impoverishing city dwellers in every part of Australia so that they cannot afford to buy the product of the wheat-farmer or any other primary producer to the extent they would like to do. On the contrary,  Senator Johnston  claimed that honorable senators should support this measure because the Government had received a mandate from the people to do this particular job. 
We all know that the people of this country understood that if the Government were returned, the wheat-farmer would be assisted, but why does not  Senator Johnston  go the whole way and say that while the people endorsed proposals to assist the wheat-farmer, the Government at the election was discreetly, valorously and eloquently silent, about the methods by which it proposed to raise £1,700,000 of the proposed relief. Its spokesmen did not say that this relief was to be provided by the imposition of a flour tax.  Senator Hardy  has challenged the statement that the tax will cause an increase of the price of bread. 
I suggest that this tax will raise the price of bread, and that the Government knows that. It very wisely jettisoned the tax immediately preceding the election, and did not reveal to the people whose votes it sought, its intention to introduce this iniquitous imposition; on the contrary, it pointed to its action in abolishing the tax as a benevolent and magnanimous gesture in the interests of the people. It suggested that it realized that the flour tax was pressing hard on the bulk of the people, and for that reason had been removed. But having got the votes of the community, it immediately revived the infamous tax with the remarkable rapidity for which  Senator Johnston  has commended it. When any representative of the Government made a public utterance upon the possibility of a rise in the price of bread, did he say "We believe it is a villainous impost, and if we had power, would not allow it?" No; what was said whenever the Government was questioned regarding the tax, was to the effect : " This is a side issue ; the Commonwealth Government has not the power under the Constitution to prevent the price of bread from rising as a result of the imposition of flour tax ". Why should statements to this effect be made on behalf of the Government, if the Government knew that the price of bread would not rise as a result of this tax? The Government has always been aware of tho fact that the price of bread would rise, and in fact, is now rising. The Government of New South Wales knows that the price of bread is about to rise, and, without suggesting any' ulterior' motives on the part of that Government, I contend that the fact that it is passing certain legislation is evidence of that knowledge. The Government cannot persuade honorable senators on this side of the House that it was unaware that this tax will result in a rise in the price of bread. 
I not only see no objection, but I would go further and imprison every speculator in the foods of the people. The report of the royal commission says - 
The commission has endeavoured to ascertain how much this will mean in added costs of living to the people of Australia. On the basis of a minimum reduction of 1,330 2-lb. loaves of bread, from each short ton of flour -(2,000 lb.) an increase or decrease of  £5  10s. in the price of flour represents Id. per 2-lb. loaf of bread. 
That may be, but I cannot allow myself to be sidetracked by the Leader of the Senate.  Senator Hardy  referred to the wonderful things which were being done in the United States of America to assist primary production. Anybody who suggests that the courageous programme put into operation by  President  Roosevelt has got America out of the mire; in fact, anybody who denies that that programme has sunk America further into the mire, does not keep abreast of news from overseas. We on this side of the House make some attempt to keep abreast of world affairs, and to bring to bear on problems being considered by this chamber, some knowledge of their basic causes. For that reason,  Senator Hardy's  remarks on the position in America will not convince us, because, while we recognize that a great experiment is being attempted in America, unemployment nevertheless has increased in that country, and, its people because they will not follow a programme similar to that of the Labour party, are getting further into trouble. 
The honorable senator knows that I have said a good deal on that subject from time to time, and he has never been able, by interjection or debate, to show any flaw in the Labour party's monetary policy. I have here a report published in the  Sydwy Morning Herald  which states that the value of agricultural production in Britain now totals £45,000,000 a year. When the Government knows that Denmark, Germany and other countries besides Britain, are subsidizing their primary industries and making it increasingly difficult for Australia to get rid of its surplus production of wheat at a fair price to the grower, why does it surround itself "with an atmosphere of serenity which prevents it from tackling this problem? The Government must know that destitution among the primary producers of this country must increase unless steps are taken to' stabilize primary production on a permanent basis. 
There is another phase of this subject which I cannot pass over, although I shall probably be accused of being harsh, unkind and uncharitable. I shall, however, have to accept that criticism, along with the other political crimes of which I am alleged to be guilty. Last July, two financial authorities in New South Wales spoke of the difficulties of the wheat-growers. I preserved the newspaper extracts containing a report of their speeches, because they appeared to me to be the latest word from the kingdom of Shylock. The first report reads - 
Discounting loose talk about interest rates on bank overdrafts being high,  Mr. T.  B. Heifer, acting chief inspector of the Bank of New South Wales, told tho Wheat Commission to-day that in many cases wheatfarmers' interests charges had been suspended by his bank for the time being. 
No bank manager, especially a gentleman occupying the high position of acting chief inspector of such a great financial institution as the Bank of New South Wales, would mention interest charges to wheat-farmers being reduced if he regarded them as innocent propositions. When  Mr. Heifer  said that his bank would suspend the interest charges he thereby admitted the overpressing burden of such charges. At that time there was a possibility of the Government doing something for the wheat-farmers and accordingly  Mr. Heffer  went on to say - 
The adjustment of debts should bo left until conditions were stabilized, and even this should be a matter not for Government action, but for arrangement between the creditor and debtor on the merits of each particular case. 
In other words, that representative of one of the biggest financial institutions in the country said to the Government, " Keep your hands off these unfortunate people. They are our victims. We will do the job. Leave the adjustment to us. They are ours. " 
-Apparently, this is another case of the widow with seven children, the father of ten, or the family of eighteen. I know all about these" unfortunate " shareholders. I am not one of them.  Mr. Heffer  continued - 
In other depressions we have hung on to our men - " Hung on " is a good term - and pulled them through. 
Honorable senators know what happens when a " pull through " is pulled through a gun? It comes out longer and leaner. Similarly the clients of the financial institutions are leaner after they have been " pulled through ". Another newspaper extract contains a statement by a more outspoken official of banking institutions in this country,  Mr. A.  ScottOsborne, assistant to the general manager of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited. The following report is from the Sydney  Sun,  which is not a Labour paper: - 
"NO INTERFERENCE"; WHEAT MEN'S DEBTS. 
Bank Official's Advice. 
Interference between debtor and creditor will seriously increase the difficulties of farmers and others requiring financial assistance. 

 Mr. A. Scott Osborne, assistant to the general manager of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited gave that evidence before the Wheat Commission yesterday. 

 Mr. Duncan, assisting the commission, had asked him for comment on the general proposition put to the commission by scores of witnesses in all States - "A stage has been reached in the wheat industry when the debt burden is so great that the position is intolerable unless there be a reduction of the debt burden, or the suspension of portion of it, free of interest." " The idea put forward ", said  Mr. Duncan,  " is that a tribunal should determine what proportion of a farmer's debt should be suspended for the time being".  Mr. Osborne  said the writing down of debts should be left for adjustment between the debtor and the creditor, without legislative interference. 
Again we hear the same cry " These are our victims. Leave them to us. We will do the job. We will pull them through ". Unless the Government comes to the rescue of these people, I can only say, " God help them ". The relief which the Government proposes to give will not go into the pockets of the wheat-farmers; most of it will be used to reduce their overdrafts with the banks and other financial institutions to which they are indebted. I understand that an honorable senator who does not belong to the Labour party proposes to ask that something be done to ensure that the farmers themselves will get the benefit of this relief. If an amendment to that effect is moved, it will receive the support of every member of this party. It is well that we can turn up the pages of  Hansard  and confront honorable senators with their past perfidy. This afternoon I was guilty of a disorderly interjection while  Senator Johnston  was declaring that he had supported the Scullin Government's: proposal for a wheat pool. 
The honorable gentleman was speaking to a wheat marketing bill in June, 1930.. In connexion with that debate, the late  Senator Chapman,  of South Australia, said - 
Statistics relating to wheat prices from 1909 are to be found in theYear-Book of the Department of Agriculture of the United States of America. These show that in 1923, the year before the Canadian pool was established, the average year's price at Minneapolis, United States of America, was 4s.10?d. a bushel, and the average price at Winnipeg, Canada, was 4s. 2d. The average price for the eight years 1909-23, excluding the world war period, was sa. 6?d. at Minneapolis, and 4s. 3d. at Winnipeg. In September, 1924, after the pool was established, the average price in Minneapolis, United States of America, was 5s. 5d., and in 
Winnipeg, Canada, 5s.11d. a bushel. In October of the same year, the prices were - Minneapolis, 6s.1d.; Winnipeg, 6s. 8d. a bushel. The November and December figures in the same year show practically the same margin. For 1925. the year's average in Minneapolis was 6s.6d., and in Winnipeg, 6s.11d. a bushel. According to the Melbourne  Argus,  of 24th June, 1930, practically the same margin exists to-day. Before the pooling system was introduced the Canadian wheat was lower in price. 
Another South Australian representative,  Senator O'Halloran,  speaking to the same bill, said - 
During one particular period in that twelve months the price of wheat in South Australia dropped from5s. 9d. to 3s.10d. a bushel, but there was no reduction in the price of bread. Either the bakers or millers or both are exploiting the people of this country.  Senator Chapman  pointed out that there is 2 penny worth of wheat in a 2-lb. loaf of bread which to-day is being sold over the counter in South Australia at 5d. a loaf. On that basis the price of wheat would have to rise by1s. a bushel to justify an increase ofd. in the price of a 2-lb. loaf of bread. Unless some form of control is exercised by the State governments, one cannot guarantee that the bakers or millers will not pirate the consumers in the future, as has been their practice in the past. 

 Senator Johnston voted against the bill because the Scullin Government did not place the full responsibility of financing the wheat pool on the Federal Parliament. The honorable gentleman knows that the only way to ensure that a rise in the price of wheat would not mean a rise in the price of bread also was to bring the State governments into it, so that they would accept their share of the responsibility. 
What has all this to do with the bill before the Senate? 
The vast majority of wheat-growers are in a parlous position. As working farmers they should receive a just return for their labour. A basic wage as a minimum is as sound for a self-employed worker as itis for wageearners. With wheat at present prices farmers are working at a loss. It is the duty of the Federal Government to come to their aid for national reasons as well as humanitarian considerations. Production of wheat provides our people with the staff of life and produces exports with which to pay for necessary imports. The Federal Government can materially assist by organizing the marketing of wheat at home and abroad and by fixing a just price in the local market. This can be done by an Australia-wide compulsory pool on the lines of the bill introduced by the Scullin Government in 1930. 
The influence of speculators and market manipulators caused the Senate in reject that measure. 
A similar measure will be brought forward by a Labour Government, and, with a majority in both Houses, will be made effective. 
With a national wheat pool growers will receive full return from the sale of their product without food speculators getting a rakeoff. The fortunes made by big wheat-buying linns arc eloquent testimony of how fanners and consumers are exploited. 
Under the management of a national pool the home consumption price of wheat could lie fixed to give a fair return to growers and the price of flour could be stabilized. Producers and consumers would - so far as the amount consumed locally is concerned - be protected from the fluctuations of the overseas market and from thu manipulations of profiteers. The pool would control the price of wheat for homo consumption, and, through that, would control the price of Hour which, in turn, would govern the price of bread. During the years 191(i-17 and 191S. there was a compulsory wheat pool. The price of wheat was fixed as 4s. Od. per bushel. During the same period the price of broad was 4d. a 2-lb. loaf. Wilh wheat to-day at 2s. 9d. per bushel the price of bread is 4d. a 2-lb. loaf. Although wheat is 2s. a bushel lower than it was in  1916.  101" and 191S the price of bread is the same, and wages are approximately the same. Tt is evident from these facts that the farmer could be given a higher price for his wheat without increasing the price of bread, provided there was effective control by a national wheat pool. 
There is only one country in the world where the problem of primary production has been tackled successfully by any government. Not long ago a gentleman attached to the Secretariat of the International Labour Office at Geneva visited Queensland. He informed me that he was not so much interested in what Queensland had done in industrial, economic, or social legislation, as in what it had achieved in stabilizing agricultural production. He said that what Queensland has done in connexion with the sugar industry is a marvel to the world. I expected the ribald mirth of disorderly senators opposite, but the statement is true. He further informed me that every time a delegate at Geneva says that certain things cannot be done, others arc able to point to what had been accomplished in Queensland. The Labour party contends that what has been done for the sugar industry - that great national industry which is the safeguard of our national White Australia principle - -can also be done for other industries. Although the sugar industry has been stabilized, those engaged in tilling the soil, growing and cutting cane, refining the sugar, and, in fact, in every branch are receiving a fair deal, and the price of the product is lower in Australia than in most other countries. When honorable senators opposite continually and with such unholy glee attack us and ask how we would control the wheat industry we are always able to reply that " the labourer is worthy of his hire," and that the wheatfarmer is one of the most important labourers, on the land. If given an opportunity, which perhaps we shall not have for a time, we on this side of the chamber propose to do for every primary producer what the people of Australia in their wisdom have been wise enough to do for the sugar industry. 
.- It has been interesting to listen to the heroics of honorable senators opposite who profess to represent the poorer section of the Australian people, and who have endeavoured to show that this Government is interested only in the welfare of the wealthy. This bill is an honest attempt to deal partially with the distress which exists amongst the wheat-growers, and I am glad to know that  Senator Collings  and the members of his party intend to support it. If he and other honorable senators opposite refrained from criticizing the Government unfairly, their statements would have carried much more weight.  Senator Collings,  who represents a State where the price of wheat is fixed, knows that in consequence of a fixed price the people of Queensland have to pay more for their bread than is paid in any other part of Australia. 
The price of bread in Queensland is much higher than that at which it has been sold in Victoria during the last year or two. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - That is not a point of order. 
When bread was being sold in certain suburbs in Victoria at  5½d.  to 6d. for a 4-lb. loaf, I visited similar shops in Brisbane and found that the price charged was 8d. and 9d. I naturally concluded that the fixing of the price of wheat was responsible for the difference in the prices of bread in the two States, if the proposal supported by  Senator Collings  and others for the establishment of a Commonwealth compulsory wheat pool were adopted, and the price of wheat were fixed, consumers would have to pay a higher price for bread. There may be discrepancies, the margin of profit may be too large, but, taking the question by and large, if wheat can be purchased for 2s 6d. a bushel now it must follow that when the price of wheat goes up to 4s. a bushel those who want bread will have to pay more for it. So the hurden will be spread over the whole community and not placed only on the poorer section of it, exactly as will be the case with the flour tax; it will necessitate in all probability a slight increase of the price of bread, but every person in the community will have to pay that increase. The poorer sections of the community are the largest consumers of bread, but they still would be so if wheat went up to 5s. or 6s. a bushel, and would feel the burden just as heavy as they will feel it now with the imposition of the flour tax. 
The Government cannot refuse to allow it to be passed on if it is on a fair basis. The honorable senator suggested that the torture was to be applied to the workers gradually, that first this legislation was to operate for six months, and now it is proposed for twelve months, but, if the honorable senator has his way - if a compulsory wheat pool were established, and the price of wheat were fixed at such a figure as to increase the price of bread- the torture would be applied permanently to the people. I am sure the honorable senator does not want that to happen.  Senator Barnes  and  Senator Collings  accused the Government of being untrue to their trust in having remitted a large amount of taxation during the last two or three years. The truth is that the lower the. taxation is in any country the more prosperous ,that country becomes, because more work is found for the people. If capital is placed in the hands of individuals, it is spread over a wider area than can possibly be the case if it is retained by the Treasury. That has been the experience of every country in the world. I regard the bill as an honest attempt to meet the difficulty so far as is possible at the present time. I do not welcome it at all. I deprecate the necessity for any measure of this kind, and hope the day will arrive when, through the existence of a better market for our products, there will be no necessity for such expedients; but I would rather see this thing done piecemeal than place a permanent burden unnecessarily upon the people in the way that  Senator Collings  advocates. I believe there is a possibility, with relief being granted from time to time, as circumstances warrant, and to the extent that the Government can afford, of the old order of things returning and prosperity reigning again, even amongst the wheat-farmers of Australia.  Senator Johnston  to-day spoke of what he called the unfair distribution of the aid given to the wheat-growers a short time ago, but his computation as regards the discrimination shown had no sound basis. It cannot be contended that there is no unfairness in the distribution of relief to wheat-growers on an acreage basis, because it is well known that, whilst one acre of land used to produce wheat may have cost £20 to put into a satisfactory condition for the purpose, another may be made quite suitable for the production of wheat for an expenditure of two or three pounds. That shows that acreage is not a fair basis of computation at all. The yield also must be taken into consideration.  I  know some land devoted to growing wheat from which more than from eight to ten bushels an acre cannot be reaped, but  I  know other land which will return regularly 60 bushels to the acre.  I  hope that  Senator Barnes, Senator Collings  and others on the other side of the chamber will eventually realize that the Government is fulfilling the pledges which it gave to the people before the last election. 
Earlier, when the honorable senator was absent,  I  explained that if a price were fixed for wheat under the provisions of a wheat pool in all probability it would become necessary to increase the price of bread. 
It would be necessary, provided that the present margin between the prices of flour and bread is fair. In some States and in some cases I believe that that margin ought to be reduced. I hope the measure will have a speedy passage. and that the relief to be afforded by the operation of the tax will substantially help the wheat-grower* in their difficulties. 
.- I congratulate the Government upon doing something for the wheat-growers who, to our regret, are in a perilous position through the collapse of world prices, and through no fault of their own. This Government will find some real money to distribute to the wheat-growers. I shall not say whether it is enough, or whether the method of raising it is the best that could be found. 
The Government will provide £4,000,000; that is money which will buy the necessaries of life and other things, whereas the Scullin Government, which the honorable senator supported, although it legislated for a dole of £4,000,000  -  because after all this too is only to dole - made no provision to find the money. This Government is at least finding £4,000,000, whereas the Scullin Government simply gave an IOU, which the people of this country have been meeting ever since. This is the third dole- a Christmas dole of £4,000,000 to the wheat-growers. It is much better than nothing, but it will not bring the price of wheat up to anything like actual production costs.  Senator Collings,  who made quite a good speech to-night, was wrong in one figure. He based the amount of the dole on a wheat price of 2s. 9d. a bushel, but the average price of wheat at seaboard in Australia to-day from Perth right round to Sydney is 2s. 6d. a bushel, so that £4,000,000 is not nearly enough. If the Government could fulfil the promise that was really made to the wheat-growers of a bounty of £4,000,000 based on wheat at 3s. a bushel, seeing that the price to-day is only 2s. 6d., and the quantity to be dealt with is estimated at 120,000,000 bushels, an additional £3,000,000 would be required, unless the unexpected happened, and wheat went up to 3s. a bushel again. It may rise a little above to-day's price, but I do not think it will reach 3s. I congratulate the royal commission on its reports, of which numbers 1 and 2 have already been issued. The commission has shown great ability, and done excellent work, and we look forward to the third report, which, I understand, will bring the inquiry to a conclusion. I should like to deal with the cost of wheat as it affects the price of bread, because honorable senators opposite have based the whole of their attack upon the Government's policy on that part of it which provides for the finding of a certain sum of money by means of a sales tax on flour. I do not like that tax, nor does anybody else, because we must, in fairness, admit that the greatest consumers of bread are the poorer classes of the community. That is beyond argument, but the price of wheat should have very little to do with the price of bread. The anomalies that exist and the unfairness which honorable senators opposite have pointed out and as to which I entirely support them, are exemplified by the disparity between the price the farmer gets for his wheat and the price the consumer has to pay for his bread. In eastern Riverina, the returned soldier  wheat-growers, whose lot I have 'been trying to improve, sold their wheat delivered at the railway station in bags last March at 2s. a bushel. They had no facilities to bake their own bread, and the baker whose shop was within 100 yards of the station where they delivered their wheat charged them, and is still charging them, 6d. a 2-lb. loaf and ls. a 4-lb. loaf. There is a great disparity there.  Senator Collings  in his outburst of eloquence to-night was very scathing about the flour tax. This has its amusing side because the honorable senator would save the wheatgrower by fixing a home consumption price for wheat, forgetting that that would put up the price of flour and bread in just the same way as a flour tax does. The cream of the joke is that the honorable senator applauded the arrangement in the sugar industry whereby an embargo is placed upon the importation of sugar - this is equivalent to a fixed price - and the surplus of local production is sold on the open markets of the world just as we shall have to sell our surplus wheat. The honorable senator, however, did not state that the impost that the consumers of Australia will have to pay through the flour tax will be at the most 3£d. a family a week, whereas, year after year, with a fixed price of 4d. a lb. for sugar, which is 2d. a lb. above what the imported article could be landed here for, with an average consumption of 122 lb. a year, the impost on the ordinary family works out at  over ls. a week. I am not necessarily saying that that is unwarranted, but why not be fair all round? The commission shows that the maximum impost on a family through the flour tax will He only 3id. a week. The figure I gave of over ls. a week for sugar is based on the Statistician's figures. Whether it is absolutely correct or not, the honorable senator will admit that sugar costs the average family in Australia much more than the flour tax can possibly cost it. 
The honorable senator must know that the home consumption price of sugar is 4d. per lb., and that sugar could be landed in Australia for one-half that price. 
.Sugar is as much a household necessity as bread, but it happens to be a Queensland product.  Senator Collings  and his Queensland colleagues have made statements concerning this proposal which I maintain are not fair to the Government or the  wheat-growers. The public should know the truth. It should be told that the maximum effect of the flour tax on the average Australian household will be 3*d. a week, whereas householders are paying three times that amount for the stabilization of the sugar industry, about which, let me say, I am not necessarily complaining. 
I am quoting the Statistician's figures. To me it is amazing that the Queensland representatives in this chamber should make such a concerted attack upon this modest flour tax in view of the fact that the Commonwealth has been- so liberal in its treatment of the sugar, cotton, peanut and butter industries and many others in which  Queeensland  is so vitally interested. What would be the position of the Queensland butter industry but for the stabilization scheme established as the result of Commonwealth legislation ? 
Honorable senators opposite are endeavouring to mislead the people as to the probable effect  which  the Governments proposals to assist the wheat industry will have on consumers of bread. They claim that it will increase the cost of living, yet in the next breath declare that they would approve of proposals to fix the price of wheat. What is the difference between fixing the price of wheat and fixing the price of flour? Both must, to a certain extent, increase the price of bread to Australian consumers. 
That, I admit, has been done in Queensland, and I take this opportunity to put  Senator Payne  right about that matter.0 The annual report of the Queensland Price Fixing 
Commission, states that with flour in Queensland at £9 5s.. a tan, the price of a 2r-lb. loaf is 4£d., whereas in Sydney, with flour at £8 a ton, the price of a 2-lb loaf is 5£d. The Government's intention is1 to give the wheat farmer 3d. a bushel, plus a certain sum to be distributed on an acreage basis. This will amount to an all over average of about 6d. a bushel. In the case of the more efficient growers whose yield may be higher, it will not amount to so much. In my district it. will represent about 44d. a bushel - 3d a bushel bounty, plus the acreage allowance - but for the whole of Australia it will, I understand, work out at about 6d. a bushel, based on a price of 3s. a bushel at seaboard, which every one knows is considerably below the actual cost of production. The price to-day at seaboard is 2s. 6d. a bushel. "We have heard something during this debate about the price of wheat in relation to the price of bread, and, quoting from figures published in the latest issue of the Price Fixing Commission in Queensland, I have already corrected  Senator Payne's,  statement, in regard to bread prices in. Brisbane and Sydney.. Let us now consider the position, in New Zealand. Last year the price- of wheat there was 4s. 9d- a bushel at country railway sidings, and although the price of wheat in Australia at country railway sidings was less than one half that amount, the price of bread in New Zealand was the same as in Australia. This disparity in bread prices discloses a serious leakage somewhere. The resultto the wheat-grower is most unfortunate, because directly and indirectly, through the tariff, our primary producers pay the bulk of the taxation- raised in this country. 
I understand that  Mr. Forde,  in the House of Representatives yesterday, quoted  wheat at 4s. 6d. a bushel in Queensland, and went on to say that bread in that State was cheaper than elsewhere in the Commonwealth where wheat prices were -much lower. He was quite right. Queensland authorities have wisely taken steps to prevent profiteering by fixing prices for wheat, flour and bread. When the Government introduced a sales tax on flour the equivalent of +d. a 2-lb. loaf of bread, the price to consumers was increased by Id. a 2-lb. loaf, but the existence of the machinery for pricefixing in Queensland  enabled the  authorities there to prevent the stealing by some one of the extra id. The same report states that the distribution of bread costs  1½d.  a 2-lb. loaf, or one half as much again as the cost of making the bread. 
As regards the method of raising the £4,000,000 required to give relief to wheat-growers,. I admit that no one likes to impose a tax, but the Government's proposal is not so iniquitous as honorable senators opposite would have the people believe it. is. If the world's price for wheat rose to 3s. 6d. a bushel, the tax about which honorable senators opposite complain would practically disappear. The average family spends more on chocolate creams. 1" admit that the £4,000,000 could have been, raised by other methods, but I do not know whether they would have been more acceptable. A home consumption price for wheat of 5s. a bushel, a very moderate price I contend, on a marketable crop of 110,000,000 bushels, would be equal to an increase of 8d. a bushel on the present price of 2s.. 6d. a bushel at the seaboard. That would return to the grower only 3s. 2£d. a bushel gross. 
I am afraid the commission and the Government Have taken, a too optimistic view of the world wheat position. The Government's proposal is based on the supposition that the price for wheat would be 3s. a bushel at seaboard. I fail, to see how it can reach that level, but I hope it will. If honorable senators will read the report on world trade contained in. the journal of the International Chambers of Commerce, they will learn that the present world depression is the effect, and. not. the cause of the fall in commodity prices. Commodity prices fell before the world depression manifested itself. The tillers of the soil are creators of wealth and are also the best buyers. It is estimated 'that one half of the people in the world are engaged in some form of primary production. Many people are under the impression that the present collapse in wheat prices is due entirely to the fact that European countries which formerly were importers of wheat are now producing sufficient for their own requirements. Germany, France, Italy and Switzerland have so formulated their policies as to encourage the development of land industries. In Switzerland the price for wheat to-day is in the vicinity of 13s. 6d. a bushel, but the Government of that country feels that it is better to pay even that high price in order to prevent the people from flocking to the cities aud living on the dole. In France, Germany and Italy prices for wheat have been fixed at a high level. It is, however, erroneous to suppose that wheat production in those, countries has vastly increased. Actually, they are now up to their pre-war production figures. During, and for a few years after, the war, wheat-growing in most European countries declined seriously. The consequent improved demand and high prices resulted in an enormous increase of acreage under wheat in countries like Canada, Argentina and Australia, but as European countries are now meeting their own requirements, the market for surplus wheat is restricted. 
This attempt by the Government is an honest one to do the right thing by our wheatgrowers and is in accordance with the findings of the Wheat Commission both as regards the amount of money to be made available and the method of distribution. However, we all are looking forward to proposals which will stabilize this important industry. Although 64,000  wheat-farmers  are producing wheat at a loss to themselves, it has to be borne in mind that they are creating wealth for this nation - cheap foodstuffs for our people, and millions of pounds per annum brought into this country as the result of the sale of our surplus wheat overseas, because that wheat is saleable at some price, however low. The credits that are created overseas are available to help pay the external dent, and are doing a great national work. Although I cannot' foresee world prices for wheat rising sufficiently to enable a farmer to grow wheat in Australia at a reasonable wage or any profit to himself, he is worth saving; we must try to keep him on the land, producing wealth for the nation, if not for himself. We must give this industry more solid assistance than doles at 
Christmas time as we have been doing for the past three years. The Government must consider this problem at its base, with a view to devi.3i.ng a long range policy. 1 contend that such a policy  must  be based on a home consumption price for wheat sufficient to keep th« farmer above water. About one quarter of our wheat is consumed in Australia," and allowing a home consumption price of 6s. a bushel, and 2s. 6d. for the balance exported, the average price would be a figure at which the farmer would be able to succeed in his industry. I hope, and pray, that this Government will deal with the problem from the angle I have suggested. The newly-formed composite Government, judging from its actions  even  at this early stage, promises to surpass any other government of which I have had experience during my sixteen years in Parliament. The statement by honorable senators opposite that through the remission of taxation the Government is lifting the burdens only from the shoulder3 of the rich, is 'so much " bunk ". Any business. ma« realizes that alleviation of taxation benefits every section; it tends towards reduction of the cost of living and increased employment. I again express the hope that the Government will formulate a long-range policy based om a home consumption price to help this industry. 
It is futile at this stage to repeat the causes of the difficulties of the wheatgrowers, but T shall draw attention to a few facts. It is because of the world policy of economic nationalism, in which Australia is a guilty participant, that we find our wheat industry in difficulties to-day. If Australia, Canada and other wheat-exporting countries had not adopted the idea of becoming selfsufficient through building up secondary industries by high tariffs, we would not be experiencing our present troubles. About 1925-26 mid-European countries, which previously were the largest customers for  wheat  from Australia, Argentina and Canada, found difficulty in selling their goods on the world's markets, because the wheat exporting countries, including Australia, were attempting to build up secondary industries. Those mid-European countries then had to seek other means of employing their people. Because we refused to take their goods they eventually refused to take primary products from us. Prior to 1930 the main wheat-importing countries - Italy, France and Belgium - bought 205,000,000 bushels per annum. "When other countries erected tariff barriers against the goods of these countries, they retaliated by placing a tax on foreign wheat. This had the result of giving an impetus to the production of wheat in Italy, France and Belgium, and to-day they are growing sufficient wheat for their own requirements, whilst at present France is able to export wheat at a much lower price than formerly it paid for it. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that all this resulted because of Australia's tariff policy? 
Honorable senators opposite have raised the question of whether any farmer who has paid Federal income tax has any right to share in the wheat bounty. I remind those honorable gentlemen that many wheat-farmers have other irons in the fire; they have to produce side lines or they would not be able to carry on. Thus it is probable that some wheat-farmers are making profits to-day, although not out of wheat growing. Is it right that any of these farmers should be condemned to continue growing wheat, and wheat alone, at a loss? Certainly not. Those who desire to protect this industry, which has been one of the strongest factors in bringing real wealth into this country during the past generation, will agree that if the wheat industry is allowed to fail, our secondary industries generally will fail also. In connexion with the suggestion that a discriminatory clause should be inserted in this measure to exclude farmers paying income tax from benefiting under the bounty, I point out that no such discrimination is made against the dairy farmers in the same category under the general grant of £6,000,000 to the butter industry. Does the Government investigate the income of manufacturers who are protected by tariffs? Are the incomes of these people investigated before it -is decided whether or not they are entitled to benefits under the tariff? That course is not followed in their case, but when a man on the land,' failing to make money out of wheat growing, engages in other forms of primary industry at a profit, it is suggested that he should be deprived of any relief under this legislation. 

 Senator SAMPSON (Tasmania) [9.48J. - I should not have participated in this debate had not an Opposition senator, whose addresses to the Senate reveal a charming humility and modesty, introduced the name of a very gallant and honorable gentleman, a personal friend of mine, who fought with me in France where he was badly wounded at my side. I refer to Captain Tom Heifer, of the 15th Australian Battalion, now Chief Inspector of the Bank of New South Wales. The extracts from some remarks by  Mr. Heffer  quoted by  Senator Collings  to-night showed what an extraordinarily sound and humane policy the bank is pursuing. That institution has been carrying many of its clients, and will continue to do so, for the simple reason that it does not wish to destroy their* assets or to wipe out of existence those who are doing their best. Time after time I have observed instances of the banks assisting men to carry out various propositions, and I would say that, generally, the policy of the banks with regard to primary producers is sound and humane. I wish to disabuse the mind of  Senator Collings,  if possible, of the idea that compulsory pools are a panacea for all our ills, especially those associated with production and marketing. Many honorable senators will remember the long and interesting debate which took place in 1930 on the Wheat Bill of that year, and the close  result when the division was taken. Because of articles in the press, tho eyes of the people of Australia wore on the Senate. We can trace the world's troubles in connexion with wheat back t'o the days of the wheat pools of Canada and Argentina, and the Farm Board of the United States of America. With several other honorable senators, I was in Canada in the summer of 1928, when the Canadian harvest was in full swing. That year record wheat crops were harvested in many countries.  The  slogan of the men associated with the pools which I have mentioned was "wheat at 1 dollar 50 cents". One of  these  men said to mc, " These guys over there in Europe have got to pay 1 dollar 50 cents for wheat or they won't get any." They placed "a pistol at the head of European countries that year with the result that they had a carry-over of hundreds of millions of bushels of wheat. 
If a pistol is placed at the head of any one possessing self respect or pluck, he will retaliate. That is what has happened in Europe. Countries which previously had imported wheat decided to grow their own cereals. Instead of being a big importer of wheat, France has produced1 so large; a crop this year that there, is talk of destroying some of the- wheat there. Far from being a cure for the ills associated with wheat throughout the world, compulsory pools only aggravate, the trouble. Some persons advocate wheat pools as if they were something new, but wheat pools are mentioned in holy writ. The Book of Genesis tells us that Joseph started the first wheat pool in Egypt. This bill provides the opponents of the Government with an opportunity to make political capital, for a. tax on flour is never popular. It is all very well for economists and others to- dilate on the iniquity of a tax on the poor man's food. One honorable senator, almost with tears running down his cheeks, told us recently that he had seen young Australians playing tennis bare-footed because they had not the wherewithal to buy shoes. What an extraordinary state of affairs! Has the honorable senator compared the price of a pair of shoes with that of a 'tennis racquet? Such ridiculous statements defeat their own object; yet we hear them repeatedly. Because of the opportunities which flour tax legislation affords an opposition to make political capital, it is reluctantly introduced by any government, I suggest, therefore, that in  reimposing  the flour tax the Government has acted courageously. It was faced with the need to assist the wheat industry, and of a number of methods, most of them distasteful, it chose that which it thought was least objectionable. Those who oppose this tax have not suggested a workable alternative. If we do not accept the temporary expedient of a tax on flour, we must either let the wheat industry perish - and no honorable senator would agree to that being done - or raise, a. loan to assist the wheat-growers thereby placing a permanent burden on the taxpayer. The world is so enmeshed in a net of financial and economic troubles that every country is trying to cut its way out, heedless of what becomes of the others. Australia, like every other country, must do the best thing possible in abnormal circumstances. I suggest that the Government did not reimpose this unpopular tax because of any liking for a tax on flour, but because it regarded it as the best palliative to apply at the present time. Australia cannot seriously consider the adoption of a policy of crop restriction in regard to wheat, for that would be a policy of despair. In a world where poverty exists in the midst- of plenty, the cure is not to abolish plenty. Such a policy does not appeal to one's reason. The raising of £4,000,000 to assist the wheat industry is an expedient to ward off the great calamity of forcing many industrious wheat-growers off the land. The idea which prevails in the minds of a number of persons, who do not stop to think, that compulsory pools are a panacea for all the ills from which, the wheat, industry is suffering is quite fallacious. I should not have spoken had I not wanted to emphasize that one point. We hear so much talk and get so much fury and sound in this chamber that I am reminded of the wise old Dionysius  who said, " Let your speech be better than silence, or be silent." 
SenatorBRENNAN (Victoria- Assistant Minister) [10.1]  . -  What I shall have to say in reply will be extremely brief, but brief as it will be, I ask leave to continue my remarks at  a  later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
[10.6].- I move- 
That Standing Order No. 08 be suspended up to and including the 14th inst. for the purpose of enabling new business  to  be commenced after half -past 10 o'clock at night. 
Between now and midnight, at which hourwe hope to adjourn, other bills may be received, and unless that Standing Order is suspended they cannot be placed on the notice-paper so that the later stages may be taken to-morrow. 
Question put. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch).  - There being an absolute majority of the whole number of senators present, and no dissentient voice, I declare the motion carried. 
 Although this bill has paused a fair amount of discussion nothing very original has been suggested. I should be sorry, especially after the nice things said about myself by honorable senators opposite, not to reciprocate their kindness, but I can hardly refrain from saying in the most charitable sense, that they did not fail to recognize that this cry about taxing the food of the poor is quite a good one to place before their 'Constituents. That is shown by the fact that although there has been a good deal of criticism there has has not been, as  Senator Sampson  pointed out. one practical suggestion put forward  as  an alternative to the Government's proposals. It would appear from what we have heard to-night and what we have learned outside, that practically every political party in Australia is in favour of a home consumption price for wheat. As has been pointed out by the various speakers, the effect of such a price must be exactly the same as that of the proposals now put forward by theGovernment, with the exception that while the Government's proposals are only of a temporary nature, in the hope that' some other form of assistance may be devised later, a home consumption price as supported by honorable senators opposite would be permanent. But, even if such a plan were superior to that provided in this bill, it is, as I pointed out earlier, impossible of realization for the present harvest, owing to the constitutional difficulties. My friend,  Senator Collings,  said that the workers pay all the taxes. 
The honorable senator excluded the land tax with which I cannot deal at this juncture. If that is so, I am surprised that the honorable senator should have proposed that remitted taxation should be reimposed in order to provide what will be obtained by a flour tax. The tax on flour, after all, is providing a relatively small proportion of the £4,000,000 required.  Senator Collings  and others have referred to the sugar agreement, but I am reminded by one who knows more of the history of these things than I do, that the increase in the price of sugar came as a result of the efforts, not of the Labour party, but of the present VicePresident of the Executive Council  (Mr. Hughes)  when leading a Nationalist Government, and the fixation of the price was done by a Liberal Government in Queensland. That is rather by the way. As to whether the workers pay all the tax, let me not rely upon my own  ipse dixit,  but cite the opinion of Professor Giblin, who has been quoted with approval by those opposed to the principle of this  bill.  He said - 
The broad result of the above discussion is to show that assistance by  a  home price to  any  export industry is mostly paid  by  the export industries as  a  whole. 
If it is true that the workers will pay slightly more than their proportionate share of the tax proposed in this measure, what amount will they pay? On page 9 of the report of the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry I find the following: 
The commission has endeavoured to ascertainhow much this will mean in added cost of living to the people of Australia. On the basis of a minimum production of 1,330 2-lb. loaves of bread from each short ton of flour (2,000 lb.) an increase or decrease of £5 10s. in the price of flour represents1d. per 2-lb loaf of bread. 
Allowances must, however, be made for other costs. . . . Pending the completion of the investigation of the bread industry, the commission considers that an increase of £5 a ton in the cost of flour may be expected to result in an increase of1d. in the price of a 2-lb. loaf of bread to the consumer. 
The Government proposes a tax of only £2 12s. 6d. a ton, which, on that analogy, means something just over½d. on a 2-lb. loaf, or an increased cost to the average working family of only about 3½d. a week. We may be asked why . people should have to pay even that small sum. The answer is to be found in a quotation from a memorandum by Professor Giblin on " The Home Price and the Export Industries ", which is attached as appendix  A  to the commission's report. Professor Giblin there says - 
No one in general would willingly raise the price of the necessaries of life. All tradition is against it. When, however, an important primary industry like dairying - we may substitute " wheat-growing " for " dairying " in this instance- is threatened with disaster on account of a fall in the world prices- which is exactly the position of the wheat growing industry to-day - it is felt to be reasonable that the whole community should contribute to help it over the lean times. Such a contribution is felt,  by  the public and the press, to  be  made by a  home  price. Each consumer is called upon to do his share to sustain the threatened industry. 
That is our whole position. We said at the outset that this bill does not actually follow in every detail the report of the Royal Commission, but that it at least follows in broad outlines what the commission recommended. That is the explanation of why the Government felt it to be necessary to give some help to the industry by the means it has adopted. It feels that a great industry is in peril, and that the need for assistance is urgent. The Government has not acted through mere love of imposing taxes. I shall not reply to those who suggest that some effort has been made to save our friends and to put the burden of taxation on to those who are least able to bear it. That sort of criticism does not add anything either to the reputation of the Senate or to our knowledge of the subject. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 (Short title). 
Through inadvertence, the members of the Opposition missed the opportunity to call for a division on the motion for the second reading. We were fully determined to divide the Senate, and distinctly called " No ", when the question was put. I desire now to record the fact that we were most emphatically against the second reading. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Definitions). 
. -"  Public charitable institution " means " a public hospital, a public benevolent institution, or a religious organization", and includes " any public organization which the Commissioner is satisfied is established for the relief of unemployed persons ". I move - 
That after the word "established" the wards "and maintained " be inserted. 
It is not to be sufficient that the organization should merely have been established ; it must be maintained for the relief of unemployed persons. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause as amended agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Exemptions). 
The clause provides that the flour tax shall not be payable by any persons in respect of a number of things set out in paragraphs  a  to  j.  I move - 
That the following new paragraph be inserted at the end of sub-clause 1 : - ";or 
sold; 
held; or 
held for sale, for use as, or in the manufacture of, any food for infants or invalids (being a food specified in the Third Schedule of the Sales Tax Regulations as in force from time to time), and in respect of which the commissioner is satisfied that the flour will be so used.". 
The object of the amendment is to exempt flour when used in the manufacture of foods for infants and invalids. I take it that this will meet with the approval of every honorable senator. During the passage of these bills in the House of Representatives the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  said that the Government desired to accede to the suggestion that flour for this purpose should be exempted from the tax, and he gave an undertaking that if such a course were practicable, an amendment would be introduced in the Senate to achieve that result. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause further consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 19 agreed to. 
Clause 20 (Time for payment of tax). 
I direct attention to what may be a small matter, but concerning which we should have some explanation. This clause enacts that where the amount of tax payable upon flour held in stock on the seventh day of January, 1935, exceeds £5, the tax may be paid in equal monthly instalments, the first of which is payable on or before the 10th January, 1935, and other instalments on or before the 21st day of each succeeding month. What is the reason for the variation in the dates of month ? 
.- Clause 16 provides for the lodgment on or before, the 10th January, 1935, of returns of flour held by a non-miller on the 7th of that month. The requirement of returns within three days of the taxable date is intended to obviate evasion of tax which might occur if the returns were not required to be lodged until the usual date, viz., 21 days after the commencement of the tax. As the bill will become law some considerable time before the 7th January, 1935, it is considered that all taxpayers will be able to arrange for taking stock on the date of commencement of the tax, and in that event there will be no reason why the return of stocks so taken should not be forwarded forthwith to the Commissioner. Clause 16 should be read with clause 20, which provides for payment of tax at the time of lodgment of return unless the tax exceeds £5, when the tax is payable by equal monthly instalments of £5 or 20 per cent. of the tax, whichever is the greater. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 21 to 23 agreed to. 
Clause 24 (Refunds of tax). 
This clause provides that where the Commisisoner finds that a tax has been overpaid and is satisfied that it has not been passed on by the taxpayer to some other person, or, if passed on,has not been refunded by the taxpayer, the Commissioner "may" refund the amount of tax found to be overpaid. Why is this provision permissive instead of being mandatory? 
The clause adopts a principle applying in the administration of the sales tax, viz., where a taxpayer who has overpaid tax has passed that tax on to his customers, a refund will not be granted to him unless he first of all credits his customer with the overpayment. At first sight it is difficult to understand why the word "may" is used instead of the word "shall", but I assume that it will be construed as being mandatory on the Commissioner to make the refund. 
I fully support the remarks of  Senator Duncan-Hughes.  The discretion of the Commissioner in connexionwith refunds of lax should not be permitted. If the Commissioner is satisfied that there has bean an overpayment of the tax, it should be refunded. All through this long clause there is this permissive provision when, as a matter of fact, it should he mandatory on the Commissioner to make refunds of overpayments. It is not the intention of the Parliament that there should be any doubt about the matter. If the taxpayer is entitled to a refund, he should receive it. If  Senator Duncan-  Hughes moves an amendment to strike out the word "may" wherever it occurs throughout this clause with a view to insert the word " shall ", I shall support him. 
 The wording of this clause conforms to the language of all taxation measures, so it is rather late in the day to seek to alter it. It has been laid down by the highest legal authorities that in taxation measures of this kind, the word "may", when used in what appears to be the permissive sense is, in fact, construed as being mandatory. If the commissioner does not do it, then, apart from the fact that he commits a breach of duty, he could, in fact, be compelled to do it. 
That necessity could arise, but to imagine such a proceeding is as difficult as it is to imagine the commissioner refusing to refund money which he is satisfied he should refund.  Senator Grant  suggested, that on every case which arose, the commissioner might say " I will not do' it," or " I want to be satisfied." If such an attitude were generally adopted, it would upset our whole legal system. A judge, for instance, might say "I know what is right, but I am going to do what is wrong." The form in this clause, I assure the honorable senator, is the customary form employed in taxation measures of this kind. No evil is likely to arise under this provision, but I point out to honorable senators that by altering this clause in the way suggested, we would make it stand out in contradistinction to the other clauses, and possibly necessitate a re-survey of the whole measure to see if alterations were not involved elsewhere. 
Clause  24,  sub-clause  7,  provides that -  " Subject to this section, the Commissioner shall pay to any person . . " 
In this instance, it is mandatory on the commissioner to refund the tax. 
The clause brought under the notice of the committee by  Senator Duncan-Hughes  refers to cases where tax has wrongly been imposed, and provides that the commissioner "may" make a repayment. Surely the language of the bill should be mandatory in both instances. 
 I accept the Minister's assurance, but in doing so I am a little bit shaken by the point raised by  Senator Payne- 
In my early legal training I learned that " shall " is mandatory and " may " is permissive. But I accept the assurance of the Minister that a similar provision has been tested in connexion with other taxing legislation. I do not question the good faith of the Commissioner of Taxation; but I am seeking to ascertain why there should be a difference between the law as it lies on the commissioner and the law as it lies on the taxpayer. If the money is due to the taxpayer why should there not be a direct order that the money shall be repaid? In clause  25  it is provided that a taxpayer " may " lodge an objection; that is permissive. 
But in clause 20, which is very important from the taxpayer's point of view, it is provided - 
Subject to this act, every person liable to pay tax under the provisions of this act shall pay the tax within the time within which he is required by this act to lodge the return. . . . 
I realize that similar language occurs several times in the bill, and whilst accepting the assurance given by the Minister in the meantime, we might postpone detailed consideration of my point until a bill of a similar nature is being dealt with in this chamber next year. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 25 to 33 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Motion (by  Senator Brennan)  proposed - 
That the report he now adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be recommitted for the reconsideration of clause 14. 
When this clause was before- the committee I missed my opportunity to speak on it. I intended to move an amendment to provide that the north-west portion of Western Australia be placed on the same basis as the Northern Territory under this measure, or, alternatively, that the same consideration be given to the taxpayers in the north-west of Western Australia as will be given to the taxpayers in Tasmania. 
It would be useless to recommit the clause, because clearly  Senator Johnston's  proposal is unconstitutional. It would differentiate between States, or parts of States, and that is forbidden by the Constitution. The Northern Territory is in a different position, because it is a territory controlled by the Commonwealth Parliament under its constitutional power. The north-west portion of Western Australia is simply a part of the federation like any other part. 
.- The Minister's refusal to recommit the bill and thus give me the opportunity to put forward arguments which I have not yet expressed is unreasonable. He has also entirely ignored my alternative request that if the north-west portion of Western Australia cannot be placed on the same basis under this bill as the Northern Territory, we should at least put it on the same basis as Tasmania. 
It is not unconstitutional to treat the north-west of Western Australia in the same way that Tasmania is treated. I feel sure that if I were given the opportunity I would convince honorable senators that if it is unconstitutional to treat that part of Western Australia on the same basis as the Northern Territory, it would certainly not be unconstitutional  to treat  it on the same basis as Tasmania, where the whole of the flour tax paid is refunded. 
Amendment negatived. 
I oppose the adoption of the report because I was refused permission to move an amendment at an earlier stage, and also because of the refusal to recommit the bill, notwithstanding that I was advised by the Government whip that I would have an opportunity to submit the amendment. 
Motion agreed to. 
Report adopted. 
I regret that this bill is likely to be passed in an incomplete form, in that it does not do justice to the north-west and Kimberley districts of Western Australia. Clause 14 provides that flour sold or delivered to persons in the Northern Territory shall not be subject to a flour tax; and if the Government had had proper regard for the interests of the north-west of Western Australia, it would have made provision for a similar exemption in respect of that area. 
When that was pointed out I asked for the same refunds of tax as are allowed in the case of Tasmania. There the flour tax payments are refunded in full. 
-I was refused permission to move for the recommittal of the bill after I had received an assurance that I would be given an opportunity to do so. The Senate has sat for only a few days this session, and although I left home to attend its sittings over four weeks ago, we have only sat once in that time. I object to rushing the business through. [ was refused an opportunity to move certain amendments to-night. I am glad that Tasmania has been given certain concessions, but I submit that the people in the north-west of Western Australia are not less worthy of consideration at the hands of the Senate than are those in the Northern Territory and Tasmania. 
.- I intended to divide the Senate on the second reading, but, apparently, the Opposition did not make its voice sufficiently loud to be heard. I, therefore, propose to test the Senate on the third reading. 
I move - 
That thebill benow read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to impose a tax of £2 12s. 6d. a ton on flour manufactured in Australia by any person, and sold or delivered, or usedin the manufacture of goods by him. It is one of the bills requiredto bring into operation the Government's proposals for the imposition of the flour tax already agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affrmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure is to impose a tax of £2 12s. 6d. a ton on flour held in stock by certain persons on the 7th day of January, 1935. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under this measure a  tax  of £2 12s. 6d.  a ton  is to be imposed on  the  flour contained  in  certain imported foods set out  in the  schedule. It deals with a separate class of goods, but  the tax  imposed is the same as  that  provided in the bills just passed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule - 
Allenbury's food; 
Benger's food; 
Biscuits ; 
Bowen's food; 
Cakes ; 
Cremalt; 
Diabetic bread and flour; 
Gluten biscuits, bread, flour and meal; 
Macaroni; 
Mellin's food; 
Mellin's food biscuits; 
Moles tella; 
Neave's food; 
Passover bread; 
Spaghetti ; 
Vermicelli. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out - 
Allenbury's food, Benger's food, Bowen's food, diabetic bread and flour, gluten biscuits, bread, flour and meal, Mellin's food, Mellin's food biscuits, and Neave's food. 
The object of deleting these items on which the tax is levied on importation is to place them in the same category as comparable Australian goods. The Senate having by amendment exempted from tax flour used in the manuture in Australia of foods for infants and invalids, it is necessary to exempt also comparable imported goods so as not to disturb the present competitive position as between Australian and imported goods. 
As a fairly large number of items has been deleted from the schedule, will the Assistant Minister explain why passover bread, used for religious purposes, is not to be exempt? I think that it should be exempt. 
The passover bread, which is used by adults, is not in the same category as the other foods which the House of Representatives is being requested to delete. It is not exempt under any of the other measures in which these particular items are exempt. 
Request agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to subject to a request. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with a request; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
It deals with one aspect of the assistance which the Government proposes to give to the wheat industry for the present season, namely a bounty of three pence a bushel Under, clause 5 the bounty is payable to the grower of wheat which has, on or after the 1st October, 1934, and prior to the commencement of the act, been sold or delivered for sale, or which is sold or delivered for sale on or before the 31st October, 1935, or on or before such later date as is prescribed. Under clause 10, the Governor-General may arrange with the Governor of a State for the payment by a State, on behalf of the Commonwealth, of the bounty payable under the act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under this bill it. is proposed to grant to each State such financial assistance as is necessary to make a payment of 3s. an acre sown by a wheat-grower for grain during the year 1934. The same assistance is also provided for wheat-growers in the Territory for the Seat of Government. Special provisions are made in clause 8 to meet the case of sharefarmers. 
.- The bill provides for the payment of 3s. an acre to wheatgrowers, and it is important to ensure that the money does reach them instead of going entirely to their creditors. That is why I have circulated the following new clause: -  " Nothing in any act or State act which would, but for this section, vest in any authority constituted under that act the right to receive, or require payment to that authority of, the amount paid or payable under this act to a wheat-grower, shall have effect in respect of so much of the amount so paid or payable as does not' exceed Fifty pounds." 
I referred in my speech in the general debate earlier in the evening to this matter. I hope the amendment will commend itself to honorable senators. I have heard of some institutions which have exercised a lien even over part of the maternity bonus granted under another act to distressed settlers. It seems to me very important, when we pass legislation for the relief of wheat-growers, to see that the money goes to the wheatgrowers. This is not a Creditors Belief Bill, but a Wheat Growers Relief Bill. The very proper amendment of which I have given notice will, if carried, ensure, to the amount of £50 on each farm, that the relief goes to the people who do the work and deserve the money - the wheatgrowers themselves, and not their bankers or creditors. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
In this act unless the contrary intention appears - " Wheat-grower " means any person who has sown wheat during the year one thousand nine hundred and thirty-four. 
.  - This definition appears to me to be capable of improvement. A definition passed last year in a similar measure was not satisfactory to my State, where the officer in charge of the Farmers Relief Act declined to pay over certain moneys because he was not satisfied, in the case of share-farming agreements, as to whom they should go. Clause 8 of this bill deals with share farmers; but the present clause does not make clear what a  wheat-grower  is. Who is the person who has sown the wheat? Is it the man  who  goes through the actual physical operation of sowing it, or the man who  owns  the land and gives the employment ? In other words, is it the proprietor or the employee ? Unless this is made clear,  any man  employed on a farm to sow  wheat  may step  in  and claim that, as he  did  the sowing, he is entitled to the relief. That anomaly could be overcome by inserting after the word " who ", the words " by himself or others thus indicating that the money belongs to the proprietor, whether the wheat was sold by himself or by an employee. 
I remind the honorable senator of the old legal maxim that he who does a thing by an agent does it himself. 
Can it be said that  he  has sown the wheat as one having dominion over the land, or has he merely clone it for wages? The purpose in the first place was to amplify the definition of " share farmer ", in order to exclude persons who had merely a financial interest in the products of a farm. I have no hesitation in saying that where a man owns a farm and some other person sows it with wheat for him, the owner who gives the instruction and does the sowing through his agent is the person entitled. The definition in clause 2 does not refer to the physical act of sowing. I refer the honorable senator also to the following wording in clause 6 :  - " for each acre which the wheat-grower satisfies the prescribed authority was sown by him with wheat for grain".  His  suggestion is harmless and might, in other circumstances, be  accepted, but in  this case its adoption would involve sending the bill back to the House of Representatives, and as I can  see none  of the reasons for fear which the honorable gentleman entertains, I ask the committee to allow the clause to stand. 
.- I still think that an employee who sowed wheat would he entitled to claim under this clause or under clause 4 or clause 5. The insertion of a few words, such .as those which I suggested, would make clearer the meaning of the clause. It would not then be left to the court to decide whether a person who has sown wheat on land, may claim under this bill. The delay caused by sending the measure back to the House of Representatives is not a valid argument for not making the amendment. The bill did not reach us until this evening. Surely we are not expected to swallow it holus bolus simply because we  are  nearing the end of the session. However, if the Minister and the committee  are  satisfied that an alteration is not necessary I shall not press my objection. 
 I support  Senator DuncanHughes'  request for a clearer definition of the word " wheat-grower ". Last year the administrator of the fund in South Australia refused applications for a first payment of the bounty because of a doubt as to the eligibility of the persons claiming, and several share farmers were seriously inconvenienced. To overcome the difficulty I got in touch with the Minister, and I believe the Government had fresh regulations drafted for  the  guidance of the administrator in South Australia. 
I am aware of that, but I agree with  Senator DuncanHughes  that the present definition is not sufficiently explicit to put beyond all doubt what persons are eligible to claim. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Payment to wheat-growers). 
 This clause enacts that a person claiming assistance must satisfy the prescribed authority that the land was sown by him with wheat for grain. How can any man do that? In some districts the practice is to have tracks sown for hay around and through wheat paddocks. 
It is extremely difficult to show intention. Probably  Senator" Brennan  will remember that a famous judge on one occasion said that no one could fathom the intent of man because the devil himself did not know the mind of man. Are we to assume that the prescribed authority under this bill will be wiser than the devil? 
The intention of the clause is relieving rather than restrictive. It has been inserted for the benefit of persons who might not participate in the bounty. Farmers who sow for hay are not entitled to this form of relief. There are others who sow for grain, but for one reason or another decide that the crop is not suitable for grain and so cut it for hay. This clause is intended to provide for persons in that position. If they can satisfy the prescribed authority that they did sow for grain, they will be entitled to the assistance provided by this measure. As the intention of the bill is ameliorative, I should think that the prescribed authority would consider the state of the mind of a farmer applying for assistance, and would not be harsh in its judgment. 
-. - Is it intended that farmers who sow wheat for hay shall not participate in the acreage bounty this year as formerly? Under another bill a farmer who sows for barley or oats will be entitled to a rebate of 15s. a ton. Are w* to understand that a man who sows wheat for hay will be excluded from the benefits of this measure? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 and 7 agreed to. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON (Western Australia) [11.59]. - I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted: - " 7a. Nothing in any act or State act which would, but for this section, vest in any authority constituted under that act the right to receive, or require payment to that authority of, the amount paid or payable under this act to a wheat-grower, shall have effect in respect of so much of the amount so paid or payable as does not exceed fifty pounds." 
My object is to ensure that at least £50 of any amount granted to an individual farmer shall go direct to him and not to his creditors. We have already passed an act under which 3d. a bushel is to be paid to the farmer, and we have put no restriction of this kind in it. No doubt a good many creditors will come down on farmers for a share of this grant. There is no question as to the Commonwealth's right to apply such a condition as I propose in any grants it makes to the States for the Constitution empowers the Commonwealth to make such grants on such conditions as it thinks fit. In all grants which the Commonwealth has made to the States in the past, for the purpose of assisting wheat-growers we have prescribed certain conditions to govern the disbursement of those grants. For instance, we have said that certain money was not to be distributed on the basis of production; and we have said that it should not be given to persons with a taxable income. The latter provision was not adhered to in Queensland, according to information supplied by the Leader of the Senate. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.0 until 12.45 a.m. 


 Friday, 14 December 1934 

There are fewer things a farmer in necessitous circumstances needs so badly as a little ready money. Organizations throughout Australia representative of the wheatgrowers, such as the Wheat-growers Union and the Primary Producers Association, have been trying to ensure that out of his crop this season the farmer shall receive a little money that cannot be seized by a creditor. My amendment will afford the Government, which has laid down many conditions governing measures of assistance to the wheatfarmers, an opportunity to give a direct benefit to the farmer himself. I hope the committee will accept the amendment, in order that the grower may receive a little money knowing that his creditor will not be able to take it. I feel sure that if this concession is made under this measure, the farmerwillbe assisted much more effectively to stay on the land than if the money is allowed to be seized by his creditor, who often, when he receives a payment on account, is more inclined to restrict instead of extend credit. 
The amendment provides a striking instance of a proposed legislative action from which would follow results the reverse of what the proposal was intended to achieve. There are many objections to the proposal put forward by the honorable senator, however earnest he may be in his desire to help the grower. He claimed that this is a wheat-grower's relief bill, and not a creditor's relief bill. It is a growers relief bill, but it is not a bill to alter the whole relationship between Commonwealth and States with regard to certain of their respective laws. The point raised by the honorable senator was foreseen by the Government, and a similar proposal was considered by the Attorney-General and myself. We came to the conclusion that it would be unconstitutionalto give an authority to the Federal law to override the State law governing the relations of creditor and debtor. That being so, I ask the honorable senator to contemplate what would happen if this Parliament granted his amendment, and it were to be tested. A dispute would arise which would probably have to be settled in the HighCourt, and that would mean, as the ultimate destination of the money would be in question, that payments under this bill would be stopped. The authorities would not pay out until they knew who was entitled to receive the money. I assure the honorable senator that if such a position arose, the earliest opportunity the High Court would have to consider this matter would be in May of next year. The next sittings of the High Court are to be held in that month, but it does not follow as a matter of course that this case would appear early on the list. However, the earliest possible date on which this matter could be dealt with would be May of next year, and in the meantime the whole of the act would be paralysed. Apart from this consideration, I doubt very much whether the wording of the honorable senator's amendment would effect what he has in mind. Its wording is extremely complicated. I have pointed out two objections to the proposal. First, the Government has very strong reason for believing that the proposal would be held to be unconstitutional and, that being so, a long and embarrassing delay to those whom this measure is trying to help, would result. 
It has that power so long as the terms it imposes do not involve the Commonwealth embarking upon the exercise of power which it does not constitutionally possess. As the honorable senator is aware, the Commonwealth's powers are limited and the provision in the Constitution that the Commonwealth may make grants upon conditions, means conditions which the Commonwealth has the right to impose. The whole question involved here is whether the Commonwealth has any right to vest any authority with the power which the amendment proposes to vest. The amendment seeks to give the Commonwealth control over State laws governing the relations between debtors and creditors, and the Federal Constitution does not endow this Parliament with that power. The other point I emphasize is that this amendment illustrates the view that legislation sometimes has the very converse effect to what was intended. What would happen in a case of this sort if we prescribed that the money payable was to be entirely free from the operation of the ordinary laws of the State governing debtors and creditors? I suggest that one result would be that whatever the credit the farmer is enjoying to-day would be immediately stopped. The farmer could not contract himself out of that. If his credit were running low he could not go to a storekeeper and say, "I shall be getting my £50 shortly; will you carry on my account a little further?" Such a statement would hold no guarantee that the storekeeper's debt would be met, and, therefore, the farmer's credit would disappear entirely, not because of any dishonesty on his part, but because of this provision in the law. I again put it to the honorable senator that the effect of his proposal would probably be disastrous to the very man he hopes to assist. In those circumstances, I hope that he will not press the amendment. 
I am inclined to sympathize with the amendment. Examining the report of the royal commission which inquired into the wheat industry, I find that the debts owing by the farming community total £140,000,090, and that another £10,000,000 would be required to repair or replace worn out machinery. These debts are owed by the wheat-growers of Australia to the Crown and such institutions as the trading banks, trustee companies, oil companies, machinery merchants, fertilizer companies, and stock and station agents and similar organizations. This debt of £140,000,000 is the present liability of those 70,000 people who, we are informed .by the royal commission, are engaged in the wheat-growing industry. This amendment, if adopted, would permit an individual farmer, one of those 70,000, to get off his farm if he so desired with £50 in hand. Many have left their farms and others have been squeezed off the land. The amendment at least would ensure to a poor farmer who has spent his energy, his money, and everything else he possesses, on his farm, at least £50 of the bounty which will be given to him. This sum could not be claimed from him by any person. 
I am under the impression that it will. 
I am under the impression that the amendment will have the effect that  Senator Johnston  desires. If there is any doubt about that, I suggest that the committee should be given an opportunity to consider a redraft of the amendment. I remind the committee that this Government has the power, and has used it in other acts, to provide safeguards that in the final resort definite amounts of money shall be paid directly and solely to those whom it is desired to benefit. Under State company law, whatever might be a man's liabilities to various creditors, up to £1,000 of the amount of his life insurance policy will be available to his widow or dependants. That right is inviolable. If a State Parliament has the power to make such a provision, surely this Parliament also has the power to insure that a certain portion of any grant made to a farmer under this measure shall be reserved solely for the farmer himself. I contend that it is competent for us to provide that any one of those 70,000 growers shall not be forced, squeezed, or kicked off his farm by any of the creditors who are concerned in this total debt of £140,000,000. 
If there is any doubt about the matter, and as we have another day to sit, I suggest that the proposal be deferred for further consideration. I have no desire to delay the business of the Senate, but I want to be convinced that we shall not permit to be clone to any distressed wheat-grower an injury which this committee is competent to prevent. 
[1.0 a.m.]. - In proportion to the total amount of farmers' debts referred toby the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),I  suggest that the relief provided by this measure will be merely as a chip in a forest. That subject should be dealt with in another way. The rural recovery plan to be undertaken by the Commonwealth in conjunction with the States will tend to reduce those debts to an amount which will not impose too heavy a burden on producers. For the reasons given by the Assistant Minister, and backed by the Attorney-General, I appeal to  Senator Johnston  not to risk the dislocation which would ensue from the insertion of this unconstitutional provision, and towithdraw his proposed new clause. 
The Minister now knows the intention of the mover of the new clause, and it should be possible so to draft it. that it will give effect to that intention. 
Does the Min ister suggest that it is not possible to frame a provision to secure what we desire ? 
The proposal of  Senator Johnston  should be considered by the Government, and an attempt made to give effect to it. Even in cases in which £100 was granted to a farmer last year on an acreage basis, no farmer in South Australia was allowed by the State Government to receive more than £11 19s.8d. to cover medical costs, clothing and other personal expenses, leaving nothing for insurance, notwithstanding that in some cases the premiums were practically paid up. In many cases farmers and their families are suffering dire distress, and it is on their behalf that the appeal is made. The Government should at least intimate to the State governments that it desires that necessitous farmers be allowed more than was granted to them last year. 
In other legislation every effort has been made to ensure that the payments reach the people who need the money. Our pensions legislation contains ample safeguards in that direction. Section 41 of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act reads - 
Subject to this act, a pension shall be absolutely inalienable whether by way or in consequence of sale, assignment, charge, execution, insolvency or otherwise howsoever. 
If the Minister assures the committee that the wheatgrower will get the bounty, I shall be satisfied. But if he wants to safeguard the position beyond doubt, he need only turn to the section of the act that I have mentioned, or to section 43 of the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act which is similarly worded, to see how it can be done. 
But he gets his pension first. 
I shall be satisfied if the wheat-grower is placed on the same footing as a pensioner. 
I should like to know the position of persons who receive gifts from the Commonwealth, and are in necessitous circumstances. Can they be sued, and money recovered from them? Is it not possible under the Constitution for the Commonwealth to make a gift of money that is inalienable? 
In the commission's report, the wages of a farmer are set down at £125 per annum. Many wheat-farmers do not draw any wages at all. According to  Senator O'Halloran,  farmers in South Australia who drew 25s. a week from the State had the whole of the proceeds of their wheat taken from them by the banks. Wheat-farmers in such circumstances should be entitled to retain at least £50 of any bounty paid to them. Is it beyond the power of this Parliament to provide accordingly? If necessary, Parliament should seek that power and make it impossible for the money hogs to take the bounty from the farmers. 
I move - 
That clause 5 be reconsidered. 
My object is to correct an anomaly. Honorable senators are aware that under the wheat-growers' relief legislation of last year farmers who sowed wheat for either hay or grain were entitled to a bounty on an acreage basis. Farmers who sowed barley, oats or peas are entitled to a subsidy of 15s. per ton on the superphosphates used for the purpose. But under the measure now before as the payment of the bounty on the acreage basis is limited to areas sown with wheat for grain, and no provision has been made to entitle farmers who sow wheat for hay to obtain a subsidy of 15s. a ton on the superphosphates used for the purpose. I maintain that farmers who sow wheat for hay are entitled to consideration. During the last four years the price of hay, like the price of wheat, has been very low. I wish provision to be made in this measure for the payment of a bounty of some description to farmers who sow wheat for hay. 
The honorable senator has called attention to an undoubted anomaly. The Government is well aware that farmers who sow wheat for hay have a grievance in that they will receive no special consideration in respect of that part of their agricultural operations. An endeavour was made to remedy this state of affairs, but so many difficulties were discovered in regard to the matter that in the time available no satisfactory provision could be devised. However, I assure the honorable senator that sympathetic consideration will be given to the matter, for the Government realizes that farmers who engage in this agricultural operation deserve consideration. 
Motion -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a machinery measure to give effect to a proposal which was agreed to when the Estimates were under discussion, to conduct a geological and geophysical survey of certain areas of Northern Australia. The object of the measure is to constitute a committee consisting of a Commonwealth Minister, a Minister of the Government of Queensland and a Minister of the Government of "Western Australia to direct the survey. As the outcome of certain negotiations which I had the honour to conduct, -the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia agreed to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government in making a geological and geophysical survey of certain selected areas in Northern Australia, where auriferous deposits are likely to exist. The Commonwealth Government is to provide £75,000 of the total amount and the other two Governments £37,500 each, spread over a period of three years. Aerial photographs will be taken of the selected country with the object of determining which areas are most attractive for geological examination. Preliminary reconnaissances already made suggest that as the result of this work speedy developments may occur in certain areas of North Australia. The taking of aerial photographs by special equipment is desirable, for such photographs will disclose to skilled geologists the areas which justify closer geological examination. The timber on the country, as well as the topographical features of it, are clearly revealed by such photographs. I do not know whether any honorable senators have examined map  mozaics  made from aerial photographs of this description, but it has been my privilege to do so. I have seen some of the Rhodesian maps, and roy examination of them, and the information furnished to me regarding them, satisfy me that the adoption of this method of surveying Northern Australia is likely to prove both satisfactory and profitable. This system has been used no) only in Rhodesia, but in Iraq and other places with great success. It is possible by this means to determine to some extent the nature of the country for some feet below the surface. The survey will be limited for the present to areas north of the 22nd parallel. Tenders have already been called for the aerial work, and it is proposed that operations shall commence after the termination of the wet season, next March or April. Messrs. Munsie and Stopford, representing Western Australia and Queensland respectively, are my colleagues on the committee, and they have examined a draft of this bill, and are satisfied with it. It was necessary to introduce the bill to remove any  doubts  as to the legality of proceeding under the indefinite and vague power of an appropriation measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Officers and servants). 
This clause provides that the committee may employ officers and servants who will not be subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act, and who may be engaged for such periods and under such conditions as the committee thinks fit. Under this clause the committee has power to employ whatever officers it desires and pay them salaries lower than those paid to persons occupying similar positions in the Commonwealth Public Service. Will the Minister explain what is intended? 
Sub-clause 3 of clause 11 provides that officers of the Commonwealth Public Service employed by the committee shall retain all their existing and accruing rights. That provision has been made for the seconding of public servants whose assistance may be required from time to time. For instance,  Dr. Woolnough,  the present Geological Adviser to the Commonwealth Government, is not a Commonwealth public servant, but his services have been co-opted in the past and his assistance may be required in the future. The committee has. secured the services of  Mr. Nye,  the Government Geologist in Tasmania,  Mr. Ball,  representing the Queensland Government, and  Mr. Foreman,  a recent appointee to the Western Australian Public Service, all of whom will  receive extra (remuneration when working for the committee. This provision is not inserted to enable the committee to employ persons at lower rates or under less favorable conditions than those prevailing in the Commonwealth Public Service, but with the object of securing the assistance of men who may be employed in a State service or in a private capacity. 
.--I am satisfied with the Minister's explanation of the point raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes),  but the language of the clause might convey a different impression. The concluding words in sub-clause 2 read - . . . " but shall be engaged for such periods and shall be subject to such conditions as the committee thinks fit." Thorn words could be interpreted to mean that the remuneration could be lower or the conditions less favorable. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 and 13 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bil] reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to remove the sales tax from goods imported from Fiji of a kind similar to those which are free from sales tax within the Commonwealth or are not produced in the Commonwealth at all. A proclamation has been issued exempting from primage goods the produce or manufacture of Fiji, including bananas. In addition, a reduction of from 2d. to 4d. a case of the quarantine inspection charges upon imported bananas will be gazetted. For  many  years wo have had an extraordinarily favorable trade balance with Fiji, the average exports to that country for the last seven years being valued at £419,000 Australian currency, as against average imports of a value of £42,000 Australian currency. In other words, the balance of trade between the two countries has been favorable to Australia in the proportion of ten to one. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the details of our general trading position with Fiji. Of our total exports to Fiji in 1932-33, valued at £347,000 Australian currency, Australian primary produce alone amounted to £45,000. The value of the 40,000 centals of Fijian bananas permitted to be imported under the Ottawa agreement is about £12,000. The value of our primary exports alone to Fiji is four times that of its exports of bananas to us. Of the balance, £31,000 is made up of other Australian primary produce such as preserved fruits, flour, jams, and so on. Perhaps the most interesting feature of our export trade to Fiji is that during the same period the volume of trade in Australian manufactured goods amounted to £1S7,000. It must be perfectly clear to all honorable senators that our export trade to Fiji provides infinitely more employment for our people than our imports from Fiji provide for the people of that country. An adjustment of our unfair tariff arrangements with Fiji was made at Ottawa. At the time the Ottawa Conference was held, the duty was Ss. 4d. a cental. Under that prohibitive duty we lost, to a large extent, the valuable trade we formerly had with Fiji. It was agreed at Ottawa that 40,000 centals of Fijian bananas should be admitted into Australia annually at a duty of 2s. Gd. a cental. The value of that quantity of bananas, roughly £12,000, does not represent more than '2-J per cent, of the value of the bananas consumed in the Commonwealth. Those imports, therefore, could not possibly be an important factor in fixing the prices for Australian bananas sold in this country. Unfortunately,  the various taxes imposed upon Fiji bananas - for example, the primage duty of 5 per cent, on bananas, 10 per cent, on casing, the 5 per cent, sales tax, the Federal and State income tax on profits made on this trade, and the New South Wales special income tax - have made th°e concession practically valueless to Fiji, and its exports of bananas to Australia in any one year have not approached 40,000 centals. In one year it exported 40 per cent of its quota, but in the present year it will export less than 30 per cent. The benefit of this trade to Fiji has been virtually destroyed because of the additional taxation imposed upon it in this country. At Ottawa it was thought that Fiji was given the right to send 40,000 centals of bananas into Australia each year and the Fijian representatives believed that it would be practicable for them to take advantage of this trade, but I admit that some items of taxation to which I have referred were completely overlooked at the conference. In return for this concession of the right of entry for 40,000 centals of bananas into Australia the Government of Fiji transferred twenty important Australian export items from the intermediate to the British preferential column -of the Fijian tariff schedule. The total prohibition of the export of Fijian bananas to Australia so antagonized the Government of Fiji, that it had placed very many Australian items on the intermediate tariff list and, in  respect  of these, Australia was not being treated as a British country. The restoration of those items to the British preferential list was of great value to the Commonwealth. It would be difficult to justify the continued imposition on Fijian bananas of the various Commonwealth taxes to which I have referred and which should have been removed long ago. It is not proposed to give any concessions or exemptions to Fiji other than those enjoyed by Australian bananas or Australian goods similar to those imported from Fiji. All we are seeking to do in to give Fijian bananas a perfectly open opportunity in this country after the duty of 2s. 6d. a cental has been paid. Inreturn for this trade in bananas, valued at £12,000 per annum and in some other Fijian goods, valued at £30,000 per annum, Fiji buys primary produce and manufactured goods from Australia valued at £400,000 annually. The feeling in Fiji two or three months ago against Australia was so intense that the elective members of the Fijian legislature decided to move for the imposition of very heavy, and even prohibitive, duties and taxes on all goods imported from Australia. The people of Fiji felt that they had not been given a real concession. They considered that their export trade to Australia was being held up by other taxation in a way that was not intended. I have no doubt, that if we do not remove these disabilities a great deal of the very profitable trade that we are now enjoying with Fiji will be lost. 
The bill does a bare act of justice to our neighbours in Fiji. To make a contract such as we entered into at Ottawa, and then by our own internal taxation to render it illusory, is scarcely cricket. I feel sure that tho result to the banana industry of Australia will be the reverse of injurious. The agreement has already spurred our growers to activity in many directions, particularly in putting an improved article on the market, elim'inating disease, and adopting better cultural methods. All this will be to the advantage of the Australian industry, and, after all, 40,000 centals is only about 2½ per cent. of the total consumption of the Commonwealth. 
Some months ago I asked a Minister in this chamber what further concessions had been made or were contemplated in respect of Fijian bananas, and received the very definite answer that nothing was being done or contemplated. At that time this very proposal which we are now asked to adopt was being contemplated. I have complained here previously of the misleading answers given to questions. 
I knew when I asked the question. In the Melbourne  Argus  of the 10th November last, over the signature of  Mr. C.  B. Joske, appeared a statement which, from start to finish, is almost identical with that which the Minister has just read to this chamber.  Mr. Joske, president  of the Fiji Banana Association, wrote from Suva, Fiji, on the 30th October last- 
I do not know him. I am interested only in the fact that what he said should be done is now being done by the Government which then told me, through its responsible Minister in this chamber, that nothing was being done.  Mr, Joske's  letter was as follows :  - 
When the subject of the admission of Fijian bananas was before the Senate previously in relation to the Ottawa agreement we were assured that nothing more would be done. That promise is still ringing in the ears of everybody, particularly Queensland and New South Wales senators, yet this bill is brought before us. Honorable senators, particularly Tasmanian representatives, who expressed amusement while  Senator Collings  was speaking, should remember the dispute now going on with New Zealand in relation to Tasmanian and Victorian potatoes and Australian citrus fruits. 
I was told during the last general election campaign that, in certain districts of Queensland, banana-growers were going off the land. The industry is not prospering. A great deal of sympathy for Fiji has been worked up, but according to the latest available official statistics, the Fijian 
Islands, which form only a small group, with a mixed population, have a favorable Empire trade balance of over £200,000. They, therefore, have little to complain of. I understand that the Fiji banana-growers have a monopoly of the trade with New Zealand which has a white popoulation of 1,500,000. Labour for the industry in Fiji is supplied entirely by the coloured races, including about 200,000 Indians, and under this measure their product will be allowed to compete in the Australian market with bananas produced under white labour conditions. Recently, I returned from a visit to New Zealand and had, as fellow passenger, the Governor of Fiji,  Sir Murchison  Fletcher who, I suspect, came to Australia in the capacity of a commercial agent for Fiji for the purpose of smoothing out the difficulties in our trade relations with that colony. 
 I imagine that the gentleman did pretty well for Fiji while he was in Australia, for he seems to have persuaded this Government to grant to banana-growers in the islands concessions in addition to those given in the terms of the Ottawa agreement. When the first sales tax measures were introduced, bananas from Fiji were taxed in common with other imports competing in the Australian market with similar goods made in this country, and there was a definite understanding that no further concessions would be granted. I should like to know where this business is to end. We know that overtures from New Zealand with reference to the introduction of dominion potatoes met with effective opposition from Tasmania and Victoria, and that it is likely that the negotiations will break down. This being so, the Queensland representatives in this Parliament are fully justified in protesting as strongly as possible against further concessions being given to bananagrowers in Fiji, where the coloured population is exploited in the interest of profits. I consider this bill is a definite breach of good faith. Our trade balance with Fiji is in our favour, but Fiji does not buy our goods simply because of its affection for this country. It takes them because they are the cheapest and most suited to its needs. This proposal is a bitter pill for the banana-growers of Queensland and the northern districts of New South Wales, and it has my uncompromising opposition. 
SenatorFOLL (Queensland) [2.4 a.m.]. - It is my intention to vote against the second reading of the bill. During the election campaign, I told the people that I would not support the granting of any further concessions to the bananagrowers of Fiji. I gave this undertaking because we had had an assurance from the Government, when the embargo was removed, and the duty on bananas lowered, that no further concessions would be given. I do not share the fears of my Labour colleagues from Queensland as to the probable effect on the Queensland industry of these further concessions, because last year Fijian imports of bananas represented only 9 per cent. of the 40,000 centals provided for under the agreement. Australian banana-growers are having a very lean time, but I fail to see how the comparatively small volume of the imports from Fiji can prejudice their interests to an appreciable extent. The present condition of the industry is due, I think, to the fact that, as banana-growing gives a quick return on capital invested, there has been a rapid expansion during the last two or three years of the area under cultivation, with every prospect of a much greater total production in the near future. The immediate outlook is so unsatisfactory that the Brisbane Committee of Direction of Fruit Marketing, a very live organization, is giving its attention to the improvement of marketing facilities, and by means of an extensive advertising campaign, including  the  publication of recipes for special preparations having bananas as an ingredient, it is hoped to increase substantially sales in the Australian market. In view of present prices, I doubt that it will pay the growers in Fiji to expand their trade with Australia, even under the more favorable conditions that will obtain following the passage of this bill. For the reasons which I have given, I shall vote against the second reading of the bill. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Foll  say ' that, in the interests of the banana-growers of Queensland, he intends to oppose the Government on this measure. Many persons interested in the industry have interviewed me. I know that representations have, from time to time, been made to the Government to remove the sales tax from various goods, often without success. The representatives from Fiji were more successful. I am always amused at the arguments of honorable senators opposite. They appear to think that if we restrict our production of bananas, peanuts, cotton, butter, and other foods, the economic problems confronting this country will be solved. That is the logical conclusion to be drawn from the arguments advanced by them in respect of the trade treaties which have come before this chamber. This bill will improve the opportunities for marketing Fiji bananas in Australia. If the arguments of Government supporters are sound, why should we limit the introduction of Fiji bananas to the 40,000 centals allowed under the existing agreement? Why not permit 100,000 centals to be imported? Only a few days ago, under a trade agreement with Belgium, we decided to limit the sale in Australia of a considerable quantity of locallymade glass in order that a larger quantity of glass made in Belgium could bc marketed here, and in return, we are to be permitted to export a larger volume of primary products to that country. Those who supported that arrangement failed to see that a reduction in the volume of Australian goods exchanged internally meant a lessening of employment, and, to that extent, a loss of power to purchase other Australian products. If the argument of our friends opposite is sound, why not remove all  the barriers to trade and allow the free introduction of sugar from Cuba, potatoes from New Zealand, cotton from the United States of America, peanuts from China, glass from Belgium, and boots from Czechoslovakia, and in that way solve our economic problems? But, as any one who gives the subject a little consideration must know, the whole scheme is stupid in the extreme, and if we continue to legislate in this manner, the people will conclude that this branch of the legislature, at all events, is redundant. In support of the bill  Senator McLachlan  told us that Fiji buys from Australia £420,000 worth of goods, and in return we buy Fijian goods to the value of only £40,000. The honorable gentleman seemed to think that this was a good and sufficient reason for the acceptance of this proposal. Is it not clear that if our trade with Fiji is worth £420,000, Fiji must exchange goods of equal value, " if not with Australia, then with some other country, in order to pay for its purchases in Australia? The position would be intolerable if every country having an adverse trade balance with the Commonwealth threatened to transfer its custom unless we granted concessions, such as are now being given to Fiji. How far has Fiji gone to carry out its threat? What quantity of goods are we exporting to Fiji ' at present? How much have we exported since the sales tax was imposed on bananas? Has there been a diminution in this trade? Will Fiji carry out its threat, and if so, will Australia be any worse off for it? If all those countries which have an adverse trade balance with Australia carry out their threats, what will be the economic effect on our people? I do not. condemn the Minister for the arguments be advanced. He has to use uneconomic arguments to bolster up the Government's position, but such arguments will not bear examination. Australia will not go bankrupt or lose economically in the long run by looking after the interests of its own people. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber- contend that all who are engaged in the banana industry are buyers for other goods produced in Australia, and when the bananagrower puts goods on the market, and receives cash for them, he becomes a buyer of other goods produced by Australian workmen. We are told now that only 40,000 centals of Fijian bananas is to be allowed into Australia, but probably the Government will forget its promise in this respect, and allow a much greater quantity to be imported to the detriment of local growers. Under those conditions the local bananagrower will not get a fair return for his product, and therefore he will be unable to buy other Australian products. Yet we are told that we are going to be better off by allowing the importation of Fijian bananas. If such an argument is logical why not wipe out the local industry, and open up the entire Australian market to Fijian bananas? Likewise, why not close up the sugar industry, and open up the local market completely to black-grown sugar ? Those would be the logical consequences of the arguments advanced by the Minister. 
I would be very sorry if no honorable senator on this side of the Senate spoke in support of the very sound move which the Government has made in this matter. The position is a simple one, and the Government's proposals do not justify any excitement or the claim that under the provisions of this bill, Australia will be swamped with products produced by men of various races and colours in another British community. Indeed, one might expect from those who believe in the brotherhood of man, more tolerance than has been shown by honorable senators opposite towards those who, although they happen to be of a colour different from that of our own race, are citizens of the same Empire. All the excitement among honorable senators opposite has arisen from the simple fact that the Government proposes that Fijian growers shall be allowed to participate in the Australian banana trade to the extent of l/40th part of that trade. 
Onefortieth of the trade is the maximum share we propose to allow to Fijian growers. I was glad to hear  Senator Collings  quote certain words used by  Major Joske  during the tariff debates last year. I first quoted from a letter written by that gentleman, and I recall that he concluded with the remark that countries against which such methods were adopted as Australia had used towards Fiji " should kick back with thegreatest pos sible vigour ". I suggested that we were running the risk of such treatment from Fiji. 

 Senator DUNCANHUGHES.Briefly, the position is that all Australians are not banana-growers; there are other people who, though not growers, are vitally interested in this matter - I refer to those who produce goods which are sold to Fiji, such as bags and sacks, beer, fancy biscuits, coal, drapery, drugs, flour, sharps, hardware, machinery, soap, tea, timber, tobacco and cigarettes. These items represent a fairly wide range of commodities, and a wide range of industry. In 1925-26, the value of our trade with Fiji was £570,000, and in 1931-32 it had fallen to £268,000. Our imports from Fiji in 1925-26 were valued at £35,000, and in 1931-32 at £16,264. Between 1925-26 and 1931-32 the value of our exports to Fiji was eleven times the value of Fijian exports to Australia. Owing to the ludicrous attitude which we are adopting towards a country which takes so much more from us than we take from it, we are losing trade with that country and the tendency is for that trade to go to Great Britain instead of to Australia. When Fijian bananas were first imported to Australia I ate some of them.I might mention it was not easy to procure them because at the time an organized attempt was made to boycott them. In spite of the fact that Australia had made a trade agreement with Fiji, there was a deliberate attempt on that occasion to prevent Australians from buying Fijian bananas. I found the imported banana superior to the Queensland fruit. 
If the Queensland banana can compete with the Fijian banana on equal terms, why prevent the importation of the latter? 
HUGHES. - Surely the honorable senator does not make that suggestion seriously when we allow Fiji to participate only to the extent of 1/40 th of our banana trade? 
Australia would not want to lose its trade with Fiji in the twenty or so lines I have mentioned because of the view the honorable senator takes on the importation of Fijian bananas into this country. I hope that, as is usually the consequence of competition, the importation of bananas will tend to stimulate our own growers. Perhaps Queensland keeps its best bananas for its home market; certainly the bananas I ate in Queensland last year were superior to any that can be procured in the southern States. Even in Canberra one cannot procure bananas of as good a quality as those obtainable in Queensland. 
The importation of even a very small quantity of Fijian bananas has improved the local product; the resulting competition has had a stimulating effect on the growers, and possibly they will soon develop such efficiency that they will be able to compete successfully with their Fijian rivals. But to make such a fuss as honorable senators opposite have done over one industry where twenty lines of trade are concerned, is not good business. Such an attitude can only result in the definite loss of that trade which we have enjoyed in the past, and which is now slipping gradually from us, and which we are hoping to recover. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to amend the act in two respects. In the first place, it is desired to remove a certain difficulty which has been encountered in the administration of the act in relation to the imposition of penalties for breaches or non-observance of awards. Amendments are also sought to facilitate the introduction, on a sound basis, of a system of supervision of the working of the act and awards. The imposition of penalties for non-compliance with awards is dealt with in section 44 (1) of the act, which provides that where there has been a breach or non-observance of an order or award, certain penalties " may be imposed by the court or by any district, county or local court, or court of summary jurisdiction which is constituted by a judge or a police, stipendiary, or special magistrate, or by any State court specified in that behalf by proclamation ". By a proclamation dated the 23rd December, 1924, the Governor-General specified the Chief Industrial Magistrate, appointed under the Industrial Arbitration Act 1912, New South Wales, to be a State court for the purposes of section 44 (1). On the 30th June, 1930, in the case of the  Printing Industry Employees Union of Australia  v.  The Market Printery Limited  (29N.S.W.A.R. 120), an appeal against the decision of the Chief Industrial Magistrate was made to the Industrial Commission upon the grounds that the Chief Industrial Magistrate had no jurisdiction. It was held by the commission, on the authority of  Le Mesurier  v.  Connor  (42 C.L.R. 481), that the Chief Industrial Magistrate had no jurisdiction by virtue of the proclamation, but,  Mr. Justice  Cantor dissenting, that he had jurisdiction because he was, in fact, a stipendiary magistrate. Recently the point was again considered by the Industrial Commission in the case  Starkey's Limited  v.  The Federated Liquor and Allied Trades Employees Union of Australia,  reported in the  New South Wales Industrial Gazette  of January, 1933, page 59. The commis sion, following the judgment of  Mr. Justice  Cantor in the previous case, held that the magistrate in his capacity of Chief Industrial Magistrate had no jurisdiction to entertain the complaint. Consequent on the decision in Starkey's case, it has become the practice, in Sydney, to set down cases of this nature for hearing at the Central Police Court instead of before the Chief Industrial Magistrate. Because of the Commonwealthwide application of decisions upon proceedings instituted under section 44 and the desirability of uniformity, it is considered desirable that these cases should, if possible, be heard before one magistrate. It is particularly important that it should be possible for such cases to be heard by industrial magistrates when available. The second clause of the bill proposes to make in the act an appropriate amendment for this purpose. 
The provisions with regard to investigation in relation to the observance of the act and awards are contained in section 50a of the act. This section provides for the appointment of inspectors in accordance with the Commonwealth Public Service Act. No inspectors have yet been appointed under the act. It is very desirable that any system introduced with a view to securing the observance of awards should be established on a sound basis, and be in the hands of persons thoroughly experienced in industrial matters. Further, any scheme initiated will necessarily be experimental, and it is not, therefore, expedient that any inspectors appointed should form part of the permanent staff. It is, accordingly, proposed that inspectors should not be subject to the Public Service Act, but should be appointed on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by regulations made under the act, which in this respect will be brought into line with other Commonwealth acts relating to services which are, or are likely to be, of a temporary nature, or in respect of which it may be necessary to appoint persons having special qualifications. Such acts are the Development and Migration Act, the Science and Industry Research Act, and the Trade Commissioners Act. Clause 3 is designed to amend section 50a to give effect to this proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
If the opportunities for raising matters of importance were likely to be more, I should not worry the Senate at this hour with the subject which I now bring forward. Yesterday afternoon., the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  made the following statement: - 
On the 28th November,  Senator Collings  referred to a copy of a report which was ordered to be laid on the table of the Senate, and which dealt with an alleged armed organization in Queensland. The report contained a statement that, during the last six months, rifles had been sold to the public from the Brisbane military ordnance stores in large quantities, and that only six transactions had been recorded. 

 Senator Collings stated that this report was official, that it was prepared by the Defence Department, and was presented to a department of the Queensland Government. 
The Minister for Defence caused immediate inquiries to he made regarding  Senator Collings's  statement that the document was official, and he has been informed by the Military Commandant at Brisbane that no such document was prepared by his head-quarters, and moreover the Home Secretary of the State Government has no knowledge of any such document. 
It is clear, therefore, that  Senator Collings's  claim is without foundation. 
I resent strongly the concluding phrase, " It is clear, therefore, that  Senator Collings's  claim is without foundation." I have made three or four speeches on this subject, one of the last being to the effect that the Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  had admitted most of the things which I had claimed. There can be no argument about that, for the Minister's statement is on record. I' did not say, as is claimed in the statement of the Leader of the Senate, that the report was prepared by the head-quarters of the Defence Department at Brisbane, or that it had been submitted to the Home Secretary of the State Government. 
I still say so. Moreover, I believe, but I shall not be positive about this, that the officer who prepared the report was transferred from Queensland to New South Wales, where he would not have an opportunity to make a similar report. I do not assert that to be a fact, because I have yet to obtain evidence on the matter. I am not speaking bitterly, nor do I desire that any of my remarks shall be construed to be a personal reflection on the Minister; but it is a month since I made my charges that there were armed organizations in this country, that the Defence Department knew of their existence, and that retired military officers were commanding them. How is it that wc could not get . this simple statement from BrigadierGeneral Ralph until the day before the session is to close? It is obvious that this statement could have been obtained from Brigadier-General Ralph weeks ago. The delay, in my opinion, has been deliberate, and was intended to prevent me from replying until the Senate reassembles next1 year, when the whole subject, it was hoped, would have faded from memory. But Brigadier-General Ralph made a statement on this subject in the  Toowoomba Chronicle  on the 16th November last, exactly a month ago. The report reads : - 
Brisbane, Thursday. - The allegation that an organization known as the Australian Legion existed in Queensland and  New  South Wales, and that it was in possession of large supplies of arms, made by  Senator Collings  in the Senate- 
I did not say that it was in possession of large supplies of arms -  in not viewed seriously in Queensland. 
Of course it is not intended by the Government to be viewed seriously. The report continues as follows: - 
If there is such an organization in Queensland as  Senator Collings  says, with certain rifles, the military authorities are at a loss to understand where it would obtain supplies of suitable ammunition. So far as is known there is little if any of this ammunition in Australia. Brigadier-General Ralph (State Commandant) stated to-night that there had been many rifles of certain calibre here, and lie knew that they had been put back into a store. He could not say, however, if they had been sold until he had seen his ordnance officer. 
Referring to the claim by  Senator Collings,  that the Queensland branch had in its possession parts for immediate assembling of two armoured cars- 
I did not refer to the Queensland branch, but to an organization which I knew had been formed in Queensland - 
Brigadier-General Ralph said that he wondered if  Senator Collings  really knew what an armoured car was. Brigadier-General Ralph said that the claim that certain rifles had been purchased from the Brisbane military authorities would be investigated. 
A high official in the police force described thu allegation of  Senator Collings  as "rot". 
I have had no actual experience of armoured cars, although I have seen them assembled and on parade in the streets. That report stated that a certain organization had in its possession " parts for immediate assembly of two armoured cars ". What insane people these would be if they assembled the parts! The natural thing would be, of course, to keep the parts which of themselves would not be incriminatory, so that they could be assembled if and when required. I have been informed within the last few days that 6 cwt. of explosives and fuses has been stolen from stores in Brisbane. I do not suggest that these have gone into the possession of the subversive organizations to which I have referred, but it requires no stretch of the imagination to think that they might have done so. The statement says that there is no evidence that large quantities of rifles are being sold. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the following advertisement, which appeared in the  Truth  newspaper of the 2nd December: - 
Five  hundred  military rifles, .310 calibre, made by B.S.A. Company, wind gauge, sighted at GOO yards, sight protector and pull through; one rifle with 100 rounds ammunition, £2 10s. - Jack Isaacs, 82 Wickham-street. Orders sent C.O.D. 
That advertisement has appeared regularly, and a similar advertisement has appeared in Toowoomba newspapers and the Sydney  World's News,  week by week. It will be seen therefore that different firms arc iu a position to supply both arms and ammunition. 
I admit that I do not know one from the other; but I am quite certain that the .303 rifle is not the only efficient weapon that is obtainable. Fascist organizations which possessed sufficient quantities of .310 rifles with ammunition, such as is used by hunters of buffaloes and kangaroos, would be quite capable of tackling thu job of suppressing an uprising if it occurred. 
If the right honorable gentleman will refer to the  Hansard  report of my speech he will see that I made no reference whatever to 303 rifles. For the purpose of a subversive organization .310 rifles and ammunition would bc as good as .303 rifles and ammunition. I told honorable senators in this chamber a month ago that 1 Knew the kind of statement that would he made in reply to my allegations, and I volunteered at that time to give the Government every assistance in my power to inquire into the situation; but my help was not sought. I know who supplied me with the report, and I wish to make it clear that I did not say that it was prepared by an officer at the head-quarters of the Defence Department. If it is considered that the Minister's statement, "It is clear, therefore, that  Senator Collings'  claim is without foundation " is a sufficient reply to the charges that I made, I can go no further. I said that the report was official. I believe that the individual who wrote it has since been transferred. I shall obtain the exact name of the department in which the report was prepared. In reply to the statement of the Minister that the Home Secretary of the State Government has no knowledge of any such document ", I wish to say that the Queensland Home Secre tary is a personal friend of mine, and he  teased  me in a joking way about this subject before I made any statement in the Senate. 1 did not say that the document was prepared in his department. I said that it was submitted, to a Queensland Government department. When I return to Brisbane next week I shall probe this subject to the bottom, and I hope subsequently to bc able to make a further statement in connexion with  it.  The Minister for Defence  (Mr. Parkhill)  admitted in another place, and BrigadierGeneral Ralph admitted in the  Toowoomba Chronicle,  that many of my statements were true. I said that arms were in the possession of a certain organization ; that it was officered by retired military officers; that badges had been printed for one organization; and that a certain clothing factory in Brisbane had manufactured shirts expressly for the legion. 
Brown--- 
I have seen the honorable senator attired in a brown shirt; but I am not talking of golfing shirts. I am now able to say  that  the Australian Legion was organized hi Queensland by u man named Fletcher. I hare received a letter from a friend in which  he  says, " Surely you have not forgotten the man Fletcher who organized the legion ". I admit that I had forgotten him if I ever knew him, but I shall ascertain his christian name. I intend to follow this matter up and shall not rest satisfied with the bald statement of the Minister that my " claim is without foundation ". 
[2.58 a.m.]. - My recollection  is  that  Senator Collings  informed the Senate that he was quoting from an official report. That was surely intended to convey the idea that it was an official report to either the Commonwealth or the State Government. It could have meant nothing else. There could be no other kind of official report. Both Governments have now disclaimed all knowledge of any such report. I recollect also that the honorable senator's sensational state- ment was that large numbers of rifles were being taken from some military stores for members of an unknown secret organization, or were being given to them from that source. It transpires now that the honorable gentleman was speaking of sporting rifles which may bc purchased in every capital city of the Commonwealth. If the honorable senator had said that at the outset, I doubt whether any inquiry would have been made into his statement. 
Such rifles are advertised for sale and may be legally purchased under State laws. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 2.59 a.m. (Friday). 
I move - 
That the Senate at its rising adjourn till to-morrow at  10  a.m. 
I appreciate the action of the Government and of honorable senators in giving me this opportunity to speak upon the serious position of the Australian wool industry, which, of course, is our greatest industry- If something cannot be done to improve present prices, the loss to Australia and the people generally will be tremendous. I propose to cite a few figures to illustrate the trend of the market, including the average gross price of the Australian clip at the sea-board. From 1906 to 1916, the average gross sea-board price was 9½d. and from 1920 to 1930 it was 17¼d. Omitting the four years of abnormal prices as are not likely to be realized again. the average price for 30 years was 12¼d. In 1929-30, it was 10½d., in 1930-318.7d., in 1931-32 8½d, and in 1932-33 8½d. Last year, 1933-34, there was a temporary boom, fortunately for Australia; prices reached 16d. a lb., and an additional £20,000,000 was received for the Australian clip, as compared with the previous year. Unfortunately there has been a serious slump during the last eight months. The market has been continually falling and the average from the 1st July to the middle of December has decreased to 9½d. gross, which is back to pre-war prices, and almost down to the dreadful depression prices of a couple of years ago. To arrive at the real price of wool, it is necessary to deduct1d. par lb. to cover the average cost of railage and selling, thus reducing the price of the Australian clip to the producer to 8½d. per lb. A price of 9½d. in Australian currency, or 7¾d. sterling, and 4¾d. per lb. for- nations on the gold standard is deplorable. At 9½d. a lb. gross at the sea-board the clip of 3,000,000 odd bales shows, a definite loss, as that price is actually below the cost of production. In order to realize the. seriousness of the position, and to show how desirable it is to take every possible step to improve the marketing conditions, if is only necessary to point out to honorable senators that the rise of1d. per lb. in the wool market represents over £4,000,000 to Australia. The clip production is approximately 1,000,000,000 lb., which, at1d. per lb., is approximately £4,000,000, It was very difficult for any one to forecast last year's temporary boom, which came rather late in November, and continued until the late summer. There has now been a decided collapse in the marked. The quotations and . comments which appear ill the press from time to time are misleading to those who are not in the trade. We may read, "Firm wool market " - meaning firm at only 9d. per lb. - and that wool realized up to20d, when that figure applies only to a few hundred bales of superfine wool from, say, Yass. out of a total of 3,000,000 odd bales. In these circumstances, it is desirable to deal only with averages; the prices realized by small lots of super^ fine wool are totally misleading and would not disclose the real position of the wool industry. What is the cause of the fall? It is difficult to explain. It is not that there is overproduction, asitcan be demonstrated clearly that the number of sheep in the world has not increased to any extent during the last 30 years. The number is only slightly greater than in pre-war days, and the use of wool -has increased owing to changing conditions and fashions in Eastern countries. Thirty years ago, Japan purchased only 2,000 bales of Australian wool, but is now buying 650,000 bales annually. With the increased use of wool in Eastern countries and the competition for world supplies remaining practically normal, it would have been reasonable to expect a higher range of values for this important commodity. The competition of Japan has been one of the most amazing and pleasing factors in the history of the wool industry. The Emperor of Japan desires the whole of the Japanese people to be clothed in wool within a few years, and the tendency of the Japanese people is in that direction. In Japan, wool was used first in the army and navy, but now G5 per cent, of the total population are clothed in wool. A commission of scientists and medical men appointed to investigate the national and hygienic aspects of the matter, reported that wool was the most suitable clothing for mankind. Moreover, the commission reported that, wool being much more helpful to the body, its use would be likely to increase the stature of the Japanese people, and generally be more beneficial than cotton or kapok. The findings of the Japanese commission are of great importance to Australia, showing, as they do, that wool is the most desirable material with which to  clothe  the body. Further, it stated that while it is possible for the body to breathe through wool, the same is not possible through two or three thicknesses of cotton or kapok. The Emperor of Japan has almost commanded the whole Japanese nation to be clothed in wool. That is one reason why there has been an enormous expansion of our wool trade with the East. Moreover, Australia benefits from its geographical position in relation to Japan, which creates a demand that is not operating in London. As shipments of Australian wool to Japan are handled only once, Japanese orders are concentrated on the Australian market. We have read certain statements, which are almost threats, to the effect that if Australia does not reciprocate to » greater extent in trade matters, the Japanese will buy their wool from South America and South Africa. But it pays Japan to buy its wool here, and Japan is now our second best customer. Its entry into the market, and the purchases of the Australian woollen mills, which take about 300,000 bales annually, are factors which are influencing the market all the time, and assisting to make the Australian wool market the best wool market. The serious position existing to-day has been brought about, at least to some extent, by the fact that whereas Germany used to be Australia's second best customer for wool, it is now buying practically nothing from us. In the Melbourne  Herald  of last night appears an excellent article on the wool situation by  Mr. J.  E. Wardell, one of the world's leading experts on the wool trade. The writer, in my opinion, gives the reason for the partial collapse of the Australian wool market, and points out how it could be rectified if some trade agreement were made with Germany. The replies which I received yesterday to questions I put to the Government were not very satisfactory from my point of view. If the Government did not have information, regarding a definite trade arrangement that Germany has made with the Argentine Republic to buy wool in South America, I had it, to a certain extent. I had a cablegram sent on Wednesday through a very reliable wool firm and received the following reply: - 
Yesterday cabled my principals Amsterdam for quotations from our South American house. They replied : " Owing to German trade agreement all qualities from sixty-fours down to forty-eights an average of 3d. clean English sterling higher than my yesterday's Melbourne quotation ". 
In mentioning the counts from 64 down to 48, he is referring to fairly strong merinos and fine cross-bred. That 3d. per lb. clean represents on these wools about 2d. per lb. in the grease. This means .that the quotation in the Argentine market to-day is 2d. per lb. higher for greasy wool than for similar wool in the Australian market. If we could get that 2d. per lb., it would mean a rise of nearly £9,000,000 straight away in the value of the Australian clip. Yesterday, when I received from the Minister the replies with which I was not quite satisfied, I had another cablegram sent, and the following is the 'reply I received as regards South American merinos : - 
Cabled Amsterdam who quote Argentine merinos twenty-six and a half English sterling. Better Australian wool costs only twenty. 
Those quotes are for clean wool c.i.f. London. 
The fact that the Argentine Government has just concluded a trade agreement with Germany by which it takes German goods, thus enabling Germany to buy its wool supplies very extensively in Argentina. Those figures are very alarming to me, seeing that the buying limit for similar wools in Melbourne yesterday was 20d., and the same house, buying in the Argentine, quoted 26$d. The cable continues - 
Also informed  African agreement  not yat  operating, but to-day's price in anticipation is about half way between Australian and South American. 
South America is therefore getting pence per lb. more for wool owing to this trade agreement than Australia is, whilst South Africa is obtaining a substantial amount more than Australia is on a similar basis, owing to the fact that it is just about to complete a similar trade agreement with Germany. 
Yea, the suggestion being that we should buy goods from Germany instead of from America, which will not buy anything from us. I am a great believer in trade within the Empire. I am not advocating preferential trade treatment for Germany except so far as to arrange some credits, because, Germany wants our wool, and as I say, was for years our second best customer. We have a tremendously adverse trade balance with America, due to the fact that we buy from America, but. America will not buy from us. There has been a great outcry with regard to ihe manufacture of  woolstra  in Germany. This is an artificial product, a blend of wool and wood fibre.  A  t tempts have been made to belittle the competition of this article, but there is a good deal of truth in what has been said regarding its possibilities, which cannot be brushed lightly aside, although, there may be a certain amount of propaganda regarding it. Germany definitely was for many years Australia's second best customer for wool, despite the Minister's answer to the contrary yesterday. The statistics show that in 1933-34 Germany took from Australia 415,031 bales, and' in 1932-33 387,503 bales. It has always taken between 300,000 and 450,000 bales a year. Those are the quantities entered for direct shipment to Germany, but those in the trade know that last year actually as much as 650,000 bales of our Australian clip went to Germany. This year, owing to Germany not being able to establish credits here, it has practically dropped out of the Australian wool market, only a comparatively few bales having been bought. I shall not read the articles to which I referred, because I think I have covered the subject sufficiently; but its very able writer does explain the whole position, including the trade agreement between Germany and the Argentine Republic, and  the pending  trade agreement between Germany and South Africa. He also shows the enormous importance of the trade to Australia. The German Consul made a speech on this subject in Sydney recently, and some growers, who do not know  vi-ry  much about wool - a man may be a very good sheep man and grower without necessarily knowing very much about wool itself - have been inclined to brush it. lightly aside. I have seen  woolstra,  and can assure honorable senators that it is the best counter to pure wool, that I have ever inspected. It is almost impossible to fault it with the naked eye. Nobody suggests that, in the long run, it would be as healthy or wear as well as wool; but, if a country cannot get the necessary finance to buy the wool it wants, it must put up with the next best thing. If they are driven into a corner, people will wear n substitute such as  woolstra.  If the  woolstra  mills are developed to any great extent, we may never get back the German trade in full. We cannot afford to lose, in our wool market, the competition of any country. Germany's entry into the South American and South African markets has been most beneficial to those countries, seeing that they arc getting pence per lb. more for their wool than we are getting for ours. As I have already said, a rise of Id. per lb. in the wool market, which could easily be brought about if wo fixed up a trade arrangement, would mean over £4,000,000 a year to Australia, and a rise of 2d. per lb. would mean nearly £9,000,000. Germany is pretty nearly starving for wool to-day, and that country has the largest woollen mills in the world. In every way it would bo an advantage to us to retain Germany as a customer. 
That is so, but wo are taking large quantities of goods from America now, although America will not reciprocate. As a patriotic Australian, I suggest that we could arrange to take a substantial proportion of those goods from Germany. 
The honorable senator is quite right. We could make 801110 gesture towards Germany by arranging to take from it some of those goods which now come from America. I am not sufficiently expert to say what those should be, but I should think they could include motor cars and some electrical and other machinery which we are buying from countries that are not within the British Empire. If Germany could establish credits here, it would, undoubtedly, immediately come into our wool market, and lift it, as I have shown by the cablegrams which came from an international house, whose knowledge and reputation are beyond dispute. In their letters to me, the principals say that they realize our policy, and do not expect for a moment that, if Germany bought £6,000,000 worth of wool here, we would buy £6,000,000 worth of goods from Germany in return. They are, however, of the opinion that if we began by buying German goods to the value of £1,000,000 or £2,000,000, Germany would immediately come into our wool market. I need not labour the matter further, except to emphasize that there is some clanger of the development of  woolstra  and that we as a nation are definitely suffering from the partial collapse of our wool market. An average gross seaboard price of 9 Jd. is terribly low, and simply not payable. If we can assure to Australia the introduction into our wool market of the maximum buying strength available in the world, it is our duty to take every possible step in that direction. 
It is always interesting to listen to  Senator Guthrie  on the subject of wool, and it is a relief to me to hear something that I had in mind confirmed by 60 great an authority, namely, that the statistical position of wool in the world, from the producers' point of view, is entirely satisfactory. After all is said and done, in the ultimate analysis the statistical position of wool is what will count. Before dealing with the minor aspects of the Argentine arrangement to which the honorable senator has referred, I should like to point out that wool is a world commodity with a world price, and a world market, and insofar as Germany has relieved the markets of the class of wool supplied by Argentina, 3o far is competition removed on the world's markets for a corresponding class of production sent from this or other countries. The honorable senator has also reassured us regarding the position of woolstra.  I have a decided conviction that neither wéolstra nor any other synthetic material, which we have been told for years is going to take the place of wool, will succeed in doing so, because it is impossible to reproduce by any chemical or other means the equivalent of what is grown by the living animal. We take comfort in that fact at all events. I have seen something of these attempts to terrify, as it were, the wool industry of this country. I agree that it would help the industry if we had more competition for our wool in the markets of the world. But only a few months ago, just before  Mr. Latham  retired, we were definitely assured through the ConsulGeneral for Germany that it was impossible for that country to buy wool in this country as it could not establish the necessary credits. Those familiar with the circumstances of sales made last year are aware of the manipulation that took place and the collosal  fortunes that were made by certain interests through selling to Germany wool that had been purchased in Australia. The Government has to proceed warily in a matter of this kind, although I realize the force of  Senator Guthrie's  contention. He was good enough to supply me yesterday with a copy of a cablegram he had received, pointing out that clean Argentine crossbred wool was bringing in English currency on the London market 3d. per lb. more than the Australian product. Having regard to the fact that no wool can be got into Germany, I cannot understand a prudent German buyer going to Argentina and paying this enhanced price, which is practically 40 per cent, above the price of Australian wool. 
We are asked to believe that a keen buyer of wool gave that amount more for Argentine wool than for the Australian article. The explanation offered for this is that Germany, having no credits in Australia, wants to sell goods to Australia, and so establish credits and engage in a system of barter. That is exactly what is happening in Argentina. We have no criterion by which to judge the real prices unless we know what commodities Germany is sending to Argentina in exchange for wool and the prices at which they are being sold. Apparently the pricE mentioned for clean crossbred wool is fictitious. This is an aspect which must be considered seriously. In some correspondence which  Senator Guthrie  handed to rae it is pointed out that prices of wool resulting from trade with Germany are now higher in South America and South Africa than those ruling for Australian wool, and that the buying has been done on the barter principle. The writers rightly suppose that the barter system would be a stumbling block in Australia; moreover that system makes impossible a reliable comparison of the prices being realized for wool in the different producing countries. I am aware that the buying of wool by Germany in this country is at a low ebb at the moment-, nevertheless, a certain amount of buying is going on. Apart from the operations of the large wool-broking firms buying is being done on sheep properties in outlying districts in Australia. For whom or for what purpose this wool is being bought I do not know. The wool problem has caused the Government much anxiety. It is solicitous for the welfare of our fore- moat industry, but is not going to allow it to be. used by certain interests, supported by some of our own people, as a lever to put foreign goods on the Australian market or compel the Government to take certain action. It is becoming a regular practice for those interested in a particular trade to make certain representations and threats in order te bring about a state of affairs that will be more to their advantage. - T have in mind one country which threatened us in regard to the export of certain of our products. We found that if these interests had even suggested that they would stop manufacturing the products produced from our raw material they would have been greeted with a howl of protest from the people of their own country. Any proposal, which contains a suggestion of bartering, must be examined with the greatest care. Barter prices must not be confused with true values. A few days ago in the House of Representatives,  Sir Henry  Gullett stated that the Consul-General for Germany had visited Canberra and had discussed with him trade matters.  Sir Henry  explained that he had asked this gentleman to submit certain proposals outlining specific items in respect of which he desired to negotiate; the German representative undertook to cable to his government for such information, but I have just been informed by  Sir Henry  that, so far, no reply has been received. I repeat that the Government is watching this problem very carefully. It is constantly in touch with the Australian Wool Council, of which  Sir Graham  Waddell was, until recently,  chairman.  The Government will spare no pains to help the industry, but before any measures are adopted in this direction, it will have to be abundantly satisfied that such measures will prove really helpful. The honorable senator probably knows sufficient of the personnel of the Government to realize that this matter will be seriously handled in the best interests of the industry. 
I desire to touch upon another feature of this matter which has been discussed by the Government both in and out of Cabinet; that is the inability of the treasury officials here to ascertain the exact rate of exchange between Argentina and other countries. Although they have consulted with authorities in London and the Commonwealth Bank, treasury officials find themselves unable to accept statements which have been made regarding the Argentine exchange rate. Apparently Argentina has one rate.  vis a vis  one country, and a different rate  vis a vis  another country. If this system of international bartering is engaged in to any extent in other countries, there will probably be no reliable rate of exchange on which international trade can be based. I. intended to point this out with some vigour, butI am restrained by the standing of  Senator Guthrie's  friends, who advised him that the price which Germany is paying for Argentine wool is, in English currency, 3d. per lb. higher than the price being received for Australian wool. Steps will be taken to have this calculation checked. The Government, I repeat, is watching the trade position of wool, and is also negotiating with Germany. I can assure honorable senators that if any reasonnhlo proposition is submitted, with proper safeguards, the Government will not hesitate to give effect to it in the best interests of the industry, and of the people of Australia generally. We regret that there is nothing definite before us at the moment. South Africa, I understand, has not come to an agreement with Germany. The answers given to the questions asked by the honorable senator correctly stated the position at the time when those answers were given. Since that: date the Consul-General for Germany has visited Canberra and conferred with  Sir Henry  Gullett. 
I commend  Senator Guthrie  for having brought this matter before the Senate. When there is the time to spare matters of importance, other than legislative proposals, should be discussed in this chamber with a view to finding a solution of our economic problems. Unfortunately, some honorable senators are not very interested in matters of general concern. They make their appearance only when a matter which is of particular interest to their constituents is being discussed. The wool industry, however, is of vital concern to the whole of Australia. Every honorable senator should try to understand the position so that he can bring pressure to bear on the Government to introduce legislation to improve conditions in this country. It is the duty of Australia to find other markets for its produce, for the greater competition will ensure better returns to our producers. As  Senator Guthrie  pointed out, Australia's exports of wool have remained practically stationary for a number of years. But the quantity of goods that we are able to purchase in exchange for that wool has diminished, and it would appear that in the near future we shall receive still smaller supplies of foreign commodities in exchange for our wool. The present system of trading is a combination of the systems of barter and finance. On the system of barter has been superimposed the financial system, which acts as a fetter, in that it prevents the free passage of goods from country to country that is possible under a system of barter. There is nothing wrong in principle with the exchange of goods for goods, known as barter. When commodity gold had a certain value, gold was exchanged for other commodities. There was then an exchange of value for value. But that is not so to-day. Instead, we have a highly developed system of finance, known as the credit system, the effect of which is to restrict the exchange of commodities. We have reached such, a stage in our economic development that modern finance is unable to perform the work that it should do. We therefore have the unsatisfactory position of our country producing, in abundance, all kinds of commodities, including wool, and capable of producing them in even greater abundance, but unable to exchange themfor other commodities. Consequently, our people starve, and the wool-growers suffer because they cannot meet their commitments.  Senator Guthrie  admits that he cannot give the details of any system by which this problem can be solved. He said that if Germany were allowed to send certain quantities of goods to Australia in exchange for Australian wool, the situation might be remedied. I submit that the trouble would not be solved in that way. The Senate might argue until the crack of doom, and make sentimental requests to other countries to accept our commodities, but they would be unable to do so because of the existing financial system. The gentleman who wrote to  Senator Guthrie  said - 
This buying, of course, has been done on the barter principle, and I suppose that this would be a great stumbling block here, for one can hardly visualize the average Australian with his present outlook on life, being willing to accept German goods in payment for wool. 
I do not quite agree with that statement. If we understood the position, we would be willing to accept German goods for goods which we produce in abundance, and in that way we would raise the standard of living in this country. Under the present financial system, however, barter cannot bo carried out. The stumbling block is finance. We are told that, in consequence of Germany's lost export  trade  its importations have decreased and its standard of living has fallen. Newspaper reports state that recently Hitler, Goering and Goebbels stood in the streets of Berlin collecting money to assist the poor of Germany. The present unhappy state of that country is the outcome of the existing financial system. For many years, Germany was able to carry on only by means of excessive loans raised in the United States of America. Germany could not meet its reparation obligations without borrowing more money from the United States of Amenca. It borrowed money to repay money previously borrowed. In the  Saturday Evening Post,  about two years ago, Garret Garrett, one of America's most brilliant writers, pointed out the stupidity of America assisting Germany to reach a high economic plane, thereby becoming a serious competitor. He went on to say that in order to lend to Germany millions of pounds, American workers produced goods of various kinds and gave them to Germany, and that Germany was not able to reciprocate. He pointed out, moreover, that under the financial system of to-day Americans had practically -to make a gift to Germany, because that country would never repay the money lent to it; that American producers, including the workers, had actually given their services to Germany, and that by accepting the gift, Germany had built up the finest industrial machine in the world, whereas in the United States of America 10,000,000 workers were starving in the midst of plenty. That incongruous position is the outcome of existing financial arrangements, by which one country starves its own people to build up another nation. If that has been the result of the present system of finance in other parts of the world, how can we in Australia hope to remedy our position under the same system? So long as we continue under that system, the community will continue to starve in order that the books of the banks may be balanced. The sooner we get down to bedrock the better. The financial system under which we live is making it increasingly difficult to exchange commodities, and, in order to relieve the situation, legislation, which can only be described as puerile, is placed on the statute-books of this and other countries. In Australia, it is urged that the introduction of potatoes from Tasmania to the mainland should be disallowed in order that they may be obtained from New Zealand, which country would then buy our citrus fruits. If we do that, we shall make it impossible for Tasmania to buy goods produced on the mainland.  Senator Guthrie  spoke of Australia's adverse trade balance with the United States of America, and urged that we should buy smaller quantities of goods from that country, and obtain the balance of our  requirements from Germany. If we buy from the United States of America goods to the value of ten, twenty or thirty million pounds, we must produce and sell goods of equal value to pay for them. How shall we make things better by transferring our purchasing from America to Germany? From time to time, we hear a good deal about Empire development. When not long ago, Australia won in New Zealand a market which previously was held by Great Britain, I  said  that by taking business from Great Britain we should not help the Empire. The trouble is that we do not get down to fundamentals. A study of world conditions shows that, under our present financial system, it is becoming more and mora difficult to exchange the commodities produced in one country for those of other countries. That system has resulted in the world's purchasing power being reduced from year to year, and almost from day to day. 
Despite great efforts to prevent it, the unemployment problem of the United States of America is greater to-day than ever before, there being 10,000,000 persons out of work in that great country. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J.  Lynch). - The honorable senator's time has expired. 
.- The Senate and the people generally are indebted to  Senator Guthrie  for having initiated a discussion this morning with reference to the position of the Australian wool industry. For some years I have been struck with the trend of prices at wool sales, and I have no doubt that  Senator Guthrie,  having a wide experience in the industry, has also been concorned at the lack, in recent years, of legitimate buying competition at the wool auctions. I am given to understand that, prior to each sale, individual buyers make their selection of the lots offering, and agree among themselves not to compote against each other. This lotsplitting has had the effect of destroying effective competition, and the result has been abnormally low prices for growers. 
That was because of the great shortage of wool offering. Last year the production in Australia was very much below the average. I mention this aspect of the wool industry, because it seems to me that wool production is the one industry in Australia which could be so organized internationally as to secure for growers a satisfactory minimum prices for the different grades. Other primary commodities are grown so universally that it would be impossible for those engaged in their production to organize with any hope of success. But the production of the different types of wool is restricted by conditions of soil and climate, and as Australia  i3  admirably suited to the growth of the best grades of fine wool, the organization of the industry on an international basis should be an attractive proposal for growers, because, as I have explained, it would ensure satisfactory minimum prices for the various grades. Not long ago nearly every one in this country was deeply concerned at the possibility of dire disaster overtaking the wool industry because of the disorganization of the overseas markets. Some people even advocated that, in order to dispose of surplus stock, a proportion of the Australian clip should he thrown into the sca; others suggested that it should be burned. Fortunately, conditions overseas improved, and the world surplus having been disposed of, prices rose to a more satisfactory level. No one will deny that there is not now such evidence of effective competition for the various types of wool offering at Australian sales. As I have explained, this is due to the fact that several years ago prices reached such a high level that the buying organizations came together, and by this arrangement to split lots, brought about an all-round reduction of prices. Whenever I addressed election meetings in Queensland I advocated the organization of the wool industry on an international basis, and emphasized that wool-growers,1 unlike other primary producers, were in a favorable position to safeguard their industry. I hope that steps will soon be taken to adopt the course which I have suggested. 

 .- Senator Foll has advised that the wool industry should be organized so as to improve the lot of individual growers. It will perhaps be sufficient if, in reply, I tell the honorable gentleman that this is the only industry in Australia which is thoroughly organized, and that, as a consequence, there is not a great carry-over of unsold wool from season to season, so that there is now some possibility of growers emerging from troubles which are not due to the fault of those engaged in the industry. 
It is organized in Australia as between the growers and wool-selling brokers to an extent which, I venture to say, is not approached by any other Australian industry. Therefore, all this talk about the need for the industry to organize has no real application. With regard to  the remarks of  Senator Brown,  I can only say that whenever we find ourselves in trouble, economically or otherwise, the honorable gentleman feels called upon to tell us that the existing economic system has broken down. 
I do not. I sincerely believe that the British Empire as a whole is a much better position, financially and economically, than any other country. If  Senator Browncan  point to any country which is moving more surely, even if slowly, out of its troubles than is the British Empire as a whole, I should like to hear about ii. The honorable senator apparently believes, quite honestly, that his method of dealing with such troubles as beset the various countries, would, if accepted, . set the whole world right.  His  argument is that the capitalistic system has broken down, and that if only we will turn to him, and follow his advice everything will be straightened out. 
That, at all events, is how I interpret the honorable senator's remarks. I do not doubt for a moment that he genuinely believes that he has to his hand the one and only cure for the world's economic and financial ilk. Some years ago Sydney Webb wrote a book in which he outlined a new Constitution for Great Britain.  Mr. Sydney  Webb, who has since been made a peer, is a man of undoubted ability, but we must, I think, admit that Lord Morley was right in his continent that it was an impertinence on the part of any man to think that by his unaided efforts, he could produce a social, political, and financial system to supplant one which represents the combined thought of tens of thousands of the ablest men which the Mother Country has produced. None of us. not even  Mr. Keynes,  could justifiably believe that his view should prevail over the combined thought of the world in respect of any particular matter. 
Let me recapitulate briefly the position of the wool industry.  Senator Brown  has argued that there is no reason why we should not take German goods in return for Australian goods. Why then does he object to the Government's proposal to grant additional concessions to Fiji, the effect of which will he to make the Australian market available for a greater quantity of bananas from Fiji in return for goods which we send to that country? The two cases arc absolutely analagous. Last night, when discussing the Government's proposal relating to our . trade agreement with Fiji, he was uncompromisingly hostile to the freer importalion of Fijian bananas. To-day he puts the contrary view in his survey of world economic problems. 
Sena tor DUNC AN-HUGHES. -I listened with the greatest, care to all that the honorable senator said, and I am quite certain that I did not misunderstand him. But let me finish what I had set out to say with regard to the wool position. Prices have come back to depression levels. The fact that a relatively small proportion of the total production is sold within the British Empire complicates the situation. This industry has never asked for governmental assistance. Indeed, those engaged in it have been insistent that its interests will be best served by freedom from interference, and relief from crippling taxation. Nevertheless, it has had placed on it, through the tariff largely, heavier burdens than have been imposed upon secondary industries. There are two ways in which it may he assisted to emerge from its present difficulties. The first method is by remission of taxation, and the second is by a lowering of tariff charges. I know that the land tax, which is really a tax on capital, affects two people living in our cities for every one living in the country, but if that impost be further reduced, the wool industry will have a better chance to carry on. The reduction of the land tax by 50 per cent, is a welcome concession, but is not sufficient to meet the needs of the industry. A reduction of the tariff is the second avenue of relief. As our wool-growers have to accept world parity for their product they feel that it is not fair that they should be required to produce in a market, which, owing to the high level of the tariff, is one of the most expensive. The 
Government lias to a minor extent lowered the tariff on many items -which affect our primary industries. It has, as I have admitted, reduced the land tax by one-half and has also so amended the act as to provide some relief in respect of cases of hardship. I am not at all enthusiastic about that phase of its policy. The wool-grower should not be obliged or entitled to claim relief from taxation on the ground that it is imposing  a  hardship on him. 
In the meantime, our difficulties are becoming greater owing to the threats by other countries of quotas and embargos on the sale of our wool. The attitude of the German Government has already been mentioned and it will be within the memory of those who are interested in this industry that recently Italy, which before this year purchased approximately £4,000,000 worth of Australian wool, has intimated that in future its purchase will be about £2,000,000 per annum less. The trouble with the Lancashire cotton spinners, due to some recent alteration of the duties on cotton in the interests of the Australian cotton industry, may quite easily spread to Yorkshire, and although it is not likely to prevent Bradford from taking a reasonable quantity of our wool, it is not to be expected that Bradford will be anxious to increase its orders on Australia's account. Then there is trouble looming up with Japan in connexion with our tariff policy. These four instances indicate the general effect on other countries of our economic policy as expressed largely through the tariff. The tendency of other countries is to buy less from Australia, particularly of wool, because we are not buying sufficient quantities of goods from them. 
 I am looking at the facts. 'No one can deny that our tariff policy is having the effect which I have stated. 
Perhaps it does not, but we should remember that we are dependent on selling our wool and other primary products overseas. Our attitude in stressing unessentials in tariff matters was bound to land us in our present position. Now we cannot readily market abroad essential commodities upon the sale of which we depend for our financial stability. It is clear to every one to-day, and it must have been for years past to any one with even half an eye, that the time will eventually arrive when those countries now purchasing our wool will say that they do not intend to purchase further supplies. What will we do a'bout it then? That is a possibility which confronts the Government. The wool-growers, as  Senator Guthrie  said, have carried on with a minimum of governmental assistance, while those engaged in secondary production, and in almost every other form of primary production have received governmental assistance in different forms. Those engaged in the wool industry, which is the key industry, have received practically no assistance, and by degrees the straws are accumulating to such an extent that the camel's back will inevitably be broken. What shall we do then? I admit freely that Nationalist governments have never been so harsh on the wool industry as have Labour governments, which have looked upon it from the view-point of taxation alone. Labour governments have never encouraged it in any way. For years we have asked for remissions of taxes or substantial reductions of customs duties. Taxes have been reduced slightly, and customs duties have been reduced only to a very limited extent. When we ask the present Government what it intends to do, we are informed that it proposes to enter into trade agreements. Personally, I think that that is one way out of the difficulty, but whatever action is taken must be taken rapidly. Prices are now back to depression level, our markets are slipping from us month by month, and the matter is one that will not brook delay. As is said in legal parlance, time is of the essence of the contract. I am not particularly concerned at the moment with the possible competition of the new 
German substitute,  woolstra.  Some suggest that unless an arrangement is made with Germany, that country will find the necessary money to produce a product of such quality and price, and in such quantities that it will compete seriously with Australian wool. My personal view is that if it be possible to produce  woolstra  effectively and to use it to defeat the use of wool, Germany will not lack the capital to do so. The making of an agreement with Australia will not delay the development of this new industry. If  woolstra  can compete successfully against the natural product, the necessary capital will be forthcoming in Germany, and if not there, in some other country. I have recapitulated to some extent the facts of ibis matter, because I think that the Minister was not inclined to face up to them. This essential, industry, which assists the whole of Australia, is now facing serious difficulties, and apart from minor alleviations such as the appointments of royal commissions, very little has been done to assist it. 
To discuss effectively a subject of such importance a good deal of investigation and research would be required, and instead of endeavouring to come to grips with it in two hours, we should occupy two or three days. I object to  Senator Duncan-Hughes  saying nhat Labour governments have not done anything to assist the wool industry. 
The honorable senator has suggested that Labour governments have been opposed to the wool industry. 
The honorable senator suggests that no government has helped that industry. 
 Senator E.  B. Johnston directed attention to our tariff policy; but the present Government was elected because it affirmed the principle of effective protection for Australia. I do not think that any Queensland grazier would say that the Labour governments in that State have neglected the wool industry, although in prosperous periods they have advocated that the workers should get a fair share of the substantial returns received by the wool-growers. It is ridiculous for the honorable senator to suggest that Labour governments have failed to recognize the importance of the wool industry to Australia. The main reason why it has not had assistance in the past is because it has not needed it. Prior to the depression, the prices received by the woolgrowers were too high to ensure the safety of the industry, and during the period of inflated prices, many made enormous fortunes. For 30  years prior to the depression, the wool industry was regarded as the one great industry which could be depended upon because of its grip upon world trade. It is well to remember that high prices have led the wool industry into serious difficulties. 
Tes, and the use of cotton, silk, and artificial products increased. There are few of us who know what is done behind the scenes when wool is being marketed. Sales held in Melbourne, Sydney, or Brisbane are attended by buyers from all over the world, and although we read that there is keen competition, the buyers, realizing that it would be foolish to cut each other's throats, put their heads together and arrange to bid for only certain lots, thus keeping down prices. 
.The alleged competition has to be watched, and the operations of the industry scrutinized carefully. I consider that it needs reorganizing on the lines of the sugar industry and the butter industry. As a representative of the third generation of a family of wool producers, and having at one time had an interest in a few hundred sheep, I naturally take an interest in the production of wool. The industry appears at present to be in a chaotic condition. Only recently letters were despatched to the members of this 
Parliament by a graziers' organization atRoma, which wanted to know what we, as representatives of the people, propose to do to assist the industry. I do not profess to have the highly technical knowledge of  Senator Guthrie  on the handling and marketing of wool or to be as well acquainted with its production as are certain honorable senators who own sheep stations; but it is safe to say that there is an enormous number of persons standing between the wool-grower and the actual user. I do not suppose that here is any other Australian industry in which so many middlemen operate as in the wool industry. I believe that every government has endeavoured to assist the woolgrowers from time to time. Fortunately for Australia, until quite recently no assistance of any great moment was required. Still the governments of Australia have certainly helped this industry in regard to railway freights, the combating of diseases in sheep, and in many other ways which at the moment do not spring to the mind. Among those who have been getting " a cut " out of the wool industry are big mercantile firms and financial institutions, the shipping people, and the millers in Bradford and Japan; by the time they are satisfied not much is left for the actual grower. 
Numbers of growers in Queensland have done so. There seem to be more people standing between the grower and the user in the wool industry than in any other. So far as the marketing of wool is concerned, probably very largely because of the tremendous prosperity the industry in Australia has enjoyed, it is the least organized of all our industries. The big financial institutions have a great grip on it. It has been stated on a number of occasions that, if the woolgrower received that measure of protection that he should get, he would be in a safe position, but the fault in that regard does not lie with any of the governments, least of all with the Labour governments, although  Senator DuncanHughes  tried to fix the blame on them. It is certainly not the governments, Labour or otherwise, that are responsible for the present perilous condition of the industry. I think something better than 9d. should be got for wool very soon; but, directly a relatively high price, such as lad., is passed, other dangers have to be faced; that is, other articles are brought into use, and synthetic products like woolstra are developed. My advice to the people in Roma, who wrote to members of Parliament, was that those in the industry should do a great deal more for themselves, instead of depending on Parliament. All that we Labour senators could do to change the policy of a great industry like this would not amount to much. I tell  Senator Duncan-Hughes  and  Senator Guthrie  that the industry wants better organization, and national organization at that. If the time comes that  Senator Duncan-Hughes  predicts, when the wool industry is down and out, then proper organization will be undertaken, and will bring success if it be not too late. 
Motion -  by leave  - withdrawn . 
On the 15th November,  Senator Sampson  asked the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Who was responsible for the plans and specifications of the staff dwelling house now being erected for the wireless broadcasting station at Kelso, Tasmania? 
On what grounds are 5-in x 5-in. peppermint posts being used to support the building instead of concrete? 
Is it not a fact that some 70 chains of wire fencing is being erected, with 6-in.  x  4-in. concrete posts, manufactured on the job? 
What is the difference in cost between - 
5-in. x 5-in. peppermint posts ; 
5-in. x 5-in. concrete posts? 
What is the estimated life of the 5-in. x 5-in. peppermint piles under the dwelling? 
What is the estimated life of the same in concrete? 
The Parliamentary Public Works Committee having ceased to function, what examination, if any, is exercised with regard to sites, plans, &amp;c, and by whom? 
I am now in a position to reply as follows :  - 
The working drawings and specifications in respect of this building were prepared in the office of the Works Director for victoria. 
It is the usual practice to use wooden stumps for timber buildings.. The specification in respect of this particular building provided for jarrah stumps. It was, however, considered desirable to use Tasmanian timber, and as peppermint, which, with the. exception of T.ioinanian blue gum which was not obtainable in the district, has a longerlife than any other Tasmanian hardwood, that timber was decided upon. The building is not being erected on swampy ground, the site being some 4 feet higher than the surrounding area, 
Yes. Concrete fence posts are being used because a considerable portion of the fence traverses swampy ground. 
Approximately1s. 6d. per 4-foot post. 
The life of peppermint telegraph poles, which are exposed to all weather, is approximately eighteen years. The life of the same timber used for foundation posts, which are in a sheltered position, would naturally be considerably iongor. 
Indefinite. 
Plans, &amp;c., in respect of all buildings prepared by the technical officers of the Department of the Interior, are subject to review by the departments for which such buildings are erected. The sites upon which buildings are erected are also subject to the approval of the departmentconcerned. 
asked the Minister representing- the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
With reference to reply to question asked by  Senator Johnston  on the 12th instant in which it was stated that 3s. per acre had been paid under the Wheat Growers Relief Apt 1933 to wheat-growers with taxable incomes in Queensland, and 5s.6d. per acre to wheatgrowers without taxable incomes in Queensland, and6s.10d. per acre to wheat-growers in Tasmania - 
Why has such discrimination been shown in favour of wheat-growers in these States as compared with other States? 
How is the payment of 3s. per acre to all wheat-growers with taxable incomes in Queensland reconciled with the refusal of any payment to wheat-growers with taxable incomes in other States'? 
Will the Government find the necessary money to give wheat-growers inother States the same assistance and relief as granted in Tasmania and Queensland? 
If -not, why not? 
How are the payments mentioned reconciled with the 'grant of . 3s, 6d-per acre to necessitous wheat-growers in "Western Australia, and with the provision in the federal Constitution which prohibits discrimination between the . States? 
---The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow 
The total amount made available to each State was based upon the acreage sown 'to wheat in that State relative to total Common wealth acreage and. the rate atwhich each growerwas paid was dependentupon the acreage within each State in respect of which assistance was granted. These, of course - owing to Commonwealth discriminatory clauses^would. vary. 
There isnoreason to believe thatclaims received from Queensland growers were not dealt with in accordance with section 61x of the Wheat Growers Relief Act 1933. Payments under section6(B) were made at the discretion of the State authority, 
See answers to 1 and -2 above. 
Commonwealth legislation does not permit  of  action being taken on the lines suggested 
See answer to 1 above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that butler substitutes are a grave menace to the dairying industry? 
Will he consider the advisability of bringing in legislation to prohibit their manufacture andsale? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following replies to the honorable senator's questions &gt;- 
The Government is aware of the growth of butter substitutes, andhas the matter at present under consideration. 
Seeanswer to question 1above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister have inquiry made into the position prevailing at the Canberra Government Hospital to which  Senator Ceilings  made reference in the Senate on the 12th instant? 
The remarks of the honorable senator have been brought to the notice of the Minister for Health who proposes to have inquiries made immediately. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- 
Is it a -fact that a petition to Hip Majesty the King is being prepared and printed in Sydney by the organization known as the New Guard praying His Majesty the King to reverse the policy of ail Australian GovernorGeneral, and send to Australia instead a member of theRoyal Family.? 
If the Prime Minister is not aware of this, will be ascertain if the petition is being so prepared  1 
If such a petition is being prepared will he inform the Senate what steps are proposed to ensure that any matter of government policy reaches His Majesty only through the proper constitutional parliamentary channels? 
-The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
I have been informed that such a petition is being prepared. 
See reply to No. 1. 
The existing practice makes adequate provision to ensure that  His  Majesty's Ministers of the Commonwealth would have full opportunity of submitting to  His  Majesty such advice as might be considered desirable in relation to any petition of the nature referred to by the honorable senator. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small measure which has been brought forward to authorize the Commissioner to approve of advances to purchasers of war service homes being increased from £800 to £950. This will enable additional advances to be made for accommodation, sewerage and other utility services where the purchaser's account is clear and he is in a financial position to pay the extra instalments. The Commissioner has not now got that power. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[2.19]. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The late David Charles McGrath was a member of the House of Representatives for 20 years, in which period he was a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works, from January, 1926, to September, 1929, and Chairman of Committees of the House of Representatives from November, 1929, until November, 1931. With the exception of a short period he was continuously a member of the House of Representatives from 1913 until his death on the 31st July, 1934. Prior to his entry into the Parliament of the Commonwealth he was for nine years continuously a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Parliament ofVictoria, so that for a total period of 29 years he was a representative of the people in the legislatures of his country. He served in the Australian Imperial Force during the Great War from March, 1916, to the 31st July, 1918, when he was discharged as medically unfit for further military service. The Government made inquiries into the position of the widow and is satisfied that an annuity of £156 is fully warranted. There are several precedents for this action in that previous parliaments have provided annuities for former members or their dependants. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[2.25] - I move - 
That the bill be now read a  second  time. 
This bill provides for an appropriation of the sum of £5,000 as a grant to  Mrs. Mary  Josephine Ulm, the wife of FlightLieutenant C. T. P. Ulm, who, it is feared, has lost his life in connexion with the attempted flight from Canada to Australia. This sum represents the equivalent value of a life insurance policy in the name of Flight-Lieutenant Ulm, which was handed over by him as part security for an overdraft of £8,000 granted by the Commonwealth Bank to meet the expenses in connexion with his flight, including the purchase of an aeroplane. When this flight was in contemplation, representations were made to the Government that the Commonwealth should guarantee a bank overdraft to meet the expenses incidental to the flight. The matter was given very careful consideration by the Government and.it was felt that, having regard to the value of the flight from a developmental point of view, and the fact that it was to be carried out by means of a British aircraft and would, if successful, be a demonstration of the value of the aircraft for long-distance flights, it was considered that the Commonwealth should assist within reasonable limits towards making the venture possible. The Government recognized also the fact that a flight of this nature would be a fitting part of the Victorian centenary celebrations. Before coming to this conclusion, the Government obtained reports from its technical advisers in aviation matters and the indications were that there was every reason to believe that the flight would be successful. The Government, therefore, decided, subject to Parliamentary approval, to guarantee a bank overdraft to the amount of £8,000 for the purpose of the expenses of the flight. The arrangement was that, should the amount of the advance not be repaid by  Mr. Ulm,  or other arrangements not be made with the bank to its entire satisfaction by the 30th June, 1935, the Government would liquidate the whole or any part of the advance which might be outstanding at that date. An undertaking was given to the Commonwealth Bank, on behalf of the Government, to submit to Parliament a bill to provide the necessary statutory authority. The guarantee was given subject to the Commonwealth Bank taking as security for the overdraft a life insurance policy for £10,000 on the life of Flight-Lieutenant Ulm, and also a bill of sale on an aeroplane  Faith in Australia.  This is not the aeroplane that was lost in the flight. The life insurance policy contained a clause that the total amount payable would not exceed £5,000 in the event of the death of  Mr. Ulm  whilst engaged in aviation outside Australia. The aeroplane was valued by  Mr. Ulm  at £4,000. The negotiations in connexion with the guarantee took place near the end of the last Parliamentary session, and it was the intention of the Government to introduce a bill early in the current session to secure Parliamentary approval of the guarantee. As honorable members are aware,  Mr. Ulm's  flight has proved a failure and the Government had to decide what action should be taken in connexion with the guarantee. It felt that, in view of all the circumstances, it would be somewhat harsh to enforce the conditions of the guarantee in their entirety, and it was not proposed to require the Commonwealth Bank to exercise its rights over the life insurance policy. Representations, however, have been made in the interests of  Mrs. Ulm  that it would be more satisfactory if the Commonwealth exercised its right through the Commonwealth Bank over the life insurance policy, and in lieu thereof made available to her a straight-out grant of an amount equivalent to the amount recoverable under the policy, namely £5,000. In the normal course of events the amount payable under the policy would not be actually paid to  Mrs. Ulm  for some considerable time. Thu3 through this grant she will be enabled to participate, without delay, in the benefits, which would otherwise accrue from the policy. Briefly,  under  the  provisions  of the bill, a  grant of  £5,000  is to  be  made  to  Mrs.Ulm,. and the Common-wealth Bank willexercise its  right under"  t'he  securities,  by  collecting  the £5,000  payable under'  the  policy, and realizing  on the  aeroplane'  Faith in Australia,  over which it hold's a bill  of  sale. It- is  anticipated  that the  proceeds  of these  Securities'  will  liquidate'  the  amount'  of the  overdraft.  I regret the  necessity  for  bringing  this bill' forward',  but  I trust' that the Senate  will see  its way  clear  to pass  it* 
Question resolved  in the  affirmative. 
Bill  read  a  second-  time,  and',  passed  through  its  remaining stages' without amendment  or  debate. 
'. - I move - 
That thebill he now reada.second time. 
This bill:  does  not  seek  to-  impose-  any  additional liability,  upon" any  taxpayer-. 
As-its name- implies,  it  relates  only  to procedure,  and is  designed merely  to rendermore  effective  the  existing, machinery provisions  of the law a's  regards  the col-'  lection  and  recovery  of  sales  tax. Thebill does not affect- the  liability  provisions of the law in any way, and thus" does not  touch  upon! the field of exemptions from tax*  under  the  existing1 law.  It is not  intended,  at the  present- juncture*,,  to  consider'  any  extensions- of  the  present exemptions.  As the  result  of  views expressed in connexion  with recent  litigation, attention  has been drawn to the fact that the  existing  law does not  fully authorize  the  procedure  which has been f'ollo'wed in these matters ever since  the  inception' of the sales tax. The- procedure followed has operated- to the mutual advantage of taxpayer's and of the department', and' if its continuance be not authorized, serious burdens Will be! placed upon all concerned. 
So far as taxpayers are concerne'd, it may be explained that,, in instances where they make sales of- different classes of goods, rendering them liable under' the different Sales Tax" Assessment' Acts, returns are accepted' showing' thetot'al sales, without requiring any dissection to- show the amounts of the- sales which are* taxable"' under each of the' act* a-ffee'ted. &amp; strict application1 ofthe existing' law would require"- separate" returns of the sales which are taxable' under' each' of those acts,- but' if taxpayers; had to furnish- such separate'1- returns- it" would be unnesslary for' them- to keep special records of all their* stocks;, in. order" to determine the origin of each parcel of goods" sold. The', keeping of such'- recordswould be&gt; not- merely difficult. but, in fact, practically impossible. 
In its administration of the law- the" departmenthas- successfully conducted action's' for' recovery' of tax", and prosecu-&gt; tions for evasions of the law, withouthaving" be'en required' to prove, in cases' where the liability to tax" arose' undermore1 than one of the Sales Tax- Assess' ment Acts-, the extent Of the liability under each particular act affected. Strict observance of- the existing law would1 r'equire the derpartment to- prove' the extent of the' liability under each of those act's. This would" be an impossible task, as it woul'd involve- tracing the origin of eachparcel of goods sold. 
Itmay be explained that the object of the bill is to' remove such' difficulties only in' those c'as'es where" the actual amount of the liability to sales tax would not be affected by determining the particular" acts under which the' liability to" tax arose.  'Whichever of the acts is-' applied in these' cases, the amount of the" liability remains the same'. The necessity for p'roving, in these' cases the" particular" act affected is, therefore, not only burdensome' but also unnecessary. 
The procedure hitherto adopted by the department is regarded as the only practicable scheme for collection and recovery  of the tax, and it is essential that legislative sanction be given thereto. In order so ons-ure the effective operation of the proposed law in connexion with the collection of tax on transactions taking place prior to its commencement, it is intended that the measure shall be made to apply retrospectively from the commencement of the original sales tax  legislation,  viz., the 18th August, 1930. Those honorable gentlemen who find a profit in studying the pages of  Hansard  will discover that on other occasions I have expressed dissatisfaction with retrospective legislation. To them I would say that the objection which I have urged against retrospective provisions in bills cannot be directed to this measure, because it does not involve any person in liability to prosecution for anything which he may not have done unless he would have been liable under the existing law. It will be seen, therefore, that the retrospective provisions of this bill arc not objectionable. 
The bill also proposes to confirm all judicial proceedings determined prior to the commencement of the proposed law, and to preserve the rights of litigants in any proceedings instituted and pending on or before the 29th November,. 1934, or some convenient later date prior to the commencement of the proposed law. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Glauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Returns). 
.- I t is not my intention to delay the passage of the measure; but I think this is an opportune time to express my regret that important bills like the one now before the committee are so often presented in the Senate in the closing hours of the session, when we have not a reasonable opportunity to discuss them. I know of no legislation that is so difficult to understand as the various sales tax acts. All honorable senators must know, from the correspondence which they receive, how harassing is this form of legislation to the business community. The compilation of returns often involves taxpayers in considerable expenditure, sometimes out of all proportion to the amount of tax paid. In one case that came under my notice the cost of preparing the returns was at least treble thi amount of tax. Wo should have a fuller opportunity to discuss this important legislation. I know that it is useless for me to bring under the notice of the Government to-day complaints which have been submitted to mc, because there will now be no time to deal with them; but I hope that, in future, amending sales tax bills will be introduced earlier, so that we may study them, and, if necessary, submit amendments to simplify the law. I believe that the various acts could be simplified without prejudicing the revenue. If this were done, it would be much appreciated by the business community. The sales tax presses very heavily upon small traders, especially those dealing almost exclusively in standard lines of confectionery, because it has to be paid by the retailer, and as in most cases manufacturers have fixed standard prices for their different lines, the small retailer is unable to pass on the tax to- the public. On one line, the tax amounts to one-eighth of a penny, so that a small shopkeeper whose profits may not be more than £2 or £3 a week is hit very heavily. The wholesale traders are in a better position because they can pass on the tax to the retailers. 
 Senator Payne  appears to have overlooked the fact that one of the merits of this bill is that it does simplify the procedure, and to that extent it benefits the taxpayer. Under the existing law the department could require traders to furnish nine separate returns on sales made under the several acts. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Offences in respect of avoidance of tax). 
Can the Assistant, Minister say if the minimum penalty of £50 provided in this clause for offences against the law is an increase of the present penalty? I ask the question because I have not had an opportunity to compare this bill with existing legislation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 14 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
[4.0]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill represents the second step in the Government's employment programme, the first step of which was the allocation a fortnight ago of £176,000 for renovations to Commonwealth properties, and included works which could be put in hand at once and provide employment before Christmas. The amount of £176,000 was obtained from Consolidated Revenue. 
This bill provides for a further sum of £200,000 for Commonwealth works to be allocated from loan. It also provides for £1,000,000 as a Commonwealth contribution to State works, £283,750 by way of augmenting assistance to the mining industry through the State mines departments, and £50,000 for the assistance of mining in the Northern Territory, making a total further contribution to the relief of unemployment of £1,533,750. 
It is not possible to inform the Senate at this juncture what works will be included in this programme. The Government is at present examining submissions from the various departments of a very considerable total, and parliamentary approval is now asked to enable some of these works to be commenced without waiting for the re-assembling of Parlia ment. The bill, however, will provide that such works after approval by the Treasurer shall be notified by publication in the  Gazette.  The Government will select only those works which are most urgent and most justifiable. 
I am referring now to Commonwealth works. There are some urgent works to be undertaken in the Repatriation Department in connexion with hospitals, notably in making some of them more comfortable in summer months. It is desired that works of that character shall be expedited, so that the benefits of the improvements effected may be enjoyed during the summer months. 
A further sum of £1,000,000 is proposed to be appropriated to assist the States in carrying out additional works policies within their territories. These are the works to which  Senator Sampson  referred. Honorable senators were informed in the Governor-General's Speech that it is the intention of the Government to assist the States in this manner with a view to mitigating unemployment. In pursuance of this policy each State Premier was asked early in November last to supply schedules of works which it was suggested were appropriate for Commonwealth assistance. Very substantial programmes have been submitted by most of the States, all of which have been and are still subject to negotiations with the Commonwealth. At this stage it is impossible to give detailed particulars of the works to be undertaken, in each State, and consequently a sum has been allotted to each State pending the adoption of the programme. In negotiating with the States the Government is endeavouring to encourage enterprise on the part of the State governments and local governing authorities with a view to increasing the value of the Commonwealth contribution. Following this principle the schedule of works in New South Wales will probably consist largely of schemes for the installation of water supplies and sewerage systems in provincial areas. The New South Wales appropriation will also cover an amount of £63,000, representing the agreed upon contribution by the Commonwealth for the provision of an improved highway between Yass and the boundary of the Federal Capital Territory. 
It is not a good road, particularly in wet weather. This work, whilst shown as of assistance to New South Wales, is essentially a. Commonwealth provision^ s.s the New South Wales Government has definitely intimated that the present roadway servos State purposes. Many of the works submitted in the New South Wales schedule contemplate the expenditure of considerable sums of money by local authorities as well as contributions by the State governments. This is a commendable feature, because many of those works are beyond the financial capacity of the local governing authorities. With the assistance of Commonwealth and State contributions these works will be brought within the financial capacity of the local authorities. We must not impose too heavy a burden upon the ratepayers, but, under this arrangement, they will derive the benefit of improved water supplies and sewerage systems at a reasonable cost, and will pay interest only upon the contributions made by the municipalities, Moreover, employment will be provided and the improvements generally will be a distinct benefit to those residing in country areas. 
In Victoria it is expected that the principal measure of assistance shall be in respect of public works to make good the damage done by the recent floods, and. again it is proposed that this aid shall be granted on a £1 for £1 basis. If honorable senators will turn to the schedule they will see that the amount provided for Victoria is £225,000, which will represent an actual expenditure of £450,000. 
The Government is endeavouring to make similar arrangements with other States, but as negotiations are still in progress, it is not possible to supply details of the allocations proposed. 
The amounts which Parliament is now asked to appropriate are intended to ensure relief being afforded to large num bers of the unemployed in each State without waiting for the re-assembling of Parliament. 
Many authorities have expressed the opinion that the development of our metalliferous mining resources offers scope for national activity. During recent years the production of gold in Australia has declined below the yield of a couple of decades ago. With a view to exploring the possibilities in this connexion, a conference of the mining authorities of the several States was held in Melbourne last week. This conference, which was attended by the Ministers for Mines and principal officers of the Mines Departments of five States, strongly recommended that Federal financial assistance should be granted to the States to enable them to amplify their efforts in this direction. It was finally decided unanimously to recommend that a sum of £353,000 should be granted to the States for this purpose and £50,000 for use in the Northern Territory - a total of £403,000. All the State authorities indicated that satisfactory results wore being achieved by the assistance rendered from State funds, but they were hampered in further developing their mining potentialities by lack of funds. It was suggested that the Commonwealth assistance should be devoted to increasing the geological and other technical staff, to the assistance of prospectors, the provision of batteries and other treatment plants, where these facilities were nor, available, and to a number of other purposes including advances to individuals and syndicates whose ability to exploit their holdings was restricted by lack of finance. The amount proposed to be allocated for this purpose was £138,500. 
While the Government ha3 been prepared to accept the conclusions and recommendations of the conference in general, it is thought that the item of £138,500 for advances should be the subject of joint contributions by the Commonwealth and State authorities. Consequently the total amount recommended by the conference, to be set aside for these advances has been reduced by one-half, and it is intended that the Commonwealth grant of £69 250 for this purpose shall be conditional upon a similar contribution from the States. If  advances  of this  character  were  made  solely  from Commonwealtib. money,  no  responsibility would rest upon the States.  If  a State has to find one-half of the advance and the Commonwealth the remainder, State authorities will be more energetic in seeing that the advances are sound and are properly policed. One of the conditions proposed to be applied to the provision of assistance  to  mining  is the  setting  up of a  trust in each of the States to administer the federal aid, and on this trust the Commonwealth will be appropriately represented. 
That was made a condition in our negotiations with the States. I also direct attention  to  sub-clause 2  of  clause 5 - 
Any amount granted to a State under this section shall be paid upon condition that it is used by the State, in such manner and subject tosuch conditions as the Treasurer approves. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE.It is not set out in the bill; but it is one of the conditions to which the States agreed. 
It is  hoped that, as a result of cooperative action by the Commonwealth and State authorities in the manner indicated, a considerable revival of mining  will  be assured ; judging by the experience  of  the assistance already rendered by the States this should result in the gold production of the Commonwealth being greatly increased. It is also intended to apply £50,000 for the encouragement of mining in the Northern Territory, a large portion of which will be by way of encouraging prospecting and providing facilities such as water supplies and tracks, treatment plants, &amp;c. Allowing for the reduction of the item already referred to, the provision made in the bill for mining assistance is £283.750 for administration by the States, and £50,000 for the Northern Territory, making a total of £333,750. 
In connexion with the item of £50,000 for the encouragement of mining development in the Northern Territory. I may inform honorable senators that already there are some very promising developments there. While the Government has no doubt that capital will be contributed by the investing public, there is a responsibility upon the Government to provide water supplies in those areas, and to make them accessible by tracks. This sum is largely for that purpose. The Government trusts that the developments which will follow these activities will assist to increase the permanent population of the Northern Territory. Some of these areas may develop into prominent fields, and we do not wish torisk the possibility of mining fields being opened up without a reasonable supply of water, and a tragedy resulting. 

 Senator Sir GEORGE PEARCE Yes. I regret that I allowed this schedule to go through Cabinet without urging that a sum be set aside for encouraging mining development in Papua. The matter was brought under my notice by one of the officers to-day; but I am sorry that I was not reminded  earlier,  as1 the expenditure of a few thousand pounds in Papua might have a very beneficial effect. 
It does. If the whole of the amount appropriated for the Northern Territory is not required, I shall see if some can be diverted to Papua. Possibly the Government may be able to provide £5,000 of the amount appropriated  for the Northern Territory for expenditure in Papua. I shall sec if anything can be done. 
I have seen some superficial criticisms of this proposal to assist the gold-mining industry. The argument used is that the present abnormally high price of gold renders government assistance to gold-mining unnecessary. Whilst that is quite true of mines which have been developed and reasonable returns are indicated by assay or crushings, because there the public will supply all the capital required, the Government can still do a great deal to stimulate the finding of new lodes and other deposits by assisting prospectors, providing water supplies,  and in other ways. If new mines can be discovered by these means they will be a great help to Australia, because gold is the one thing for which the world is hungry. Some most interesting information was given to the conference to show the value of government assistance. For instance, the Mount Morgan gold-field had been absolutely abandoned, and its town was practically deserted. The first grant was only £250. That was followed by assistance to the amount of £15,000. The consequence is that the Mount Morgan to-day is employing 400 or 500 people and paying dividends, and the town has over 2,000 inhabitants. The case of Wiluna was also cited. In that instance the Commonwealth and State Governments guaranteed £300,000 worth of debentures issued by a company to enable it to develop that enormous proposition. This is one of the world's outstanding successes in the development of gold-mining. All that money has been repaid. Other similar cases of successful government assistance in Western Australia and elsewhere were mentioned, as showing what could be done in opening up new fields and developing hidden resources. 
I support the second reading of this important bill, and am pleased to find that provision has been made to assist prospecting in various parts of Australia. I am quite in accord with the principle of the States accepting certain responsibilities in connexion with the prospecting vote or any other money to be used to develop Australia's mineral resources, but I wonder whether the necessity to provide £1 for £1 may wot press very hard on some of the poorer States. 
The sum of £25,750 is made available to Tasmania, but if the State is to obtain the full benefit of that money it must provide a similar amount. 
I believe that good results will follow from this financial assistance. I was pleased to hear  Senator Duncan-Hughes'  interjection with regard to Papua. The most recent report from that country is as follows: - 
Gold-mining has shown some progress since I last reported, but the new activities are only minor so far. Capital is being expended in a small way in prospecting in various parts of the territory, and there is reasonable ground for hoping that one or more of these ventures may develop into something big. What we need to give the revenue a fillip is undoubtedly large scale operations which will need the employment of native labour in large numbers. 
I hope that the Government will find some way to assist Papua in this direction, because, during the last few years the grants to that territory have' been considerably reduced, and the considerable fail in the price of copra has greatly militated against its progress. If the Government will appropriate a sum of money to give the necessary fillip to the gold-raining industry in Papua it will render to that dependency -help that is much needed at the present time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.26]. - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Thi* is one of those technical measures which the departments seems to have the happy knack of bringing forward on the eve of Christmas. 1 do not know why the legal defect with which it deals could not have been discovered earlier, and the bill introduced into the Senate when it had more leisure. However, the bill is  not  of great importance. The necessity for it arises in this way: When the Federal Capital Commission was constituted in 1924, certain lands contiguous to the Territory were vested in the commission in virtue of the Seat of Government . (Administration) Act 1924-1929. Certain other lands outside the Territory, which had been acquired under the Lands Acquisition Act, were transferred by the Commonwealth to the commission. In 1930 the commission ceased to exist, and, by section 7 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930, all lands which were vested in the commission became vested in the Commonwealth. Lands  in  the Territory could then be disposed of by lease or otherwise in accordance with laws of the Territory, but there was no provision for leasing or otherwise disposing of lands which are outside ibc Territory. Section 63 of the Lands Acquisition A'ct provides that lands which are acquired or deemed to be acquired under that act may be disposed of if not required for Commonwealth purposes. There is no reason why the lands- to which the bill relates should not bc subject to disposal in the same manner as lands acquired under the Lands Acquisition Act. All such lands were, in fact, acquired under that act, but by reason of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924-1929 and 1930, they have ceased legally to have that "characteristic. The object of this bill is, therefore, to bring these lands once more under the provisions of section 63 of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.33].- I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I desire to express to honorable senators my appreciation of the way in which they have helped, under somewhat difficult circumstances, to transact the business of this chamber. I think that Parliament will probably bo called together about the beginning of February next, unless anything unforeseen happens. 
To you,  Mr. President,  and to all honorable senators, to the officers and staff of this chamber, and to members of the  Ilansard  staff, I wish a happy Christmas and prosperous New Year. 
.- 1 reciprocate the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce;, and on behalf of the members of the Opposition, extend to all honorable senators, irrespective of party, our good wishes. Despite our political differences we have for each other a warm personal regard which can be appropriately expressed at this season of universal goodwill. On behalf of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, I wish to all honorable senators a happy fasti  to  season and a prosperous New Year. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. P. J. Lynch)  [4.35]. - I thank the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Barnes)  for the sentiments they have expressed towards myself  and  the officers under my control. It is very pleasing to me, as a disinterested outsider, as it were, to observe the feelings of mutual respect and conciliation displayed by political antagonists in this ch amber. That is as it shouldbe, because there are as many different opinions as to how the public affairs of the the country should be run as there are brands of tea and whisky. There is no reason why one honorable senator should entertain personal enmity towards another honorable senator who differs  from  him politically. Judging by the rapidity with which such differences are forgotten, they are as light as the air. Others -who have been prominent in the Senate and in the other branch of this Parliament hare differed politically; they have passed on, and their differences and even the men themselves have been forgotten. So we, too, can forget at this season of goodwill, any momentary bitterness that may havebeen occasioned in the ardour of political dispute. [ appreciate the work performed by the staffs of the chamber. They have carried out their various and arduous tasks with their usual courtesy, and in that way have made it so much easier for honorable senators of all parties to perform their work to the satisfaction, I hope, of the people who sent them here. I again thank the Leader of the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition for their kind remarks, and extend to them, and to all honorable senators, and members of the staffs of this chamber, my good wishes for a happy Christmas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 4.39 p.m. tilla day and hour tobe fixed by the  President. 
